Public Statements
Governor Chris Sununu Issues Executive Order Establishing Judicial Selection Commission
Press Release
By: Chris Sununu
Date: Feb. 8, 2017
Location: Concord, NH

In issuing his first Executive Order since taking office, Governor Chris Sununu today established a Judicial Selection Commission tasked with examining all potential applicants for judicial nominations and making recommendations for qualified applicants based on experience, good character and temperament. The bipartisan Commission will be comprised of experts from across a wide range of professions, including the legal, law enforcement and business communities. Former Congressman and New Hampshire Supreme Court Justice Chuck Douglas will chair the Commission, and Attorney Jack Sanders of Pierce Atwood LLP will serve as Vice-Chair.
"Judges are the umpires of our society's contending forces, as they help to make the difference between a society governed by the law of force and one living under the force of law," Governor Chris Sununu said. "Putting forth judicial nominations is a responsibility that I take seriously and one that I believe should be done with thoughtful consideration and with substantive input from specialists in a variety of fields. So, I am thrilled today to establish a Judicial Selection Commission that I am confident will be an invaluable resource to me in nominating experienced, qualified individuals to New Hampshire's courts."
Commission Chair Chuck Douglas, a former Congressman and Superior Court and Supreme Court Justice, brings a wealth of experience to the team with his nearly fifty years as a practicing trial lawyer and more than a decade of service on New Hampshire's bench. Douglas is also a founder of the law firm Douglas, Leonard & Garvey P,C.
"When life, liberty and property are at stake in our courtrooms, we must not only have justice, but the appearance and feel that justice was done no matter who won or lost," said Douglas. "I am honored to serve on Governor Sununu's Judicial Selection Commission and I am excited to lead a team of experienced and talented professionals."
Vice-Chair Jack Sanders' extensive experience includes service on a previous Judicial Selection Commission, as Vice Chairman of the Judicial Conduct Committee, and as Director of the American Judicature Society. Prior to his time at Pierce Atwood, where he served as a Partner and is now Of Counsel, Sanders was founding partner of the Hampton law firm Sanders and McDermott.
Governor Sununu's Judicial Selection Commission includes:
Chuck Douglas, Chair
Jack Sanders, Vice Chair
Sheriff Scott Hilliard, Merrimack County sheriff
Donna Sytek, Former Speaker of the House
Bobbie Hantz, Partner, Sheehan Phinney
Lynn Parker, Executive Director, New Hampshire Legal Assistance
Mike Scala, Executive Director, Coos Economic Development Corp.
Jack Tulley, Nashua Business Owner
Matt Kfoury, President and CEO of Central Paper Products

Source: https://www.governor.nh.gov/news-media/press-2017/20170208-judicial-selection.htm
