Public Statements
Issue Position: Promote Pro-Growth Business Environment
Issue Position
By: Chris Sununu
Date: Jan. 1, 2017
Location: Unknown

Chris Sununu believes a strong New Hampshire economy is built on a pro-growth business environment, free of repressive regulations and onerous taxes. High business taxes, increasing healthcare costs and record-high energy costs are crippling our economic growth and limiting job creation in New Hampshire. As governor, Chris Sununu will reverse nearly twenty years of harmful policy that has eroded our competitiveness and halted job creation.
Creating a Business-Friendly Climate: Once dynamic in its ability to attract skilled and high-paying jobs from across the region, New Hampshire's economy has stagnated over the past decade. With an absence of leadership in the Governor's Office, too many barriers to new business exist to put the state back on a sustainable growth path. As governor, Chris Sununu will work to reduce the burden of some of the highest corporate taxes in the nation, simplify complicated regulation and end costly government mandates. Only then will New Hampshire reinvigorate its business climate and restore the state's economic prominence across the Northeast.
Reorganize Office of NH Economic Development: As part of a comprehensive overhaul to how state government approaches business, growth and opportunity, a Governor Sununu will reorganize the NH Economic Development office to report directly to the Governor and Executive Council.
Reduce & Simplify Business Taxes: Climbing business taxes under Democratic leadership are eroding New Hampshire's competitive economic advantage in the region. The recent reductions in the Business Enterprise Tax (BET) and Business Profits Tax (BPT) are providing business owners more flexibility to grow and hire. Chris Sununu will work to continue the gradual decrease of the BET and BPT.
No New Rules & Regulations: After taking office, Chris Sununu will implement a 90-day moratorium on any new rules and regulations. All proposed rules and regulations following the conclusion of the moratorium will be held against a rigorous economic impact analysis conducted by business leaders in New Hampshire.
Attract New Business: Fostering a friendly economic climate will attract new business into the state and encourage the growth of existing business, allowing New Hampshire to remain competitive in the region and across the country.
100 Businesses in 100 Days: In the first 100 days of his administration, Chris Sununu will meet with 100 companies throughout the region and invite them to do business in New Hampshire. Chris Sununu's hands-on experience as CEO of Waterville Valley has given him insight and the ability to develop personal relationships with companies across the country and trade partners abroad.
Restoring Customer Service for NH Businesses: State government's first priority should be working with businesses to enhance their growth potential, not act as a barrier and hindrance to success. A Governor Sununu will ensure that departments serve as a resource to local business, simplifying relationships with state government.
As CEO of Waterville Valley, Chris Sununu has seen first-hand the regulatory burdens departments can place upon local businesses.
Reduce Healthcare Costs: Healthcare costs in New Hampshire are among the highest in the nation and are a deterrent to hiring and business growth. As governor, Chris Sununu will support the repeal and replacement of Obamacare and push for alternatives such as allowing insurers to sell policies across state lines, reducing unnecessary mandates that drive up costs, and providing price transparency that allows consumers to make cost-effective decisions when choosing their providers. To drive down costs, we must increase competition in New Hampshire's healthcare market and encourage convenient independent providers to grow.
Right to Work: Businesses across the country are moving to Right to Work states, which provides critical flexibility for employers and allows employees to privately make the best choices for themselves. As governor, Chris Sununu will advocate for right-to-work legislation that will help attract new companies to New Hampshire.

Source: http://chrissununu.com/speaking-out/issues
