Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Holds Forward Manufacturing Roundtable with Job Creators in Green Bay
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 13, 2013
Location: Green Bay, WI

Governor Scott Walker held a Forward Manufacturing Roundtable today at Northeast Wisconsin Technical College to discuss Wisconsin's business climate with job creators in the manufacturing industry. The roundtable was an opportunity for Governor Walker and cabinet members to highlight improvements in Wisconsin's business climate and to answer questions and receive feedback from manufacturers.
"My top priority is helping the people create jobs, and we need to continue doing everything we can to help Wisconsin-based businesses grow," Governor Walker said. "Today's roundtable was a great opportunity to hear from manufacturers and learn about what more we can do to help them grow and attract more businesses to Wisconsin, especially those in nearby states. My focus on helping the people create jobs is really about helping workers throughout our state provide better lives for their families."
Since 2011, numerous incentives and reforms have been passed to improve Wisconsin's business climate, making it easier for companies to grow and relocate right here in Wisconsin. The Manufacturing and Agriculture Tax Credit and the Relocated Business Tax Credit are examples targeted specifically for manufacturing companies. Wisconsin is home to over 13,000 manufacturers, which employ over 600,000 workers and support thousands of additional jobs in other industries.
Last week, Chief Executive magazine announced Wisconsin ranks 17th on its "Best/Worst States for Business 2013" survey, the third consecutive year Wisconsin improved its position among the nation's best states for business. Wisconsin improved three places from 20th in 2012, and it recently saw the largest gain of any state in the history of the survey, moving 17 places from the bottom ten, from 41st in 2010 to 24th in 2011.
Lieutenant Governor Rebecca Kleefisch, Brown County Executive Troy Streckenbach, City of Green Bay Mayor Jim Schmitt, Department of Revenue Secretary Rick Chandler, Department of Workforce Development Secretary Reggie Newson, Wisconsin Economic Development CEO Reed Hall, Department of Natural Resources Secretary Cathy Stepp, and Northeast Wisconsin Technical College officials also participated in today's discussion.

Source:
