Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: Fostering Small Business Entrepreneurship
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 2, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker released his weekly radio address today titled "Fostering Small Business Entrepreneurship."
Transcript:
Hi, I'm Scott Walker.
Earlier this week, I joined small business entrepreneurs and other governors at America's Small Business Summit, which is hosted by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce every year. I participated in a good discussion about what we've done, and what we can continue to do, to help small businesses grow and thrive.
In Wisconsin, we've made great strides to help small businesses achieve success and create jobs. In my budget proposal, I set aside nearly $6 million for the Seed Accelerator and Capital Catalyst programs.
The Seed Accelerator program is aimed at increasing the number of small business start-ups by providing networking and guidance on business planning. Once an entrepreneur has completed this program, the Capital Catalyst can provide financing to help them get on their feet, and grow their businesses.
Another program I am especially proud of is the VETransfer program. This grant, offered in my state budget proposal, is a business accelerator for our military veterans who are looking to start their own businesses and create jobs. We owe them more than we could ever repay to these courageous men and women, and I believe we should do everything we can to serve them, after they have served us so bravely. This program is just one way of doing that.
Small businesses are the engine of Wisconsin's economy. By lowering our overall tax and regulatory burdens, and investing in tax credits and programs to foster small business creation, we're doing more to move that engine forward.
The state partnered with the Wisconsin Broadcasters Association to produce and distribute brief radio address once a week. Audio files and a written transcript of this radio address can be accessed on http://www.wi-broadcasters.org and http://walker.wi.gov/Weekly-Radio-Addresses. To download an mp3 file, you can right click the radio address link and click "Save Link As."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=97f5c585-d63f-46cf-81cc-82a311a06b05
