Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: Building Relationships Overseas, Creating Jobs at Home
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 25, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

Hi, I'm Scott Walker.
I recently returned home from a 10-day trade mission to China, and I want to give you an update on some of the great things we were able to achieve for the people of Wisconsin.
Our message for this trip was "Building Relationships Overseas, Creating Jobs at Home," and I am happy to report we've taken a bold step forward in strengthening economic relations with Wisconsin's third largest export partner.
Last Monday, I had the honor of meeting Chinese President Xi Jinping during the U.S. -- China Governors Forum held in Beijing. At the forum, we reinforced our commitment to economic cooperation in agriculture, energy, and infrastructure. Wisconsin's expertise in areas such as clean water technology and dairy farming allow us to extend our influence far beyond the Midwest.
In an important development, Beijing's Tong Ren Tang Health Pharmaceuticals signed an agreement with the Ginseng Board of Wisconsin to purchase Wisconsin ginseng for the next 10 years. The Ginseng Board of Wisconsin estimates the deal will bring as much as $350--400 million in economic impact for our state. The pharmaceutical company sought out Wisconsin because of our reputation for producing the "gold standard" of the world's ginseng.
During the mission, I was particularly impressed with the increased demand for products made by Wisconsin companies like Harley-Davidson and Ashley Furniture. I had the chance to participate in a ribbon cutting for a new Harley dealership in Tianjin, and I also toured an Ashley Furniture showroom in Shanghai. It's amazing to see the global impact these Wisconsin icons are making across the globe.
We improved trade relations with the Chinese and reinforced Wisconsin's strong position in the global marketplace on this trip. The populations of key markets like Beijing and Shanghai are growing, and our opportunities are growing along with them. By building these relationships abroad, we are creating jobs and economic opportunities, right here at home.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=ea1823c5-3561-4f0a-95c1-d0c24edb24da
