Public Statements
E-Update from the Desk of Governor Scott Walker
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 19, 2013
Location: Unknown

One of the most important duties I have serving as your Governor is to provide you directly with updates related to the operation of our state government. I also frequently provide updates on Facebook (Governor Scott Walker) and Twitter (@GovWalker). Please feel free to share this update with your family, friends, and others who may be interested in state government operations.
2013 China Trade Mission
As our exciting trade mission to China comes to a close, let me give you an update on all the great things we were able to achieve for Wisconsin during our time here. Our message for this trip is "Building Relationships Overseas, Creating Jobs at Home," and I am happy to report we've taken a bold step forward in strengthening economic relations with one of the world's largest markets and Wisconsin's third largest export market.
On Monday, I had the honor of meeting the new president of China, Xi Jinping, during the second U.S. -- China Governors Forum in Beijing. Along with Governors Terry Branstad (IA) and Bob McDonnell (VA), we were able to reinforce our commitment to economic cooperation with the Chinese people in areas such as agriculture, energy, and infrastructure.
Left to Right in Foreground: Chinese President Xi, Governor McDonnell, Governor Walker, Governor Branstad
In outstanding news for Wisconsin, the Ginseng Board of Wisconsin signed an agreement to sell Wisconsin-grown ginseng to Tong Ren Tang (TRT) Health Pharmaceutical on Monday. For the next 10 years, Wisconsin ginseng producers have a secure market that can bring in up to $350-400 million or more in sales.
Tong Ren Tang Health Pharmaceutical Company President Yu Chun and Governor Walker
On Tuesday, I was proud to introduce the CEO of the Wisconsin-based Water Council to the U.S. -- China Governors Forum. The Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) also signed an agreement with the China GreenTech Initiative. This partnership will allow WEDC to advise on clean water and power technology. The China-Wisconsin Water Forum brought together leading academic advisors, policy makers, and business leaders to discuss the country's water issues.
Also on Tuesday, I joined Harley enthusiasts in the opening of a new Harley-Davidson dealership in Tianjin and invited them to Harley-Davidson's 110th Anniversary Celebration in Milwaukee, August 29 -- September 1, 2013.
Governor Walker with new Tianjin Harley-Davidson riders
Wednesday, I met with acting Governor Lu Hao to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Wisconsin -- Heilongjiang Sister State Agreement. The friendship over the last 30 years resulted in a positive dialogue about cultural and economic ideas. Our Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection has done an excellent job of fostering this relationship through yearly trade missions.
I traveled to Shanghai on Thursday to open the Wisconsin China Center. During the ceremony, four agreements were signed, which will bolster our export opportunities. The Shanghai Dairy Group signed three of the four letters of intent with the State of Wisconsin, the University of Wisconsin-Madison Babcock Institute, and with Badger State Ethanol (Monroe). The final signing at the Wisconsin China Center opening was between Miller Electric (Appleton) and Shanghai Beigong Materials Co., Ltd. This signing announces the purchase of Auto Axcess® welding systems by Shanghai Huizhong Automotive Manufacturing Co. Ltd. The systems were built in Appleton, WI, and were developed to enable customers to manufacture products faster with high quality standards. You can read more about these agreements, here.
Learn more about the China mission trip online at www.inwisconsin.com/chinamission2013 or follow on Twitter at #WIGovChinaTrade for additional updates on the trip.
Remembering the Boston Tragedy
There is no explanation for the kind of evil that seeks to destroy. Our hearts go out to the victims of the bombings in Boston. Tonette and I join our fellow Americans in sending our prayers and deepest sympathies to those injured and the families of those killed.
In remembrance and mourning of the tragic events, President Barack Obama issued a proclamation on Tuesday, April 16, ordering flags to half-staff at all federal buildings, military posts, and installations until sunset on April 20, 2013.
The FBI and Boston Police Department are staffing a tips hotline and those with potential information regarding this attack should call (800) 494-TIPS.
State Department Accepting Public Comments on Keystone Pipeline
This week, I urged Secretary of State John Kerry to move swiftly on the expansion of the Keystone Pipeline. The expansion of the pipeline is our chance to have a new North American energy source. Expanding the pipeline will produce 830,000 barrels of oil per day, which will have an enormously positive economic impact.
In addition, if the pipeline is approved in a timely manner, countless jobs in the United States stand to be created. Wisconsin has an opportunity to benefit from this job growth.
Public comments to the State Department regarding the pipeline can be emailed to keystonecomments@state.gov.
It has been a pleasure communicating with you. It is an honor to serve as your Governor and represent the residents of Wisconsin.
Sincerely,
Governor Scott Walker

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=dfb5fdfe-8c63-4345-9211-25cc6b1e6043
