Public Statements
China Trade Mission Features Clean Water Solutions from Wisconsin
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 16, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker announced a Wisconsin water forum will be held in Beijing, China, April 16, 2013, in conjunction with Governor Walker's Trade Mission to China to explore Wisconsin businesses' solutions for improving China's water supply.
"The Wisconsin-China water forum provides the opportunity to discuss implementing policies and technologies resulting in mutually beneficial results for both China and Wisconsin," Governor Walker said. "Wisconsin will showcase its leadership in providing solutions for a safe, secure, water supply for the people of China."
Governor Walker and the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation(WEDC), working with the China GreenTech Initiative, US -- China Clean Tech Center, and The Water Council will host the water forum, which will bring together leading academics, policy makers and commercial organizations to address the country's water issues.
"The need for clean water around the world provides opportunities for Wisconsin businesses to expand their markets," said Reed E. Hall, Secretary and CEO of WEDC. "This forum and mission trip to China will also allow us to explore potential capital investment in Wisconsin companies to meet those clean water needs."
Wisconsin has the highest concentration of companies tackling the full cycle of water in the world. Five of the 10 largest water companies in the world are based in Wisconsin. Forbes Magazine recently called Milwaukee "The Capital of Water".
Water scarcity is a national issue for China. According to the China GreenTech Report 2012, China's water resources are scarce, poorly distributed, and heavily polluted.
The Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) leads economic development efforts for the state by advancing Wisconsin's business climate. Joining Governor Walker and the WEDC is the China GreenTech Initiative, a commercial greentech success accelerator. It is powered by the only China-international, insight-enabled community, the US - China Clean Tech Center (UCCTC). UCCTC is a U.S. Department of Commerce sponsored non-profit program dedicated to providing US clean technology firms a cost-effective and strategic launching pad to showcase products and services in China's leading markets. In addition, the Milwaukee-based The Water Council, is participating in the forum. The Water Council seeks to align the area's fresh water research community and water-related industries.
Learn more about the China mission trip online at www.inwisconsin.com/chinamission2013 or follow on Twitter at #WIGovChinaTrade for updates on the trip.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=26319729-c392-46d5-a584-0e16c59d4b41
