Public Statements
Wisconsin Manufacturing, Clean Technology, and Agriculture Featured During China Mission Trip
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 12, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker will lead a trade mission to China from April 13-21 to explore export and investment opportunities and foster relationships for Wisconsin businesses. The mission will include business meetings in Beijing, Shanghai, and Harbin.
"This trade mission will strengthen our relationship with the country, build trade ties between Wisconsin firms and Chinese businesses and investors, and reinforce the strong position the Wisconsin has in the global marketplace," Governor Walker said.
There are 42 total representatives taking part in the Governor's Mission Trip to China. This includes 13 business delegates and 17 delegates from government traveling from Wisconsin to China who are taking part in the entire mission. In addition, 12 people representing Wisconsin businesses are traveling on their own or are in-country taking part in a specific event during the trip. The companies participating in the trade mission are in the areas of advanced manufacturing, environmental and water remediation, clean energy, and food processing and safety sectors. The delegation also includes members of the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) and the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection (DATCP).
China remains an important and viable market for key Wisconsin exports including industrial machinery, medical equipment, clean energy and clean water technologies, and agricultural products. China is Wisconsin's third largest export market. In 2012, exports to China increased by 11.8 percent to $1.5 billion.
"This mission will help continue the growth of Wisconsin's exports to China, which will expand business and job opportunities in our state," said Reed E. Hall, Secretary and CEO of WEDC. "This trip allows us to build on the strong ties Wisconsin has with China and for us to demonstrate our global leadership in manufacturing, clean water and energy technology, and agriculture."
"China's economic growth holds great promise for Wisconsin agriculture, and this trip will give us the opportunity to explore partnerships for Wisconsin agricultural products, services, and technology," said Ben Brancel, Secretary of DATCP.
The mission will include meetings in Beijing, Shanghai, and Harbin, with one-on-one meetings available to participants in each location. The Governor will be meeting with Wisconsin businesses already operating in China. In Beijing, the Governor Walker's focus will be to further Wisconsin's reputation as a world leader in environmental and water remediation technologies and services. In Harbin, the delegation will celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Wisconsin-Heilongjiang Sister-State relationship and highlight agricultural exports.
In addition, Governor Walker will participate in the China-US Governors Forum taking place in Beijing and sponsored by the National Governors Association and the Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries.
Learn more about the China mission trip online at www.inwisconsin.com/chinamission2013 or follow on Twitter at #WIGovChinaTrade for updates on the trip.
Governor's Mission Trip to China Business Delegation Itinerary
Beijing, China
Saturday, April 13 Individuals Arrive in Beijing
Sunday, April 14 Business Delegation Briefing
Culture Day in Beijing
Monday, April 15 China Briefing with US Embassy
Individual Business Meetings in Beijing
China-U.S. Governors' Forum Reception (Tianjin)
Tianjin & Beijing, China
Tuesday, April 16 China-U.S. Governors' Forum
Individual Business Meetings
Wisconsin Water Forum (Beijing)
Harbin, China
Wednesday, April 17 Wisconsin--Heilongjiang Sister State 30th Anniversary Celebration Event
Harbin -Shanghai, China
Thursday, April 18 Official Opening of the Wisconsin China Center
Individual Business Meetings in Shanghai
Shanghai, China
Friday, April 19 Individual Business Meetings in Shanghai
Saturday, April 20 Shanghai Dairy Group/Dingniu Demo Farm Tour
Individual Business Meetings in Shanghai
Ashley Furniture Retail Store Visit
Governmental & Business Meetings
Harley-Davidson Reception -110th Anniversary (Shanghai Harley-Davidson Dealer)
Sunday, April 21 Delegation Departs
About Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation
The Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) leads economic development efforts for the state by advancing Wisconsin's business climate. WEDC nurtures business growth and job creation by providing resources, technical support and financial assistance to companies, partners and communities in Wisconsin. WEDC has four focus areas: business and industry development, economic and community development, entrepreneurship and innovation and international business development. Together with more than 600 regional and local business development partners, it represents a highly responsive and coordinated network. Visit www.inwisconsin.com or follow WEDC on Twitter @_InWisconsin to learn more.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=81c7d47c-e15a-40c0-b2a0-edffc458a4a9
