Public Statements
Growing Our Economy: Forestry Industry Jobs
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 11, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker delivered the weekly radio address titled "Growing Our Economy: Forestry Industry Jobs."
Transcript below:
Hi. I'm Scott Walker.
Recently, I toured a logging site, a wood yard, a mill, and a wood pellet plant in northern Wisconsin. I was able to get a first-hand look at the economic impact of Wisconsin's forests. Our state is the nation's leader in the value of shipments of forest products, totaling nearly $20 billion per year, which doesn't include more than five billion dollars in economic value from forest-based recreation and tourism.
The forest products industry is Wisconsin's second largest manufacturing employer, providing 1 in every 6 manufacturing jobs in the state. Touring forestry facilities and meeting with representatives from this important industry has been helpful as we work to help the private sector create more jobs in Wisconsin.
During the visit to northern Wisconsin, I announced the appointment of Gary Zimmer to the Natural Resources Board. By joining the Board, Gary will be able to advocate for good, sustainable ways to manage our forests. Forests are one of Wisconsin's strategic assets and they are a key part of our state's economy.
Gary has spent his career as a wildlife professional. For 18 years, Gary worked with the US Forest Service. Currently, he is a Senior Regional Wildlife Biologist at the Ruffed Grouse Society. Mr. Zimmer received a Bachelor of Science in Wildlife Management and a Master of Science in Natural Resources from the University of Wisconsin -- Stevens Point.
Moving forward, I will continue to help our economy grow by highlighting sectors, like the forestry industry, where Wisconsin has a long standing tradition and potential for job growth.
The state partnered with the Wisconsin Broadcasters Association to produce and distribute brief radio address once a week. Audio files and a written transcript of this radio address can be accessed on http://www.wi-broadcasters.org and http://walker.wi.gov/Weekly-Radio-Addresses. To download an mp3 file, you can right click the radio address link and click "save link as."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=6554660e-a725-4e73-bd44-33570bb7c4a7
