Public Statements
E-update From the Desk of Governor Scott Walker
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 29, 2013
Location: Unknown

Addressing the Skills Gap
The skills gap is a very real concern in Wisconsin and around the country, and it is only expected to increase. I have frequently heard from employers that they cannot find enough skilled workers to fill open positions. Right now, one in ten jobs cannot be filled. We need to commit to worker training to ensure our citizens have the skills they need for the jobs of tomorrow.
Recently, I signed "Wisconsin Fast Forward" legislation, which had nearly unanimous support in the Legislature. The new law works to address the skills gap by developing a Labor Market Information System to connect workers with current job openings and by investing in worker training grants to get workers the skills they need.
In addition to investments in the technical colleges, the budget includes a first-of-its-kind flexible degree program allowing adult students to complete online, self-paced, degree programs. I also proposed an expansion to the open enrollment program which would allow students to take a mix of classes from both technical colleges and the University of Wisconsin system. Together, these investments will ensure we are training our workforce so it can expand and continue to compete in the coming years.
Apply to Serve
One of the duties I have as Governor is to appoint Wisconsin citizens to open judicial, district attorney, sheriff, or coroner positions, as well as to the over 200 boards, commissions, councils, and taskforces.
This week, I was pleased to announce the appointment of Commissioner Thomas McAdams to the Milwaukee County Circuit Court, Branch 7 and Assistant District Attorney LaMont Jacobson to the Marathon County Circuit Court, Branch 3. I hope to announce an appointment for the Dodge County Sheriff within the next two weeks.
Currently, I am accepting applications for appointment to the Barron County Circuit Court and Marathon County Sheriff. We also have a substantial number of open positions available on various state boards, commissions, and in other areas of state government. There are 512 vacancies on 145 boards, commissions, and councils. Please visit walker.wi.gov/Serve-Wisconsin to find information about these openings.
Positions frequently become available, so if you are interested in serving, please apply and our office will keep your application on file. If you've been looking to get involved in state government, this is a great way to use your skills to serve the residents of Wisconsin!
It has been a pleasure communicating with you. It is an honor to serve as your Governor and represent the residents of Wisconsin.
Sincerely,
Governor Scott Walker

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=e1779f3d-f809-4e68-9bc3-273839826e25
