Public Statements
Governor Walker Discusses Local Transportation Funding at the Wisconsin Towns Association Annual Convention
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 10, 2016
Location: Stevens Point, WI

Governor Scott Walker highlighted local transportation funding today in Stevens Point at the annual Wisconsin Towns Association (WTA) convention. The Department of Transportation (DOT) budget proposal submitted to Governor Walker last month represents the largest year-to-year change in local aids since Calendar Years 1999 and 2000, including increases in the Local Road Improvement Program, Local Bridge Program, and the General Transportation Aid Program for all levels of local government.
"The DOT budget proposal includes greater funding to all levels of local government while remaining focused on traffic safety and road maintenance. It also holds true to our commitment of not increasing taxes or fees," said Governor Walker. "For local governments, it adds a $46 million to General Transportation Aids, a 4.7 percent increase for municipalities from the last budget. On top of that, there is a 25 percent increase to the Local Road Improvement Program over the last budget, which is the largest increase in two decades. These increases prioritize funding for local roads and demonstrate Wisconsin's commitment to safety and maintenance."
The WTA Annual Convention provides town officials with the opportunity to attend workshops, meet with state agency representatives, and network with one another.
WTA is a statewide, nonprofit, and nonpartisan association of member towns and village governments throughout Wisconsin. Together, they work to support local control of government and protect the interests of Wisconsin towns. Their membership currently includes 1,257 towns and 20 villages. Their legislative lobbying efforts, educational programs, and legal services are available to every elected or appointed officer for member towns and villages.

Source: https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WIGOV/bulletins/169f2bf
