Public Statements
E-update From the Desk of Governor Scott Walker
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 22, 2013
Location: Unknown

Access to a Great Education
This week, I visited a school in Green Bay to discuss the impact of expanding school choice with parents, teachers, and students. My budget increases incentive funding to schools exceeding expectations and provides additional funding for underperforming schools to implement corrective action plans. I also want to give parents an alternative to failing schools. There are a lot of misconceptions about school choice so I would like to share with you two charts that explain the facts:
Tourism
This week, I was proud to honor the five recipients of the Governor's Tourism Awards at the statewide Governor's Conference on Tourism. The conference was held on Monday and Tuesday as part of an ongoing effort to promote tourism in Wisconsin. We all know what a wonderful place Wisconsin is for vacation, and our Tourism Department is doing a great job of continually attracting visitors so they can enjoy all Wisconsin has to offer.
To kick off the conference, we debuted the summer commercial directed by David Zucker and starring actor Robert Hays, which you can watch here. Additionally, David Zucker announced he will direct his third tourism commercial, which will begin airing in winter 2014. The commercial is hilarious, and you can watch a behind-the-scenes "mockumentary" of the making of the commercial here.
At the end of the conference, I presented awards to individuals and businesses demonstrating a commitment to excellence in either the travel or hospitality industry. The following are the recipients of one of the Governor's Tourism Awards: Stephen H. Marcus, Chairman of The Marcus Corporation, received the Legacy Award; Kari Dawson, Special Events Director with Real Racine, received the Rising Star Award; the City of Platteville received the Stewardship Award; Greg Vreeland, with the Mobile Travel Information Center, received the Service Excellence Award; and the Lake Superior Big Top Chautauqua received the Arts, Culture and Heritage Award. More information about the awards can be found here.
Budget
In the coming weeks, the Legislature will discuss and debate the 2013-15 biennial budget. I proposed the first full version of the budget last month, where I highlighted the need to grow our economy, develop the workforce, transform education, reform government, and invest in infrastructure. Focusing on these priorities will allow us to provide more prosperity, better performance, and true independence for all Wisconsinites.
The next step in the budget process is for the Legislature's Joint Finance Committee (JFC) to review the budget proposal and make modifications. After the JFC makes their modifications, it will go to both houses of the Legislature. After the State Senate and State Assembly pass the same version of the budget, it will be delivered to my desk for final action.
For detailed information on the budget I introduced, take a look at the budget resources available through the Department of Administration. The Budget in Brief, a 106-page summary of the budget priorities and funding proposals, can be accessed by clicking here. In addition to this summary, the budget is available by agency, in detail, and can be accessed by clicking here.
It has been a pleasure communicating with you. It is an honor to serve as your Governor and represent the residents of Wisconsin.
Sincerely,
Governor Scott Walker

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=1aee11a4-724b-46d3-b231-ae4f14e944f3
