Public Statements
Governor's Council Honors 21 with 2012 Wisconsin Financial Literacy Award
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 1, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

The Governor's Council on Financial Literacy awarded the 2012 Wisconsin Financial Literacy Award to 12 individuals and nine organizations for their efforts in promoting financial literacy among Wisconsin citizens. Governor Walker and the First Lady declared 2013 as the Year of Well-Being. As part of this year, Wisconsinites are encouraged to learn about their financial health so they can make smart budgeting decisions.
"These recipients are excelling in their efforts to improve the financial knowledge and well-being of the people of Wisconsin," Governor Scott Walker said in making the announcement. "They are making a difference in our schools, our workplaces, and our communities across the state."
The recipients were selected from 49 nominations submitted for consideration. Criteria used in the screening process included innovative implementation, demonstrated measureable results, collaboration with partners, and whether the effort was focused on needs-based groups. Last year, there were 45 nominations, with 14 individuals and eight groups receiving the Award.
"It is gratifying to see an increase both in the number of nominations and in the number of recipients this year," Department of Financial Institutions Secretary Peter Bildsten said. "This focus on personal finance education means more Wisconsin consumers will be better equipped to make informed decisions about their money."
Individuals receiving the 2012 Wisconsin Financial Literacy Award:
Ellen Bernards, GreenPath Debt Solutions, Madison
Lori Burgess, Fond du Lac Public Library, Fond du Lac
Erin Bykowski, Edgewood College, Madison
Joel Chrisler, Sauk Prairie High School, Prairie du Sac
Rep. Jason Fields, Milwaukee
William Hahn, Bowler School District, Bowler
Sherri Hendrickson, Monroe School District, Monroe
Carrie Hentz, Glenwood City School District, Glenwood City
Lloyd Levin, Make A Difference Wisconsin, Milwaukee
Tim O'Driscoll, Lakeland College, Milwaukee
Sen. Luther Olsen, Ripon
Joel Thomas, First National Bank, Waunakee
Organizations receiving the 2012 Wisconsin Financial Literacy Award:
First National Bank, Waunakee
Business and Economics Academy of Milwaukee (BEAM)
Financial Wellness Center, Fox Valley Technical College, Appleton
Lakeland College Center for Economic Education, Milwaukee and Sheboygan
Precision Information, LLC, Madison
Superior Choice Credit Union, Superior
UW-La Crosse It Make$ Cents! financial literacy program, La Crosse
Wisconsin Institute of CPAs, Brookfield
Zhoonyia Gikendasowin, Lac du Flambeau
The Governor's Council on Financial Literacy was created by Executive Order #24 and held its inaugural meeting in April 2011. The mission of the Council is to measurably improve the financial literacy of Wisconsin citizens.
The Council is chaired by William E. Wilcox, MCE, President of CBM Credit Education Foundation Inc. of Madison. Co-vice chairs are Peter Bildsten, Secretary of the Department of Financial Institutions (DFI), and Ted Nickel, Commissioner of the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance. David Mancl, Director of DFI's Office of Financial Literacy, is Executive Director of the Council. Mancl may be contacted by e-mail, david.mancl@wisconsin.gov, or by phone at 608-261-9540.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=a93412a2-32de-49d7-9d53-3ac4da36d640
