Public Statements
Governor Walker Announces Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation Chief Executive Officer
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 29, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Walker announced Reed Hall will be the new Wisconsin Economic Development (WEDC) Chief Executive Officer.
"Reed brings a fresh perspective and strong leadership to the WEDC," said Governor Scott Walker. "Reed's experience at the Marshfield Clinic, in numerous civic organizations, and involvement in creating private sector jobs in Wisconsin makes him a perfect fit for this position. He will be guided by years of experience and a record of effective management in the private sector. I look forward to working with Reed and the WEDC to continue to improve Wisconsin's business climate."
Mr. Hall served as Interim Secretary/CEO of the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation since November 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Hall was Executive Director of Marshfield Clinic, Marshfield, Wisconsin, from January 2000 to July 2010, additionally from June 1976 until January 2000 he served as General Counsel to Marshfield Clinic. During the years Reed was at Marshfield Clinic, the clinic added 53 regional clinics and grew from 145 to 800 physicians, with a total staff of 7,500.
Mr. Hall received his M.S. in Health Law from the University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public Health in 1974, J.D. degree from the University of North Dakota in 1973, and B.A. from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 1970. Hall is a member of the Wisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce (WMC) Board of Directors, WMC Executive Committee; Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts and Letters Board of Directors; WisconsinEye Board of Directors; Employee Benefits Corporation Board of Directors; and 7th Congressional District Health Care Advisory Council. Hall has served on numerous boards and councils including the Board of Directors of the Wisconsin Alumni Association where he served as national chair in 2008-09, Auto Club Group Public & Government Affairs Committee, Board of Directors of Forward Wisconsin, and the Wisconsin Idea Board of Visitors.
"I am excited about this opportunity, and I am pleased to have the confidence and support of the Governor and WEDC Search Committee," said WEDC CEO Reed Hall. "As interim CEO and Secretary, I have been impressed by the dedication of the WEDC staff and the success WEDC has had in transforming the state's approach to economic development. I am fully aware of the challenges and opportunities associated with this transition."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=35210984-27fa-4e28-9e0d-f4a7b4a3c74e
