Public Statements
Governor Walker Encourages Public Awareness and Participation in Launch of "If You See Something, Say Something ™" Campaign
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 28, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker joined Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen, Major General Donald Dunbar, and Assistant Secretary for Department of Homeland Security, Betsy Markey along with federal, state and local law enforcement officials to launch the "If You See Something, Say Something ™" campaign in Wisconsin. The national public awareness campaign is coordinated by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to encourage citizens to report suspicious activity.
"Our first line of defense against crime and terrorism is our citizens," Said Gov. Walker. "When you see something suspicious -- call local law enforcement and report it. Citizen tips have helped law enforcement do their job in stopping criminals, terrorism-related crime, and keeping our friends and family members safe."
The "If You See Something, Say Something ™" campaign will be featured on billboards on major highways across the state. In addition, a new website was unveiled at www.wiwatch.org to provide the public with information about the program.
The nationwide "If You See Something, Say Something ™" public awareness campaign is a simple and effective program to raise public awareness of indicators of terrorism and terrorism-related crime, and to emphasize the importance of reporting suspicious activity to law enforcement. "Homeland security begins with hometown security, and every citizen plays a critical role in identifying and reporting suspicious activities and threats," said Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano. "Expanding the "If You See Something, Say Something™' campaign to the state of Wisconsin is an important part of the Department's efforts to help protect our nation and engage the American public in keeping our country safe and resilient."
Wisconsin's campaign is being coordinated by the state's two fusion centers -- the Southeastern Wisconsin Threat Analysis Center (STAC) in Milwaukee and the Wisconsin Statewide Information Center (WSIC) in Madison. Both fusion centers serve local, county and state public safety customers by sharing intelligence, offering training on the behaviors and indicators of terrorism, protecting Wisconsin critical infrastructure through risk assessments, and analyzing national threat information as it relates to Wisconsin.
Attorney General Van Hollen, who oversees WSIC operations at the Department of Justice, said "An alert public is an essential part of the fight against crime and terrorism. This program will remind people to be aware and to contact law enforcement if they see something suspicious."
Information about the program "If You See Something, Say Something ™" in Wisconsin is located at www.wiwatch.org. If you witness something suspicious, call 9-1-1 or dial toll-free, 877-WI-WATCH.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=f5381eac-86c6-49f9-bb0b-56c0840144c0
