Public Statements
Governor Walker Issues Executive Order Suspending Certain Regulations for Petroleum Transportation
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 8, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker has issued Executive Order #212 suspending certain load limitation requirements for petroleum transportation after the shutdown of the West Short Pipeline. The shutdown of the pipeline has caused fuel constraints in the Green Bay area, and this order will help alleviate those constraints.

"The cooperation between local officials, industry leaders, and the State ensured there was enough fuel for the summer driving season," Governor Walker said. "Now, we want to make sure the Green Bay area continues to have an adequate supply as we head into the fall harvest and winter seasons. This order will loosen certain restrictions to help carriers transport petroleum products more efficiently while maintaining safety. We will continue to closely monitor the situation as we work toward long-term solutions."

Executive Order #212 outlines the following:

1. Carriers and drivers of commercial motor vehicles while in the process of obtaining and transporting petroleum products are exempted pursuant to section 348.17 (3) of the Wisconsin Statutes, from the divisible load limitations of section 348.25(4) of the Wisconsin Statutes. This exemption authorizes only weights not more than 10% greater than the gross axle weight and axle combination weight limitations, and not more than 15% greater than the gross vehicle weight limitations under sections 348.15 and 348.16 of the Wisconsin Statutes.

2. The waiver described in par. 1. above does not apply to commercial motor vehicles operating on highways designated as parts of the national system of interstate and defense highways, except for the I 39 and I 41 Interstate corridors.

3. The waiver described in par. 1. above lasts for thirty days but may be extended for an additional thirty day period if the Wisconsin Department of Transportation determines the conditions described above warrant an additional thirty days.

4. This order does not suspend the operation of any state or federal laws within the State of Wisconsin except as specifically described in the order. All other laws remain in full force and will be enforced.

Executive Order #212 is a follow-up to Executive Order #197, issued on May 6, 2016, which authorized an energy emergency in response to the shutdown of the West Shore Pipeline, and allowed carriers and drivers of commercial motor vehicles to be exempt from federal and Wisconsin weekly hours-of-service restrictions while in the process of transporting petroleum.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-issues-executive-order-suspending-certain-regulations
