Public Statements
Governor Walker Announces Approval of Federal Disaster Designation Due to Drought
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 25, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Walker announced today the U.S. Department of Agriculture approved his request to designate 23 Wisconsin counties as primary natural disaster areas.
Governor Walker requested the designation last week. "Under this designation, all qualified farm operators in the affected counties are eligible for low-interest emergency loans," Governor Walker said. "We are doing everything we can to assist farmers who are losing crops due to the extended period where we saw a lack of rain combined with extreme heat. This is one more option for farmers trying to recover from the drought."
Following a recent tour of drought-stricken farms in Wisconsin to get a first-hand look at the crop loss and get input from farmers on the best route to recovery, Governor Walker announced the state is opening up some state-owned lands for hay and grazing. Earlier this month, Governor Walker declared a state of emergency in all Wisconsin counties which expedites permits for farmers to temporarily use stream or lake water for irrigation.
Governor Walker requested the designation last week. "Under this designation, all qualified farm operators in the affected counties are eligible for low-interest emergencThe Wisconsin counties designated as primary natural disaster areas are: Adams, Columbia, Crawford, Dane, Dodge, Fond du Lac, Grant, Green, Green Lake, Iowa, Jefferson, Kenosha, Lafayette, Marquette, Milwaukee, Ozaukee, Racine, Richland, Rock, Sauk, Walworth, Washington and Waukesha. The following contiguous counties are also eligible for assistance under the designation: Calumet, Juneau, Portage, Sheboygan, Vernon, Waushara, Winnebago and Wood.
For comprehensive information and resources relating to the 2012 drought and heat wave, go to www.ready.wi.gov.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=1d01e354-7bb2-4e1e-adbc-980067f21cc6
