Public Statements
Saving Money and Making Government More Efficient
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 18, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Walker announced today that he signed Executive Order #66 requiring Lean Government initiatives throughout state cabinet agencies. This action aims to improve state customer satisfaction, make state employee duties safer and easier, and save state costs among other positive outcomes.
Governor Walker's Waste, Fraud, and Abuse Commission recommended the creation of a statewide Lean Government program. Lean has been used to great success in manufacturing for decades and is a growing tool for state and local governments looking to become more efficient and save tax dollars.
"State government must look for ways to continuously improve and provide the best services to state residents at the most affordable price," said Governor Walker. "Saving money and improving services requires a continuous review of how government can do better. Improving our permitting times and government services will not only save costs but help employers get individuals working faster."
Lean is a continuous improvement philosophy. State employees and managers engage in events designed to improve operational efficiencies and maximize financial savings. By mapping current processes, everyone can work together to identify and eliminate non-value added steps. This can cut down on wasted man-hours, improve state employee work environments, and increase government's customer satisfaction among other positive outcomes.
The result of Lean is increased efficiencies in services for the customers of state government and a safer and more streamlined workplace for employees. This Executive Order requires a coordinated effort designed to grow throughout state government over time.
The Department of Natural Resources has been one of the most aggressive in implementing Lean. To view what they and other agencies are doing go to http://www.walker.wi.gov/Wisconsin-Reform/lean-Government. State agencies will post their projects and results to this webpage as well as be provided useful tools to help this Lean initiative become a success.
As an example of project goals, here are some highlights from projects the DNR is currently undertaking:
路 Complete endangered resources consultations 15% faster.
路 Analyze and improve the review process for Nutrient Management Plans.
路 Reduce staff workload by 5% and deliver air construction permits faster.
路 Improve the Wild Game Serving permit process to reduce staff workload by 10% and deliver permits faster.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=2e917654-b9ae-491c-b626-ef541f36aef2
