Public Statements
Governor Walker Announces Wisconsin Workforce Partnership Grant for Moraine Park Technical College
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 17, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Walker announced today the awarding of a Wisconsin Workforce Partnership Grant from the Wisconsin Covenant Foundation Inc. for Moraine Park Technical College in Fond du Lac.
The college will use the $705,647 grant to provide specific training necessary to create new jobs at partnering businesses including Amerequip Corporation, Brenner Tank, John Crane Orion, and Mid-States Aluminum Corporation.
"This is the kind of collaboration that will get Wisconsin working again," Said Governor Scott Walker. "Technical colleges partner with employers who have a hands-on role in developing the educational programs so those pursuing this education will have the skills they need to get good, family-supporting jobs. This grant will bridge the gap between people who want good jobs and employers who need skilled workers."
The grant will establish Manufacturing Skills Academies for both machine operation and welding training in a 15-week boot camp format. This training will result in either an Entry Level Welding Certificate or a Computer Numerical Control Machine Operator Certificate. Students will have options to connect to additional diplomas and certificates available from Moraine Park. Upon completion of the grant, the partnership companies expect to fill 108 new positions with skilled workers.
Wisconsin Workforce Partnership Program grants are privately funded by the Wisconsin Covenant Foundation Inc. This Foundation program serves job creators and job seekers by using technical school education and targeting it to Wisconsin's immediate employment needs.
Governor Walker worked with the Wisconsin Covenant Foundation Inc. to create this grant program. The program was announced in March of this year and in total $3.8 million in grants will be awarded to help fund programs like the one in Moraine Park and other Wisconsin Technical College System schools.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=a342ec72-712a-4cf5-a715-212dbd5bcc29
