Public Statements
Governor Signs Executive Order Recreating the Council on Physical Fitness and Health
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: June 27, 2012
Location: Unknown

Governor Scott Walker today announced the signing of Executive Order #73 , recreating the Governor's Council on Physical Fitness and Health.
"Promoting healthy living is an important part of leadership," Said Governor Walker. "The long-term health of Wisconsin families is important for all of us on both a personal and state level. Healthier living leads to lower health costs and more productive lives and workplaces."
Governor Anthony Earl established the council in Executive Order 10, April 19, 1983. Council members are advocates of health and fitness promotion initiatives. The Council also makes recommendations to the governor concerning programs and policy development related to fitness and better health.
The council shall consist of no fewer than nine members with the Governor and his or her designee and the Secretary of the Department of Health Services or his or her designee.
The council is tasked with developing policy and program recommendations to improve the status of our children's health, fitness, and nutritional intake. It will encourage key stakeholders and community leaders to assist in preventing overweight and obesity in all Wisconsin residents throughout their lifecycles via supporting nutrition and physical activity initiatives. It will also make recommendations to the Governor concerning program and policy development relating to better fitness, health, and nutrition.
Listed Below are the Governor's Council on Physical Fitness and Health Appointees:
Kimber Liedl, Madison, is Policy Director with the Office of Governor Scott Walker.
Dr. Amy DeLong, Baraboo, is a full-time Family Physician at the Ho-Chunk Nation House of Wellness Clinic. DeLong is dedicated to helping clients overcome obstacles in their efforts to lead a healthy lifestyle and has an emphasis on the prevention of childhood obesity.
Linda Lee, La Crosse, has worked as Nutrition Manager for the La Crosse County Health Department since 1983. Lee also has a background in education and Master's degrees in Public Health and Science.
Kenneth Berg, Watertown, is president and owner of Ken Berg Real Estate. Berg has strong experience in community and business development. He also has extensive committee experience at the local level, having served as an alderman and school board member for many years.
LeRoy DePas, Kaukauna, is a member of the Wisconsin Air National Guard who completed five deployments and holds a Business Management degree from NMU.
Elizabeth Farah, De Pere, is a Registered Dietician and Child Nutrition Coordinator for the Ashwaubenon School District who advocates for a school-wide culture of wellness for students and staff.
Dr. Carl Heigl, Racine, of Heigl Chiropractic Center, has extensive training in health and wellness and is skilled in the treatment of sports-related injuries.
Jill Hoiting, Madison, is Prevention and Policy Manager for the Supporting Families Together Association. Hoiting is active in the initiative to prevent childhood obesity by collaborating with organizations and state agencies to promote physical activity in early care and education settings.
Susan Kunferman, RN, MSN, Necedah, is Health Director at the Wood County Health Department. She is a leader in wellness who is committed to curbing health care expenses by investing in prevention and fighting obesity.
Erin Lorang, Madison, is a Registered and Certified Dietitian employed as Nutrition Program Consultant with the Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction. Lorang evaluates nutrition programs in schools statewide and provides leadership and guidance.
Karen McKeown, RN, MSN, Madison, is the Administrator for the Division of Public Health, Wisconsin Department of Health Services.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=5b9539ba-0eb1-4507-8aff-238d43a2ca59
