Public Statements
Governor Walker Announces Wisconsin Partnerships with China's Shanghai Dairy Group
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: June 21, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Walker has announced that Wisconsin is now the preferred supplier of dairy goods and services to the Shanghai Dairy Group, as Shanghai Dairy Group President Shen Weiping signed a Letter of Intent with Secretary Ben Brancel of the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection
"Developing international trade opportunities for Wisconsin is a priority for us as we work to create more jobs in the state," said Governor Walker. "I commend Secretary Brancel for his efforts to help build trade relationships between China's agri-businesses and those in Wisconsin."
Secretary Brancel signed the Letter of Intent during his recent trade mission in China.
"The Shanghai Dairy Group is very excited about doing business with the state of Wisconsin," said Secretary Brancel. "By signing this Letter of Intent, Shanghai Dairy Group will recognize Wisconsin as a preferred supplier of agricultural goods and services including; equipment, genetics and technical advice. They are open to anything that deals with dairy."
DATCP hosted the Shanghai Dairy Group during World Dairy Expo 2011 in Madison and introduced the Group to University of Wisconsin-Madison officials. As a result, the Shanghai Dairy Group and the University of Wisconsin-Madison, represented by Interim Chancellor David Ward, signed a separate Letter of Intent that will lead to the establishment of a university sponsored dairy technology center in Shanghai.
During the trade mission, Secretary Brancel also traveled to the Henan Province to meet with government officials, agricultural business leaders and tour some of the dairy farms in the area. In addition, he met with Chinese investors from the Jilin Province to discuss opportunities available in Wisconsin and had separate talks with representatives of the ginseng industry to learn more about maintaining the Chinese marketplace for Wisconsin ginseng. In 2011, 41% of Wisconsin's ginseng crop was sent to China.
Representatives from Wisconsin businesses and universities joined Brancel on various portions of the visit.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=d8e243d2-ec0a-4438-9ce2-bcaead9c4ab3
