Public Statements
Just Ask the Governor: Part XII
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: June 8, 2012
Location: Unknown

Each e-update I will answer a question submitted by a recipient of the previous e-update or from someone who contacts my office directly.
Question: Where are these 30,000 jobs?
Answer: My administration was asked this exact question last year by a reporter. On March 18, 2011 we responded:
We are tabulating our job creation number based on the Department of Workforce Development's Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages (QCEW). DWD basically puts out the Current Employment Survey (CES) every month, which are initial estimates of jobs. Then about 6-9 months later once hard data has been tabulated (no longer an estimate) they release the QCEW data. Typically quarterly and annual QCEW data is released approximately nine months after the end of the year.
QCEW actual job count data is drawn from more than 96% of all Wisconsin businesses counting each and every employee. The CES monthly jobs estimates that are often reported by the media represent a survey of approximately 3.5% of Wisconsin employers. CES data is subject to considerable revision and is much less accurate and more volatile than actual job counts.
In fact, nearly all economists agree that the QCEW actual job count is much more accurate than CES monthly estimates. According to an article written by the Associated Press: University of Wisconsin-Madison economist Andrew Reschovsky says the data [QCEW, the actual job count] is more accurate [than CES, monthly estimates]. Wells Fargo Fund Management economist Brian Jacobsen agrees.
My administration has been 100% consistent in using data that most accurately portrays the state of Wisconsin's economy.
The most recent actual job count data, which has been signed off on by the Federal Government's Bureau of Labor Statistics, shows Wisconsin is headed in the right direction.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=876622a2-2f43-43ca-a0a9-0eaa5b313eb7
