Public Statements
Governor Walker, Direct Supply Officials Announce Company's Commitment to Expand its Global Headquarters in Milwaukee
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Aug. 25, 2016
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker joined Direct Supply Inc. officials today to formally unveil the company's plan to expand its global headquarters in Milwaukee -- a major campus center project expected to create more than 800 jobs over the next seven years.
"For more than 30 years, Direct Supply has demonstrated its commitment to Wisconsin and Milwaukee, and the company has grown from a small operation to one with more than 1,100 employees in a 10-building campus and is a leader in its industry," Governor Walker said. "I applaud this employee-owned company for moving forward with an expansion plan that will provide hundreds of family supporting jobs for the residents of Milwaukee as well as the entire region."
Direct Supply, the nation's leading provider of equipment, e-commerce, and service solutions to the senior living community, has outgrown its current facilities and is expanding its corporate campus to accommodate the anticipated growth in the market. About 100 of the company's employees are also located at its Technology & Innovation Center on the campus of the Milwaukee School of Engineering in downtown Milwaukee.
Plans call for creating a cohesive campus that will include a new five-story, 280,000 square foot office building, a medical office and wellness clinic for employees and their families, and additional office and conference room space to accommodate employees and customers from around the world.
"This plan is part of our vision to create a world-class corporate campus that will continue to ensure Direct Supply is a destination employer for Wisconsin graduates and top talent around the country," said Bob Hillis, the company's president and CEO, who founded Direct Supply in 1985. "We're proud to call Wisconsin and Milwaukee home, and we look forward to continued growth and success here in the coming years."
To support the expansion, the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) has agreed to establish an Enterprise Zone for Direct Supply and has authorized up to $22.5 million in state tax credits through 2023 for the project. The actual amount of credits issued will be contingent upon the number of jobs created and retained during that time, and the amount Direct Supply allocates for employee training.
"As a leader in its industry with an international customer base, Direct Supply had many options when it came to deciding where to expand," said Mark Hogan, secretary and CEO of WEDC. "This expansion will have an impact well beyond Milwaukee, and we are pleased WEDC was able to help ensure this major employer solidified its commitment to the state."
The City of Milwaukee has also been extensively involved in the project by providing real estate, zoning, and tax incremental direct support for the growth of Direct Supply. To accommodate the expansion, the city has agreed to vacate a street and committed to relocate a large public works yard.
"All levels of government are working together to promote Direct Supply's growth plans," said Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, who joined Governor Walker on Thursday. "Today's announcement is a significant stride forward, and all of us are committed to ongoing cooperation with Direct Supply as it expands its business, increases employment, and calls Milwaukee home."
"The competition -- from across the country and beyond -- for deals of this scale is truly intense. So we're delighted that Direct Supply has chosen southeastern Wisconsin for a major expansion," said Gale Klappa, co-chair of the Milwaukee 7 and chairman of WEC Energy Group. "Direct Supply is not only an industry leader, but a technology star. The company is well positioned to serve the rapidly growing senior living market, and we're truly pleased that Direct Supply has chosen to deepen it roots in Milwaukee."
In addition to the 800 jobs expected to be created by Direct Supply, an economic modeling study projects that the expansion will directly and indirectly generate more than 500 additional jobs in the region, according to WEDC. Over a five-year period, those jobs are expected to generate about $33 million in additional state income tax revenue.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-direct-supply-officials-announce-company%E2%80%99s-commitment-expand
