Public Statements
Wisconsin Dairy Business Association Endorses Governor Walker for Re-Election
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 15, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker received the endorsement of the Wisconsin Dairy Business Association [DBA] today for the upcoming recall election. The DBA is a statewide organization of dairy producers, vendors, and allied industry partners that works to preserve Wisconsin as "America's Dairyland" and promote the growth and success of all dairy producers in the state.
"Governor Walker earned DBA's endorsement in the summer of 2010 because our Association believed that he was best qualified to manage the business of the State by making the tough decisions Wisconsin needed in order to succeed. He has clearly demonstrated the same strong and conscientious work ethic that our farmers have and has put Wisconsin back on the right track," said Jerry Meissner, DBA President. "For these reasons and many more, DBA strongly supports and stands with Governor Walker once again."
"Governor Walker has recognized the importance of a vibrant dairy industry in Wisconsin and has pro-actively created initiatives that will foster the continued growth of our industry," added Laurie Fischer, DBA's Executive Director. "DBA enthusiastically supports Governor Walker in the recall election."
In reaction to the endorsement, Governor Walker responded, "As governor of "America's Dairyland,' I am honored to have the support of the Wisconsin Dairy Business Association and family farmers across our state. Wisconsin's dairy producers have great reason to be proud. Wisconsin leads the nation in cheese production and I will continue to work with Wisconsin's dairy industry to grow our domestic and international markets. We have made Wisconsin a better place to farm over the last 16 months, and I look forward to working with dairy producers, large and small, to chart a bold vision for continued growth and success."

Source: http://www.scottwalker.org/press-releases/2012/05/wisconsin-dairy-business-association-endorses-governor-walker-re-election
