Public Statements
Gov. Walker Responds to KUSD Request to Use Act 10 to Save Teacher Jobs
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 2, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Scott Walker released a letter he sent to Kenosha Unified School District leaders in response to their request for legislation to allow them to utilize Act 10 reforms and save teacher jobs. Governor Walker pledged to continue to take whatever steps necessary to save teacher jobs, but stressed that union bosses need to show they're willing to put children ahead of politics.
"To date, the legislature has passed and I have signed three separate bills giving unions a chance to save teacher jobs while keeping their collectively bargained contract intact," said Governor Walker. "I hope the union leadership in Kenosha will follow the lead of districts all across the state that have used the reforms to put children and teachers ahead of politics."
The state's union bosses have already been given multiple opportunities to save teacher jobs by agreeing to the very same concessions they claimed to support more than a year ago:
· Act 32, the state budget, signed into law in June of 2011, provided school districts and technical college districts an opportunity to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to modify compensation or fringe benefits for a 90 day period following the effective date of the budget;
· Act 65, signed into law in November 2011, provided an additional 90 day window for municipal employers to enter into an MOU with their local unions; and
· Act 165, signed into law in March of 2012, created a 30 day window for Milwaukee municipal employers to enter into an MOU with representatives of a collective bargaining unit.
When Act 165 was being debated in the state legislature, Mary Modder, Kenosha Education Association President, co-signed a letter to the leaders of the Milwaukee Teachers' Education Association stating that legislation allowing MPS an additional window of opportunity to reach agreement and save teacher jobs would, "enable Gov. Walker to claim victory [and] prove detrimental to recalling him."
Staffing statistics recently released by the Department of Public Instruction showed that just three school districts not using Gov. Walker's reform-- Kenosha, Milwaukee, and Janesville-- accounted for more than 40% of all staff reductions in the state, even though they serve fewer than 13% of public school students.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=5fe1d0f9-114c-493d-bda6-36fc305d98f7
