Public Statements
Chief Executive Magazine: Wisconsin on the Rise
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 2, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Today Chief Executive Magazine released the 2012 Best and Worst States for Business survey. This year Wisconsin was ranked as the 20th best state to do business, an increase in four spots since last year, and 21 spots since 2010. The magazine also singled out Wisconsin as one of the states that has shown the greatest improvement, attributed heavily to Governor Scott Walker.
"When I took office last year, I focused on helping the people of the state, the private sector, create jobs," said Governor Scott Walker. "We've done that by balancing our state budget without tax increases, enacting pro-growth initiatives to improve Wisconsin's overall business climate and reforming our tax, regulatory and litigation processes. This two year increase in ranking continues to affirm that Wisconsin's economy is improving. Wisconsin is open for business."
When Governor Walker took office, Wisconsin was ranked 41st in the U.S. Wisconsin's ranking improved dramatically in his first year from 41st to 24th. Wisconsin was also the most improved state in the U.S. last year, and its 17 spot leap represents the biggest one-year improvement in the history of the rankings. Since 2008, Wisconsin has bigger gains in the survey than 48 other states.
"Wisconsin is becoming a more attractive state for new business investment, through our focused support of Wisconsin's existing business and industry, expanded support for entrepreneurs and attraction of businesses from outside our borders," said Paul Jadin, CEO/Secretary of the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC). "This positive news from Chief Executive Magazine confirms that Wisconsin has one of the most improved climates for business in the U.S., and that our state is emerging as a great place for business."
One of Governor Walker's first business development initiatives was to create the WEDC to establish a strong focus on business development for in-state business expansion and for business relocations to our state. Through innovative strategies for entrepreneur support, community and business development, target industry investment and export growth, WEDC is poised to have a significant impact on business development in the coming years.
The Chief Executive ranking is based on a nationwide survey conducted earlier this year in which more than 650 CEOs across the U.S. graded states on their overall business climates, as well as a variety of specific business climate factors, including taxation and regulation, workforce quality and living environment.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=e9a0d7a3-ff44-4013-8162-98fb81511a0a
