Public Statements
Turning Words into Actions: State Implements Money-Saving Ideas
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 1, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker announced today the Waste, Fraud, and Abuse Elimination Task Force created to trim unnecessary costs in state government and government programs, issued its quarterly report that includes citizen suggestions that have helped to save money on state vehicle usage, phone services, and more.
"I would like to commend everyone who recognized areas where we can do better, and offered their suggestions," Said Governor Walker. "The input we receive from citizens and public employees is imperative to identifying areas where taxpayer dollars are wasted. Now we are putting those ideas to use and saving money for Wisconsin residents. "
During his State of the State Address in January, 2012, Governor Walker urged citizens to submit suggestions for more efficient government operations by going to www.bestpractices.wi.gov.
From January through March 2012, the Task Force received a total of 123 submissions from the public and state employees. To read the full quarterly report, go to www.walker.wi.gov and click on "Reforms".
Below are a few of the submissions the Task Force is acting on:
Telephone Usage
In January, the Task Force received a submission from the public in regard to the uses and costs of telephone lines and cell phones in Wisconsin's state agencies. As a result of this suggestion and the good work of state employees, state agencies reviewed phone usage and thus far identified $100,881 in annual savings from the disconnection of unused landlines, cell phones, and voicemail boxes.
State Fleet Vehicle Usage
Also in January, the Task Force received a submission from the public in regard to the uses and costs associated with fleet vehicle usage by employees of the State of Wisconsin. This particular submission suggested that the state should review the number of vehicles and the amount of miles being traveled by State of Wisconsin employees.
The Department of Safety and Professional Services (DSPS) reviewed its travel reimbursement costs and found waste due to employees driving their own vehicles and being reimbursed for mileage when state-owned vehicles were available. When an employee drives their own car even though state vehicles are available, the state offers a reduced mileage reimbursement rate of $.352 per mile, but DSPS found some employees were still being reimbursed at the higher rate of $.485.
In total, Wisconsin has 5,772 fleet vehicle for state employees to use for travel purposes. Implementing common-sense and efficient state policies on fleet vehicle usage will help create a significant amount of savings for Wisconsin taxpayers.
The DSPS review of its fleet vehicle usage and mileage reimbursements has already resulted in savings of $2,224 per month or $26,691 per year.
If you have suggestions on how government can operate more efficiently, share your ideas at www.bestpractices.wi.gov.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=2f002ecb-8b5e-45a7-b956-bb09912aaff3
