Public Statements
WEAC Responds: We'll Continue to Hide Survey Data
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 17, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Yesterday Governor Walker's office received a response from Wisconsin Education Association Council (WEAC) President, Mary Bell, stating they will not post their own organization's survey data from the last decade.
"Instead of bringing their data into the marketplace of ideas to be reviewed, analyzed, and used to foster an open and honest discussion about the condition of Wisconsin's public schools, union bosses at WEAC have chosen to revise, hide, and misrepresent their own survey data," said Governor Walker. "While union bosses try and hide all of the data that shows our budget reforms are working, I'll be continuing to move Wisconsin forward.
WEAC's letter to Governor Walker read:
"We received your letter and request for information about past surveys responses yesterday morning. Minutes later we received a copy of the press release your office issued to media about that letter."
That statement is not accurate.
Governor Walker's office has been requesting raw survey data for months, beginning with the Wisconsin Association of School District Administrators back in November when the most recent survey results were released. A month ago, the Governor's office requested the data from WEAC in writing. Below is a copy of an e-mail from Governor Walker's policy staffer, Michael Brickman, to four WEAC staff members making this request:
From: Brickman, Michael
Sent: Monday, March 19, 2012 3:01 PM
To: 'jettyr@weac.org'
Cc: 'leverichj@weac.org'; 'allenr@weac.org'; Sybell, Debra (SybellD@weac.org)
Subject: WEAC-WASDA Surveys
Ron,
I hope all is well. I wanted to see if you or anyone at WEAC had any data from the old WEAC-WASDA surveys you did over the past decade or so. If so, could you please share it with us sometime this week? Thanks for your help.
Michael Brickman
Education Policy Assistant
Office of Governor Scott Walker
In addition, the Governor's office has uncovered union talking points which point to the validity of comparing this year's data, to previous years. Last week, the Executive Director of the Wisconsin Association of School District Administrators said it was inaccurate to compare the most recent survey with past surveys conducted by WEAC, but the WEAC talking points, released last November, before the Governor's office uncovered information about past surveys, say, "In fall of 2011, the Wisconsin Association of School District Administrators (WASDA) and the Department of Public Instruction sent a survey measuring the effects of revenue controls to Wisconsin school districts statewide. This is the 18th year that WASDA has undertaken this survey, previously done in conjunction with the Wisconsin Education Association Council."
The talking points do not discuss any differences between this year's survey and past years.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=079d79dd-860d-4f5a-889e-8f3932d4ba4e
