Public Statements
Education Improving Part 1: Survey Results Show Act 10 Working
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 9, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Walker's office released the results of all the school district surveys done in the last decade and a comparison to this year's Wisconsin Association of School District Administrators (WASDA) and Department of Public Instruction (DPI) survey data. Previous surveys were conducted by WASDA and the Wisconsin Education Association Council (WEAC)

"Survey data compiled by WEAC and others shows that our budget reforms are working," said Governor Walker. "This year we saw better class sizes, fewer teacher layoffs, and property taxes were kept in check. Most importantly educational opportunities for students were the best they have been in a decade."

The released survey data shows that this year school districts are facing the best outlook in at least a decade. The 2011-12 WASDA survey showed overwhelmingly positive results for districts using collective bargaining reforms.

In the most recent survey the Milwaukee, Janesville and Kenosha school districts accounted for more than two thirds of all teacher layoffs even though they serve fewer than 13% of public school students. These three districts did not utilize Governor Walker's budget reforms.

WEAC, WASDA, and DPI were unwilling to provide previous survey data after repeated requests from the Governor's Office. Although the survey data was scrubbed from websites, copies were located elsewhere.

"It's unfortunate that big government union bosses are hiding their very own survey data in an attempt to hide the truth--that our reforms are working," said Governor Walker. "A review of WEAC's surveys shows that they are deliberately trying to keep the public in the dark and refusing to acknowledge that we can improve education and protect taxpayers at the same time."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=5382838e-ce80-40ae-8488-54ff02fa8ae7
