Public Statements
Governor Walker Highlights Efforts to Make College More Affordable
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Aug. 23, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker and Department of Financial Institutions (DFI) Secretary Lon Roberts are visiting Fox Valley Technical College in Appleton and Northcentral Technical College in Wausau today to highlight the state's efforts to make college more affordable for Wisconsin students and families.
"With two sons, one a recent graduate and one a college senior, Tonette and I know the importance of planning ahead for the cost of higher education," Governor Walker said. "By providing greater access to financial planning resources, students and their families will be armed with the information to better plan for the future."
Earlier this year, Governor Walker joined DFI in announcing the creation of a Student Loan Debt Specialist position within DFI's Office of Financial Literacy. The position will serve as an outreach coordinator to inform current and future student loan borrowers about potential debt management, investment, and educational options.
"DFI's Student Debt Specialist, Cheryl Weiss, has been working to forge relationships with numerous stakeholder groups that have an interest in preparing students for their college careers," DFI Secretary Lon Roberts said. "She is developing an outreach program to schools that will inform students, parents, and educators about appropriate debt management, investment, and educational options to help college students maximize their human capital and minimize the student debt they incur in pursuit of their degree."
In addition to creating the Student Loan Debt Specialist position, steps have been taken to help make a college education more affordable:
Implement a tuition freeze at all University of Wisconsin (UW) System schools. According to the nonpartisan Legislative Fiscal Bureau, in the ten years before the historic four-year tuition freeze, tuition increased an average of 8.1 percent across the UW System. Thanks to Governor Walker's historic four-year freeze, students across the UW System have saved an average of $6,311 per student.
Encourage the passage of and sign into law Assembly Bill 744, which requires any institution of higher education in Wisconsin that offers an associate degree or higher to provide a letter to each student on student debt and costs of attendance each year.
Create a scholarship program for high school students who lead their classes in technical education courses.
Restore the Wisconsin GI Bill for veterans and expand it to those with five years of residency.
Increase needs-based grants for technical college students by $2 million in the 2013-14 school year and $1 million for independent colleges.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-highlights-efforts-make-college-more-affordable
