Public Statements
Superintendent Tony Evers Joins Governor Walker at Education Reform Bill Signing
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 2, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Walker moved forward on one of his key initiatives, signing into law a major education reform bill with bipartisan support, Senate Bill 461.
"This is a great day for education in our state," Governor Walker said. "This legislation is a milestone in our commitment to our state's children. We are giving them the foundation, starting with literacy, to excel in school and in life. This education reform package makes significant strides in our efforts to remove the barriers to a world full of possibilities for all of Wisconsin's students."
The education reform package includes provisions to implement the recommendations of the Read to Lead Task Force and the Educator Effectiveness Design Team. The Read to Lead Task Force was a bipartisan group of legislators, reading educators, experts, and advocates convened by Governor Walker and Superintendent Tony Evers to improve reading in Wisconsin. The Educator Effectiveness Design Team was a collaborative effort between the Office of the Governor, the Office of the State Superintendent, academic researchers, and representatives from statewide organizations representing teachers, administrators, school board members, and higher education.
Elements of the bill:
The Read to Lead Development Council--a public-private partnership to support and expand reading programs that are working throughout Wisconsin
The Read to Lead Development Council is aimed at finding what works and, along with private partners, funding broader replication throughout the state. The Superintendent and Governor will jointly decide the size of grants based on recommendations from board members. Non-state employee members will also assist in growing the fund's reach. Programs funded might include afterschool, parent outreach, or teacher professional development efforts. The bill will allocate $400,000 in existing funds from the 2011-13 budget to help the fund get started.
Identifying Struggling Readers and Ensuring Teachers Are Prepared--a universal kindergarten reading screener and a new, more rigorous test for new elementary and reading teachers
Rather than wait until third grade to know if students are struggling with reading, the legislation requires screening of all students as soon as they enter kindergarten to find possible areas in need of intervention. The screener will be funded with $800,000 in existing funds from the 2011-13 budget.
Massachusetts ranks better in reading than every other state by a statistically significant margin. Wisconsin will model the new reading portion of its licensure test on Massachusetts' exam to ensure teachers are equipped with the latest research on reading. The Praxis II will be revised to include the new reading questions for all new K-5 and special education teachers. For practicing educators, the test will be voluntary.
A Fair Evaluation System for Teachers and Principals
The evaluation system was developed with teachers and administrators to fairly evaluate all educators. Rather than using raw test scores, the evaluation system puts teachers on a level playing field, regardless of the students assigned to them, through the use of value-added growth. The system uses multiple measures of educator practice (50%) and student outcomes (50%). Teachers will work collaboratively with their administrators to set student learning goals and will receive constructive, regular, and specific feedback to continually improve.
Teacher Preparatory Program Evaluations
The bill also establishes a new collaborative process with the higher education community to further improve our teacher preparatory programs by reviewing the performance of recent graduates.
Governor Walker thanked Sen. Luther Olsen (R-Ripon), Rep. Steve Kestell (R-Elkhart Lake), and State Superintendent Tony Evers for their work on these important reforms.
For more information on Governor Walker's Read to Lead initiative, go to www.read.wi.gov.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=182bed65-e9c1-4040-bdca-0c6ffc9b9fd4
