Public Statements
Governor Walker Signs Legislation to Streamline Work at the Public Service Commission (PSC)
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 26, 2012
Location: Unknown

Governor Scott Walker signed legislation today that will streamline work at the Public Service Commission (PSC), provide regulatory certainty for Wisconsin's businesses and save utility customers money. SB 428 gained bipartisan support in the legislature earlier this year.
At a bill signing in Green Bay, the Governor said he's proud to bring needed reforms to the agency.
"The Public Service Commission Reform Act is proof that we can improve the status quo and make common-sense, bipartisan changes to help state government work better for the people of Wisconsin." Governor Walker said.
The Governor noted that at a time when rising energy costs are creating a burden on families across the nation, he is encouraged that legislature worked with the Administration to ease regulatory burdens that could put pressure on the cost of energy here at home. The bill will improve government functions with added accountability and increased transparency, will bolster the public's trust that the PSC is a quasi-judicial agency, not a political one, and will create a more predictable regulatory climate that encourages job growth and investment.
Gov. Walker thanked Rep. John Klenke (R-Green Bay) and Sen. Rich Zipperer (R-Pewaukee) for their work on the bill.
Key provisions of the PSC reform bill include:
1) Allowing the PSC to interact with interested parties by email notifications
2) Clarifying the effective date of PSC decisions
3) Raising the threshold for, indexing, and setting timelines for affiliated interest transactions and certificate of authority applications
4) Allowing utilities to conduct customer-requested abandonment and service drops
5) Updating the renewable energy credit administration process
6) Enacting ethics reforms for PSC Commissioners
7) Creating penalties for the theft of electric power and infrastructure
Today the Governor also signed into law Assembly Bill 229, which repeals the prohibition on certain nonessential uses of natural gas. Natural gas is seen as a potential major source for transportation fuels, and currently supplies are available to meet existing and expanding demands.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=9b5cd579-e48a-43a0-8d6a-0f6138e96353
