Public Statements
Governor Walker and Milicruit Team up to Help Veterans and Their Spouses Find Jobs
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 20, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker and the Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs have joined forces with Milicruit to host a virtual career fair for service members, guard/reservist, veterans, and military spouses of Wisconsin to be held on March 22nd online at www.veteranscareerfair.com.
"Getting more of our veterans back to work is an important component of our Wisconsin Working plan," said Governor Walker. "Veterans are hard workers with good soft skills that provide a great value to employers. I encourage all veterans looking for work to preregister today and gain access to thousands of jobs through this virtual job fair."
This event is a part of Governor Walker's Wisconsin Working package and being promoted in conjunction with the Year of the Veteran initiative that can be explored at, www.yearoftheveteran.com.
Veterans should preregister for the event and they can do it today. The virtual career fair will allow the veteran to build a profile, research employers ahead of time, visit employer booths, view/apply for jobs, chat live with recruiters, and meet with fellow Wisconsin veterans and military spouses in the networking lounge.
A list of the employers signed up to participate includes:
American Corporate Partners, Camping World and Good Sam, CBRE, Citi, Convergys, Department of Labor, DaVita, Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Graybar, H2H.Jobs, Humana, Lowes, MillerCoors, Mercy Health System, NCO Financial, Northwestern Mutual Life, Pepsi Beverages Company, Penski Truck Leasing, Philips, Progressive, Sears, State Street Corporation, Waste Management, Marinette Marine Corporation, Aurora Health Care, WPS Health Insurance, Oneida Nation, Schneider National, State of Wisconsin, and Logistics Health Incorporated.
These employers represent over 14,000 available jobs (both in Wisconsin and the nation), in areas ranging from administrative, sales, marketing, human resources, manufacturing, retail, healthcare, legal, and more.
Service members, guard/reservists, veterans, and military spouses who reside in or have an interest in relocating to Wisconsin should register today to reserve their place at www.veteranscareerfair.com and interact in a convenient online setting.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=9a2dbff7-e5e5-4924-a008-4ed8acd74207
