Public Statements
Governor Walker Congratulates Latest Class of Project SEARCH Graduates at University Hospital
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Aug. 18, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker joined Department of Workforce Development (DWD) and Department of Health Services (DHS) officials today in celebrating 11 Project SEARCH graduates at University Hospital in Madison. Project SEARCH combines hands-on job training and classroom instruction to provide participants with a well-rounded career development experience.
"We're incredibly proud of the newest Project SEARCH graduates," Governor Walker said. "Wisconsin's workers with disabilities possess a unique set of strengths and skills that not only benefit the workplace but the community as a whole. The training and resources the graduates received through their Project SEARCH experience provides them with the skills they need to work in their communities at a competitive wage while gaining confidence and marketable skills in the process."
Governor Walker signed legislation into law in 2014 committing $35.4 million in additional funding to the Wisconsin Fast Forward (WFF) worker training program as part of his Blueprint for Prosperity initiative. This funding allocated $850,000 to expand Project SEARCH across Wisconsin.
Project SEARCH participants report to their employer five days every week to develop practical skills in both workplace and classroom settings. More than 450 students with disabilities have graduated from Project SEARCH programs throughout the state since 2008.
A few of the Madison businesses employing Project SEARCH graduates include: UW Health, William S. Middleton Memorial Veterans Hospital, Alliant Energy, Charter Communications, the Dane County Sheriff Department, Hy-Vee, JCPenny, and Madison Metropolitan School District. Several state agencies also hire Project SEARCH graduates in the Madison area, including the Department of Administration (DOA), Department of Corrections, Department of Natural Resources, and Department of Safety and Professional Services.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-congratulates-latest-class-project-search-graduates
