Public Statements
Governor Walker Commends Historic Legislative Session
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 16, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Walker today commended the Legislature for its work during the historic 2011-2013 session. The session, including two special sessions, included major pieces of legislation to encourage job creation, reform government and protect taxpayers, promote education reform and improve healthcare. It also put a $3.6 billion deficit in order and paid off hundreds of millions of dollars in unpaid bills leftover from a previous administration.
"The 2011-2013 session included landmark government reforms and job initiatives," said Governor Walker. "But our work didn't end there, we also improved education and healthcare, made Wisconsin safer, and tackled other issues facing our state. I want to thank the Legislature for their work during the past year and a half."
The historic effort began back in January 2011 when Governor Walker called a special session to Open Wisconsin for Business. The special session included work to transform the Department of Commerce into the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation, eliminate the state tax on Health Savings Accounts, enacting nationally recognized frivolous lawsuit reform, expanded abilities to bring and grown companies in Wisconsin, and reforming the state's cumbersome regulatory system.
The Legislature also passed one of the most significant pieces of government reform legislation in the nation. It is estimated that Act 10 has saved the state, local governments and school districts nearly $1 billion annually. These savings allowed property tax payers to save millions of dollars while services and public sector jobs were saved. The legislation also allowed government to make personnel decisions based on merit, not just seniority, and it opened the door for ideas like performance pay schedules that will improve our schools and local governments. The legislation finally gave government the flexibility to shop around for the best health insurance deals and make staffing decisions with the taxpayers' interests in mind. Act 10 also helped put an end to overtime abuses that cost taxpayers tens of millions of dollars.

Source:
