Public Statements
E-update From the Desk of Governor Scott Walker
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 16, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

By Governor Walker
Putting Politics Before People is Wrong
Earlier this year the Wisconsin Association of School District Administrators surveyed 353 school districts (which account for 83% of Wisconsin school districts) and revealed that three school districts (Milwaukee, Kenosha and Janesville) accounted for 68% of teacher layoffs for the entire state, but contained only 12.8% of Wisconsin students. To date, these three school districts have not utilized any of the fiscal tools available to help manage their budgets. If they did, they could save tens of millions of dollars.
Last week, after looking at the facts, the Milwaukee Public School (MPS) system and the Milwaukee Teachers Education Association (MTEA) had a change of heart and asked the Legislature for the ability to explore implementing some of the budget reforms I signed into law last year. Specifically MTEA asked the legislature to pass legislation that would enable them to renegotiate their contract and ask their members to contribute a little bit more toward their pensions and healthcare in order to save jobs. Allowing the MTEA to open up their contract would enable the District to capture the savings that districts and local governments across the state were able to realize after the passage of Act 10.
I stand with MPS and MTEA in their efforts to avoid teacher layoffs and improve education, which is exactly why I will sign this legislation into law.
Unfortunately, union bosses from Green Bay, Kenosha, Madison, and Racine wrote MTEA president Bob Peterson a letter and said, "Allowing Governor Walker to make such a claim (a victory of his policy) just before the election will prove detrimental to recalling him."
The union bosses' use of Wisconsin school children as political pawns is shameful and has caused me to reaffirm my commitment to stand behind the decisions like the one made by MTEA President Bob Peterson. In this instance he is putting school children before politics and he should receive credit for standing up for what is right.
In support of Milwaukee school children, I penned a letter to the union bosses, which you can read here.
The union bosses' letter came on the heels of the mining vote, where 17 state Senators put politics before people and before jobs. Through mining reform legislation, the state had the opportunity to see thousands of jobs created along with a $1.5 billion private investment. Private sector unions strongly supported the legislation and the creation of family supporting jobs. In an effort to find compromise, more than 20 changes were made to the legislation to try and bring at least one job-supporting Democrat on board. Despite the support of private sector unions and repeated attempts at compromise, Democrats put politics before people and voted against reasonable reform and against jobs.
Not too long ago, I spent 18 months interviewing for the job of Governor and pledged to put the power back in the hands of the people again, instead of where it had been previously--in government. When these union bosses are ready to put the best interests of our students and of our hard-working taxpayers ahead of politics, I will be there with them. I will be there, just as I was with Milwaukee.
Historic 2011-12 Legislative Session
The Legislature should be commended for its work during the historic 2011-2012 session. Over the course of a year and a half plus two special sessions, major pieces of legislation to encourage job creation were signed into law. Government operations were reformed, taxpayers were protected, substantial education reforms advanced, and healthcare was improved. Most importantly, over the course of the session, we eliminated a $3.6 billion deficit and paid off hundreds of millions of dollars in unpaid bills leftover from the previous administration.
I want to thank members of the Legislature for their work during the past year and three months.
The historic effort began back in January 2011 when I called a special session to Open Wisconsin for Business. The special session included legislation to transform the Department of Commerce into the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation, eliminate the state tax on Health Savings Accounts, enact nationally recognized frivolous lawsuit reform, expand opportunities for small business growth, and reform the state's cumbersome regulatory system.
The Legislature also passed one of the most significant pieces of government reform legislation in the nation. It is estimated that Act 10 has saved the state, local governments and school districts nearly $1 billion. These savings allowed property tax payers to save millions of dollars while services and public sector jobs were saved. The legislation also allowed government to make personnel decisions based on merit, not just seniority, and it opened the door for ideas like performance-based pay schedules that will improve our schools and local governments. It also gave government the flexibility to shop around for the best health insurance deals. Act 10 also helped put an end to overtime abuses that cost taxpayers tens of millions of dollars.
The legislature also passed bills requiring photo ID at the polls and restoring the intent behind truth-in-sentencing legislation.
During the 2011-12 Session, the Legislature delivered a budget bill to my desk that balanced a $3.6 billion deficit, eliminated the structural deficit, passed a budget that was rated by Moody's as "credit positive," and paid off over $800 million in debt left over by the last administration. By working with the Legislature we were able to invest $1.2 billion in new state taxpayer spending into Medicaid related programs. The budget also included additional funding to prevent children from becoming victims of internet crimes.
The Legislature passed the bills I called for in the Back to Work Wisconsin special session call and delivered on my Wisconsin Working package.
The legislative session also included the passage of major education reform bills, which include provisions to implement the recommendations of the Read to Lead Task Force and the Educator Effectiveness Design Team.
The Legislature addressed major problems that were facing our state, made difficult decisions, and ultimately laid the foundation for a bright Wisconsin future. Because of their hard work our children and grandchildren will not be saddled with debt from our generation.
Just Ask the Governor: Part IX
Each e-update I will answer a question submitted by a recipient of the previous e-update or from someone who contacts my office directly.
Question: My mother is on a fixed income with limited financial resources. She receives assistance from the BadgerCare program. What changes if any do you foresee for this program?
Answer: One of my top priorities is to continue state taxpayer support for BadgerCare and programs like it, so our state can continue to provide medical assistance to those truly in need. The budget I signed into law last year invested $1.2 billion more in state taxpayer money for medical assistance related programs than the previous budget, which includes programs like BadgerCare. Even after putting nearly every new state tax dollar into the program we still fell short and the budget wasn't balanced.
In order to ensure that this vital program remains fiscally sustainable long into the future, a few potential changes I am exploring to the program include: making sure BadgerCare Plus recipients are Wisconsin residents, not enrolling people in a taxpayer funded program if they have access to affordable health care coverage through their employer, and not allowing someone to stay on the program for a month after they become ineligible. We are also asking some adults to contribute modest premiums, which are more in line with what our neighbors with private insurance coverage pay.
We had challenges facing BadgerCare and other programs like it, but we made difficult decisions that prioritized providing coverage to as many people as possible over making drastic cuts to benefits or cutting people from the program entirely. We are simply asking those who are financially able, to contribute a little bit toward their healthcare premiums, so we can continue to provide assistance to those who have no other options for healthcare.
One of my top priorities is to continue state taxpayer support for BadgerCare and programs like it, so we can continue to provide medical assistance to those truly in need.
It has been a pleasure communicating with you. It is an honor to serve as your Governor and represent the residents of Wisconsin.
Sincerely,
Governor Scott Walker

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=d24eef53-9243-4712-9eae-93ae42f68547
