Public Statements
Democrats & Their Allies Put Politics Before People; Jobs
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 14, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Walker's office issued the following statement today after a letter between public sector union bosses was uncovered that shows public sector union leaders more interested in scoring political points than protecting their member's jobs or the taxpayers. The letter comes days after State Senate Democrats unanimously voted against a mining bill, endorsed by private sector unions, which could create thousands of family supporting Wisconsin jobs.
On the heels of the mining vote, the Milwaukee teachers union asked the legislature to pass legislation that would enable them to renegotiate their contract and contribute a little bit more toward their pensions and for their healthcare in order to save jobs. Allowing the Milwaukee teachers unions to open up their contract would enable the district to capture the savings that districts and local governments across the state were able to capture after the passage of Act 10. After Act 10 passed, unions, like Milwaukee's teachers union, were given the ability to capture these savings for 90 days through the passage of Act 65.
At the time Act 10 and Act 65 passed, the Milwaukee school district said doing so could save 200 education jobs in the city, but the union said they would choose layoffs over savings. This week the union appeared to change its mind and asked the Governor and the legislature to give them another opportunity to realize the savings offered by Governor Walker. After the Governor and legislature signaled their willingness to help Milwaukee Public Schools, other public sector union bosses sent the Milwaukee teacher's union a letter, telling them to take back their ask of help from the Governor and legislature.
In the letter, the public sector union bosses said, "Such legislation will enable Governor Walker to claim victory of his policy to reign in public employee wages and benefits Allowing Governor Walker to make such a claim just before the recall election will prove detrimental to recalling him" The union bosses also expressed concern that their districts would also push for similar legislation that could save jobs and money.
The letter was signed by the bosses of the Madison teachers union, the Kenosha teachers union, the Green Bay teachers union, and the Racine teachers union.
In response to the public sector union bosses' letter and Democrats' political vote against mining, Governor Walker spokesman Cullen Werwie said:
"Democrats and their allies continue to put politics before school children and before jobs. Through mining reform legislation, the state had the opportunity to see thousands of jobs created along with a $1.5 billion private investment. Private sector unions strongly supported the legislation and the creation of family supporting jobs. In an effort to find compromise over 20 changes were made to the legislation to try and bring at least one job-supporting Democrat on board. Despite the support of private sector unions and repeated attempts at compromise, Democrats put politics before people and voted against reasonable reform and against jobs.
The latest letter from public sector union bosses shows clearly that Democrats and their allies put their politics before everything else, even their own members' jobs. The letter clearly shows how they will put politics before people. Unfortunately, Democrats and their allies are more interested in putting their political interests before saving teachers' jobs, saving school districts money, protecting taxpayers, and promoting private sector investment and job growth. Governor Walker will continue to put the people first and give school districts and local governments the opportunity to save taxpayers' money. The Governor continues to support mining reform that could put thousands of Wisconsin residents to work. He believes compromise on mining is still possible, but only if both sides are more interested in getting something done, than in politics."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=9e047364-6153-43af-b2f8-3916cf2459a3
