Public Statements
Governor Walker Statement on Senate Committee Action on Education Reform Bill
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 1, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Walker issued the following statement following the Senate Education Committee's bipartisan vote to advance SB-461. Last week, the Assembly Education Committee passed the companion bill, AB-558.
"Our education reform bill is the result of months of hard work and collaboration with teachers, experts, and many others," said Governor Walker. "I'm glad there was bipartisan support to improve educator effectiveness and reading outcomes in our state. I want to thank Senator Olsen, Representative Kestell, and State Superintendent Tony Evers for their work on these important reforms."
The education reform package includes legislation to implement recommendations of the Read to Lead Task Force and the Educator Effectiveness Design Team. The Read to Lead Task Force was a bipartisan group of legislators, reading educators, experts, and advocates convened by Governor Walker and Superintendent Tony Evers to improve reading in Wisconsin. The Educator Effectiveness Design Team was a collaborative effort between the Office of the Governor, the Office of the State Superintendent, academic researchers, and representatives from statewide organizations representing teachers, administrators, school boards, and higher education.
Elements of the bill:
The Read to Lead Development Council -- A public-private partnership to support and expand reading programs that are working throughout Wisconsin
The Read to Lead Development Council is aimed at finding what works and, along with private partners, funding broader replication throughout the state. The Superintendent and Governor will jointly decide the size of grants based on recommendations from board members. Non-state employee members will also assist in growing the fund's reach. Programs funded might support afterschool, parent outreach, or teacher professional development efforts. The bill will allocate $400,000 in existing funds from the 2011-13 budget to help the fund get started.

Source:
