Public Statements
Year of the Veteran
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 1, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Walker delivered the weekly radio address that is titled "Year of the Veteran."
Transcript below:
Hi I'm Scott Walker.
As we commemorate the 150th anniversary of the Civil War, it is important to recognize the tremendous dedication - as well as sacrifice - given by so many members of the Armed Forces from Wisconsin.
Today, there are more than 400,000 veterans living in Wisconsin. Of that, about 56,000 live with disabilities. Since the Civil War, more than 26,000 Wisconsin servicemen and women have given the ultimate sacrifice for our nation. And more than 150 servicemen and women, with some connection to Wisconsin, gave the ultimate sacrifice to our country since September 11. 2001.
In an effort to highlight the important role veterans play in all aspects of life in Wisconsin, I dedicated 2012 as the Year of the Veteran here in Wisconsin.
As part of the Year of the Veteran,
· State agencies will hold at least 15 veteran specific job fairs and four employer education symposiums to point out the benefits of hiring veterans;
· We launched www.yearoftheveteran.com to create a centralized resource of support for veterans and their families;
· I signed pro-veterans legislation into law this week, and have plans to sign many more bills over the next few weeks;
· We will hold numerous events this year honoring veterans and their families; and
· The Department of Tourism will create a travel list of veteran's related sites such as museums and memorials.
By dedicating 2012 as the Year of the Veteran, we will focus our attention on connecting veterans to jobs--as well as to programs, benefits and services available to our veterans here in Wisconsin. On behalf of a grateful state, we say thank you to all of our veterans their families.
The state has partnered with the Wisconsin Broadcasters Association to produce and distribute brief radio address once a week. Audio files and a written transcript of this radio address can be accessed on http://www.wi-broadcasters.org and http://walker.wi.gov/Weekly-Radio-Addresses. To download an mp3 file you can visit, right click the radio address link and click "save link as."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=19b453c4-240a-421f-a114-5ba6864ea499
