Public Statements
Wisconsin to Participate in 2nd Pilot Program to Reduce Burden on Owners, Developers of Affordable Housing
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 27, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Walker announced today that the state of Wisconsin will join a second pilot program aimed at curtailing the regulatory impact that hampers affordable housing developers and owners. Today, the Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority (WHEDA) signed a historic Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development.
"The understanding signed by WHEDA and their federal partners is another example of our effort to streamline regulations to make capital investment and job growth easier," said Governor Walker. "WHEDA should be commended for their common sense approach to regulation."
Currently, developers of affordable housing that receive multiple sources of public funding must go through what are called Subsidy Layering Reviews. The MOU signed today at the WHEDA headquarters in Madison eases and streamlines the process between WHEDA, US HUD and USDA Rural Development. Communication between the agencies will increase, a "one-stop-shop" for development applicants will be provided, timelines will be developed to ensure expedient reviews and the application process will be simpler.
"WHEDA is delighted to, on behalf of the state of Wisconsin, participate in this common-sense endeavor that will alleviate an unnecessary burden on the affordable housing industry," said WHEDA Executive Director Wyman Winston. "All too often rental housing projects are funded by more than one agency in order to reach the lowest-income tenants and duplicate reviews are required. The MOU achieves an efficient goal of less regulatory burden."
The White House's Domestic Policy Council has asked for improved coordination of federal rental procedures. Responding to the request, WHEDA, US HUD and USDA Rural Development have been working since April 2011 to repair irregularities in program requirements affecting affordable housing.

Source:
