Public Statements
Just Ask the Governor: Part VI
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 24, 2012
Location: Unknown

Each e-update I will answer a question submitted by a recipient of the previous e-update or from someone who contacts my office directly.
Question: Can you please explain what is going on with the recently announced mortgage settlement?
Answer: Nearly eighty-two percent of Wisconsin's share of the settlement will go directly to consumers who were victims of the abusive practices of mortgage lenders. Key components of the settlement are:
路 $60 million will be made available for loan modifications for eligible consumers, including principal reductions of up to $20,000 for eligible mortgage holders;
路 $31.3 million will be available for mortgage refinancing opportunities for eligible consumers;
路 $17.2 million will be used for direct payments of up to $2,000 to individuals who lost their homes due to foreclosure; and
路 $31.6 million is available to the state for discretionary use--of that amount, $25.6 million will be allocated to the state's general fund to provide relief for all Wisconsin taxpayers who were affected by the economic downturn that resulted from the ills of the housing market.
Additionally, two programs administered by the Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority will specifically target the City of Milwaukee with up to $1.5 million in funding. Another $1 million, including $500,000 in funding from the Department of Financial Institutions, will be used for a statewide program to address neighborhood blight.
The economic downtown was felt in every county, city and village across the state. Property values declined and local economies suffered as a result. So did the state's economy and budget.
Using a small portion of the settlement proceeds for the general fund is an acknowledgement that the housing crisis impacted all Wisconsin citizens. The $141 million settlement for Wisconsin will be good for consumers, our housing market and the state's economy.
I would encourage you to read Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen's op-ed piece in the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel , which is titled "Entire state should benefit from settlement money" for a complete analysis.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=85e2a2b3-d2e9-4268-bd8b-98027c337dbf
