Public Statements
Boosting Small Businesses
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 23, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Walker delivered the weekly radio address that is titled "Boosting Small Businesses."
Transcript below:
Hi. I'm Scott Walker.
Touring the state and talking to small business owners, one thing has become crystal clear to me: government regulations need to be science based, predictable and practical.
All too often I hear about how government is standing in the way of those who want to grow jobs in our state. This is why I just signed Executive Order 61, which will empower the Small Business Regulatory Review Board to determine the economic impact of rules on small business and increase the flexibility government must give employers.
Signing this Executive Order is another important step toward making our state an easier place to start up, expand, or relocate a small business. Giving small business owners a seat at the table when discussing state regulations will help get buy-in for rules and regulations from employers, assist state agencies promulgate rules that are realistic, and ultimately grow jobs in Wisconsin.
Specifically, the Executive Order I signed requires all state agencies to cooperate with the Small Business Regulatory Review Board in the rules review process. All agencies will cooperate with the Board to identify and weed out rules that hinder job creation and small business growth. And they will also work with the Board to recommend changes to the rules that will reduce the burden on job creators.
According to the National Federation of Independent Business, Wisconsin small businesses spend eighty percent more per worker than large employers to comply with government regulations. They say that 91 percent of small businesses said it was impossible to know about, comply with, and understand all of government's regulations. Regulations are cited as one of the top three concerns for small business growth.
One great way to make sure that state regulations are science based, predictable and practical is to give small businesses a seat at the table when discussing the impact of new as well as existing rules and regulations. By partnering with Wisconsin's small business owners, many of which are family owned, I am confident that we can continue to turn around Wisconsin's economy and make it better for generations to come.
The state has partnered with the Wisconsin Broadcasters Association to produce and distribute brief radio address once a week. Audio files and a written transcript of this radio address can be accessed on http://www.wi-broadcasters.org and http://walker.wi.gov/Weekly-Radio-Addresses. To download an mp3 file you can visit, right click the radio address link and click "save link as."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=457201d6-51fd-4960-ada6-5d203154e236
