Public Statements
Governor Walker Joins Groundbreaking for Project Expected to Create Over 500 Jobs
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 16, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Appearing at a groundbreaking ceremony for the North End Phase Two Apartments today, Governor Walker announced the project just north of downtown will provide significant economic development. North End is a 500‐unit residential neighborhood under construction on the Milwaukee River along North Water Street. The current phase will add 155 apartments, 20% of which will be offered at affordable rental rates.
"This investment is impressive and will help boost our economy," said Governor Walker. "North End Phase Two is expected to create 211 direct jobs, 97 indirect jobs, and will induce 221 additional jobs. The total employment impact is estimated to be over 500 jobs. The total labor income impact will be $26.9 million. The estimated value of industry production from this development is $72.1 million. This is exciting news for Milwaukee and the entire state of Wisconsin."
WHEDA, the Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority sold $26.1 million of tax-exempt Midwest Disaster Area bonds to private investors. The proceeds will help fund first mortgage loans for the Mandel Group's North End Phase Two Apartments.
"WHEDA is delighted to partner with the Mandel Group on this wonderful project," said WHEDA Executive Director Wyman Winston. "The investment being made in downtown Milwaukee will create much‐needed jobs and help to revitalize the economy in the state's most vital sector."
The North End Phase Two development complies with WHEDA policy goals as outlined in the Authority's "BE BOLD" Strategic Plan developed in 2011. WHEDA strives to deploy economic development, multifamily housing and homeownership financing products to create or retain 12,500 Wisconsin jobs. The plan also calls for identifying new business partners and resources to expand housing stock, create jobs and leverage all of WHEDA's resources to maximize economic and community development and generate income.
Midwest Disaster Area Bonds are available for purchase by private investors due to a federal area designation resulting from severe flooding during the spring of 2008. The federal program stimulates reinvestment in areas affected by the flooding. Interest paid on the bonds is exempt from both federal and state taxes. The federal program concludes at the end of 2012.
WHEDA is a public body corporate and politic created in 1972 by the Wisconsin Legislature that provides low‐cost financing for housing and small business development in Wisconsin. Since 1987, WHEDA's award of housing tax credits has contributed to the construction and rehabilitation of over 42,000 units of affordable housing throughout Wisconsin. For more information on the LIHTC program, visit www.wheda.com or call 1-800-334-6873.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=0ce4d9a4-1461-4343-a35a-e08310ca899b
