Public Statements
Governor Walker Announces Investment to Support Search and Rescue Operations
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 8, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Recently Governor Walker announced a total of $2 million in federal Homeland Security dollars will be used to equip and train the Statewide Structural Collapse Rescue team.
More than 250 responders from fire departments across the state have been trained to search and rescue victims trapped in large-scale structural collapses. When an emergency occurs, trained team members can be assembled and can respond anywhere in the state within eight hours and can operate continuously for up to seventy-two hours.
"Structural collapses can happen anywhere in Wisconsin," said Governor Walker. "Structurally unstable buildings are dangerous conditions for first responders. With proper equipment and training, trapped victims can be reached and rescued safely."
Buildings can become unstable for a variety of reasons including: fire, flood, or tornado damage; ongoing construction; or gas explosions. The ability to send specially trained firefighters in to assist with unusual circumstances improves the response to the crisis and safety for fire department personnel.
"Investing in statewide search and rescue capacity benefits citizens when they need it most," said Major General Donald Dunbar.
When a tornado cut a path through the city of La Crosse last May, trained firefighters with specialized equipment were among the first on the scene to assess damaged buildings and begin search and rescue. Firefighters who have received structural collapse training and equipment in the past are also using it when responding to local incidents.
Expanding statewide emergency response capabilities is part of Wisconsin's Homeland Security Strategic Plan.
$800,000 will be used to enhance the state's structural collapse equipment cache, which can be mobilized to reach any Wisconsin community within 8 hours.
Personal protective gear, specialized search and rescue tools, communications equipment, and medical supplies are among the items that will be purchased with Homeland Security funds.
$1.2 million will be used to expand the number of firefighters trained in advanced structural collapse rescue techniques. Exercises will be conducted in May at the Regional Emergency All-Climate Training center (REACT).

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=cae60384-3f2e-46cc-823a-a56df30ef0ed
