Public Statements
Governor Walker Gives Green Light to the Sale of State Inspected Meat Products Outside of Wisconsin
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 12, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Gov. Scott Walker authorized rule-making that will allow Wisconsin's specialty meat plants to sell their products across state lines for the first time, expanding their markets and boosting the rural economy.
"These small state-inspected meat processors have a vital place in our heritage, and now we can help assure they are just as important to our future," the Governor said in making his announcement. "This new opportunity promises to increase their investments in personnel and capital, adding jobs and building the tax base in our state's rural areas."
The Governor authorized the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection to begin the process of amending the administrative rule known as ATCP 55, which governs meat inspection in the state. The process will incorporate new federal regulations into the state regulation to allow meat from state-inspected meat plants to cross state lines.
Currently, only meat from plants inspected by the U.S. Department of Agriculture can be sold across state lines. Plants can choose to be regulated by state governments instead, but then they can sell their meat products only within their own states. Congress changed that law in 2008, and published regulations to carry out that law last May. States must get federal approval and formally adopt those federal regulations before their meat slaughterers and processors can voluntarily participate in the program.
Wisconsin has about 275 state-inspected meat plants and about 145 federally-inspected plants. There is no difference in the food safety standards between state and federal plants.
"There are roughly 30 meat plants that have already indicated to DATCP they want to sell interstate," the Governor added. "Those 30 plants not only will be able to sell directly to consumers in other states, but their distributors will now also be able to sell to other states, which multiplies the economic impact. "
The next step is for the Board of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection to approve a "scope statement" which describes what the regulation intends to do, and then DATCP staff will begin drafting rules that will go to public hearing and ultimately to the Legislature for final approval.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/journal_media_detail.asp?locid=177&prid=6218
