Public Statements
Governor Walker Announces $2.8 Million in Funding to Help More Wisconsin Students Prepare for College and the Workforce
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 6, 2012
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker announced today $2.8 million to help students throughout Wisconsin by providing them the information and tools they need to plan and prepare for college. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Education's College Access Challenge Grant program, which awarded the state $1.8 million for the 2011-2012 academic year, and a private matching contribution of $936,000 from Great Lakes Higher Education Guaranty Corporation (Great Lakes), a Wisconsin nonprofit.
"The single largest concern Wisconsin businesses are reporting is having a skilled workforce prepared to fill their job openings. Getting our students the right education and training beyond high school is critical to meeting this need," said Governor Walker.
Since the inception of the grant in 2008, the College Access Challenge Grant program has provided more than 45,000 students and families with the information and tools necessary to successfully access higher education. Great Lakes, which administers the grant on behalf of the Wisconsin Department of Administration, is providing college preparation workshops, one-on-one assistance in filling out college financial aid and admissions applications, and ACT and SAT preparation workshops and resources for students and families across the state.
"Having helped millions of students and families pay for college, we see every day how education changes lives for the better," said Richard D. George, President and Chief Executive Officer of Great Lakes. "We are pleased to be part of this public-private partnership to prepare our future workforce to compete for the best jobs, and to keep Wisconsin moving forward."
The program is targeted toward students who are traditionally underrepresented in the college-going population, such as students from low-income and minority backgrounds and students who would be the first in their families to go to college. However, services and materials are available to all high school students and families throughout Wisconsin.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/journal_media_detail.asp?locid=177&prid=6212
