Public Statements
Governor Walker Protects Funding for Workforce Training & Animal Health Inspections
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Dec. 22, 2011
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Walker directed the Department of Administration to protect more funding for programs in reviewing potential lapse plans. Specifically, the Governor protected funding for workforce training initiatives and animal health inspections.
Workforce Training Initiatives
"We're focused on creating jobs and connecting people to work," said Governor Walker. "This funding will help us continue those missions."
The Governor is directing DOA to exempt the Wisconsin Community Action Program (WISCAP) from their discretionary lapse amount. This exemption will fund $200,600 in grants from WISCAP. WISCAP, a non-profit agency, provides and sponsors professional training in high poverty areas and facilitates meetings of Community Action Agencies (CAAs) statewide. WISCAP uses DWD funding to provide grants to CAAs throughout Wisconsin. Each year, CAAs throughout Wisconsin create economic opportunities for low-income individuals through the creation of new jobs and small businesses; the agencies help low-income individuals interested in pursuing self-employment by assisting with economic feasibility studies, creation of business plans, development of marketing strategies, access to additional financial resources and continuing on-going business assistance. Individual agencies also provide employment training and financial education through Skill Enhancement Programs, which provide access to transportation, childcare and other supportive services to allow participants to attend classes while simultaneously working a minimum of 20 hours per week. Participants receive financial support to offset a portion of their class costs.
The Governor also directed DOA to exempt the youth apprenticeship program from a discretionary lapse. The action will fund $298,600 in awards. The Youth Apprenticeship program provides grant funding to school districts throughout the state that provide students apprenticeship options as part of their curriculum; school districts are required to provide matching funding of 50 percent of the grant awarded. In the apprenticeship program, high school juniors and seniors simultaneously enroll in academic classes to meet high school graduation requirements, in a youth apprenticeship-related instruction class and are employed by participating employers under the supervision of a skilled mentor. The program provides students with practical knowledge, occupational skills and a paid work experience with local business participants. Importantly, there are high expectations of all stakeholders involved in the youth apprenticeship program -- at least 80 percent of participants must receive a high school diploma upon completing the program and at least 60 percent of the participants must be offered employment by the employer that provided the on-the-job training on completion of the program.
Third, the Governor directed DOA to exempt transit aids from a discretionary lapse. This will put more than $464,000 in grants. The employment transit aids program is administered by the Department of Transportation, and provides grants to local governments or community agencies for efforts to connect low-income workers with jobs. For example, grants may fund a shuttle service vehicle, or transit expansion. The program is federally, state and locally funded.
Animal Health Inspection
This appropriation is funded from fees charged for certain livestock related licenses. The Governor's action will ensure $45,164 continues to fund animal health inspections.
"This funding will help continue animal health inspections, testing and enforcement is maintained," said Governor Walker. "These are important parts to maintaining our $59 billion agriculture industry in Wisconsin."

Source: http://walker.wi.gov/journal_media_detail.asp?prid=6189&locid=177
