Public Statements
Governor Walker Stands Firm in Protecting Taxpayers
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 27, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker released the following statement and information today after Representative John Nygren (R-Marinette) called for new revenues for the transportation budget.
"Raising taxes and fees is not the answer," Governor Walker said. "Under our administration, we will keep it a priority to live within the means of the hardworking people of Wisconsin. That is a commitment I will honor. Leadership will require us to identify cost savings and prioritize our needs, as I have directed my Department of Transportation secretary to do, especially when it comes to safety and maintenance. I am confident we can do better than placing new taxes on Wisconsin citizens."
Facts on Wisconsin's Transportation System
Since Governor Walker took office, more than $18 billion in transportation investments have been made. That's $2 billion more when compared to the six years before we took office.
Wisconsin spends more on state highways per capita than almost any other neighboring state, according to the latest data from the Federal Highway Administration.
For decades, the state's gas tax has been among the highest in the nation.
This summer, a Wisconsin resident would be hard pressed to travel the state and not see road construction taking place with more than 300 projects set to be completed this year.
According to the latest published data, more than 90 percent of our most heavily traveled highways are rated fair or better in condition. These are roads carrying half of all traffic and 70 percent of our freight.
Our last state budget included the lowest levels of new borrowing in at least 20 years.
Wisconsin is ranked 4th in the nation for the lowest levels of total long-term financial obligations, according to a recent study by Pew Charitable Trusts.
The Transportation Fund condition is running better than projected in Act 55. Lower debt service and higher than projected revenues are resulting in a nearly $100 million better fund condition at the close of the biennium.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-stands-firm-protecting-taxpayers
