Public Statements
Governor Walker Protects Funding for Child Abuse Prevention, Aging & Long Term Care, and Board for People with Developmental Disabilities
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Dec. 21, 2011
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Walker directed the Department of Administration to protect more funding for programs in reviewing potential lapse plans. Specifically, the Governor directed the Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention Board, Board on Aging and Long Term Care, and the Board for People with Developmental Disabilities to be exempt from any discretionary lapses.
Board for People with Developmental Disabilities
The Governor directed DOA to exempt the Board for People with Developmental Disabilities to be exempt from a lapse. The Board for People with Developmental Disabilities was established to advocate on behalf of individuals with developmental disabilities, with the mission of improving the independence, productivity and integration of people with developmental disabilities.
"The Board for People with Development Disabilities is a small program that does big things," said Governor Walker. "Exempting them from even a small lapse ensures they are still able to provide services to Wisconsinites with developmental disabilities."
Board on Aging and Long Term Care
The Governor also directed DOA to exempt the Board on Aging and Long Term Care from any discretionary lapse. This action will put nearly $140,000 toward programs the board serves. Specifically the Governor's direction will allow the board to keep the ombudsman and Medigap programs.
The Ombudsman and volunteer ombudsman programs protect and advocate for the elderly living in long-term care facilities, like nursing homes and CBRF's, by investigating complaints, mediating disputes and representing the interests of residents during enforcement actions.
The Medigap helpline is a free counseling service for all Medicare recipients, including the elderly and people with disabilities, that assists callers with questions about Medicare and Medicare supplement plans, COBRA, employer retiree plans and long-term care insurance.
"The board's programs help protect our elderly citizens in long-term care facilities," said Governor Walker. "They also provide counseling for all Wisconsin Medicare recipients."
Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention Board
Finally, the Governor directed DOA to exempt the Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention Board from any discretionary lapse. This action will put more than $122, 934 toward the Board's programs. The Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention Board administers grants to local organizations that provide services to prevent child abuse and neglect. Most importantly, this action will ensure over $100,000 in additional Child Abuse Prevention Grants are able to be funded.
"The Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention Board serves a vulnerable population," said Governor Walker. "Restoring funding for the Board will help them continue their important mission."
The Governor's office will continue to review possible lapse exemptions.

Source: http://walker.wi.gov/journal_media_detail.asp?prid=6186&locid=177
