Public Statements
Productive Special Session Continues to Pass Pro-Jobs Legislation
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Dec. 20, 2011
Location: Madison, WI

With a focus on creating a pro-jobs environment in Wisconsin, the Legislature passed more pro-jobs bills today in the "Back to Work Wisconsin" special session.
"This productive special session proves that we are laser beam focused on making it easier for employers to create jobs in Wisconsin," Governor Scott Walker said. "As this special session moves forward, I am confident that more pro-jobs bills will make their way to my desk and become law, helping small business owners and employers put more people back to work. I thank the Legislature for their hard work."
· Special Session Bill 12 (Zipperer/Vos) Passed the Senate 17-15 and was messaged to the Assembly: The bill lists the factors a court must consider in determining whether attorney fees are reasonable. Those factors include, the time and labor required by the attorney, the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, the complexity of the case, the skills needed to perform the legal service, whether or not this particular case prevented the attorney from accepting other work, the fee customarily charged in the locality for similar legal services, the amount involved in the legal dispute and the result obtained. This bill also provides that, in an action in which compensatory damages are awarded, reasonable attorney fees may not exceed three times the amount of the compensatory damages awarded, unless, after considering the facts, the court determines that a greater amount is reasonable.
· Special Session Bill 20 (Schultz/Nerison) Passed the Senate on a voice vote and was messaged to the Assembly: This bill makes changes to agricultural production loan guarantees administered by WHEDA, specifically the Credit Relief Outreach Program (CROP). The purpose of CROP is to provide farmers with working capital through a low interest rate loan guaranteed through WHEDA. This bill makes three key changes to the CROP program. First, it lowers the minimum loan amount from the current $30,000 to $2,000 and raises the maximum loan amount from the current $100,000 to $150,000. Lowering the minimum and raising the maximum loan amounts is intended to make it easier for farmers to obtain working capital. The bill also changes the loan guarantee term from the current expiration of March 31 of a calendar year in which the loan was made to a 12 month term and deletes a provision in current law that allows lenders to extend the guarantee term. Changing the guarantee term to a 12 month term and deleting the provision which allows lenders to extend the term are intended to make the CROP loan program more user friendly for farmers by making a repayment term more consistent.

Source:
