Public Statements
Gov. Walker Protects Funding for Sexual Assault Victims and for Prevention of Child Pornography
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Dec. 19, 2011
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Walker directed the Department of Administration to keep funding from the Sexual Assault Victims Surcharge and the Child Pornography Surcharge excluded from lapse plans. Doing so will help support victims of sexual assault and prevent child predators from preying on Wisconsin's children through programs in the Department of Justice and the Department of Corrections. The governor also ordered the Department of Corrections' Indian Juvenile Placement program to be exempt from any lapses.
"Supporting victims of sexual assault and protecting our children from predators are important goals," said Governor Walker. "In addition to the legislation we signed earlier this year and the Executive Order I signed yesterday to help protect our children, we are now helping make sure that funding goes toward preventing sexual predators from preying on our children."
Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen added, "Governor Walker clearly understands the importance of SAVS to victims of sexual abuse. I am pleased to work with him to save the SAVS program from further reductions this year. I will continue working with him and the legislature toward long-term sustained funding for this program so important to victims of sexual assault and those who serve them."
Maintaining funding for the Child Pornography Surcharge will keep over $45,000 in funding to prevent child pornography.
The Governor's office will continue to review possible lapse exemptions. Additional details on the programs are included below:
Department of Justice
- Sexual assault victim services: $294,350
This appropriation is funded from the crime victim and witness assistance surcharge, Part B, which is assessed on certain offenders convicted of a crime. The revenues are used to support organizations that provide direct services to victims of sexual assault. This reallocation is important to ensure victims of sexual assault receive the services they need in their communities in a timely manner. In calendar year 2011, 43 grants were given to organizations providing services including 24 hour crisis response, personal advocacy, systems advocacy, information and referral, support groups, accessible services and community outreach and prevention education.
- Child Pornography Surcharge - $4,459
This appropriation is funded from a portion of the revenue generated by the child pornography surcharge, which is a $500 per image surcharge assessed on offenders convicted of possession of child pornography (the Department of Corrections and Office of Justice also receive a portion of the revenue). The appropriation can be used to fund investigations of possession of child pornography.
This reallocation ensures revenues collected from these heinous crimes are used to protect the safety of children who may be victimized by these crimes and prevent additional crimes.
Department of Corrections
Reallocation Allocations
- Child Pornography Surcharge - $41,800
This appropriation is funded from a portion of the revenue generated by the child pornography surcharge, which is a $500 per image surcharge assessed on offenders convicted of possession of child pornography (the Department of Justice and Office of Justice also receive a portion of the revenue). The appropriation can be used to fund institution operations and field and administrative services.
This reallocation ensures revenues collected from these heinous crimes are used for public protection, which may be used to prevent reoffending and avoid creating future child victims.
- Indian Juvenile Placements - $5,600
This appropriation is funded by tribal gaming revenue and the appropriation is used to pay for unexpected or unusually high-cost out-of-home care placements of juveniles adjudicated delinquent by tribal courts.
This reallocation ensures adequate funding exists for counties and tribes to support these out-of-home placements and support the juveniles in their communities.

Source: http://walker.wi.gov/journal_media_detail.asp?prid=6131&locid=177
