Public Statements
Reggie Newson Appointed Secretary of the Department of Workforce Development
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 24, 2011
Location: Madison, WI

Today the Governor's office received Scott Baumbach's resignation letter and announced that former DWD Deputy Secretary and DOT Executive Assistant, Reggie Newson, has been appointed Secretary of DWD.
"I would like to thank Scott for his service to the State of Wisconsin--he has helped Wisconsinites receive job training and has connected job seekers with employers," said Governor Walker. "Reggie has the qualities necessary to lead the Department of Workforce Development, an agency that will play a key role getting Wisconsin back to work and ensuring the private sector can create 250,000 new jobs by 2015."
Prior to his service at DWD he served as Executive Assistant at the Wisconsin Department of Transportation (DOT), one of the DOT's top three leadership positions and a position he held since January 2011. He previously was operations director for DOT's Southeast Region, managing a $320 budget and directing 500 employees since 2005. He was responsible for daily business operations including human resources, finance, policy implementation and quality control and oversight of project management.
From 2003 to 2005, Deputy Secretary Newson managed the state Disadvantaged Enterprise Program, and in that capacity, he orchestrated and developed leading market management strategies for minority business development.
Deputy Secretary Newson has an MBA with an emphasis in corporate communications from Concordia University of Wisconsin, a master's degree in political science from the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee and certificates in project management, management and six-sigma from the UW-Milwaukee. He also has an associate's degree in commercial real estate (ACRE) from Marquette University. He is an alumnus of Future Milwaukee and a member of the Milwaukee Forum and the Downtown Milwaukee Rotary.
In 2005, he was honored with the Milwaukee Business Journal's Forty Under 40 Award, which recognizes 40 Milwaukee-area individuals who are making a difference in their professions and communities. He serves on the Board of Directors for the Milwaukee Urban League, the boards of the Menomonee Valley Partners and 30th Street Industrial Corridor, and is a member of the Bayshore Towne Center Community Advisory Board.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/journal_media_detail.asp?locid=177&prid=6066
