Public Statements
Governor Walker Highlights Grants to Improve Employment Outcomes and Housing Options for Individuals with Disabilities
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 20, 2011
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker today highlighted two grants that aim to improve employment outcomes and increase affordable and accessible housing for people with disabilities.
"For the last thirty years, Wisconsin has been committed to increasing supportive living in the community for individuals with disabilities so they can live independent lives," said Governor Walker. "These grants will help people find permanent housing and the services they need to live independently and will provide the means to improve their quality of life by developing work skills to enter the competitive workforce."
The Wisconsin Board for People with Developmental Disabilities was awarded the "Let's Get to Work" grant, a five-year federal grant of $1.82 million. The Board will work with the Department of Health Services, the Department of Workforce Development and the Department of Public Instruction to elevate community expectations and remove policy barriers that prevent youth with significant disabilities from accessing the supports and experiences they need in order to develop work skills. The project will work with eight school sites across Wisconsin over three years to gather data and develop strategies for dissemination of policies and practices.
Project SEARCH, a partner organization in "Let's Get to Work" grant activities, is a one year, high school transition program which provides training and education leading to employment for individuals with disabilities. Project SEARCH was developed in 1996 by Nurse J. Erin Riehle, then the Director of the Emergency Department of Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center. Governor Walker today toured the University of Wisconsin Hospital's Project SEARCH site.
"UW Hospital's commitment to Project SEARCH reflects an understanding that helping people achieve their best health means little if they do not have opportunities to take part in the work life of their community. It is apparent that during their training here, the students help deliver care to others while enhancing their own skills and self-development," said Governor Walker.

Source:
