Public Statements
Governor Walker Appoints Clayton Kawski to Dane County Circuit Court
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 15, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker appointed Attorney Clayton Kawski to serve as a judge on the Dane County Circuit Court, replacing retiring Judge David Flanagan.
"Clayton Kawski has established himself as an attorney of high integrity and intellect in the Madison legal community," said Governor Walker. "He has served Wisconsin admirably in his time at the Department of Justice and demonstrated a commitment to upholding our constitutional framework and the laws of our state. I am confident Clayton will apply the same dedication to the rule of law as a judge on the Dane County bench."
Kawski has served as an Assistant Attorney General since 2010 and is the deputy director of the office's special litigation and appeals unit. Before joining the Attorney General's office, he practiced law at the firm of Michael Best & Friedrich in Madison. Additionally, Kawski clerked for Justice David T. Prosser on the Wisconsin Supreme Court.
Justice Prosser writes in support of Kawski's appointment saying, "he proved to be one of my very best clerks. In the ten years since I met him, he has accepted ever-increasing responsibilities and performed with consistent brilliance."
Wisconsin Attorney General Brad Schimel supported Kawski's appointment providing, "I really cannot say strongly enough what a capable, hard-working, ethical, and resourceful attorney Mr. Kawski is." Attorney General Schimel further noted Kawski is "adept at outlining both sides of issues dispassionately and objectively," and stated "I believe he will bring the quality of being able to see an issue from all sides to service on the bench. I also believe he has the kind of demeanor that will make him particularly well-suited for the bench."
Waukesha County Circuit Court Judge Maria S. Lazar says of Kawski, "not only does he have the legal acumen and experience; he has the perfect judicial temperament. In case after case, I have seen him show respect to witnesses and opposing counsel while still standing strong as an advocate." Judge Lazar added, "Wisconsin would be extraordinarily well-served to have Clayton Kawski on the bench, and I would be honored to have him as a fellow judge."
Kawski received his Bachelor of Business Administration degree summa cum laude from the University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh and his Juris Doctor degree summa cum laude from the Northern Illinois University College of Law. He and his wife Marci reside in Madison, WI.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-appoints-clayton-kawski-dane-county-circuit-court
