Public Statements
Walker Calls "Back to Work Wisconsin" Special Legislative Session
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 28, 2011
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker issued Executive Order #45 today calling the Wisconsin State Legislature into a "Back to Work Wisconsin" special session. Legislation in the special session includes items to improve access to capital and loans, worker training, the regulatory process and also includes additional tort reform measures.
"Wisconsin has outperformed the nation this year in job creation, but we aren't immune to what is happening nationally. That's why it's important we do even more to help get Wisconsinites back to work," said Governor Walker. "My administration remains focused on job creation and this special session includes legislation from both sides of the aisle that will make it easier for employers to create 250,000 private sector jobs. In traveling the state, I've listened to the concerns of job creators and those still looking for work. The one thing that I hear more than anything else is that employers and workers want a sense of certainty. That is the main goal of this special session -- to create as much certainty as we can for employers and workers at the state level so that they can create jobs. By calling another special session we show that jobs remain at the front of our agenda."
On the Governor's first day in office he called a Special Session to help improve the state's business climate. After the Special Session Wisconsin's jumped up 17 spots in CEO Magazines' list of business friendly states -- the largest jump in the nation. Wisconsin job creators also saw renewed confidence, 88 percent said the state was going in the right direction, up from 10 percent the year before. Over the first 6 months of the year Wisconsin created jobs at nearly twice the rate of the nation, before the global and national uncertainty over the debt crisis.
"We sent a message to job creators in January that we would improve our business climate," said Governor Walker. "Now we renew that message as we work to give job creators the confidence they need to put Wisconsin back to work. This special session will also show how we are different from the stalemate in Washington. As they continue to play politics in our nation's capital, our special session shows that we remain focused on jobs."
Below is a list of "Back to Work Wisconsin" special session legislation authored by Democrats:
Senate Bill 171--Sen. Taylor and Rep. Toles, exempting from income taxation certain employer-paid fringe benefits for mass transit expenses.
Assembly Bill 97--Rep. Ripp and Sen. Lassa, advanced manufacturing skills grants for technical colleges.
Assembly Bill 211--Rep. Molepske, Rep. Williams and Sen. Lassa, an income and franchise tax credit for investments in a community development financial institution.
Assembly Bill 90 and Senate Bill 40--Rep. Clark and Sen. Lassa, entrepreneurial tax credit access grants, providing an exemption from emergency rule procedures, granting rule-making authority, and making an appropriation.
Assembly Bill 20--Rep. Barca and Sen. Lassa, allowing refunds for the early stage seed and angel investment tax credits and making an appropriation.
LRB 2221--Rep. Radcliffe, authorizing a school board to grant a vocational high school diploma.
Here is a full list of bills called for in the special session:
Access to Capital
Assembly Bill 20--Rep. Barca and Sen. Lassa, allowing refunds for the early stage seed and angel investment tax credits and making an appropriation.
Assembly Bill 90 and Senate Bill 40--Rep. Clark and Sen. Lassa, entrepreneurial tax credit access grants, providing an exemption from emergency rule procedures, granting rule-making authority, and making an appropriation.
Assembly Bill 179--Rep. Weininger and Sen. Cowles, authorizing the creation of a multijurisdictional tax incremental financing district.
Assembly Bill 211--Rep. Molepske, Rep. Williams and Sen. Lassa, an income and franchise tax credit for investments in a community development financial institution.
LRB 1875--Rep. Petryk, Bernier and Larson and Sen. Leibham, small business loan guarantees by the Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority.
LRB 1877--Rep. Nerison and Sen. Schultz, changes to agricultural production and loan guarantee programs administered by the Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority.
LRB 2861--Sen. Wanggaard and Rep. Marklein, creation of the Wisconsin Next Generation Reserve Board and Wisconsin next generation reserve fund, authorizing the State of Wisconsin Investment Board to provide certain advice, services, facilities, and loans to state agencies and others, and making appropriations.
Regulatory Streamlining
Wetland and Habitat Restoration--Sen. Kedzie and Rep. Mursau, Changes to wetland water quality certifications which will help streamline the permitting process while maintaining protections for our most valuable wetland resources
LRB 1446--Sen. Kedzie and Rep. Mursau, information required to be published on the Department of Natural Resources Internet Web site; identification of areas of significant scientific value for purposes of regulating the placement of deposits and structures on the beds of navigable waters and the removal of materials from the beds of navigable waters; requirements for the placement of certain piers and wharves; repair and maintenance of boat houses and fixed houseboats; permit exemptions for land grading activities and for persons who place piers and wharves in navigable waters; placement of fill or structures within a bulkhead line; procedures for issuing individual permits, contracts, and general permits and contracts for structures, deposits, and other activities in or near navigable waters; expedited procedures for plan approvals for dams and for water and sewerage systems; and granting rule−making authority.
LRB 2769--Rep. Strachota and Sen. Zipperer & Galloway, various duties of the Department of Revenue, including issuing declaratory judgments, conducting audits and assessments, asserting liability, allowing claims for refunds, awarding the costs of litigation, imposing penalties related to a taxpayer's negligence, and requiring the exercise of rule−making authority.
LRB 2854 -- Governor Walker, the film production services tax credit application fee.
Workforce Development
Assembly Bill 97--Rep. Ripp and Sen. Lassa, advanced manufacturing skills grants for technical colleges.
LRB 2221--Rep. Radcliffe, authorizing a school board to grant a vocational high school diploma.
Tax Relief
Assembly Bill 145 and Senate Bill 102--Sen. Leibham and Rep. Klenke, authorizing the Public Service Commission to approve temporary electric rates to promote economic development.
Assembly Bill 220--Rep. Murtha and Sen. Moulton, an income and franchise tax credit for workplace wellness programs, granting rule-making authority, and requiring the exercise of rule-making authority.
AB 277 and SB 203--Rep. Strachota and Sen. Wanggaard, adopting federal law as it relates to excluding from an employee's income certain payments from an employer related to medical care.
Senate Bill 171--Sen. Taylor and Rep. Toles, exempting from income taxation certain employer-paid fringe benefits for mass transit expenses.
Transportation and Infrastructure
Assembly Bill 252 and Senate Bill 195--Rep. Petrowski and Sen. Lazich, seasonal weight limitations for certain vehicles transporting agricultural crops
Assembly Bill 253 and Senate Bill 189--Rep. Petrowski and Sen. Lazich, the maximum permissible length of vehicles carrying poles, pipe, girders, and similar materials on highways
Assembly Bill 254 and Senate Bill 190--Rep. Petrowski and Sen. Lazich, the maximum permissible length of single vehicles operated on a highway without an overweight permit
LRB 2900--Rep. Petrowski and Sen. Lazich, permits for overweight vehicle combinations transporting sealed containers or vehicles in international trade
LRB 2901--Rep. Petrowski and Sen. Lazich, annual or consecutive month permits for certain overweight vehicle combinations transporting agricultural commodities
Litigation Certainty
LRB 2670--Rep. Vos and Sen. Zipperer, factors for determining the reasonableness of attorney fees.
LRB 2890--Rep. Kooyenga and Sen. Zipperer, providing immunity from liability to drug and device manufacturers and sellers under certain circumstances
LRB 2939--Rep. Williams and Sen. Galloway, duty of care owed to trespassers
LRB 2966--Rep. Paul Farrow and LRB 2838 -- Sen. Rich Zipperer, interest rates on judgments in certain civil actions

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/journal_media_detail.asp?locid=177&prid=6026
