Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: Listening to Job Creators
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 22, 2011
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Walker delivered the weekly radio address that is titled "Listening to Job Creators."
Transcript below:
Hi this is Scott Walker.
Over the past nine months, I've toured factories and mills, visited with job creators at small business roundtables and listened to workers at brown bag lunches. Much of the action we took already this year comes from listening to the hopes and concerns about jobs I've heard traveling this state as your governor.
With that in mind, I'm working with lawmakers in both political parties to take even more positive action to improve the environment in Wisconsin for job creators. Even though the problems in the federal government have slowed things down with the economy, we are looking to find new ways for our state to lead the way to recovery.
In addition, we are looking for even more ways to attract jobs to Wisconsin.
Starting this week, I am hosting forums with job creators to collect ideas on how we can put more people to work in our state. We are looking for ways to help provide more certainty for employers and more confidence for consumers.
Our first forum was held in La Crosse with subsequent sessions being held in other parts of the state. I will bring along key members of my cabinet and staff to join me in listening to job creators. My hope is that we will hear positive ideas for improvements we can make to the economic environment in our state.
Our goal is to help the private sector create (at least) 250,000 jobs by 2015. While that goal may be difficult in the current economy, we are looking for ways to break through the challenges brought on by the problems in our national economy and help Wisconsin lead the way to recovery. Hearing directly from job creators is a key part of taking the next step to more jobs.
We will work to change laws if that makes it easier to create jobs, but we are also prepared to make other changes in our government to improve our state's economy and to get our citizens back to work.
If you have ideas for businesses that would like to grow and add more jobs in Wisconsin, please give us a call on our jobs hot-line at 855-854-JOBS.
Working together, we can show that Wisconsin is open for businessand that means more jobs for everyone.
The state has partnered with the Wisconsin Broadcasters Association to produce and distribute brief radio address once a week. Audio files and a written transcript of this radio address can be accessed on http://www.wi-broadcasters.org and http://walker.wi.gov/section.asp?linkid=1761&locid=177. To download an mp3 file you can visit http://walker.wi.gov/section.asp?linkid=1761&locid=177, right click the radio address link and click "save link as."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/journal_media_detail.asp?locid=177&prid=6022
