Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: Back to School
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 8, 2011
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Walker delivered the first radio address entitled "Back to School."
Transcript below:
September is here and in Wisconsin that means it's time for Packer and Badger games. Add to the mix the fact that the Brewers are in the hunt for a playoff spot and we have plenty to talk about in our state.
September also means a return to the classroom for nearly a million Wisconsin students including my sons, Matt and Alex. This year, Matt is a senior and Alex a junior at the public high school in our hometown. Tonette and I are grateful for all of the outstanding teachers at our school and the many others at schools across Wisconsin.
Over the years, we helped with field trips and high interest days. We've been a part of the PTA and the booster club. We appreciate the fine education our kids receive at their school.
Like parents all across Wisconsin, we want every kid in our state to have access to a world-class education. We want a system that is an example for the rest of the nation.
In an increasingly global economy, we also need to make certain that our students are getting the skills they need to enter the workforce job-ready. If we want to have more jobs in Wisconsin, we need to make sure we have enough skilled workers.
Much attention has been given to the reforms we put in place to help school leaders balance their budgets while protecting teaching jobs and improving the quality of education. These are positive reforms for our state.
Other reforms are equally as important, but have not yet received as much attention. These reforms include greater school accountability and higher reading performance.
Recently, State Superintendent of Schools Tony Evers and I brought together nearly 30 education leaders from across Wisconsin. They included educators, school board members, researchers, employers, parents and lawmakers from both political parties.
Our objective is to design a way to assess every school that gets public funds so that parents can clearly see what schools are working and what schools need help. In other words, we want to replicate successful schools and reform failing schools.
We also have an aggressive reading initiative with Dr. Evers. Again, we brought together experts from across the state to work on ways to improve reading as a powerful tool for learning.
Until the end of third grade, kids are learning to read. From fourth grade on, they use reading to learn. We need to ensure that every student is reading at (or above) grade level by the time they are out of elementary school.
We are giving our schools the tools that they need to succeed. We hear from education leaders all across Wisconsin that the reforms are working. They can hire staff based on merit; pay employees based on performance and (ultimately) put the best and the brightest in the classroom.
Many school leaders are thrilled that they can finally push the kind of reforms they only dreamed of before this year.
Looking ahead, we want to make certain that we have a fair, open and accountable system to access our schools -- so we can reward success and correct problems.
And finally, we need to have a solid system that ensures that all of our kids can read well when they get out of elementary school.
These are not just education reforms; they're also economic reforms. Job creators need skilled workers.
Historically in Wisconsin, one of our strengths has been the quality of our workforce. We need to continue that commitment to quality as we seek to put more people to work in our state.
Thank you for listening. May God bless our great country and the great state of Wisconsin.
The state has partnered with the Wisconsin Broadcasters Association to produce and distribute brief radio address once a week. Audio files and a written transcript of this weeks radio address can be accessed on http://www.wi-broadcasters.org and ftp://doaftp04.doa.state.wi.us/Govfiles/weeklyradioaddress1.mp3.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/journal_media_detail.asp?locid=177&prid=5997
