Public Statements
Governor Walker Directs State Agencies to Assist in Northern Wisconsin Flooding Situation
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 14, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

On Tuesday, Governor Scott Walker participated in a storm damage tour to assess the need for assistance in northern Wisconsin following heavy storms in the area, which led to his declaration of a State of Emergency. Governor Walker released the following statement today after his briefing on the situation:
Wisconsin Emergency Management briefed us today about the ongoing flooding situation in northern Wisconsin, and we continue to gather information from local emergency management staff regarding the severity of the damage so we can prepare a request for a federal disaster declaration. We are working diligently to ensure services and resources are made available to all citizens and communities impacted by this event.
The following state agencies have resources available to assist local communities:
Wisconsin Emergency Management (WEM) continues to work with local, tribal, and county officials assessing the damage and coordinating state resources. WEM is also working closely with the Federal Emergency Management Agency and other federal agencies to provide situational awareness and review all possible disaster resources.
The Department of Administration (DOA) will work with communities to make Community Development Block Grant Emergency Assistance Program (CDBG-EAP) funds available. The funds may be used to assist eligible, low to moderate income homeowners for housing rehabilitation; business assistance; and/or repair local public infrastructure and community centers. Local communities should work with the Division of Energy, Housing, and Community Resources to apply. Please visit our web page or call (608) 266-7531.
The Department of Agriculture, Trade, and Consumer Protection (DATCP) will connect affected farmers with crop damage and livestock shelter needs for assistance and counseling through its Farm Center and Animal Health Division. The connection can be made by dialing 800-942-2474. Major storms bring transient (temporary) home improvement workers and scams to Wisconsin communities. Contact the Bureau of Consumer Protection to find out if there are complaints on file against the contractor. The Consumer Protection Hotline can be reached at 800-422-7128 or via email: datcphotline@wisconsin.gov. Additional information is available at http://datcp.wi.gov.
The Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority (WHEDA) is working directly with the American Red Cross on emergency housing for residents displaced by the flooding. Homeowners with a WHEDA mortgage that have been negatively impacted by the flooding should contact WHEDA at 800-562-5546.
Department of Natural Resources (DNR) will monitor groundwater issues in regards to flooded wells, monitor and inspect dams in the affected area, and work with local communities to expedite the permitting process for necessary repairs.
The Department of Transportation (WisDOT) staff are inspecting and documenting the impacts and damages to existing infrastructure and looking into what type of funding may be available for repairs. Road closures and detours are available at www.511wi.gov.
The Public Service Commission (PSC) will continue to monitor utility infrastructure, local grid reliability, and fuel supply to the region.
The Department of Health Services (DHS) has been, and will continue to be, in contact with local health departments and is providing resources and assistance as requested. One of the resources available is the Wisconsin Flood Toolkit, designed to aid local leaders in offering clear and accurate information about keeping people and property safe before, during, and after a flood.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-directs-state-agencies-assist-northern-wisconsin-flooding
