Public Statements
Wisconsin to Collaborate on Statewide Accountability System
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 11, 2011
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker and State Superintendent Tony Evers will lead a collaborative effort with other educators, policymakers, and parents to develop a new statewide accountability system for education.
"Working together we can improve Wisconsin's education accountability system," said Governor Walker. "We must ensure that our students are receiving an education that readies them for the challenges of the 21st century. That means making sure parents and educators have access to reliable information on how our children are being prepared by our schools and school districts."
"Wisconsin is pursuing a number of educational reforms, including academic standards, assessments, data systems, educator evaluation, and early reading. A design team will work collaboratively to develop a new accountability system for education to replace the broken, one-size-fits-all accountability imposed by No Child Left Behind," Evers said. "Wisconsin has long been an education leader, and we can lead in state-developed accountability that gives parents, educators, and taxpayers solid information about how our students are achieving and how well our schools and districts are preparing them for future success."
The overarching goal for the design team will be to develop a growth-based accountability system that will consider multiple measures of student and school performance focused on college and career readiness. Every publicly funded school -- traditional public schools, charter schools, or choice schools -- should be part of this new accountability system. The system will identify high-performing schools and replicate best practices across the state and provide technical assistance and support to improve the lowest-performing schools. The Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO) "Roadmap for Next-Generation State Accountability Systems" will be a resource for the design team's work. With the help of the University of Wisconsin--Madison's La Follette Institute of Public Affairs, the design team will participate in panel discussions later this summer to gain background information on developing an accountability system that provides accurate, transparent, and comprehensive information that promotes improvement in every school.

Source:
