Public Statements
Governor Walker Appoints Martin De Vries to Dodge County Circuit Court
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 11, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker appointed Attorney Martin J. De Vries to serve as a judge on the Dodge County Circuit Court, replacing retiring Judge John R. Storck.
"I am pleased to appoint Martin De Vries as a Dodge County judge," said Governor Walker. "His decades of experience, commitment to the rule of law, and service to Dodge County as a municipal court judge will serve him well in his position on the bench."
De Vries has been an attorney at Sager & Colwin, S.C. in Fond du Lac since 1999 specializing in municipal liability, insurance employment discrimination and medical malpractice matters. He also serves as a municipal judge in the Town of Fox Lake, beginning in 2015. Before his services in Wisconsin, De Vries practiced law in California from 1989 until 1999.
Attorney Sam Kaufman of Vande Zande & Kaufman, LLP wrote in support of De Vries, "As a judge, I would expect that Attorney De Vries would interpret the law as written and apply the same in a fair manner to all appearing before his court. Attorney De Vries is not only respected within his community but amongst the attorneys within Dodge County."
Attorney Charles H. Bohl of Whyte Hirschboeck Dudek S.C. also recommends the appointment of De Vries to the bench by writing, "Mr. De Vries has an excellent understanding of Wisconsin law that is well-grounded in practical experience. Mr. De Vries' value to the court will also be enhanced by the breadth of his professional experiences. In addition to representing parties in civil litigation, he has served the community as a municipal judge."
De Vries received his undergraduate degree from Dordt College and his Juris Doctor degree from Valparaiso University School of Law. He and his wife Karen reside in Randolph, WI.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-appoints-martin-de-vries-dodge-county-circuit-court
