Public Statements
Collective Bargaining is a Fiscal Issue
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 21, 2011
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Walker's office released specific examples to show how collective bargaining fiscally impacts government.
Example #1 WEA Trust
Currently many school districts participate in WEA trust because WEAC collectively bargains to get as many school districts across the state to participate in this union run health insurance plan as possible. Union leadership benefits from members participating in this plan. If school districts enrolled in the state employee health plan, it would save school districts up to $68 million per year. Beyond that if school districts had the flexibility to look for health insurance coverage outside of WEA trust or the state plan, additional savings would likely be realized.
Example #2 Viagra for Teachers
The Milwaukee Teachers' Education Association (MTEA) tried to use a policy established by collective bargaining to obtain health insurance coverage that specifically paid for Viagra. Cost to taxpayers is $786,000 a year.
Reference: http://abcnews.go.com/Health/milwaukee-schools-ban-viagra-teachers-union-sues-discrimination/story?id=11378595
Example #3 Unrealistic Overtime Provisions
On a state level, the Department of Corrections allows correctional workers who call in sick to collect overtime if they work a shift on the exact same day. The specific provision that allows this to happen was collectively bargained for in their contract. Cost to taxpayers $4.8 million.
Reference: Attached department of corrections memo
Along with these specific examples illustrating why collective bargaining is a fiscal issue Governor Walker's spokesman, Cullen Werwie, released the following statement:
Collective bargaining has a fiscal impact at all levels of government.
Two years ago Senate Democrats rammed through a billion dollar tax increase in 24 hours without a public hearing. Now it is reported they are hiding out at a Best Western in Illinois. While they are vacationing the taxpayers who are paying their salaries are hard at work producing materials and providing services all while trying to make enough money to pay their families' bills.
Instead of stimulating the hospitality sector of Illinois' economy, Senate Democrats should come back to the Madison, debate the bill, cast their vote, and help get Wisconsin's economy back on track.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/journal_media_detail.asp?locid=177&prid=5635
