Public Statements
Letter to President Obama, Speaker Boehner, Senator Reid, Senator McConnell, Representative Pelosi and Secretary Sebelius:
Letter
By: Scott Walker Mike Beebe Ed Rendell Sean Parnell Rick Scott Dave Heineman Susana Martinez Gary Herbert Bob McDonnell Bob Riley Mary Fallin Terry Branstad Chris Christie Rick Snyder Mitch Daniels, Jr. Dennis Daugaard John Kasich Sam Brownback Phil Bredesen Matt Mead Nikki Haley Haley Barbour Nathan Deal Rick Perry Paul LePage Brian Sandoval Butch Otter Jack Dalrymple Bobby Jindal
Date: Jan. 7, 2011
Location: Unknown

As Governors preparing Executive Budget Recommendations for the upcoming fiscal year(s), we are writing to you regarding the excessive constraints placed on us by healthcare-related federal mandates. One of our biggest concerns continues to be the Maintenance of Effort (MOE) provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), which prevent states from managing their Medicaid programs for their unique Medicaid populations. We ask for your immediate action to remove these MOE requirements so that states are once again granted the flexibility to control their program costs and make necessary budget decisions.
Every Governor, Republican and Democrat, will face unprecedented budget challenges in the coming months. Efforts by the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to regulate state operations impose greater uncertainty on our budgets for oncoming years and create a perfect storm when coupled with the current state of the economy. The National Governors Association (NGA) and National Association of State Budget Officers (NASBO) just last month released the annual Fiscal Survey of the States:
"Since the recession began, states have had significant revenue declines and in order to balance their budgets, have made significant cuts and in some cases enacted tax and fee increases.  Finally, the potential impact of health care reform in 2014 is a real unknown at this time."
"Finally, one of the clearest signs of state fiscal stress are mid-year budget cuts as they highlight the difference between budgeted levels of spending and forecasted revenue collections. For fiscal 2010, thirty-nine states made $18.3 billion in midyear budget cuts. Thus far for fiscal 2011, 14 states have made $4 billion in cuts. In 2009, 43 states cut $31.3 billion and in 2008, 13 states made $3.6 billion in mid-year cuts."








































Source:
