Public Statements
Open for Business: Governor-Elect Walker Transition Office Offers Business Help Online
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Nov. 10, 2010
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor-Elect Scott Walker rolled out his official transition webpage, which can be accessed at www.transition.wi.gov. The new website provides help to businesses looking to create jobs in Wisconsin, contains information about how to apply for a position in the Walker administration and has a link citizens can use to suggest ways to make government run more efficiently.
"We want to hear from businesses in Wisconsin about how we can help them expand and from businesses around the world who are interested in bringing jobs to our state," Walker said. "We need to improve our business climate and that means making state government work more efficiently to help create a pro-growth private-sector economy. We want the world to know that Wisconsin is open for business." In addition to job creator outreach and personnel appointments, the transition website also includes a page for citizens to suggest ways for state government to work more efficiently and save taxpayer money.
"Balancing our state's $2.7 billion budget deficit will require all Wisconsinites to work together on ideas for reforming state government and saving money," Walker said. "No idea is off the table. I encourage all citizens and state employees in particular to offer their thoughts and ideas for creating a more efficient and responsive state government."
In addition to launching the webpage, the transition team also announced the creation of Governor-Elect Walker's official Facebook and Twitter accounts. Individuals interested in following Governor Scott Walker on Facebook can either search for the Governor Scott Walker fanpage or visit the following link: www.facebook.com/pages/Governor-Scott-Walker/175220979161820.
Governor-Elect Walker's official twitter account is @GovWalker.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/journal_media_detail.asp?locid=177&prid=5484
