Public Statements
Public Policy Forum Report Vindicates Walker's Position
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 15, 2010
Location: Wauwatosa, WI

Report makes case that public employee unions can prevent deep program cuts and tax increases by accepting common sense reforms to unaffordable wages and benefits.
Scott Walker, Milwaukee County executive and Republican candidate for governor, today thanked the Public Policy Forum (PPF) for its work analyzing the proposed 2011 Milwaukee County Budget. Walker said the report presents a simple choice to public employee unions.

"The report vindicates what I've been saying all along. The public employee unions can spare county residents from deep program cuts and tax increases by agreeing to common sense reforms to unaffordable wages and benefits," Walker said. "In fact, with these reforms, we can actually improve services for public safety, public works, health and human services, and our parks."

The PPF report agreed that, "as a long-term strategic direction, stringent controls on wages and deep cuts in benefits are necessary and appropriate," noting that, "the fiscal cards that have been dealt to the county executive and the county board may leave little choice but to employ such mechanisms"

The report noted that Walker's budget reduces the county property tax levy by $1 million and keeps most fees at 2010 levels. It also approved of many of Walker's cost-saving innovations and fiscally responsible measures including:
* Imposing greater health care cost sharing on the county's highest paid employees by making their plans more comparable to those offered in the private sector;
* Demanding that the state eliminate the Milwaukee County BadgerCare funding penalty which makes Milwaukee the only county in the state required to help fund the state-funded program;
* Requiring that one-time revenue from the sale of county property not be budgeted in the county's ongoing operating budget;
* Maintaining the county's strong performance in managing its long-term debt;
* Boosting the County's contingency fund by $1.5 million; and
* Directing resources to bring revenue projections in the Parks and BHD budgets more in line with recent actual revenue collections.
The report also expresses concerns that the County's public employee unions may reject Walker's common sense wage and benefit reforms, forcing county residents to bear the brunt of three extreme options:

1. Laying-off up to 264 county workers;
2. Forcing deep cuts to emergency medical services, disability services, and public transit; and
3. Raising taxes on county residents.

"We cannot, and should, not maintain a system where public employees are the "haves' and the taxpayers footing the bill are the "have-nots,'" Walker said. "Raising taxes to pay for unaffordable public employee union wages and benefits will hurt our ability to attract jobs and rebuild our economy. I hope the county's public employee unions choose to care as much about that as I do."

Source: http://www.scottwalker.org/press-release/2010/10/public-policy-forum-report-vindicates-walker%E2%80%99s-position
