Public Statements
Walker: It's Time To "Escape to Wisconsin" Again
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 14, 2010
Location: Wauwatosa, WI

Pledges Renewed Focus on Tourism to Boost Job Creation; Will Reopen Visitors Centers and Make Them Self-Sustaining
Scott Walker, Milwaukee County executive and Republican nominee for governor, today at Powertex Group, Inc. in Eau Claire unveiled his plan improve Wisconsin tourism, open visitors centers, and spur job creation.
"For too many years, Governor Doyle has neglected our tourism industry and it's high time to reverse the trend, open our doors, and get our state working again," said Walker. "One of the best ways to lay out our welcome mat is to reopen border tourism centers that were closed by Governor Doyle and make them self-sustaining by working with the private sector -- just as I have done on various projects in Milwaukee County."
"Working with the private sector will also be vital to attract tourists to major events that we already host in Wisconsin, and also existing national conventions, meeting, and tournaments that we can bring to our state."
"As governor, I will prioritize the Governor's Conference on Tourism because, unlike Governor Doyle, I recognize the importance of this conference, and the industry it represents, to Wisconsin."
"Walker also noted his plans to improve the Department of Natural Resources will play an integral role in helping to bring back sportsmen from across America who have planned their trips elsewhere in recent years, as Wisconsin' natural resources have been mismanaged, and deer population has dwindled."
"Walker also announced the launch of "Homecoming Wisconsin," which will work with university alumni associations and state agencies to reach out to individuals, families and businesses that have left our state and personally invite them to our wonderful festivals and celebrations throughout the year in every community across the state."
"Walker concluded, "For years, Wisconsin's brand was "Escape to Wisconsin.' By renewing our focus on tourism and implementing new, creative solutions, we can, like never before, invite Americans to "Escape to Wisconsin" again.'"

Source: http://www.scottwalker.org/press-release/2010/10/walker-it%E2%80%99s-time-%E2%80%9Cescape-wisconsin%E2%80%9D-again
