Public Statements
Walker: "I Will Be the #1 Cheerleader to Bring Wisconsin Jobs"
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 7, 2010
Location: Wauwatosa, WI

Marketing Plan for Wisconsin Includes Pledge to Meet Personally With Employers; Kleefisch to have Active Role in Assisting Small Businesses
Scott Walker, Milwaukee County executive and Republican nominee for governor today, in Green Bay, unveiled a plan to aggressively market Wisconsin to job creators. Joining Walker was Rebecca Kleefisch, the Republican nominee for Lieutenant Governor.
"Unlike Mayor Barrett, I won't outsource economic development to a government bureaucrat," said Walker. "I believe the governor should be Wisconsin's #1 cheerleader to bring jobs to Wisconsin and help employers retain and create more jobs right here. Time and again I hear from employers across the state that they don't have access to Governor Doyle and his administration. That's unacceptable.

As governor, I will be Wisconsin's #1 cheerleader, just like Tommy Thompson was, and be a true marketer-in-chief so we can not only keep the businesses we have, but create 250,000 private sector jobs in Wisconsin.

In addition, I'm looking forward to Rebecca Kleefisch having a very active role in bringing 250,000 jobs to Wisconsin. She is an excellent marketer for our state, and I am empowering her to lead small business roundtables in all corners of Wisconsin, so that every job creator and business owner in Wisconsin has a direct line to me and my administration."

"For too long, Wisconsin has been without a true champion to bring jobs to our state," said Kleefisch. "As a small business owner, I know firsthand the struggles of starting up a company in a dismal economic climate. Scott and I will change that. Scott Walker's plan to bring jobs and market Wisconsin as a great place to live, to work, to raise a family, to buy a home, and to retire in, is much needed, and I look forward to traveling to all corners of our state to hear from business owners big and small about how to get our state working again."

Like Tommy Thompson, Walker will aggressively market Wisconsin for job creators. His plan includes:
* Making the governor the #1 cheerleader and marketer-in-chief for jobs
o Walker will pledge to meet personally with any employer with a plan to bring 50 or more jobs to Wisconsin and will have an open door policy to any job creator in the state -- big or small -- that wants to retain, relocate, or grow jobs in Wisconsin.
o Walker will create a "Jobs Hotline." Any company that contacts the governor's office will be responded to within 24-hours.
* Implementing a "Ready, Set, Build" permitting process to ensure job creators can start expanding or relocating to Wisconsin immediately.
o Would turn the state permitting process on its head by working with state departments, economic development experts, chambers of commerce and local governments to find sites that can be pre-certified for building.
o A state-of-the-art website will allow job creators in Wisconsin and around the world to find the perfect location for their expansion.
* Importing jobs to Wisconsin
o Walker would propose eliminating the state's income tax on any corporation that relocates to Wisconsin for their first two years of operation.
o Businesses that move to Wisconsin that are not subject to the corporate income tax, could receive a relocation tax credit up to 50% of moving costs.
* Continuing dialogue with job creators
o Scott Walker will empower Rebecca Kleefisch to head regular small business roundtables in all corners of the state.
o Meetings will establish a direct line of communication between the Walker Administration and Wisconsin's job creators.

Source: http://www.scottwalker.org/press-release/2010/10/walker-%E2%80%9Ci-will-be-1-cheerleader-bring-wisconsin-jobs%E2%80%9D
