Public Statements
Walker Lays Out Plans For Jobs & the Economy At Competitive Wisconsin Event
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 29, 2010
Location: Wauwatosa, WI

Today, Scott Walker, Milwaukee County executive and Republican nominee for governor spoke at a meeting of the board of directors of Competitive Wisconsin where he spoke on his plans to get government out of the way so the people of Wisconsin can create 250,000 jobs during his first term.
"Unlike Jim Doyle and Tom Barrett, I put my faith in the people, not the government, to bring jobs to our state," said Walker. "My plan to bring 250,000 jobs to Wisconsin focuses on cutting taxes and easing regulations, so employers can put more people to work. I'm glad the Competitive Wisconsin report has added its voice to the chorus of groups across this state looking for fundamental reform. On day one, I'll call a special session on jobs so we can put our state back to work. As governor, I'll follow many of the recommendations of Competitive Wisconsin and go a step further, easing the tax burden on small businesses and reorganizing the Department of Commerce."
Scott Walker has a record of standing up for taxpayers against wasteful spending and high taxes. He was elected Milwaukee County executive on a wave of reform, after a pension scandal revealed government workers were walking away with millions in taxpayer money. Since then, he has introduced eight consecutive budgets without a tax levy increase from the previous year, cut the debt by 10%, reduced the workforce by 20%, and had a multi-million surplus in his most recent budget.
As Milwaukee County executive, Scott Walker has given back $370,000 of his personal salary to the taxpayers over eight years, voluntarily reduced his own pension benefit, and in his most recent budget, successfully worked on a bipartisan proposal that asked county employees to contribute to their government financed healthcare plans, saving millions for the taxpayers.
Scott and his wife Tonette live in Wauwatosa with their two sons, Matt and Alex.

Source: http://www.scottwalker.org/press-release/2010/09/walker-lays-out-plans-jobs-economy-competitive-wisconsin-event
