Public Statements
Walker: Barrett and the Train Are A Tough Sell
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 28, 2010
Location: Wauwatosa, WI

After Sixth Presidential Visit By Obama, Wisconsinites Still Cannot Afford President Obama's Train or His Candidate for Governor
Today, Scott Walker, Milwaukee County executive and Republican nominee for governor, renewed his pledge to stop the Obama-Doyle-Barrett $810 million train boondoggle. Walker noted that; after six visits by President Obama, Wisconsinites still cannot afford the train boondoggle, or the policies of Tom Barrett -- Obama's choice to succeed Governor Doyle.
"The people of Wisconsin can't afford President Obama's train or his choice for governor," said Walker. "After eight years of Jim Doyle, we've had enough of the high taxes, job losses, and out of control spending. Mayor Barrett's record of big government and his support for this train mean that, with him as governor, we will have another four years of the same irresponsible, job-killing policies. Six visits by this president to support his candidate and his train have only made it even clearer that the people of Wisconsin would rather pick their own governor, and know best how to plan for their future transportation needs."
Walker is continuing to encourage supporters to visit www.NoTrain.com where thousands have already joined Walker in signing a letter asking President Obama to stop the train.
Scott Walker has a record of standing up for taxpayers against wasteful spending and high taxes. He was elected Milwaukee County executive on a wave of reform, after a pension scandal revealed government workers were walking away with millions in taxpayer money. Since then, he has introduced eight consecutive budgets without a tax levy increase from the previous year, cut the debt by 10%, reduced the workforce by 20%, and had a multi-million surplus in his most recent budget.
As Milwaukee County executive, Scott Walker has given back $370,000 of his personal salary to the taxpayers over eight years, voluntarily reduced his own pension benefit, and in his most recent budget, successfully worked on a bipartisan proposal that asked county employees to contribute to their government financed healthcare plans, saving millions for the taxpayers.
Scott and his wife Tonette live in Wauwatosa with their two sons, Matt and Alex.

Source: http://www.scottwalker.org/press-release/2010/09/walker-barrett-and-train-are-tough-sell
