Public Statements
Walker Outlines Blueprint to Bring 250,000 Jobs to Wisconsin
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 16, 2010
Location: Wauwatosa, WI

Republican nominee says people create jobs, not the government
Scott Walker, Milwaukee County executive and Republican nominee for governor today, in Madison, outlined his blueprint to bring 250,000 jobs to Wisconsin by 2015.
"One of the keys to the future of our state's economy is setting and meeting goals," said Walker. "For too long, politicians and bureaucrats have taken the state's economy for granted and delayed action until a business was on the verge of declaring bankruptcy or moving to a new state. Instead of reacting to each crisis as it comes, I will develop strategies to help the private sector create 250,000 new jobs and 10,000 new businesses by 2015"
Walker's "Top Ten" blueprint outlined his six-step plan to help Wisconsin businesses create 250,000 new jobs and 10,000 new businesses by 2015:
1 -- Lower Taxes "I want to lower the tax on employers, lower the tax on income, freeze property taxes and phase out retirement income taxes. States that have a lower tax burden have more jobs and better budgets, and its time Wisconsin was a better state to do business."
2 -- Less Regulation "State agencies should be more responsive to the customer and standards must be science-based and predictable."
3 -- End Frivolous Lawsuits "Luckily, we stopped the Governor's changes in joint and several liability, but we need to do more to block frivolous lawsuits, and we need true tort reform to help lower health care costs."
4 -- Better Education "We need a strong education system with more accountability and more tools to prepare our future workforce. And it means giving our UW System the tools to operate more like a business to pursue economic development."
5 -- Improve Healthcare "We need help for employers to be able to afford the costs of providing health care without government taking total control. That means eliminating the state tax on Health Savings Accounts. It means full disclosure on medical procedures. And it means helping employers tap into larger purchasing pools to share the risk. Most importantly, it means finding new ways for everyone to get some skin in the game so we work on improving our health which will ultimately lead to lower costs."
6 -- Strong Infrastructure "Reliable energy sources and dependable transportation links are the final piece to our plan."

Source: http://www.scottwalker.org/press-release/2010/09/walker-outlines-blueprint-bring-250000-jobs-wisconsin
