Public Statements
Issue Position: Agriculture
Issue Position
By: Scott Walker
Location: Unknown

Reclaiming the Title of America's Dairyland

"Farming is not just Wisconsin's most robust industry, it's a way of life for families who farm. As a child in rural Wisconsin, I watched farm families work from dawn to dusk to produce the food we buy and the raw materials found in products we use every day. The agriculture industry is the largest contributor to Wisconsin's economy and if it struggles, we all do. That's why I will work to preserve Wisconsin as the home of the world's best producers."
-Scott Walker
Wisconsin's agricultural industry contributes $59 billion to our economy each year and provides more than 420,000 jobs. A new farm job spurs the creation of 1.3 jobs in other industries like food processing and distribution. Without a doubt, thriving farming operations are essential to a healthy state economy.

Year after year, our farmers overcome the challenges presented by Mother Nature and the federal government and consistently produce high quality products. It's critical to all of our families that Wisconsin farmers remain competitive in the growing global economy. It's not enough for Wisconsin government to simply avoid erecting regulatory roadblocks to success; we have to establish policies that allow farmers to thrive.

Lowering Taxes on the Family Farm

Over 99% of Wisconsin farms are family owned and the future of our state's economy depends on keeping this tradition alive. Keeping the family in "family farm" means reducing the taxes and spending that pose a financial threat to our rural communities.

My administration will conduct a comprehensive review of all tax policy that impacts farmers, eliminate tax barriers to production, and rein in government spending so that farmers can invest in their operations instead of sending more money to the state treasury.

I will also oppose any efforts to weaken Wisconsin's "Use Value" law that has kept property taxes on farms in check and helped family farms stay in business.

Making Government Accountable to Farmers

While most of the attention for job creation seems to focus on the technology sector and manufacturing, Agriculture remains Wisconsin's top economic engine. We must refocus government to be a resource for farmers, not simply a regulator of them.

For Wisconsin's farmers, time is money. That's why I believe government has a responsibility to review permit applications in a timely manner. Right now, games are being played with permits and agencies are dragging their feet. We must reform the process so agricultural job creators can plan growth and new hires with predictability. My administration will support legislation to require state agencies to review permit applications within 60 days of receipt. If the application is not approved or denied by the state agency within 180 days of receipt, the application will be presumed approved.
My administration will eliminate the "gotcha mentality" of government regulators and create a culture that respects and supports Wisconsin farmers. Regulations and rules must be science based and be developed in partnership with the agricultural community.

My administration will also protect farmers from the dangerous fund raids of the previous administration. My administration will ensure that funds created for specific purposes, such as the Agricultural Chemical Management Fund and the Agricultural Chemical Cleanup Program, are not raided to pay for other programs.

Finally, the Department of Natural Resources impacts farmers just as much as the Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection does. To ensure farmers are always represented at the DNR, I will ensure that at least one of the members of the Natural Resources Board comes from an agricultural background.

Farming for the Next Generation

The fact that nearly all of Wisconsin farms are family-owned should be a source of pride and we should strive to keep it that way. Unfortunately, the federal death tax law punishes farm families when they hand down the business from one generation to the next. I support the elimination of the Death Tax and I will work with members of Congress to end its crippling effects on Wisconsin farmers.

For decades, the University of Wisconsin has been a leader in training farmers and developing best practices. My administration will build on this history by strengthening public/private partnerships that will incorporate 21st century innovations into best practices standards to ensure that the next generation of farmers can produce even more than we do now.

Through the use of technology, Wisconsin's famers will be able to produce even more of the quality products they are known for. To help facilitate this transition to the next generation of farming, I support tax incentives aimed at modernizing the farms of today so they can compete with the farms of tomorrow.

We must also continue to invest in our state's infrastructure to ensure farmers can move their products to market for years to come. In the last eight years, Gov. Doyle raided $1.3 billion from Wisconsin's Transportation Fund. This is money that could have gone to fixing our state's rural roads, highways and bridges. I will protect the Transportation Fund by ending the raids and supporting a constitutional amendment to protect it from raids by future governors.

Focus on the Farm, Not the Courtroom

It has never been a secret to farm families that Wisconsin is one of the most beautiful places on earth. While they have access to this view day in and day out, more and more people are searching for their own personal plot of Wisconsin's beauty. Unfortunately, this growth of residential communities near farming operations is creating a new threat to agricultural industry.

Family famers have enough to worry about without having to find the time and money to fight baseless lawsuits. I support improvements to Wisconsin's "Right to Farm" law so that farmers can devote their time and energy to the crops and livestock that our families depend on. I am also committed to reforming our legal system so that property rights of farmers and all landowners across the state are protected.

Source: http://www.scottwalker.org/issues/agriculture
