Public Statements
Issue Position: Second Amendment
Issue Position
By: Scott Walker
Location: Unknown

"Protecting and preserving our constitutional freedoms is one of the most important things a governor can do. The Bill of Rights forbids the government from infringing on the freedoms unique to America, but that hasn't deterred politicians who want to treat the Second Amendment as optional and strip us of the right to keep and bear arms. I will fight these attempts to get around the U.S. and Wisconsin Constitutions and I will strive to protect our rights today and for future generations."
-Scott Walker
Our Founding Fathers knew that granting the government unchecked power and too much control over its citizens would destabilize the Republic they fought to establish. When they crafted the Bills of Rights, they declared the right to keep and bear arms in the Second Amendment to be one of the fundamental freedoms on which our country is built. In 1998, I voted for an amendment to the Wisconsin Constitution that mirrors the Second Amendment. Throughout my career, I have earned an "A" rating from the National Rifle Association for protecting the rights of gun owners.

If our Second Amendment right is compromised, so too is Wisconsin's proud sporting heritage. Wisconsin's natural resources provide abundant opportunities for hunting, fishing and trapping and as an avid hunter, it's one of my favorite things about living here. These aren't just hobbies; they are part of Wisconsin's history and rich outdoor traditions that have endured for generations.

Protecting Our Families

The right to protect ourselves is just that -- our right -- and it shouldn't be eroded for political gain. I support the right of law-abiding citizens to carry a concealed firearm and I sponsored legislation allowing the right to carry while serving as a member of the state Assembly. Homeowners should take comfort in knowing that their home is truly their castle, which is why I support citizens' rights to protect themselves in their own homes and anywhere they have a legal right to be, by adopting a strong Castle Doctrine law.

Protecting and Expanding our Sporting Heritage

Overreaching by unelected bureaucrats in Madison is threatening Wisconsin's proud sporting tradition. The Department of Natural Resources (DNR) has lost sight of its mission over the years and no longer views sportsmen and women as partners in protecting our sporting heritage. Too often, the department seems determined to treat hunters like criminals and its employees seem to have lost interest in attracting more people to the sport.

For eight years, the department has been allowed to erode our Second Amendment rights and increase the power of DNR wardens. It is time reverse these trends, restore our rights, and welcome a new generation of hunters, trappers and anglers.

Reforms to the DNR must be accompanied by laws that protect safe, legal gun ranges from frivolous lawsuits that are an all too common weapon of Madison special interests who want to shut them down. I support strong laws that protect ranges against these baseless attacks and protect the rights of law-abiding citizens and law enforcement officers.

Source: http://www.scottwalker.org/issues/secondamendment
