Public Statements
Governor Walker Visits Wisconsin Dairy Producers in Celebration of Dairy Month
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: June 17, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker traveled to communities throughout Wisconsin today to celebrate National Dairy Month. Governor Walker visited and toured Alfalawn Farm in Menomonie, Mullins Cheese, Inc. in Knowlton, BelGioioso Cheese, Inc. in Green Bay, and Rosy-Lane Holsteins LLC in Watertown.
"Our dairy industry is a vital component of Wisconsin's continued economic success," Governor Walker said. "For example, each dairy cow in Wisconsin generates over $34,000 every year in economic activity, most of which stays within our local communities to support businesses and schools."
Dairy is Wisconsin's largest segment of agriculture -- of the $88.3 billion economic impact of agriculture; $43.4 billion is contributed by the dairy industry. The industry is also a major employer in the state, employing 78,900 people through career opportunities in production, animal science, biotechnology, equipment engineering and manufacturing, marketing, and business.
Wisconsin has around 9,500 dairy farms, more than any other state in the country, most of which are family-owned. In 2015, Wisconsin produced 29.03 billion pounds of milk. Wisconsin cheese makers also produce a quarter of the nation's cheese, ranking Wisconsin as the top cheese-producing state. The 1,200 licensed Wisconsin cheese makers produce over 600 varieties, types, and styles of cheese -- nearly double the amount of any other state.
"Dairy means more to Wisconsin than citrus does to Florida or potatoes to Idaho," Governor Walker added. "That's why we're continuing to invest in initiatives like the Grow Wisconsin Dairy 30x20 Initiative. These investments lay the foundation for the future growth of Wisconsin's dairy industry and help to ensure our state remains "America's Dairyland' for generations to come."
The Grow Wisconsin Dairy 30x20 Initiative was developed to secure a strong future for Wisconsin dairy farmers while allowing the dairy industry to maintain its diversity. The initiative works to provide assistance to dairy farmers, focusing on long-term, sustained operation. Since its creation in 2012, the Grow Wisconsin Dairy Initiative has provided a total of 162 producer grants.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-visits-wisconsin-dairy-producers-celebration-dairy-month
