Public Statements
Governor Walker Celebrates the 75th Annual Badger Boys State
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: June 16, 2016
Location: Ripon, WI

Governor Scott Walker will join young men from communities across the state tonight at the 75th Badger Boys State Inauguration Ceremony at Ripon College.
Badger Boys State is a unique 8-day experience in which participants are grouped into cities and counties to form a "51st state." Throughout the week, the young men elect their own municipal, county, and state officials to carry out the primary functions of government, thus allowing them to understand representation and democracy in America more fully.
"My experience with Badger Boys State sparked my interest in state government and inspired me to get involved and make a difference," Governor Walker said. "Badger Boys State is an incredible experience that provides young men from throughout Wisconsin with the hands-on opportunity to experience what it takes to run a government effectively and efficiently."
Wisconsin's first Badger Boys State was held in 1939 at St. John's Military Academy in Delafield and later moved to Ripon College's campus in 1941. The program is sponsored by the Wisconsin American Legion and grew from 484 participants in 1939 to around 870 young men from across the state this year.
The Badger Boys State experience provides young men in Wisconsin with a learning, growing, and maturing environment built upon citizen interaction, patriotism, and learning the value of United States citizenship. Students are nominated to attend Badger Boys State, and local American Legion Posts typically serve as the clearing center for sponsoring organizations.
"Without a doubt, the practical skills they learn here this week will give them with tools they need to succeed in their academic and professional endeavors in the future," Governor Walker added.
Governor Walker has also proclaimed the week of June 11 -- June 18 as Badger Boys State 75th Anniversary Week.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-celebrates-75th-annual-badger-boys-state
