Public Statements
Governor Walker Aims to Strengthen Wisconsin-Mexico Trade
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: June 13, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker joined a Wisconsin delegation of representatives from the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) and the Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection (DATCP) on a business development mission to Mexico.
The purpose of the mission is to strengthen trade and investment ties between Wisconsin and Mexico. Mexico is Wisconsin's second-largest export destination with the state's exports to Mexico totaling nearly $3 billion in 2015.
"The overall objectives of this business development mission are two-fold," said Governor Walker. "We want to attract new investment from Mexico into Wisconsin, while also encouraging Mexican companies with a presence in Wisconsin to maintain or expand their investments in the state."
Mexico City, the nation's capital and business center, is the first stop for Governor Walker and the Wisconsin delegation where they will meet with Mexican government agencies and business leaders to highlight Wisconsin's strengths and offer information about doing business in Wisconsin.
"Wisconsin's exports to Mexico grew by nearly 5 percent from 2014 to 2015, at the same time overall U.S. exports to Mexico declined by more than 1.5 percent," said Governor Walker. "Trade ties between Wisconsin and Mexico are strong, but we want to make them stronger."
Governor Scott Walker met with Mexico's Secretary for Foreign Relations Claudia Ruiz Massieu to discuss trade and investment opportunities with Wisconsin.
"It is clear Mexico recognizes the importance of Wisconsin in its overall international investments," said Governor Walker. "In fact, it is very encouraging that they plan on opening a consulate in Milwaukee. That is a clear message that Wisconsin is a key component of Mexico's foreign trade strategy."
Consul General Julián Adem Díaz de León arrived in Milwaukee earlier this month, and a grand opening for the consulate is expected to be held later this year. Once open, the consulate plans to undertake cultural, educational, and economic development initiatives.
Governor Walker also met with representatives of ProMéxico, a division of the Mexican Ministry of the Economy focused on international trade and investment, including Secretary of the Economy Ildefonso Guajardo Villarreal and ProMéxico Director General Francisco N. González Díaz.
"These trade missions are crucial to continue discussing the needs of Mexico's and Wisconsin's economies and identify opportunities on how we can work together in the future."
Additional information regarding the mission will be released throughout the week.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-aims-strengthen-wisconsin-mexico-trade
