Public Statements
Governor Walker Encourages Wisconsin Elementary and Middle Schools to Submit Nominations for New State of the Art Fitness Centers
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: June 1, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker is joining fitness icon Jake Steinfeld, chairman of the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils (NFGFC), in encouraging elementary and middle schools to submit their nominations to win a new state of the art fitness center. Three Wisconsin schools, selected by the NFGFC as competition winners, will be awarded a $100,000 fitness center for their efforts.
"It's crucial we teach Wisconsin children about the importance of physical activity and wellness, which will help build healthy habits and lead healthy lives into adulthood," Governor Walker said. "We're excited Jake Steinfeld and the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils have chosen Wisconsin to participate in this national fitness campaign, and we urge elementary and middle schools throughout the state to fill out an application to be in the running for a brand new fitness center."
The National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils program will make its way to all 50 states in the upcoming years. Each fitness center awarded as a top prize is financed through public-private partnerships with companies like the Coca-Cola Company, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Foundation, and Nike. It does not rely on taxpayer dollars or state funding. Additionally, TuffStuff Fitness International provides all of the fitness equipment.
"I've declared war on childhood obesity and it's inspiring to see elected leaders like Governor Walker immediately jump on board and welcome us into their state to help fight this disease," said Jake Steinfeld. "The fight to stop childhood obesity in its tracks is a cause that everyone can back. In fact, every state leader that I've met with recognizes that obesity is neither a democrat nor republican issue, it's a kids issue and all have vowed to do everything possible to help. Now, Wisconsin schools have an opportunity to make a change that will have a lasting impact on kids well into their future."
Physical activity and exercise are shown to help prevent and treat more than 40 chronic diseases, enhance individual health and quality of life, and reduce health care costs. In schools, studies show physical activity improves academic achievement, increases confidence and self-esteem, reduces discipline problems, cuts absenteeism, and fosters stronger interpersonal relationships.
The nomination process for elementary and middle schools ends on Friday, June 3, 2016. For more information or to nominate your school, visit www.natgovfit.org.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-encourages-wisconsin-elementary-and-middle-schools-submit
