Public Statements
Governor Walker Appoints Two Judges to the Sheboygan County Circuit Court
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 27, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker appointed Kent Hoffman to Branch 2 and Daniel Borowski to Branch 5 of the Sheboygan County Circuit Court today. Hoffman was appointed to fill the vacancy created by the retirement of the Honorable Timothy Van Akkeren. Borowski will fill the vacancy created by the retirement of the Honorable James Bolgert, effective August 1, 2016.
Kent Hoffman
"Kent Hoffman has had a distinguished career as a public defender and prosecutor," says Governor Walker. "His strong commitments to public service, criminal justice, and the rule of law will serve the Sheboygan community and Circuit Court well."
Marinette County Circuit Court Judge James Morrison wrote in support for Hoffmann, "[h]e brings a wealth of experience, first as a public defender where he was respected and admired and now as an Assistant District Attorney where he is known and respected as an effective, fair sensible prosecutor."
Judge David G. Miron who also serves on the Marinette County Circuit Court had similar high praises for Hoffmann. "I know of his work both in the Public Defender's Office and, more recently, as an Assistant District Attorney for Marinette County." Judge Miron added, "I can state, unequivocally, that Mr. Hoffman is a man of great integrity. At all times he has acted with the utmost professionalism. He is always prepared, has excellent knowledge of the law, is patient and respectful. In short, he has the proper judicial temperament."
Hoffmann served sixteen years as a state public defender where he handled juvenile, complex, and homicide cases. As of 2009, Hoffman has served as the Assistant District Attorney in Marinette County where he prosecutes homicides, sexual assaults, and other serious felonies.
Hoffmann was born in Sheboygan and raised in Kohler. He received his Juris Doctor from the University of Wisconsin Law School and earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Criminal Justice from the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.
Daniel Borowski
"I am pleased to appoint Daniel Borowski as a Judge for the Sheboygan County Circuit Court," said Governor Walker. "With his strong credentials and highly-regarded legal expertise, I am confident that his service will be an asset to the Sheboygan community and the County bench."
Ozaukee County Circuit Court Judge Joseph Voiland praised the appointment of Borowski. "The business experience, courtroom experience, life experience and commitment to the rule of law that Dan Borowski carries will be a great benefit to the people of Sheboygan County and the state of Wisconsin," says Judge Voiland.
Attorney Jacob Curtis stated, "Daniel Borowski's career as a litigator is exactly the type of diversity and deep breadth of experience that make him the type of attorney Wisconsinites need to step forward and offer themselves in service to the law." Mr. Curtis went on to provide, "Mr. Borowski has been a driven litigator that maintains a laser-like focus on what the law is, not what the law should be."
Over the past year, Borowski has been an Equity Shareholder at von Briesen & Roper S.C., and he was previously an Equity Shareholder at Phillips Borowski, S.C. Borowski has managed a client base primarily of local governments, school districts, and employers on issues including contracting, organizational structure, and risk management.
Borowski holds a Juris Doctor from University of Wisconsin Law School, and he earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Criminal Justice from the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. He currently resides in Kohler.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-appoints-two-judges-sheboygan-county-circuit-court
