Public Statements
Governor Walker Proclaims 529 College Savings Day
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 27, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker proclaimed Sunday, May 29, 2016, as College Savings Day to increase awareness among Wisconsin families about important resources available to them as they consider saving for their children's -- or their own -- higher education expenses. The proclamation coincides with "529 College Savings Day," which is sponsored by the College Savings Plan Network.
"In Wisconsin, we have worked to make higher education more accessible and affordable by freezing tuition and passing important changes through our College Affordability Legislative Package," said Governor Walker. "On May 29th, it's important to highlight Wisconsin's 529 savings program through Wisconsin's Edvest and Tomorrow's Scholar plans, which are important resources for families saving for college."
A 529 plan is a tax-advantaged investment plan designed to encourage saving for the future higher education expenses of a designated beneficiary. Withdrawals from 529 plans for qualified education expenses are free from federal and state income taxes. Eligible institutions include thousands of universities, colleges, technical colleges, graduate and professional schools nationwide, and several overseas. Accounts also enjoy professional investment management, low institutional fees, and state tax benefits on contributions.
To learn more about Wisconsin's 529 plans and enroll today, visit www.edvest.com or www.tomorrowsscholar.com. Additional information can be found at www.529.wi.gov.
The Edvest College Savings Plan and Tomorrow's Scholar 529 Plan are offered by the State of Wisconsin. TIAA-CREF Tuition Financing Inc. is the program manager. TIAA-CREF Individual & Investor Services, LLC is the distributor and underwriter for the Edvest plan. Voya Investment Management provides investment management and administrative services, along with the distribution of shares for Tomorrow's Scholar. An investor should consider the investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses associated with municipal fund securities before investing. Please visit www.edvest.com or www.tomorrowsscholar.com for plan disclosures and read carefully before investing. Residents of other states should check for specific benefits available in their state's 529 plans for its residents.

Source:
