Public Statements
Governor Walker Urges Lawmakers to "Get it Done" at Verona Road Project
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: June 5, 2017
Location: Verona, WI

Governor Scott Walker visited the site of the Verona Road project today, where he called upon lawmakers again to get the state transportation budget done without delays. This call to action comes in response to state lawmakers proposing breaking transportation off from the full state budget, which could delay important projects, like the Verona Road project, throughout the state.
"Our transportation budget gets the job done, plain and simple," Governor Walker said. "It provides more funding for local governments, keeps borrowing down at historically low levels, and maintains our promise to hold the line on taxes and fees. Separating transportation from the overall budget could delay projects like the Verona Road project here in Madison, resulting in greater traffic and increased safety problems. I urge lawmakers to get it done and pass the transportation proposal we put forth."
Construction on Verona Road began in 2013 and is currently anticipated to be completed in the fall of 2020. Due to the magnitude of this project, it is divided into two stages. Stage 1, which was completed on time and under budget in the fall of 2016, focused primarily on the City of Madison. Stage 2, which is currently underway, focuses primarily on the City of Fitchburg. When complete, the Verona Road project will enhance mobility and capacity, allow motorists to safely move through the corridor, and support economic opportunities by enhancing access to local businesses and neighborhoods.
If the Legislature decides to separate transportation from the overall budget process, major projects such as Interstate 39/90 in Beloit, 10/441 in Neenah, and the Verona Road Project, could face major delays. It would also prevent more money from going to local governments to fix their local roads and bridges.

Source: https://walker.wi.gov/press-releases/governor-walker-urges-lawmakers-get-it-done-verona-road-project
