Public Statements
Governor Walker Highlights Law Enforcement Leadership at Badger State Sheriffs' Association Quarterly Training Conference
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 26, 2016
Location: Green Bay, WI

Governor Scott Walker spoke to members of the Badger State Sheriffs' Association today to discuss the importance of leadership and law enforcement in Wisconsin communities.
"Providing law enforcement leadership with the tools they need to administer public safety services is crucial as we work to safeguard our communities," Governor Walker said. "The safety of our state is our top priority, and we will continue to invest in law enforcement and public safety efforts, such as domestic violence and victim assistance, in order to protect all Wisconsin citizens, but especially our most vulnerable."
Governor Walker's 2015-2017 biennial budget includes a series of investments in local law enforcement efforts, including:
Human Trafficking Initiatives -- allocates $2 million to increase services to child sex trafficking victims in both rural and urban regions of the state.
Domestic Violence Shelters -- appropriates $5 million to the Department of Children and Families for grants to shelters that help victims of domestic abuse victims.
Victim Assistance Programs -- includes $1,103,600 in general purpose revenue for GPS Tracking for individuals convicted of serious child offenses and those who violate domestic abuse or harassment restraining orders.
Governor Walker also recently signed into law Acts 367-370 to combat sex trafficking and crimes against children throughout the state of Wisconsin. The four bills strengthen the child welfare system, remove obstacles to sharing information about missing children between law enforcement and child welfare agencies, increase the scope of the state's Internet Crimes Against Children counter-child-exploitation task force, and protect innocent pictures taken by parents of their children.
The Badger State Sheriffs' Association (BSSA) was formed in 1975 by Milwaukee County Sheriff Michael S. Wolke with the intention of forming a statewide coalition of Wisconsin's local law enforcement representatives. This June, BSSA will celebrate 41 years of being the official law enforcement association serving all 72 Wisconsin county sheriffs.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-highlights-law-enforcement-leadership-badger-state-sheriffs%E2%80%99
