Public Statements
Governor Walker Announces a $1 Million Transportation Grant to the City of Fitchburg
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 25, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker announced today the city of Fitchburg has been awarded a Transportation Economic Assistance (TEA) grant. The $1 million award represents the Wisconsin Department of Transportation's (WisDOT) contribution to extend Commerce Park Drive southward and construct at its southern end an east-west roadway to be known as Sub-Zero Parkway.
"This investment in infrastructure allows Sub-Zero Group, Inc. to expand their current facilities and create new jobs here in Wisconsin," Governor Walker said. "With the help of the Department of Transportation and Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation in the form of TEA grants and tax credits, Sub-Zero Group, Inc. plans to create an additional 300 jobs."
Sub-Zero Parkway will extend eastward from Commerce Park Drive and will terminate at the Badger State Trail. The existing Bud's Drive will also be reconfigured. The roadway construction was proposed in order to provide access to the expansion of existing facilities owned by Sub-Zero Group, Inc.
Sub-Zero Group, Inc. is a leading manufacturer of premium residential kitchen appliances marketed under the Sub-Zero and Wolf brand names. They have manufacturing facilities in Wisconsin, Arizona, and Kentucky and are expanding facilities at their existing Fitchburg location.
WisDOT's TEA grants cover 50 percent of a road project's eligible costs, with a cap of $1 million. The cost of the city of Fitchburg construction project is estimated at approximately $3 million. While the Sub-Zero Group, Inc. expansion is expected to generate more than 300 jobs, the TEA grant requires a guaranteed creation of 222 new jobs.
Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) is supporting the expansion of Sub-Zero Group, Inc.'s Fitchburg facility by providing $2.75 million of potential tax credits to the company through 2018. The tax credits will be earned based on the creation of up to 313 new full-time positions and investment of over $62 million.
The TEA program began in September 1987. Through December 2015, over $99 million has been invested in grants awarded to 203 communities, helping to create or retain more than 38,000 jobs statewide.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-announces-1-million-transportation-grant-city-fitchburg
