Public Statements
Governor Walker Congratulates Skyward on Grand Opening of New World Headquarters in Stevens Point
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 24, 2016
Location: Stevens Point, WI

Governor Scott Walker will provide remarks this evening at the grand opening of Skyward's new world headquarters in Stevens Point. The new headquarters allows Skyward to consolidate two buildings in Stevens Point and provides space for future growth.
"This is a major investment in the Stevens Point area, and it's expected to bring over $20 million in revenue to the region," Governor Walker said. "The fact that Skyward officials decided to expand here is evidence of Wisconsin's positive business climate and skilled workforce. We were here in October 2014 when Skyward leaders broke ground on this new world headquarters, and we're happy to be here today for the grand opening."
Skyward is a leading provider of school software, allowing districts to efficiently manage and share information. Established in 1980 by co-owners Jim and Jean King, Skyward additionally offers management software for municipalities.
"By expanding their company here, Skyward is invested in moving Wisconsin forward by growing our communities and helping the region prosper," Governor Walker added.
Skyward serves over 6 million students and is the preferred provider for student information systems in Texas, Rhode Island, and Tennessee. Skyward has a total of 516 employees, 395 of whom will work at the new Stevens Point headquarters. The company anticipates adding 60 additional employees this year and has a goal of reaching a total of 900 employees by 2025.
The new 190,356 square-foot Skyward world headquarters is designed to be environmentally-friendly and includes high-performance LED lights, energy efficient furnaces, and water-saving plumbing. The headquarters features an open concept design, floor to ceiling windows, and has a walk-in clinic staffed by a nurse practitioner. The majority of the building's materials -- 99.5 percent -- were sourced from Wisconsin-based suppliers, and the new facility is projected to bring more than $20 million in earnings to the region.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-congratulates-skyward-grand-opening-new-world-headquarters
