Public Statements
Governor Walker Proclaims May as Beef Month in Wisconsin
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 24, 2016
Location: Ringle, WI

Earlier this month, Governor Scott Walker proclaimed the month of May as Beef Month in Wisconsin. Today, Governor Walker presented the Beef Month proclamation to the owners and operators of Country Lane Farms, the Bayer family.
"The beef cattle industry in Wisconsin is a significant contributor to our economy and our workforce," Governor Walker said. "It contributes more than $2 billion in income and is responsible for more than 35,000 jobs throughout our state. We're ranked fifth in the nation for pounds of beef produced every year, and throughout the month of May, we're celebrating the beef cattle farmers, like the Bayer family, who contribute to this important aspect of agriculture in Wisconsin."
Country Lane Farms is owned and operated by the Scott and Mia Bayer, along with their children Ty, Callie, and Tucker. The Bayer family has raised Angus cattle since Scott's father, Len, purchased his first breeding stock in the 1970s. As a way for Ty, Callie, and Tucker to take ownership of their entity and offset the cost of college, Red Angus cattle were added to the farm as well under the name TC Reds.
The family shows their livestock across the nation and has exhibited champions at the Wisconsin State Fair, World Beef Expo, North American International Livestock Exposition in Louisville, Kentucky, and the National Western Stock Show in Denver, Colorado.
Wisconsin Beef Facts:
In the past decade, Wisconsin is only one of ten states that have increased beef cow numbers and had the second largest growth in the nation, behind Oklahoma.
For every ten jobs in on-farm beef operations, an additional 4.5 jobs are supported in Wisconsin.
Every $100 of income generated by Wisconsin beef farms provides an additional $117 of income elsewhere in the state's economy.
On-farm beef production and processing provide 35,100 jobs in Wisconsin; contributes $2.1 billion in total income; accounts for $6.94 billion on farm and processing revenue, and generates more than $200 million in state and local government revenues.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-proclaims-may-beef-month-wisconsin
