Public Statements
Governor Walker Highlights Dual Enrollment, Youth Apprenticeship Programs at Stevens Point Area Senior High School
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 23, 2016
Location: Stevens Point, WI

Governor Scott Walker visited the Stevens Point Area Senior High School today to highlight the school's workforce development programs. The school offers students the opportunity to earn dual credit through Mid-State College and Northcentral Technical College and also partners with the Mid-Wisconsin School-to-Work Partnership Apprenticeship Regional Consortium to give students a hands-on learning experience.
"We're busy making Wisconsin a great place to live and work, and one of our primary focuses is on developing our workforce," Governor Walker said. "To prepare Wisconsin's workforce for tomorrow, we have to provide our students with a quality education today. That's why we've invested in programs like dual enrollment and youth apprenticeship, which help jump start their higher education, provide them with practical workforce skills, and allow them to enter the workforce to begin their career earlier."
In his 2016 State of the State Address, Governor Walker announced an additional $3 million for dual enrollment programs to develop Wisconsin's workforce through the Wisconsin Fast Forward program. This investment allows school districts to partner with technical colleges so students can begin their higher education and career plans. DWD's Office of Skills Development (OSD) has issued over $4.4 million in high school workforce training grants for 69 projects to train almost 2,000 high school students in high-demand fields.
The Stevens Point Area Senior High School dual enrollment program works with local technical colleges to allow students to earn dual credit in several different courses, including Video Production and Digital Photography, Health Career Exploration, Marketing Principals, Medical Terminology, Metal Fabrication, and Machining.
During the 2015-16 school year, at least 328 students earned a total of at least 819 dual credits through Mid-State Technical College and Northcentral Technical College.

Source:
