Public Statements
Governor Walker Honors Fallen Law Enforcement Officers at State Capitol Ceremony
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 20, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker laid a wreath today honoring Wisconsin's fallen law enforcement officers at the 26th Annual Wisconsin Law Enforcement Memorial Ceremony. The ceremony took place at the Wisconsin Law Enforcement Memorial, located on the Wisconsin State Capitol grounds.
"We owe all Wisconsin law enforcement officers a debt of gratitude for protecting the citizens of our state from harm every day," Governor Walker said. "Today, we honor those who paid the ultimate sacrifice for our safety with their lives. We add the names of Deputy Herman, Deputy Haslam, Trooper Casper and Officer Copeland to the Law Enforcement Memorial to commemorate their sacrifice, and we keep them and their loved ones in our thoughts and prayers."
The names of Racine County Sheriff's Office Deputy Arthur G. Herman, Milwaukee County Sheriff's Office Deputy Earl R. Haslam, Wisconsin State Patrol Trooper Trevor J. Casper, and McFarland Police Department Officer Ryan P. Copeland were added to the Memorial today.
Deputy Arthur Herman died in the line of duty when he lost control of his patrol motorcycle while searching for an escapee from jail on May 15, 1920. Deputy Herman served with the Racine County Sheriff's Office for approximately three months.
Deputy Earl Haslam died on January 4, 1929 due to injuries sustained in the line of duty on December 29, 1928. He lost control of his patrol motorcycle and collided with another vehicle after serving civil service papers. Deputy Haslam had served with the Milwaukee County Sheriff's Office for 15 years.
Trooper Trevor Casper was shot and killed in Fond du Lac on March 24, 2015, while confronting a murder and bank robbery suspect. Trooper Casper graduated from the Wisconsin State Patrol Academy in December 2014.
Officer Ryan Copeland, a K-9 officer with the McFarland Police Department, died in the line of duty in an automobile accident on November 23, 2015. Officer Copeland joined the McFarland Police Department in 2013 following ten years of service in the United States Army, including seven years serving in the Special Forces as a Green Beret.
The Memorial site outside the State Capitol now lists the names of 270 fallen Wisconsin law enforcement officers.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-honors-fallen-law-enforcement-officers-state-capitol-ceremony
