Public Statements
Governor Walker Participates in Groundbreaking Ceremony for Siren Fire Station
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 19, 2016
Location: Siren, WI

Governor Scott Walker joined members of the Siren community today at the groundbreaking ceremony for the new Siren Fire Station. Local funding and a $500,000 Community Development Block Grant awarded by the Wisconsin Department of Administration (DOA) support this new fire station.
"This new fire station reduces the response time for firefighters, potentially preventing damage and saving lives," Governor Walker said. "The safety of Wisconsin citizens is our top priority, and we're happy to join local government entities and The Otto Bremer Trust in improving the Siren Fire Station."
The Siren Fire Association provides fire protection services to around 2,020 people in multiple communities, including the Town of Daniels, Village of Siren, Town of Siren, and Town of LaFollette. On average, the fire department responds to 60-80 incidents per year with a staff of 30 volunteer firefighters.
The current station is 5,200 square feet. The building is undersized, contributing to increased fire response times as a result of cramped space and reduced mobility within the facility.
The Town of Daniels and Siren Fire Association submitted an application for grant funds to build a new 10,160 square-foot fire hall. The new fire station is made possible by $616,000 in local funding, a $75,000 grant from the Otto Bremer Trust, and $500,000 in Community Development Block Grant public infrastructure funds.
The new fire station will improve safety for residents of the district by reducing response times. With the larger facility, the department will also be able to accommodate all existing trucks and even consider the purchase of new, larger equipment that was unable to be stored in the previous facility. The new fire hall will also include upgraded ventilation and training room facilities.
The Community Development Block Grant is a program funded by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development and administered by DOA, which funds local community development activities in Wisconsin.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-participates-groundbreaking-ceremony-siren-fire-station
