Public Statements
Governor Walker Commemorates Burnett County Law Enforcement Officers Killed in the Line of Duty
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 19, 2016
Location: Siren, WI

Governor Scott Walker commemorated Burnett County law enforcement officers killed in the line of duty today at the Burnett County Law Enforcement Memorial Ceremony. The ceremony recognizes the sacrifice of fallen Burnett County law enforcement officers and honors their surviving loved ones.
Deputy Sheriff Allen A. Albee, Deputy Sheriff Michael J. Seversen, Deputy Sheriff Paul R. Gramer, and Undersheriff Richard F. Schinzing were all recognized at today's ceremony.
"When Wisconsin citizens are in danger, our law enforcement officers do not hesitate to respond and offer help," Governor Walker said. "The selfless actions of Wisconsin's law enforcement officers often put them in danger, and some unfortunately lose their lives in the line of duty, including Deputy Sheriff Albee, Deputy Sheriff Seversen, Deputy Sheriff Gramer, and Undersheriff Schinzing. Today, and every day, we keep these heroes and their loved ones in our thoughts and prayers and thank them for their service to our state."
Deputy Sheriff Allen Albee was shot and killed in the line of duty on April 19, 1991, while trying to arrest a subject wanted for a shooting in Minnesota. Several deputies, including Deputy Albee and Deputy Seversen, were approaching the suspect when he opened fire.
Deputy Sheriff Michael Seversen succumbed to complications of a gunshot wound on April 14, 2014. The wound was sustained on April 19, 1991, as he and Deputy Sheriff Allen Albee attempted to arrest a subject wanted for a shooting in Minnesota. The suspect opened fire as he and several deputies approached. Deputy Seversen suffered a wound to his spinal cord, causing him to become paralyzed from the neck down.
Deputy Sheriff Paul Gramer died in the line of duty in a head-on automobile accident on November 20, 1968. Deputy Gramer had previously served as a police officer for the St. Louis Park Police Department in Minnesota. He had served in law enforcement for a total of 11 years.
Undersheriff Richard Schinzing suffered a fatal heart attack on October 17, 1974, while struggling with a suspect after responding to a disturbance at a local tavern.
Governor Walker also commemorated the lives of Trooper Trevor Casper and Officer Ryan Copeland. Both Trooper Casper and Officer Copeland will be honored tomorrow at the 26th Annual Wisconsin Law Enforcement Memorial Ceremony in Madison.
Trooper Trevor Casper was shot and killed in Fond du Lac on March 24, 2015, while confronting a murder and bank robbery suspect. Trooper Casper graduated from the Wisconsin State Patrol Academy in December 2014.
Officer Ryan Copeland, a K-9 officer with the McFarland Police Department, died in the line of duty in an automobile accident on November 23, 2015. Officer Copeland joined the McFarland Police Department in 2013 following ten years of service in the United States Army, including seven years serving in the Special Forces as a Green Beret.
Governor Walker proclaimed the week of May 15 -- May 21 as Police Week in Wisconsin.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-commemorates-burnett-county-law-enforcement-officers-killed
