Public Statements
Governor Walker Announces Wisconsin's Water Council as Global Economic Development Leader
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 12, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker announced The Water Council as the global recipient of the CoreNet Global's 2016 Economic Development Leadership Award for "Water Technology Cluster Leadership.'
"It is an honor for Wisconsin to be recognized as a global leader in water technology and cluster development," Governor Walker said. "The public-private partnerships fostered by The Water Council are an impressive example of Wisconsin's diverse strengths and are a major reason why we recognize the water industry as foundational to our future economic growth."
CoreNet Global, a non-profit association representing over 10,000 corporate real estate executives in 50 countries, annually selects an economic development project from around the world representing innovation and leadership in economic development. The project to regenerate the shipyard in Northern Ireland where the Titanic was built won the award last year.
The State of Wisconsin, through the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC), has invested more than $3,650,000 since 2012 to establish Wisconsin and The Water Council as global leaders in water technology and economic cluster development. These funds have been catalytic to the revitalization of the Reed Street Yards in Milwaukee and provided early-stage and seed funding to Wisconsin start-up companies working to create the next generation of water technology.
The public-private partnership is a global model for cluster development around water technology. In 2015, WEDC, with the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee and The Water Council, released an economic impact analysis of the Water Technology District in Milwaukee. Findings indicated in its first four years, more than $211.6 million in investments were generated by both the public and private sectors.
Wisconsin's water industry employs more than 37,000 people statewide, with more than 160 companies directly related to water in Southeastern Wisconsin alone. Water-technology exports grew by 7.4 percent in 2014, and more than 200 companies across the state have ties to Wisconsin's burgeoning water technology industry.
CoreNet Global's Economic Development Leadership Award celebrates the successful implementation of innovative, economically promising projects in a community or region. The Water Council will accept the award for their "Water Technology Cluster Leadership' on October 18, 2016, in Philadelphia, PA during CoreNet's Global Summit -- Americas.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-announces-wisconsin%E2%80%99s-water-council-global-economic
