Public Statements
Governor Walker Honors Wisconsin's Fallen Law Enforcement Officers
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 11, 2016
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker provided remarks in honor of Wisconsin's fallen law enforcement officers today at the Greater Milwaukee Law Enforcement Memorial Ceremony.
"Every day, Wisconsin's law enforcement officers put themselves in harm's way to protect the citizens of our state," Governor Walker said. "Throughout the month of May, we're commemorating those law enforcement officers who paid the ultimate price for our safety with their lives. Today, we remember Officer Tanner, Officer Wagner, Deputy Sheriff Bang, and all our fallen officers for their sacrifice and we hold them and their families in our thoughts and prayers."
A wreath was presented in remembrance of three Wisconsin law enforcement officers at the ceremony.
Officer Wendolyn Tanner was shot and killed during a foot chase of a known felon and parole violator that he and his partner were attempting to arrest on September 7, 1996. Officer Tanner was 29 years old and had served the Milwaukee Police Department for four years.
Deputy Sheriff Sung Hui Bang died in a helicopter accident in Dodge County on August 17, 2000 while assisting in the search for a suspect. Deputy Bang had served the Milwaukee County Sheriff's Office for three years.
Officer Richard Wagner chased a suspected auto thief on foot on October 25, 1990. The suspect eluded Officer Wagner, and when he returned to his squad car, he collapsed. Despite tremendous efforts, doctors could not revive him. Officer Wagner, who had served the Milwaukee Police Department since 1973, died of a heart attack. He was awarded a meritorious duty citation posthumously for pulling a wounded officer from the line of fire during a shootout the previous May.
In addition, Governor Walker honored Trooper Trevor Casper and Officer Ryan Copeland.
Trooper Trevor Casper was shot and killed on March 24, 2015 while confronting a bank robbery suspect. Trooper Casper graduated from the Wisconsin State Patrol Academy in December, 2014.
Officer Ryan Copeland, a K-9 officer with the McFarland Police Department, died in the line of duty in a tragic automobile accident on November 23, 2015. Officer Copeland joined the McFarland Police Department in 2013 following ten years of service in the United States Army, including seven years serving in the Special Forces as a Green Beret.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-honors-wisconsin%E2%80%99s-fallen-law-enforcement-officers
