Public Statements
Governor Walker to Lead Business Development Mission to Mexico in June
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 10, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker announced today that he will lead a business development mission to Mexico in June as a part of the state's ongoing efforts to increase exports and encourage international companies to invest in Wisconsin. Governor Walker made this announcement at the 52nd Annual International Trade Conference of the Metropolitan Milwaukee Association of Commerce (MMAC) World Trade Association (WTA) in Milwaukee.
"We will promote Wisconsin's strong business climate, outstanding workforce, and key industry sectors as compelling assets for successful business operations in Wisconsin during our trip to Mexico, just as we did during our trips to Europe, Canada, and the United Kingdom last year," Governor Walker said. "The state of our state is strong, and this is the perfect time for businesses in Mexico to consider investing in Wisconsin."
Governor Walker joins representatives of the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) and the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture, Trade, and Consumer Protection (DATCP) for the trade mission, which runs from June 12-17. Together, they will meet with business and agriculture leaders regarding opportunities in new markets or to establish new operations in Wisconsin.
Governor Walker's first stop will be in Mexico City, one of the largest cities in the world with 22 million people. Partnering with SelectUSA, Wisconsin will host meetings with targeted Mexican companies interested in expanding in the United States. The delegation will also meet with companies with existing facilities in Wisconsin to discuss the possibility of increasing their investments in the state.
Governor Walker will also participate in the 2016 CIGAL Dairy Trade Show, which focuses on the dairy production sector and draws exhibitors from throughout Mexico and the United States. The Dairy Trade Show will be held in Guadalajara from June 15-17, and Governor Walker will be joined by a Wisconsin delegation including DATCP Secretary Ben Brancel, Wisconsin businesses, UW-River Falls, and UW-Madison.
Guadalajara is a major city in Jalisco, Mexico, which has been a Wisconsin sister state since 1990. While in Jalisco, Governor Walker will meet Jalisco Governor Aristóteles Sandoval to strengthen this relationship.
Mexico is Wisconsin's second largest export destination, with state companies sending nearly $3 billion in goods to the country in 2015. Exports to Mexico increased by 4.6 percent last year, representing 13 percent of Wisconsin's total exports. Mexico is also Wisconsin's second largest agriculture export destination, accounting for $289 million in 2015.
The June business development mission will build on Wisconsin's foreign direct investment strategy, which focuses on attracting foreign companies, operations, and investments that best fit into Wisconsin's key industry sectors, such as manufacturing, agriculture, energy, water technology, bioscience, medical devices, and food processing.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-lead-business-development-mission-mexico-june
