Public Statements
Governor Walker Proclaims Children's Mental Health Awareness Day
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 5, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker proclaimed today, May 5th, as Children's Mental Health Awareness day throughout Wisconsin. His $30 million investment in the state's mental health system in the last two years has enabled the Department of Health Services (DHS) to provide funding to 66 counties and 11 federally-recognized tribal nations in Wisconsin to develop and implement a comprehensive, community-based system of services and support for children and youth, known as Coordinated Services Teams Initiatives.
"We recognize the mental health of Wisconsin's children and youth is just as important as their physical health," Governor Walker said. "Our investment in mental health services across the state provides comprehensive care and support for our children and allows mental health concerns to be addressed early. By tailoring mental health services to meet each individual's needs we're able to get the state's children the help they need, potentially preventing these issues from developing further."
Coordinated Services Teams Initiatives recognize the importance of collaboration between many systems, including child welfare, education, juvenile justice, and mental health. This effort brings everyone involved in the child's or youth's life together to develop an individualized plan of care to achieve well-being for them and their families. The impact of this wraparound effort is significant, and the most recent Coordinated Services Teams Initiatives report indicates this approach keeps children and youth out of high cost, intensive settings, such as residential treatment centers and group homes. Tracking data also shows decreased interactions with the juvenile justice system.
May is Mental Health Month, which is an excellent opportunity to raise awareness about mental health conditions and the importance of good mental health for all. Mental health concerns can be eased, or even prevented in childhood before they have a chance to become more severe. DHS is a member of the Wisconsin Children's Mental Health Awareness Coalition, which encourages a "love, talk, play, and read" approach to promote positive mental health for all children and youth. A toolkit is available for communities to use to build awareness of children's mental health.

Source:
