Public Statements
Governor Walker Participates in Financial Literacy Event at Appleton West High School
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 28, 2016
Location: Appleton, WI

Governor Scott Walker joined students, teachers, and staff at Appleton West High School today to tour the school branch of the Community First Credit Union and discuss the importance of financial responsibility. This visit coincides with Money Smart Week® and Governor Walker has proclaimed the week of April 23-30 as Money Smart Week® throughout Wisconsin.
"It is important we start early in teaching our kids how to responsibly manage their money," Governor Walker said. "Managing personal finances effectively can go a long way toward creating economic security. We're happy to be in Appleton to highlight the efforts being made to provide Wisconsin's youth with money management skills. This creates a strong foundation for fiscal responsibility throughout the rest of their lives."
The Appleton Area School District has partnered with the Community First Credit Union since 1996 to increase the financial literacy of young people in Wisconsin and across the nation. This partnership created a financial literacy program aimed at educating students and providing a hands-on approach to the topic of finance for Appleton Area School District students. Personal finance classes are now a mandatory graduation requirement for all students, which help students improve their economic standing through better money management and wise financial decisions.
Established in 2001, the Community First Credit Union at Appleton West High School is one of three local student-run credit unions under the Community First umbrella. Students go through an application and interview process to be selected for teller positions and are paid Community First employees. The branch is open for at least three hours during lunch on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays during the school year, where students and staff are able to make deposits, cash checks, and withdraw money from their accounts.

Source:
