Public Statements
Investing in Infrastructure: Governor Walker Announces Nearly $15 Million to Improve Town Roads and Municipal Streets
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 27, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker announced nearly $15 million in state funds today to complete 50 town road and municipal street improvement projects throughout the state.
"These awards are yet another way the state partners with municipalities to complete projects promoting economic development and supporting public safety," Governor Walker said. "Wisconsin's transportation system plays a crucial role in our economic success, and many state businesses rely upon our roads and streets to get their goods from point A to point B."
A total of $12.9 million in state funds will be administered through the Wisconsin Department of Transportation's (WisDOT's) Town Road Discretionary Improvement Program (TRID) for 42 projects. TRID provides state funds for high-cost town road improvement projects totaling $100,000 or more in eligible costs. The 42 TRID projects total $26.7 million in overall project costs.
An additional eight projects totaling $2.05 million in state funds will be administered through WisDOT's Municipal Street Discretionary Improvement Program (MSID). MSID provides state funds for high-cost city and village street improvement projects totaling $250,000 or more in eligible costs. The eight MSID projects total $4.3 million in overall project costs.
Both programs can provide up to 50 percent reimbursement of total eligible project costs, depending on available funds and the total amount of awards granted. Road improvements typically involve reconstruction or major resurfacing and must be designed to last at least ten years.
Projects are selected based upon recommendations by the statewide discretionary improvement committees. The committee members are nominated by the Wisconsin Towns Association and the League of Wisconsin Municipalities.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/investing-infrastructure-governor-walker-announces-nearly-15-million-improve
