Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Signs Legislation Into Law Easing Tax Burden and Bolstering Freight Mobility in Wisconsin
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 15, 2016
Location: Ashwaubenon, WI

Governor Scott Walker signed Assembly Bills 558 and 629 into law today at the Northeast Wisconsin Truck Expo, held at Shopko Hall in Ashwaubenon. The Northeast Wisconsin Truck Expo is the largest transportation industry expo in the state and attracts business leaders from trucking, transportation, and logistics companies from across the state.
"The legislation we're signing here today in Ashwaubenon brings our state into compliance with existing federal weight regulations for vehicles operating on the interstate highway system and increases mobility to support the ongoing growth of our economy and freight transport in Wisconsin," Governor Walker said. "The bills also lower the tax burden on small businesses and consumers by eliminating a tax on a tax by preventing state sales tax from applying to the federal excise tax on heavy trucks."
Assembly Bill 558 -- as amended, makes a number of technical modifications to existing state law relating to vehicle size and weight permits issued by the Wisconsin Department of Transportation (WisDOT) authorizing the operation of vehicles that can exceed weight and length limits on certain highways. In particular, the bill clarifies and correctly implements the federal weight grandfathering provisions for both the I-39 and I-41 corridors. Authored by Representative John Spiros (R -- Marshfield) and Senator Jerry Petrowski (R -- Marathon), the bill passed the Assembly on a voice vote and was concurred by the Senate on a voice vote. It is Act 360.
Assembly Bill 629 -- exempts the federal excise tax on the retail sales of heavy trucks from the definition of taxable sales price the federal excise tax on the retail sales of heavy trucks. The bill takes effect retroactively beginning September 1, 2014, ensuring the state treats sales of heavy trucks the same as it did prior to that date. Authored by Representative Kathleen Bernier (R -- Chippewa Falls) and Senator Jerry Petrowski (R -- Marathon), the bill passed the Assembly with a vote of 90-2 and was concurred by the Senate with a vote of 31-1. It is Act 361.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-signs-legislation-law-easing-tax-burden-and-bolstering
