Public Statements
Working for Wisconsin: Governor Scott Walker Signs Two Bills Into Law to Increase Needs-Based Grants for Technical Colleges and Create Emergency Grants for Students
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 28, 2016
Location: Wisconsin Rapids, WI

Governor Scott Walker signed Assembly Bills 740 and 741 into law today at Mid-State Technical College. Both bills are a part of Governor Walker's college affordability legislative package and work to make higher education more affordable for Wisconsin families.
"One of the most important things we can do for higher education in our state moving forward is to focus on making college more affordable for our students and families," Governor Walker said. "The bills we're signing into law here today at Mid-State Technical College help us do that by providing additional funding for grants to technical college students and by creating emergency grants for students facing unexpected financial hardship. Looking forward, we will continue our work to keep college costs low and ease the burden of student debt."
Assembly Bill 740 -- provides additional funding for Wisconsin grants to technical college students. Under current law, the Higher Educational Aids Board (HEAB) administers the Wisconsin grants program, which provides grants to resident postsecondary students enrolled in institutions of higher education, including technical colleges. This bill provides HEAB with an additional $500,000 in Fiscal Year 2015-2016 and $500,000 in Fiscal Year 2016-2017. This bill will provide hundreds of students with aid annually. Authored by Representative David Heaton (R -- Wausau) and Senator Sheila Harsdorf (R -- River Falls), the bill passed the Assembly with a vote of 61-36 and was concurred by the Senate with a vote of 19-13. It is Act 281.
Assembly Bill 741 -- creates a grant program for students enrolled in technical colleges and the two-year University of Wisconsin college campuses for financial emergencies. Students are eligible for a grant if the student's expected family contribution, as determined by the federal Free Application for Federal Student Aid, is less than $5,000. The amount of grants awarded to a student may not exceed a total of $500 per academic year, with a limit of two grants per student per academic year. Grant funding is distributed by the Wisconsin Technical College System (WTCS) Board to the technical colleges, and by the University of Wisconsin Board of Regents to the UW colleges, based on the anticipated need and demand for grants at each technical or UW college. The bill also requires each technical college and UW college to collect information on the grant program and to report his information to the WTCS Board and Board of Regents at the end of each academic year. The WTCS Board and Board of Regents must then report this information to the legislature. These types of emergency grants have proven to increase the likelihood students complete their degrees, which helps students to find employment and increases their ability to repay any student loan they may have taken out. Authored by Representative David Murphy (R -- Greenville) and Senator Howard Marklein (R -- Spring Green), the bill passed the Assembly with a vote of 61-36 and was concurred by the Senate with a vote of 19-13. It is Act 282.
The College Affordability legislation Governor Walker is signing into law today builds on his tuition freeze for UW System students and families. According to the nonpartisan Legislative Fiscal Bureau, in the ten years prior to the historic four-year tuition freeze, tuition increased an average of 8.1 percent across the UW System. Over that same period, tuition had gone up 118.7 percent prior to the freeze Governor Walker and the Legislature enacted. Compared to the average increases over the prior ten years, across the UW System, students have saved $6,311 due to the freeze. While savings vary by institution, the tuition freeze meant average savings of $2,926 at UW colleges and savings up to $9,327 at UW-Madison.
Governor Walker has also worked with the Legislature to make higher education more affordable for Wisconsinites by creating a scholarship program for high school students who lead their classes in technical education courses, restoring the Wisconsin GI Bill for veterans and expanding it to those with five years of residency, as well as increasing needs-based grants for technical college students by $2 million in the 2013-2014 school year and $1 million for independent colleges. To make it easier for students to complete their degrees, Governor Walker included in the 2013-15 biennial budget a requirement that the UW System and Technical College schools have at least 30 core credits that can transfer between institutions and additionally created the UW System Flexible Degree Program, which offers competency-based learning at a flexible schedule. Governor Walker and the Legislature also indexed the Higher Education Tuition Tax Deduction in the 2013-15 biennial budget, benefiting tens of thousands of students.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/working-wisconsin-governor-scott-walker-signs-two-bills-law-increase-needs
