Public Statements
Working for Wisconsin: Governor Scott Walker Signs Legislation to Make College and Debt Costs More Transparent for Wisconsin Students and Families
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 28, 2016
Location: Eau Claire, WI

Governor Scott Walker signed Assembly Bill 744 into law today at the University of Wisconsin --Eau Claire. Assembly Bill 744 relates to requiring institutions of higher education to provide information to students regarding educational costs and financial literacy and is a part of Governor Walker's college affordability legislative package. The legislation Governor Walker is signing into law today works to make higher education more affordable for students and families throughout the state.
"Building upon our historic UW-System tuition freeze, we're working to continue to make college more affordable and accessible for students throughout Wisconsin," Governor Walker said. "An important way to ensure college remains affordable is by providing our students and their families with information about their current tuition costs and student debt. The legislation we're signing into law here today at UW-Eau Claire requires all higher education institutions in Wisconsin to provide their students with this information to make it easier for them to develop a plan to pay their tuition or student debt loans."
Assembly Bill 744 -- requires any institution of higher education in Wisconsin that offers an associate degree or higher to provide a letter to each student on student debt and costs of attendance each year. The letter must contain: information about each of the student's student loans, including the total amount of debt accrued under the loan, the loan's interest rate, the estimate future monthly payment under the loan, and the projected cost of the loan; the estimated total cost of attendance at the institution for the academic year, including actual or estimated costs of tuition, fees, and room and board; and the cumulative amount of state, federal, and institutional grants the student receives. The bill also requires the institution to provide students with information on financial literacy within the student's first semester of enrollment. This type of law has been credited with lowering the amount of student borrowing in Indiana after universities there began sending these letters to students. Authored by Representative David Murphy (R -- Greenville) and Senator Howard Marklein (R -- Spring Green), the bill passed the Assembly with a vote of 61-36 and was concurred by the Senate with a vote of 19-13. It is Act 284.

Source:
