Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Signs Law Allowing PSC to Certify Broadband Ready Communities
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 24, 2016
Location: Eau Claire, WI

Governor Scott Walker signed Assembly Bill 820 into law today at the Wisconsin Independent Network in Eau Claire. The bill relates to the duties of the Public Service Commission (PSC) under the Broadband Expansion Grant Program and certification of political subdivisions under that program.
"One way we're continuing to ensure economic growth and development throughout Wisconsin is by investing in Broadband Expansion Grants," Governor Walker said. "Access to broadband internet makes it easier for employers to find the workers they need to fill open positions, encourages our businesses to grow, and improves the quality of education for our students. The bill we're signing into law here in Eau Claire today streamlines administrative procedures and allows communities to demonstrate their support for increased broadband."
Assembly Bill 820 -- requires the Public Service Commission (PSC) to certify communities as being "broadband ready" by issuing a certification that signals a local unit of government has taken steps to reduce obstacles to broadband infrastructure investment. Eligible communities must adopt an ordinance that complies with the bill's requirements and must no require designation of a final contractor to complete a broadband network project, impose an application fee that exceeds $100, or impose unreasonable fees and moratoriums. The bill also gives PSC the authority to decertify a designated community at the request of a broadband service provider if the community violates their ordinance. Authored by Representative Romaine Quinn (R -- Rice Lake) and Senator Howard Marklein (R -- Spring Green), the bill passed the Assembly on a voice vote and was concurred by the Senate on a voice vote. It is Act 278.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-signs-law-allowing-psc-certify-broadband-ready
