Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Signs Assembly Bill 512 Into Law
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 21, 2016
Location: Spring Green, WI

Governor Scott Walker signed Assembly Bill 512 into law today at Taliesin in Spring Green. Known as the "Frank Lloyd Wright Trail Bill," this bill relates to designating and marking a specific highway route as the Frank Lloyd Wright Trail.
"It's great to be here at Taliesin to see first-hand some of Frank Lloyd Wright's work in Spring Green," Governor Walker said. "The bill we're signing into law will help visitors to our state easily identify and find Frank Lloyd Wright landmarks, like the one we're at today. Wright's architecture is world-renowned, and these signs will boost tourism even further throughout Wisconsin."
Assembly Bill 512 -- as amended, designates and marks a highway route through Kenosha, Racine, Milwaukee, Waukesha, Jefferson, Dane, Iowa, Sauk, and Richland counties as the Frank Lloyd Wright Trail. The bill requires signage to be placed at certain points along the trail to direct travelers to specific Frank Lloyd Wright attractions, and allows for additional signage to be placed directing travelers to other Frank Lloyd Wright locations if they are within 15 miles of the specified trail and open to the public. The Wisconsin Department of Transportation (WisDOT) must erect and maintain signs only after receiving sufficient contributions from interested parties. WisDOT must estimate the costs necessary to fabricate and erect the required signs and forward that information to the Department of Tourism. The Department of Tourism will then transfer the amount identified by WisDOT to pay for the required signs, up to a maximum of $50,000. Authored by Representative Todd Novak (R -- Dodgeville) and Senator Howard Marklein (R -- Spring Green), the bill passed the Assembly with a vote of 96-2 and was concurred by the Senate on a voice vote. It is Act 270.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-signs-assembly-bill-512-law
