Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Signs Assembly Bill 367 and Assembly Bill 659 Into Law at Prevea Marinette Health Center as a Part of the H.O.P.E. Tour
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 17, 2016
Location: Marinette, WI

Governor Scott Walker signed Assembly Bill 367 and Assembly Bill 659 into law today at Prevea Marinette Health Center and Libertas Treatment Center of Marinette as a part of his Heroin Opioid Prevention and Education (H.O.P.E.) tour, which highlights the impact this legislation will have on those who struggle with opioid abuse and addition.
"The health of the citizens of our state is incredibly important, and our H.O.P.E. tour works to provide information and support to Wisconsinites who face drug abuse and addiction," Governor Walker said. "We're happy to be here at the Prevea Marinette Health Center in Marinette today to sign this legislation into law, which streamlines state regulations governing opioid treatment programs to put them in line with the highest level of flexibility allowed by the federal government and requires treatment programs to report information to our Department of Health Services to measure ongoing successes or challenges of treatment."
Assembly Bill 367 -- as amended, requires programs treating substance addiction through the use of methadone to report certain information to the Department of Health Services (DHS) every year. While Methadone clinics may provide effective treatment to many patients, little information is currently collected on how they treat patients, making studies regarding their efficacy difficult. This legislation aims to give us a better picture of how they are treating patients and will hopefully lead to more effective treatment outcomes and less risk of methadone abuse. Authored by Representative John Nygren (R -- Marinette) and Senator Alberta Darling (R -- River Hills), the bill passed the Assembly on a voice vote and was concurred by the Senate on a voice vote. It is Act 262.
Assembly Bill 659 -- aligns Wisconsin's administrative code with federal guidelines, including: changing the two year certification cycle to three years; clarifying that opioid treatment programs (OTPs) are allowed to contract with substance abuse counselors, rather than having to employ them directly; removing the 2-year time limit on the length of treatment; removing the requirement that a patient live within 50 miles of a treatment program; and increasing the number of take-home doses allowed from two to six, if approved in a patient's treatment plan. Authored by Representative John Nygren (R -- Marinette) and Senator Sheila Harsdorf (R -- River Falls), the bill passed the Assembly with a vote of 98-0 and was concurred by the Senate on a voice vote. It is Act 263.

Source:
