Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Announces Launch of Agency Performance Dashboards Website
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 16, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker announced today the launch of a new Agency Performance Dashboards website, which reports on each cabinet agency's performance in key areas identified by the agency. This new website is an important tool as Governor Walker continues to improve the transparency, efficiency, and effectiveness of Wisconsin state government and is a part of Executive Order #189, which was issued last week. In addition to this new website, Governor Walker also proclaimed this week as Sunshine Week.
"We asked our state agencies to set aggressive goals with their performance measures, even if those goals could not be met immediately," Governor Walker said. "As we continue to seek new ways to improve state government and its services to the people of Wisconsin, these goals will be constantly assessed and adjusted. The new website we're launching today provides our citizens with a user-friendly and transparent tool to measure our ongoing efforts to move Wisconsin forward."
Governor Walker requested each cabinet agency develop an agency performance dashboard, which can now be viewed at http://performance.wi.gov. This new website will allow Wisconsinites and stakeholders to review the dashboards and engage in dialogue with state agencies about the measurements selected and the agency's performance on those measurements. Each measure includes current and previous data, graphics for quick reference, and a description of the data being measured.
In 2012, Governor Walker launched http://openbook.wi.gov, which places every state expenditure online for review by the public. The Agency Performance Dashboards website is the next step in improving transparency, efficiency, and effectiveness in state government services. The website was built at no cost to the state or its constituents through a public-private partnership between the State of Wisconsin, Department of Administration, and Wisconsin Interactive Network, LLC, a subsidiary of NIC.
About Wisconsin Interactive Network:
Wisconsin Interactive Network is part of the eGovernment firm NIC's (NASDAQ: EGOV) family of companies. It focuses on accelerating the number of online services available to Wisconsin citizens and businesses through the state's official portal, www.Wisconsin.gov.
- See more at: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-announces-launch-agency-performance-dashboards-website#sthash.WfTWIgRz.dpuf

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-announces-launch-agency-performance-dashboards-website
