Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Visits Crandon High School
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 15, 2016
Location: Crandon, WI

Governor Scott Walker visited Crandon High School today to talk about the importance of education, highlight dual enrollment, and discuss the positive reforms and savings the Crandon School District has seen as a result of 2011 Wisconsin Act 10.
"Wisconsin's workforce is strong, but one of the things we keep hearing from employers in our state is they have open positions and cannot find skilled workers to fill them," Governor Walker said. "One of the ways we're working to bridge the skills gap is by investing in dual enrollment programs, which prepare Wisconsin students for family-supporting jobs in the future by providing them with a quality education today. Dual enrollment programs jump starts our students' education in their final year of high school, which allows them to enter the workforce and begin their career earlier."
Crandon High School launched an innovative dual enrollment program for the Spring 2016 semester in partnership with the Nicolet Area Technical College. Twenty-five juniors and seniors at Crandon High School are receiving both high school and college credits for taking the course Principles of Management and Business Marketing. The classes are held at Crandon High School and instruction is provided by Nicolet Area Technical College. This program is an example of how Wisconsin's high schools and technical college can work together to give students opportunities to earn college credit while still in high school.
In his 2016 State of the State Address, Governor Walker announced his commitment to invest an additional $3 million in dual enrollment programs on top of the $4.6 million already invested as a part of the Wisconsin Fast Forward program. This investment will provide grants for high school students involved in training program partnerships. These partnerships include dual credit academies, work-based learning programs, and pre-apprenticeship models.
While at Crandon High School, Governor Walker also highlighted some of the positive reforms and savings the school has seen related to Act 10. After Act 10 was enacted, Crandon High School was able to:
Allow for the savings of retirement and health costs;
Provide flexibility to the school board on incentive programs;
Change insurance plans and save the district around $250,000 last year;
Restructure their future pay scale to more adequately reflect revenues as they look at employment needs in comparison to enrollment; and
Reduce OPEB fund 73 obligations and continue to reduce dollar obligation.
"We faced a significant budget deficit when we first took office and our immediate goal was to implement common-sense reforms to get Wisconsin's fiscal house back in order," Governor Walker said. "The savings and tools included in Act 10 put our taxpayers back in charge and turned a budget deficit into a surplus. These reforms gave local governments and school districts, like the one right here in Crandon, the resources they needed to manage their budgets."
Over the past five years, the total savings from Act 10 are estimated to be over $5 billion and pension savings alone exceed $3 billion for state and local governments. Along with these savings, local governments used the tools included in Act 10 to save on long-term liabilities. These savings not only allowed the state to eliminate a $3.6 billion deficit, they made it possible to cut property and income taxes by a total of nearly $5 billion. Today, property taxes on a typical home are lower than they were in 2010 and cumulatively $1,227 lower than they would have been if the prior trend had continued. Additionally, over four years, a median income family of four has seen $916 in income tax rate cuts savings.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-visits-crandon-high-school
