Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Highlights Success of Tourism Industry at Governor's Conference on Tourism
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 14, 2016
Location: Baraboo, WI

Governor Scott Walker spoke to around 900 tourism industry representatives today in Baraboo about the state of tourism in Wisconsin and its impact on the economy at the Governor's Conference on Tourism.
"Investing in our tourism industry is great for Wisconsin and for our taxpayers," Governor Walker said. "Last year, the advertising campaigns developed by Tourism reached hundreds of thousands of people and we saw more visitors to our state, which resulted in higher tax revenue. In 2015, for every dollar we spent on tourism advertising, $8 came back to the state in the form of incremental tax revenues, which we use to invest in education, roads, job training, and other important needs to keep Wisconsin strong and moving forward."
The Wisconsin Governor's Conference on Tourism attracts innkeepers, restaurateurs, local tourism officials, attraction operators, state agency officials, tourism educators, and other representatives of the hospitality industry. The conference is Wisconsin's largest educational and networking event for the tourism industry. For more information, click here.
At the conference, Governor Walker joined Tourism Secretary Stephanie Klett in introducing the new ad campaign by the Department of Tourism, which focuses on fun in Wisconsin. The two new television commercials highlight Wisconsin's playful side with two authentic experiences taking center stage: supper clubs as well as family and pet travel. These television ads can be viewed at www.TravelWisconsin.com.
In 2014, tourism had an $18.5 billion impact on Wisconsin's economy, according to Tourism Economics, the research firm commissioned by the Department of Tourism. Tourism supports 187,643 jobs throughout the state, adding over 6,200 jobs to Wisconsin's total employment since 2011, and visitors generated $1.4 billion in state and local revenue, thus saving taxpayers $620 per household. For the first time in four years, all 72 counties saw a positive increase in visitor spending, and in 2014, tourism activity was up $1 billion from $17.5 billion in 2013. The 2015 tourism economic impact figures will be available in May.

Source:
