Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Signs Senate Bill 449 Into Law
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 8, 2016
Location: Brown Deer, WI

Governor Scott Walker signed Senate Bill 449 into law today at Brown Deer High School. In addition to signing Senate Bill 449, Governor Walker highlighted the positive reforms and savings related to 2011 Wisconsin Act 10.
"The reforms included in Act 10 helped provide more tools to school districts, ultimately helping to ensure Wisconsin students are receiving a quality education to prepare them for future success," Governor Walker said. "We're happy to continue those reforms today by signing Senate Bill 449 into law. This law will make it easier for school districts to fill much-needed teaching positions with professional and experienced individuals, which will assist in allowing school districts to offer courses in vocational areas that may not currently be offered to help Wisconsin students learn about in-demand careers and better prepare them for the workforce."
Senate Bill 449 -- creates an experience-based licensure process for teaching vocational education subjects similar to the process created for technical education subjects in the 2015-17 biennial budget. Under this bill, vocational education subjects include: agriculture; child services; clothing services; food services; housing and equipment services; family and consumer education; family and consumer services; home economics-related occupations; health care-related occupations; business education; and marketing education. Teachers hired by a school district are issued an initial three-year teaching license by the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) and once that license is expired, DPI may issue a professional teaching license to the applicant as long as they have successfully completed the curriculum, which is determined by the school board that established that curriculum. Authored by Senator Alberta Darling (R -- River Hills) and Representative Daniel Knodl (R -- Germantown), the bill passed the Senate by a vote of 19-13 and was concurred by the Assembly by a vote of 63-35. It is Act 259.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-signs-senate-bill-449-law
