Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Announces Grants Available for TEACH Educational Technology Teacher Training
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 3, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker announced Technology for Educational ACHievement (TEACH) grants are now available to eligible school districts as a way to enhance the role of information technology in student learning and achievement. Administered by the Department of Administration (DOA) in collaboration with the Department of Public Instruction (DPI), the Teacher Training Grants for Educational Technology provide support for districts to attend, arrange, and administer training activities that build the information technology knowledge and capacity of teachers.
"These grants provide our schools districts with resources to improve technology and communication in the classroom," Governor Walker said. "We're continuing to work to bridge the skills gap and the TEACH grants are an important tool that will help equip Wisconsin students with the skills necessary to gain employment in the modern world."
Grants for fiscal year 2016 are available to consortia of three or more eligible school districts. There is no maximum limit on the number of eligible school districts that can be part of a consortium applying to receive funds. Participating school districts must have 13 or fewer students per square mile. The amount of funding available to a school district is determined by the number of students within the district. A list of eligible school districts and the maximum funding available can be found here.
This year's biennial budget, 2015 Wisconsin Act 55, provided $1.5 million annually for the Teacher Training Grants as a part of the greater TEACH initiative. The allocated funds can be used for registration fees for online, blended, or face-to-face professional learning events focused on enhancing digital learning capacity; training to enhance the use of technology in the classroom; or specific programming aligned to district technology goals.
The Teacher Training Grants for Educational Technology are annual awards. Any activities funded must occur or have occurred during the specified grant award period, July 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016. Unused funding will not be carried over to subsequent award periods.
Eligible school districts can apply for TEACH grants online at the TEACH website at http://teach.wisconsin.gov and must be submitted to DOA by 11:59 p.m. on April 1, 2016. Late applications will not be considered.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-announces-grants-available-teach-educational-technology
