Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Highlights the Importance of Literacy in Wisconsin, Participates in Read Across America Day
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 2, 2016
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker joined students, teachers, and SHARP Literacy today in Milwaukee at St. Anthony's School as a part of Read Across America Day. Governor Walker read the Dr. Seuss book, "What Pet Should I Get?," to the students.
"For Wisconsin students to thrive in their academic studies it is crucial to develop literacy skills at a young age," Governor Walker said. "Literacy provides a strong foundation for future learning and we are proud to say last year, fourth and eighth grade reading scores went up again in our state. We continue to invest in initiatives like Read to Lead, which improve literacy in Wisconsin through early screenings, teacher development, and investments in effective programs to help make sure every student in our state is able to build a successful future from a great education."
National Education Association's (NEA's) Read Across America is a national campaign bringing together schools, libraries, and communities to promote reading and literacy for children and teens. The annual event occurs every year on the birthday of the famous children's author, Theodor "Seuss" Giesel, better known as Dr. Seuss.
Governor Walker understands the importance of literacy for Wisconsin students, and in 2011, he launched his Read to Lead initiative. Read to Lead works to ensure Wisconsin students possess the most important skill they need to excel in their academic studies and in life: the ability to read. Studies show that by the time students reach fourth grade, they are no longer learning to read, but reading to learn. This initiative includes programs that assess the basic literacy skills of students from kindergarten through second grade and strengthens literacy requirements for teacher preparation training.
The Read to Lead Council partners with Wisconsin companies and community groups to promote reading and literacy. Through the Read to Lead Development Fund, the Council funds projects to improve literacy and serve as a model to improve the reading achievement of Wisconsin students and adults.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-highlights-importance-literacy-wisconsin-participates
