Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Participates in REALTORS速 & Government Day, Signs Assembly Bill 456
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 2, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker spoke at the Wisconsin REALTORS速 Association's Government Day today at the Monona Terrace Community and Convention Center in Madison.
"We're happy to be here today to discuss with members of the Wisconsin Realtors Association ways we can further protect Wisconsin taxpayers by easing their property tax burden," Governor Walker said. "In 2015, the property taxes on a median valued home were $116 lower than they were in 2010. In the past five years, that same homeowner saved $1,227 from where property taxes were headed in comparison to how they've decreased to where they are today. We remain focused on implementing common-sense reforms and providing flexibility to local governments, so Wisconsin families are able to benefit from these significant savings."
The Wisconsin REALTORS速 Association (WRA) is one of the largest trade associations in the state which represents the interests of and serves over 14,000 members statewide, including real estate sales agents, brokers, appraisers, inspectors, bankers, and other professionals who work in real estate. WRA offers their members products and services, including access to a legal staff, pre-license and continuing education, publications, group benefits, home sales reports and statistical information, and public policy representation in order to help them stay competitive in their local markets. While at the REALTOR速 & Government Day in Madison, Governor Walker also signed Assembly Bill 456 into law.
Assembly Bill 456 -- makes various changes to terminology in relation to real estate practice. This bill creates broker liability protection by creating a two year statute of limitation. The bill also provides clarification regarding the activities allowed of licensed business entities and the licensed broker business representatives; creates a safe harbor for real estate independent contractors; eliminates an inconsistent application of Wisconsin worker's compensation law; and removes the employer and employee statutory references. Under this bill, the Real Estate Examining Board will no longer register time-share salespersons. Authored by Representative Scott Allen (R -- Waukesha) and Senator Frank Lasee (R -- De Pere), the bill passed the Assembly on a voice vote and was concurred by the Senate on a voice vote. It is Act 258.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-participates-realtors%C2%AE-government-day-signs-assembly
