Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: Veteran-Owned Businesses Win in Wisconsin
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: June 29, 2017
Location: Madison, WI

Hi, Scott Walker here.
Wisconsin is working. Our unemployment rate is down to 3.1 percent and there are more people employed in our state than ever before.
And this week, we traveled throughout Wisconsin to highlight a very important factor in this success -- veteran-owned businesses.
Did you know that there are more than 390,000 veterans living in our state? Or that 11 percent of all Wisconsin businesses are owned by veterans? That's roughly 65,000 businesses throughout this great state!
We owe the brave men and women who return home after serving in the United States Armed Forces a debt of gratitude for their service.
If you ask me, there's nothing we can ever do to repay them for their courage and selfless sacrifice. What we can do, however, is help them pursue their piece of the American dream when they return -- whether that's pursuing a degree or helping to make their goals of owning a business a reality.
On Tuesday, I joined the Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Dan Zimmerman in unveiling the new Wisconsin Veteran-Owned Business logo. We hope veteran-owned businesses will proudly display this logo on their windows and in their stores so the people of our state can be made aware of their service and so we're all encouraged to support these important businesses.
We encourage all of our veteran-owned businesses to visit WisVets.com -- that's WisVets.com -- to learn more about what we're doing to support veteran-owned businesses, to register their business, download the Veteran-Owned Business logo, and become part of the Wisconsin Veteran-Owned Business Directory.
We know that the military experience our veterans receive during their service provides them with the skills they need to be successful business owners -- including leadership, the ability to think on their feet, and work well under pressure.
We want Wisconsinites to know it as well -- and the Veteran-Owned Business logo makes it easy to recognize -- and support -- our veteran-owned businesses throughout the state.
Together, we're committed to supporting the veteran entrepreneurs in our state who are creating jobs, hiring skilled workers, and making our communities a great place to live, work, and raise a family.

Source: https://walker.wi.gov/press-releases/weekly-radio-address-veteran-owned-businesses-win-wisconsin
