Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Signs Assembly Bill 310 and Senate Bill 238 Into Law
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 18, 2016
Location: Waukesha, WI

Governor Scott Walker signed Assembly Bill 310 and Senate Bill 238 into law today at Life's Connection in Waukesha. Assembly Bill 310 requires the state to seek Title X funding for family planning and related preventive health services, and Senate Bill 238 relates to billing the Medical Assistance program for prescription drugs by certain entities.
"Today, we signed two bills into law that prioritize women's health while improving government and its services to the citizens of Wisconsin," Governor Walker said. "These bills require DHS to apply for additional federal funding for women's health services to be obtained from less controversial providers and ensure prescription reimbursement processes are handled in a cost-based and transparent manner."
Assembly Bill 310 -- as amended, requires the Department of Health Services (DHS) to apply for Title X family planning grant funds beginning with the 2018 application deadline and every cycle following. If awarded federal funding, this bill requires DHS to distribute those funds to less controversial public entities including state, county, and local health departments and health clinics, and the Wisconsin Well Woman Program. Any remaining funds will go to nonpublic hospitals or federally qualified health centers that provide comprehensive primary and preventive care. This makes it clear that DHS will not send those funds to Planned Parenthood, which is currently the only Wisconsin entity to receive Title X funding. Authored by Representative André Jacque (R -- De Pere) and Senator Chris Kapenga (R -- Delafield), the bill passed the Assembly with a vote of 60-35 and was concurred by the Senate with a vote of 19-14. It is Act 151.
Senate Bill 238 -- as amended, requires state entities that provide abortions, receive either Title X grants or STD grants, and participate in the 340B program, which under federal law allows certain entities to purchase outpatient prescription drugs at reduced costs, to bill for only the actual acquisition costs for Medicaid and the dispensing fee permitted under Medicaid when billing for prescription drugs for Medicaid recipients. Authored by Senator Chris Kapenga (R -- Delafield) and Representative André Jacque (R -- De Pere), the bill passed the Senate with a vote of 19-14 and was concurred by the Assembly with a vote of 61-35. It is Act 152.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-signs-assembly-bill-310-and-senate-bill-238-law
