Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Highlights Economic Success at Governor's Conference on Economic Development
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 4, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker kicked off the Governor's Conference on Economic Development today at the Monona Terrace in Madison. The theme for the 21st Annual Governor's Conference on Economic Development is "Aligning Our Direction -- Finding Common Ground."
"Wisconsin's economy is strong, and we're working to ensure it continues to grow and thrive," Governor Walker said. "That's why we tripled funding for broadband expansion grants in our most recent budget in order to provide our communities with the tools and resources they need to guarantee economic development. Building a robust economy also requires investing in our workers and ensuring they have access to resources like our revamped Job Center of Wisconsin, which matches job seekers with particular skills and talents to employers looking for those qualifications."
The annual Governor's Conference on Economic Development is hosted by the Wisconsin Economic Development Association (WEDA) and is their largest education and networking event of the year. The three-day conference includes educational sessions on some of the most important economic development topics and issues, and this year's topics include: tax policy, transportation funding, brownfields development, and business incentives. These breakout sessions will search for ways to bring national experts and attendees together and find common ground on these issues.
In his 2015-17 Biennial Budget, Governor Walker tripled funding for the Broadband Expansion Grant program, which works to improve the quality of education and encourages business growth in rural areas of the state, especially in northern Wisconsin. Since being created, nearly $2.5 million in grants have been awarded to communities and qualifying Wisconsin broadband companies. These grants provide reimbursement for equipment and construction expenses incurred to extend or improve broadband telecommunications services in underserved regions of the state, and make it easier for employers to find the workers they need to fill jobs.
The JobCenterofWisconsin.com launched in September 2015, and included a redesigned and mobile-friendly website offering new tools, such as: streamlined registration, improved usability and search features, and advanced skills matching to connect talent with job postings. In January, the second phase of enhancements debuted, which included: new quick job search options, advanced mapping to find talent and job openings geographically, and a searchable Workforce Events Calendar to find recruitment events quickly and easily.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-highlights-economic-success-governor%E2%80%99s-conference
