Public Statements
Working for Wisconsin: Governor Scott Walker Continues State of the State Tour by Visiting Schools in New Berlin, Fennimore, and New Richmond
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 25, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker continued his Working for Wisconsin: State of the State Tour today by visiting the School District of New Berlin, Southwest Wisconsin Technical College in Fennimore, and Indianhead Technical College in New Richmond. At these schools, Governor Walker highlighted state investments in education, such as dual enrollment and college affordability, which will help to ensure the future success of the state.
"Our investments in education are preparing future generations for successful careers in the 21st century," Governor Walker said. "We've invested an additional $3 million in dual enrollment programs to make sure our students possess the talents, skills, and knowledge they need for family-supporting jobs. We have some of the best and brightest students in the nation, and opportunities like dual enrollment and Academic and Career Planning helps our students realize their specific talents, skills, and career goals."
Governor Walker announced in his 2016 State of the State Address that he will invest an additional $3 million in dual enrollment programs through Wisconsin Fast Forward. This investment will provide grants for high school students that allow them to work with local partners, including dual credit academies, work-based learning programs, and pre-apprenticeship models, to gain practical skills and knowledge. In 2014, Governor Walker invested $35.4 million to the Wisconsin Fast Forward program through his Blueprint for Prosperity initiative.
While it is important to highlight the role education plays in the future of our state, Governor Walker also recognizes the importance of making higher education more accessible and affordable for Wisconsinites. That is why he has proposed a college affordability legislative package that aims to: make college more affordable by allowing full deduction of student loan interest on incoming taxes; increase Wisconsin grants for technical colleges to help around 1,000 Wisconsin students; expand the emergency grant program for students at technical colleges and two-year UW Colleges; increase internships within the UW System to help students develop the skills and knowledge they need to succeed in a career; and expand transparency by sending information to students every year about their current and projected student loan debt level and education costs.

Source:
