Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Highlights Education Success, Initiatives at 2016 State Education Convention
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 22, 2016
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker joined education leaders from across the state today at the 2016 State Education Convention in Milwaukee, where he discussed the state's investments in education and highlighted some of the achievements of Wisconsin students and teachers. This annual convention is hosted by the Wisconsin Association of School Boards (WASB) in Milwaukee.
"We've seen tremendous success here in Wisconsin -- high school graduation rates are higher, 4th and 8th grade reading scores are up, and ACT scores are 2nd highest in the nation," Governor Walker said. "We have some of the best schools in the country, but in order for our students to succeed in the 21st century, we need to continue to invest in education. That's why I propose investing every penny of savings from changing the way we administer health insurance for state employees, which some experts say could save tens of millions of dollars, into the general fund to support public education."
In Governor Walker's 2016 State of the State address earlier this week, he highlighted several investments in Wisconsin education, including:
Academic and Careers Planning -- This program will provide students between 6th and 12th grade with access to planning that will help them prepare for courses they will take in junior high and high school, which will help them realize where their talents and passions lie as well as prepare them for success in their future careers;
Dual Enrollment -- Governor Walker announced that an additional $3 million will be invested in dual enrollment programs on top of the already $4.6 million invested through Wisconsin Fast Forward. This investment will provide grants for high school students that will allow them to jump start their education and careers in their final year of high school.
College Affordability Legislative Package -- The college affordability legislative package provides Wisconsin students and working families with savings by allowing full deduction of student loan interest on state income taxes, increasing Wisconsin grants for technical colleges to help around 1,000 students, expanding the emergency grants program for students at technical colleges and two-year UW colleges, increasing internships within the UW System to help students develop the skills and knowledge they need to succeed in a career, and expanding transparency by sending information to students every year about their current and projected student loan debt level and education costs.
Founded in 1921, WASB is a non-profit organization that serves as an advocate for students and education in Wisconsin. Their members include school board members, district staff, and education non-profits, and together, they work to support, promote, and advance the interests of public education in Wisconsin.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-highlights-education-success-initiatives-2016-state
