Public Statements
Working for Wisconsin: Governor Scott Walker Continues State of the State Tour by Visiting Schools in Appleton, Eagle River, Kenosha, and Chippewa Falls
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 21, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker continued his Working for Wisconsin: State of the State Tour today by visiting Fox Valley Technical College in Appleton, Northland Pines High School in Eagle River, Gateway Technical College in Kenosha, and Chippewa Valley Technical College in Chippewa Falls. At each of these schools, Governor Walker discussed the importance of education to ensure the future success of Wisconsin and highlighted state investments in education, including dual enrollment and college affordability.
"In the past year, our state has seen tremendous growth," Governor Walker said. "More people are working in Wisconsin than at any time in the past 20 years, and we remain committed to creating jobs so that anyone who wants a job can find a job in Wisconsin. To do this, we have to think outside the box and work to create pathways to employment that go beyond traditional four-year college degrees. This includes opportunities like dual enrollment, which help our students pursue challenging and demanding careers by providing them with the practical skills and knowledge they need to succeed in the workforce."
Governor Walker announced in his 2016 State of the State Address that he will invest an additional $3 million in dual enrollment programs as a part of Wisconsin Fast Forward. This investment will allow high school students to work with partners in their communities to gain practical skills, including dual credit academies, work-based learning programs, and pre-apprenticeship models.
In 2014, Governor Walker invested $35.4 million to the Wisconsin Fast Forward program through his Blueprint for Prosperity initiative.
In addition to highlighting the important role education plays in the future of our state, Governor Walker also highlighted the importance of making higher education accessible and affordable in Wisconsin in his State of the State Address. He has proposed a college affordability legislative package that aims to: make college more affordable by allowing full deduction of student loan interest on incoming taxes; increase Wisconsin grants for technical colleges to help around 1,000 Wisconsin students; expand the emergency grant program for students at technical colleges and two-year UW Colleges; increase internships within the UW System to help students develop the skills and knowledge they need to succeed in a career; and expand transparency by sending information to students every year about their current and projected student loan debt level and education costs.
Governor Walker's State of the State Address also announced the 2020 Vision plan, which utilizes listening session throughout the state to hear directly from the people of Wisconsin about what matters to them. Governor Walker has already held listening sessions in Seymour, Prairie du Chien, Milwaukee, Osseo, Kewaunee, Sturgeon Bay, and Ashwaubenon, and he will continue to travel to counties all across Wisconsin to hear from citizens about what they think is great about Wisconsin, where they think our state should be in the next two decades, and how we should measure success.
- See more at: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/working-wisconsin-governor-scott-walker-continues-state-state-tour-visiting#sthash.Wyfrd5DD.dpuf

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/working-wisconsin-governor-scott-walker-continues-state-state-tour-visiting
