Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: A Strong Vision for Wisconsin's Future
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 21, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker released his Weekly Radio Address today titled "A Strong Vision for Wisconsin's Future."
Hi, Scott Walker here.
This week, I delivered the State of the State address and I'm proud to say that the state of our state is strong.
Our unemployment rate has dropped significantly and is below the national rate. In October of last year, we saw the largest monthly jobs gains since April of 1992. This is great news. Even better still, our Labor Force Participation Rate is 5.4 points better than the national rate, and in 2015, there were more people working in Wisconsin than at any time in the past 20 years.
It's clear -- the Wisconsin Comeback is real. And we are ready to continue our hard work to ensure that everyone who wants a job can find a job -- and live their piece of the American dream.
This week, we put forward new ideas to make this a reality.
We want to continue investing in Wisconsin's future, especially for our children. That's why we have funded Academic and Career Plans for all students between 6th and 12th grades, piloted in 25 school districts this fall. This program will help students prepare for courses they will take through junior high and high school to get them a head start on their future careers.
There are other ways we will focus on education at all levels. We will provide an additional $3 million for dual enrollment programs through the Wisconsin Fast Forward program to help students get a jumpstart on their higher education. We will also work with the University of Wisconsin System to provide three-year degree options, to help keep the cost of higher education down for our students and working families.
As we continue to prudently manage state taxpayer funds, I am committed to investing the savings we find through efficiency and reform into public education.
We have some of the best schools in the country, but we need to do more for our students to succeed in the 21st century. In the past, we enacted major reforms that helped schools reward great teachers, improve curriculum, and balance budgets.
Now, we need to do more to reform state government and put those savings into public education. One area to consider for real reform is the way we administer health insurance for state employees, which some experts believe could save tens of millions of dollars. I want to invest every penny of savings to the general fund from these specific reforms to support public education.
Lastly, I also shared our plan for the future to listen to people from communities all over the state. I call it the 2020 Vision. Throughout the year, we will talk with Wisconsinites about what you think is great about Wisconsin, your hopes for the next generation, and how we should measure success.
I look forward to working together to continue moving Wisconsin forward.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/media/weekly-radio-address/weekly-radio-address-strong-vision-wisconsin%E2%80%99s-future
