Public Statements
Working for Wisconsin: Governor Scott Walker Visits Technical Colleges in Green Bay, La Crosse, and Wausau
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 20, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker kicked off his Working for Wisconsin: State of the State Tour today by visiting Northeast Wisconsin Technical College in Green Bay, Western Technical College in La Crosse, and Northcentral Technical College in Wausau. At these technical colleges, Governor Walker highlighted major education announcements, including investments in dual enrollment and making college more affordable.
"This is about ensuring that every person who wants a job can find a job," Governor Walker said. "In order to make this a reality, we are investing an additional $3 million on top of the $4.6 million we have already invested in dual enrollment programs across the state. It is vital to our state's economy that we provide our students with the skills they need to be successful and compete in today's global economy."
During his 2016 State of the State Address, Governor Walker announced that he will invest an additional $3 million in dual enrollment programs as a part of the Wisconsin Fast Forward Program. These investments will provide grants to high school students that will allow them to work with local partners, including dual credit academies, work-based learning programs, and pre-apprenticeship models.
Governor Walker invested $35.4 million to the Wisconsin Fast Forward program in 2014 through his Blueprint for Prosperity initiative. So far, this has already funded 75 projects and trained over 2,000 students through workforce training programs.
In his State of the State Address last night, Governor Walker also discussed the importance of ensuring higher education is more affordable in the first place. Governor Walker has proposed a college affordability legislative package aimed at: making college more affordable by allowing full deduction of student loan interest on income taxes; increasing Wisconsin grants for technical colleges to help around 1,000 Wisconsin students; expanding the emergency grants program for students at technical colleges and two-year UW Colleges; increasing internships within the UW System to help students develop the skills and knowledge they need to succeed in a career; and expanding transparency by sending information to students every year about their current and projected student loan debt level and education costs.
Looking forward towards the future of Wisconsin, Governor Walker also announced last night his plan to hear from the people of Wisconsin to discover what matters most to them. Through his 2020 Vision Project, Governor Walker has already traveled throughout the state for listening sessions in Seymour, Prairie du Chien, Milwaukee, Osseo, Kewaunee, Sturgeon Bay, and Ashwaubenon, and he will continue to travel across Wisconsin to hold listening sessions to hear from citizens about what they think is great about Wisconsin, where they think our state should be in the next two decades, and how we should measure success.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/working-wisconsin-governor-scott-walker-visits-technical-colleges-green-bay
