Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Hosts 5th Annual Small Business Summit
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 9, 2015
Location: Eau Claire, WI

This afternoon, Governor Scott Walker spoke to hundreds of small business owners and executives gathered in Eau Claire for the 5th annual Governor's Small Business Summit.
"Small businesses are the driving force of our economy, and our administration is committed to good policies that fuel their success," Governor Walker said. "This summit is our administration's annual platform to build relationships and brainstorm with job creators on the best ways to further our work to streamline regulations, invest in worker training, and grow the economy."
Governor Walker inaugurated the Small Business Summit in his first year in office as a way for top leaders in government to hear directly from those who work hard every day to make their small businesses successful. This 5th annual summit provides attendees the opportunity to talk to Cabinet secretaries, attend breakout sessions focused on best practices for businesses, and visit personally with the Governor and Lt. Governor. Staff from state agencies were also on hand to educate attendees about relevant programs and to answer specific questions.
"Today is a tribute to the small business owners who make our economy strong," said Lt. Governor Rebecca Kleefisch, who helped organize the summit. "Our goal is simple: gather their wise counsel on ways state government can continue to support and encourage their natural, organic growth, since it's their ingenuity and hard work that creates jobs in communities across Wisconsin."
The Governor, Lt. Governor, and Cabinet members talked about a number of policy priorities contained in the 2015-17 budget that help small businesses, including property tax relief, tax code simplification, broadband expansion grants, infrastructure investment, and ongoing worker training initiatives.
- See more at: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-hosts-5th-annual-small-business-summit#sthash.lNhSFUvw.dpuf

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-hosts-5th-annual-small-business-summit
