Public Statements
Wisconsin Awarded Nearly $8 Million to Combat the Opioid Epidemic
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 20, 2017
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker announced today that the state will receive $7,636,938 in federal grant money to help combat the state's opioid epidemic.
"These funds will help fuel our aggressive response to the drug epidemic that is affecting Wisconsin and the nation," said Governor Walker. "We will continue our work to implement the most effective and efficient practices, aimed at prevention, recovery, and treatment, to bring healing to the individuals, families, and communities overwhelmed by this public health crisis."
The $7.6 million is the first year of what is expected to be a two-year grant. In a letter to Governor Walker, Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Dr. Tom Price said he intends to develop funding allocations and policies that are clinically sound, effective, and efficient before funds are released for year two.
The Department of Health Services (DHS) submitted the grant application in February as directed by Governor Walker's Executive Order #229. DHS will use the funds to support recommendations made in the report by the Governor's Task Force on Opioid Abuse. Those recommendations include:
Support community coalitions focused on reducing the nonmedical use of opioids among people age 12 to 25.
Establish a hotline to provide information on treatment services and recovery supports.
Expand access to treatment for uninsured and underinsured individuals.
Establish new opioid-specific treatment programs to reduce the distance people have to travel for these services.
Establish a network of individuals in long-term recovery from the misuse and abuse of opioids trained to coach people through the treatment and recovery process.
Develop training for professionals on proven intervention and treatment strategies for opioid misuse and abuse.
The funding was made available under the federal 21st Century Cures Act.

Source: https://walker.wi.gov/press-releases/wisconsin-awarded-nearly-8-million-combat-opioid-epidemic
