Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Appoints District II Court of Appeals Judge
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 31, 2015
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker announced the appointment of Brian Hagedorn as Court of Appeals Judge for District II. Hagedorn replaces Judge Richard Brown, who is retiring August 1 after 37 years on the bench.
"Brian Hagedorn is a person of integrity who has a deep commitment to service and a passion for the rule of law that will make him an excellent addition to the appellate bench," said Governor Walker. "Brian has been a great asset during a transformative time in Wisconsin history, as we worked to bring big, bold reform to the state."
Hagedorn currently serves as Chief Legal Counsel in the Office of the Governor, where his responsibilities include managing litigation, leading ethics and compliance operations, and providing legal advice on proposed legislation. Hagedorn has also served as an Assistant Attorney General at the Wisconsin Department of Justice, as an attorney at Foley & Lardner in Milwaukee, and as a law clerk at the Wisconsin Supreme Court. He is a graduate of Northwestern University School of Law, where he was President of the Federalist Society.
"Brian would be the kind of judge that would follow the Rule of Law and dispense justice fairly and impartially," wrote State Supreme Court Justice Annette Ziegler.
According to Court of Appeals Judge Rebecca Bradley, "His command of complex legal principles is extraordinary and his ability to respectfully debate and discuss issues of law would be a particular asset on the appellate bench."
Assistant Attorney General Daniel Lennington wrote, "He is a superb writer, and articulate and effective communicator, and a diligent researcher. Brian is well respected among his colleagues and peers, and as a judge, will be impartial and diligent, at all times committed to the Constitution and the rule of law."
When not serving the people of Wisconsin, Hagedorn enjoys spending time with his wife, Christina, and their five children. He is a native of southeastern Wisconsin.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-appoints-district-ii-court-appeals-judge
