Public Statements
Governor Walker Appoints Eau Claire County Circuit Judge
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 27, 2015
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker today announced an appointment to the Eau Claire County Circuit Court Branch 1, naming attorney Brian H. Wright to fill the vacancy left by The Honorable Judge Kristina Bourget. Judge Bourget resigned on June 12, 2015.
"I am pleased to appoint Brian Wright to the position of Eau Claire County Judge," said Governor Walker. "Brian has the intellect, integrity, and commitment to the rule of law that makes him an excellent choice to fill this role."
Wright has had an accomplished career in the law. In 1995, he began his legal career in Eau Claire representing Wisconsin's public and private sector employees in both federal and state court proceedings. He later went on to become partner at Steiner & Wright, S.C. in Eau Claire, where he represented clients in real estate, construction, civil and criminal litigation, labor and employment, and business matters. He served Eau Claire County as the District Attorney in 2012 and currently practices civil litigation at Herrick & Hart, S.C. in Eau Claire.
Chief of Police Cal Smokowicz wrote in to support Wright for the position, noting that "he is always cheerful, dependable, and conducts himself in a professional manner." Chief Smokowicz went on to state that "Brian has always looked at the merits of the case during prosecution," and that he has "shown fairness and integrity" in all matters.
Timothy Adler, a former Court Commissioner for Eau Claire County, worked with Wright in his capacity as Reserve Court Commissioner, where he would fill in for Adler from time to time. "Brian has been tested in multiple areas of the law and has passed with flying colors," said Adler. He "will prove to be an asset to the judicial system and to the state as a whole."
Wright received his law degree from Marquette University, where he graduated magna cum laude and became a published author and lead editor of Marquette Law Review. He also holds a Masters of Business Administration from the University of Denver. Wright has been practicing law in Wisconsin for 22 years and resides in Eau Claire County with his wife and two year-old daughter.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-appoints-eau-claire-county-circuit-judge
