Public Statements
Protecting Wisconsin's Most Vulnerable: Governor Walker's Budget Proposal Eliminates Children's Long-Term Supports Waiting List
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 20, 2017
Location: Menasha, WI

Governor Scott Walker visited Family Services of Northeast Wisconsin, Inc. today in Menasha to highlight his commitment to protecting Wisconsin's most vulnerable and improving the lives of all Wisconsin citizens by ensuring no child with a disability has to wait for needed services. Governor Walker's budget proposal invests $39.2 million over two years to serve children currently waiting for long-term support services.
"An accountable Wisconsin government protects its most vulnerable citizens," Governor Walker said. "This includes our children with mental or physical disabilities as well as those who have suffered severe emotional trauma. Our budget proposal provides $39.2 million over two years to eliminate the waiting list for around 2,200 children with disabilities so they can receive the support and services they need to live within their community immediately. By eliminating the waiting list, we're ensuring those who need government services the most receive them, but more importantly, guarantees they'll receive them in a timely manner."
Governor Walker's biennial budget proposal allocates $39.2 million over two years to eliminate the waiting list for long-term supports for all Wisconsin children with developmental disabilities, physical disabilities, or severe emotional disturbances. Estimates show around 2,200 additional children will be served as a result of eliminating the waiting list.
Governor Walker's proposal also implements reforms to increase the efficiency of service delivery and develops an equitable funding methodology to ensure county funding remains within the program and care is provided to children regardless of where they live in Wisconsin.
Eliminating the waiting list will make Wisconsin a national leader when it comes to community-based, long-term care. Only nine other states in the nation report no waiting lists for services for people with intellectual or developmental disabilities, but not all of these states cover elderly, children, and disabled, as Wisconsin does.
Established in 1899, Family Services of Northeast Wisconsin, Inc. is a non-profit human services agency offering more than 35 programs that support people in the community. More than 300 professional staff provide numerous services through 35 programs that support the people of Northeast Wisconsin during challenges and transitions in their lives, including children's services, youth services, crisis and counseling services, and family services.

Source: https://walker.wi.gov/press-releases/protecting-wisconsins-most-vulnerable-governor-walkers-budget-proposal-eliminates
