Public Statements
Transforming Education: Governor Scott Walker and State Superintendent Tony Evers Announce Read to Lead Development Grants
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 27, 2015
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker and State Superintendent Tony Evers announced six recipients of the Read to Lead Development Fund grants. The awards are part of a comprehensive effort to make sure that Wisconsin students gain one of the most crucial life skills necessary for future success: the ability to read.
"The Read to Lead program is a commitment to improving literacy within our state," Governor Walker said. "The selected applicants will continue the mission of this program by focusing on the development of critical reading skills, while serving diverse populations. Without proficient reading skills, students face a higher likelihood of dropping out of high school. If we can improve the early foundations of childhood literacy, we can improve outcomes by the time students approach the fourth grade--the time they transition from learning to read to reading to learn."
"Reading is the bedrock skill that allows for continued lifelong learning," said State Superintendent Tony Evers. "These grants further the goal of ensuring all students are prepared for the next steps of their life."
Governor Walker's Read to Lead Initiative was launched in 2011 in order to improve literacy throughout Wisconsin. The Read to Lead effort targets Wisconsin's youths to ensure all of our state's children acquire the skills necessary for future reading success, while putting Wisconsin back on track to be ranked among top states when it comes to student reading scores.
Part of the initiative was the creation of the Read to Lead Development Council, which makes recommendations to the Governor and State Superintendent for literacy and early childhood development grants. This year's six grant recipients were recommended by the council from a total of 126 applicants.
Lieutenant Governor Rebecca Kleefisch thanked the council for its work and congratulated the grant winners in stops today at St. Catherine School in Milwaukee, Children's Dyslexia Center of Upper Wisconsin in Eau Claire, and Kettle Moraine Correctional Institute in Plymouth, Wisconsin.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/transforming-education-governor-scott-walker-and-state-superintendent-tony-0
