Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Announces Plans to Secure Fuel Infrastructure
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 14, 2015
Location: Madison, WI

Two state agencies recently announced an initiative to ensure petroleum supplies are available in the event of severe natural disasters. Wisconsin Emergency Management and the Department of Administration will provide assistance to petroleum marketers and municipal and county fleet operations in small wiring projects that enable the facility to accept a generator in an emergency.
"This project has a goal of getting one or two fueling facilities in every county wired for emergency generators, so there is a reliable source of fuel in the event of widespread power outages," said Governor Scott Walker. "We are partnering with the private sector on this important infrastructure investment to provide efficient and effective fuel security all across our state."
The initiative is an important element of Wisconsin Emergency Management's energy security program for the state.
"We've learned from other disasters that we can't take liquid fuel supplies for granted. This partnership with private businesses and local fleet facilities will help insure that utility and emergency vehicles have access to fuel during a widespread electrical outage," said Brian Satula, Wisconsin Emergency Management Administrator.
In April, the Department of Administration issued application materials for convenience stores, truck stops, and municipal fleets that are interested in participating in the voluntary program.
"We urge petroleum marketers to consider participating in this effort. Having at least one convenience store or fueling station operational in a county during an emergency makes sense. In New York, the state government forced certain station owners to wire their stores for generators; we think the Wisconsin approach is better," said Matt Hauser, President of the Wisconsin Petroleum Marketers and Convenience Store Association.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-announces-plans-secure-fuel-infrastructure
