Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Appoints District I Court of Appeals Judge
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 8, 2015
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Scott Walker is announcing the appointment Judge Rebecca Bradley to the Court of Appeals. Bradley will replace Judge Ralph Adam Fine, who passed away in December.
"Judge Bradley is a superb judge with a strong track record, both in the private sector and on the bench," said Governor Walker. "Her commitment to public service and to the rule of law will make her an outstanding addition to the appellate bench."
Judge Bradley has had an accomplished career in the law. Her private-sector experience spans diverse areas of law, including business litigation, personal injury litigation, technology law, medical malpractice, bankruptcy, and licensing. Bradley served in private practice for sixteen years, first for Hinshaw and Culbertson and later for Whyte Hirschboeck Dudek in Milwaukee. She also spent several years in-house with international software firm RedPrairie Corporation, where she was promoted to Vice President of Legal Operations. During her time in private practice, Bradley served as an American Arbitration Association Arbitrator, and she gave back to the community by participating in pro bono guardianship clinics with the Children's Hospital of Wisconsin and with the Milwaukee County Guardianship Assistance Program.
Governor Walker appointed Bradley to the Milwaukee County Circuit Court in 2012. The voters affirmed this appointment in 2013 when Bradley was reelected with bipartisan support and endorsements across the community. As a judge, Bradley has presided in Children's Court, where she handles a large caseload of complex matters involving guardianship and parental rights, juvenile delinquency and criminal matters, and children or juveniles in need of protection or services. She has earned a reputation as someone who treats everyone in her courtroom with respect, works hard, and applies the law as written. She is also a past chair and current member of the Wisconsin State Advisory Committee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights.
Supreme Court Justice Annette Ziegler observed that Judge Bradley "has received various accolades including being named a "Leader in the Law,' a "Rising Star,' and had received a 2010 "Women in the Law' award." Justice Ziegler wrote that she "would be well-suited for the appellate bench," noting that she has clearly "stood out in her field."
Bradley has a juris doctor degree from the University of Wisconsin Law School and a bachelor of science degree from Marquette University. She is a native of Milwaukee and currently resides in Wauwatosa.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-appoints-district-i-court-appeals-judge
