Public Statements
Governor Walker Signs Project Labor Agreement Legislation Into Law
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 17, 2017
Location: De Pere, WI

Governor Scott Walker signed Senate Bill 3 into law today at Amerilux International, LLC in De Pere. The bill promotes neutrality in the bidding process for public works projects as well as healthy competition between contractors.
"Accountable government means ensuring our taxpayers receive quality service," Governor Walker said. "By forbidding state and local governments from requiring contractors to enter into agreements with labor organizations, we're promoting healthy competition between contractors. At the end of the day, this means the contractor ultimately chosen for the project is the one that has demonstrated excellent service and will work at good value for Wisconsin taxpayers."
Senate Bill 3 -- prohibits any unit of state or local governments in Wisconsin from requiring or considering the use or lack of use of any agreement with a labor organization by a contractor bidding on a public works project. Agreements with labor organizations include collective bargaining agreements, project labor agreements, and community workforce agreements. The bill explicitly prohibits state and local governments from requiring a bidder on a public works project to enter into an agreement with a labor organization; considering, as a factor in awarding a bid for a public works project, whether or not a bidder has entered into an agreement with a labor organization; or requiring a bidder or a bidder's employees on a public works project to join a labor organization, pay dues to a labor organization, or provide anything of value to a labor organization or its associated benefits plan or program. The bill additionally specifies that the statutory changes occurring under Senate Bill 3 would not apply to employers or employees engaging in agreements or activities protected under the National Labor Relations Act. Authored by Senator Leah Vukmir (R -- Brookfield) and Representative Robert Hutton (R -- Brookfield), the bill passed the Senate with a vote of 19-13 and was concurred by the Assembly with a vote of 64-35. It is Act 3.

Source: https://walker.wi.gov/press-releases/governor-walker-signs-project-labor-agreement-legislation-law
