Public Statements
Wausau Daily Herald - Walker: Budget Helps State Economy Grow
Op-Ed
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 7, 2015
Location: Unknown

By Gov. Scott Walker
Good news for all of us in Wisconsin.
Unemployment is down to 4.6 percent -- the lowest since June 2008 and below the national rate, which is 5.5 percent. Our labor participation rate is strong at 68.4 percent -- one of the best in the country and better than the national rate of 62.7 percent.
One of the best ways to continue this strong economic growth is to keep investing in strong schools here in Wisconsin. With this in mind, we are looking for ways to work with the members of the state Legislature to find more savings to put into making our public schools whole.
Since our administration took office, high school graduation rates are up, third-grade reading scores are up and ACT scores in Wisconsin are the second best in the country. We want these great trends to continue far into the future. We will continue to work with lawmakers to make sure our public schools continue to improve here in the Badger State.
We will also maintain the tuition freeze for Wisconsin undergraduates, so more students and working families can afford a college education. The two-year tuition freeze in our last budget was the first in University of Wisconsin history. Our proposed reforms will help the UW System save money while the state provides a stable source of support for years to come.
In addition, we propose making changes to protect senior citizens and long-term care services, as well as a series of other adjustments to the next budget. We heard the concerns from families all across the state and we are taking action.
Our fiscal outlook is strong as the economy continues to improve in Wisconsin. The state has recovered the jobs lost during the recession, according to federal estimates. On top of that, we are being good stewards of your tax dollars. The rainy day fund in Wisconsin is 165 times bigger than when we first took office. Our pension system is the only one fully funded in the country, while the bonding levels in our proposed budget are the lowest in a decade.
To keep growing our economy, our budget continues to invest in worker training and career development. As I've said many times, we want to help everyone who wants a job to find a job.
We want to help move people from welfare to work. For able-bodied adults, we require that they enroll in basic employment training and that they are drug free. We're not making it hard to get government assistance; we're making it easier to get a job.
With more than 82,000 jobs listed on our state jobs website, we know we can find work for people with basic skills who can pass a drug test. For those who fail, this budget provides help to kick the habit.
We add resources to help victims of domestic violence and child abuse, to help fight the heroin epidemic, and to help stop sex trafficking. We want to help our most vulnerable recover and feel safe in our state.
Finally, the primary focus of this budget remains on lowering property taxes for working families, senior citizens, family farmers, and small businesses. By 2016, the typical homeowner's property tax bill will be lower than it was in 2014 -- which means that it will be lower than it was in 2010. No other state can say that.
Lower property taxes -- along with great schools, an affordable college education, investments in infrastructure, solid fiscal management and help for people in need -- are all part of the proposed 2015-17 state budget. When passed, this will help us continue to move Wisconsin forward.

Source: http://www.wausaudailyherald.com/story/opinion/columnists/2015/05/07/walker-budget-helps-state-economy-grow/70936794/
