Public Statements
Finnish Firm Fiskars to Relocate Americas Headquarters to Middleton
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 6, 2015
Location: Madison, WI

Fiskars, a leading global supplier of consumer products for the home, garden, and outdoors, plans to establish a new headquarters for North, Central, and South America in Dane County--a $26.3 million project expected to create about 55 new jobs.
"As an international leader in its field, Fiskars had plenty of options when it came to establishing a base of operations for North, Central, and South America," Governor Scott Walker said. "After evaluating numerous factors, the company decided to make a commitment to expanding in Wisconsin and I applaud company leaders for taking this step. Fiskars is one of a growing number of companies choosing to expand here because of Wisconsin's strong business climate and outstanding workforce."
The new Middleton headquarters combines operations in Illinois with those already based in Madison. Fiskars has reached capacity at its current leased facility on Madison's east side, and with the acquisition of a Peoria, IL, company in 2014, the company needed to find a larger space to promote collaboration and efficiency.
The new facility can accommodate up to 400 employees in 108,000-square-feet of office and research and development space. It is expected to open in the fall of 2016.
"Our business is growing, and our talented team is increasing," said Fiskars President Paul Tonnesen. "The new building will have smarter workspaces and collaboration areas, as well as a dedicated innovation center for R&D. People already know Fiskars is a great company to work for. With this new space, Fiskars will also be a great place to work at."
To help secure the new jobs, the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) has authorized Fiskars to receive up to $800,000 in state tax credits through 2018. The actual amount of tax credits received will be contingent upon the number of jobs created during that time.
Local officials say the project will pay dividends throughout Dane County.
"Retaining this headquarters in the metro area is very good for the region and for Fiskars, particularly with the company's focus on innovation and R&D," says Paul Jadin, president of the Madison Region Economic Partnership. "The creative talent pool available in this region will serve the company well as it expands and grows its product line."
"We are enthused that Fiskars has chosen to stay in the Madison area, having selected Middleton to be its headquarters in the Americas," said Middleton Mayor Kurt Sonnentag. "Fiskars has had a longstanding commitment to this area, and we are pleased to have found the means to keep them thriving in our community."
Middleton is supporting the project by providing $3.15 million in Tax Increment Financing (TIF) assistance that will facilitate the development of the site.
Fiskars has had operations in Wisconsin since 1977 and in Dane County since 1989. The company has developed strong ties to the Dane County community through its employee base and philanthropic partnerships with Boys and Girls Clubs of Dane County and United Way of Dane County. The new building will allow Fiskars to continue to grow its roots in Dane County in a new space that reflects the company's heritage and dedication to consumer-inspired innovation.
Fiskars Americas is part of the 365-year-old Fiskars Corp. based in Helsinki, Finland, which has developed a strong reputation for quality and design worldwide. Founded in 1649, Fiskars is Finland's oldest company. The company employs 4,800 employees in more than 20 countries and sells its products in more than 60 countries.
"Fiskars Americas is a critical component of the company's global structure," said Kari Kauniskangas, president and CEO of Fiskars Corporation. "We're thrilled to be expanding our presence in Wisconsin, a location that aligns well with our company culture and is home to one of our largest corporate branches and design centers."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/finnish-firm-fiskars-relocate-americas-headquarters-middleton
