Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Celebrates Fair Youth Exhibitors, Encourages Participation in 2015 Governor's Blue Ribbon Livestock Auction
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 5, 2015
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker is attending a reception this evening to thank 2014 auction buyers, to celebrate the tremendous success of the 2014 Governor's Blue Ribbon Livestock Auction (GBRLA), and to promote this year's event at the Wisconsin State Fair. The annual Governor's Blue Ribbon Livestock Auction highlights Wisconsin's strong agriculture industry, as well as the Wisconsin youth that raise and care for animals that are selected to compete in the event.
"Agriculture is a crucial industry as we continue to strengthen Wisconsin's economy and workforce," Governor Walker said. "Tonight, we applaud the future of agriculture in our state, the dedicated young people who work so hard to raise and show their animals at the Wisconsin State Fair. The Governor's Blue Ribbon Livestock Auction is a unique event that allows these youth to showcase their efforts and helps them to build a future in farming. It is made possible thanks to the buyers and supporters of this auction, whose proceeds go in part towards funding scholarships and grants for youth in agriculture."
The 2014 Governor's Blue Ribbon Livestock Auction was one for the books, raising a record amount of money for scholarships and grants. The auction raised a total of $320,850, breaking the previous record in 2005 of $225,400 and surpassing the 2013 total by $81,100.
Due to these record-breaking numbers, the Blue Ribbon Sale of Champions Foundation has increased the 2015 scholarship awards to $15,000, and a total of 15 scholarships will be awarded, including two $2,000 scholarships, three $1,500 scholarships, three $1,000 scholarships, and seven $500 scholarships. These scholarships are utilized by Wisconsin State Fair Junior Livestock exhibitors to aid in educational expenses and to help enable them to pursue their career ambitions. New this year, the Blue Ribbon Sale of Champions Foundation has increased the number of Wisconsin youth who will benefit from the auction by funding a $100 award to the top exhibitor in each Showmanship age division, and also a $100 award to the each exhibitor of a reserve champion breed animal not sold in the auction. Proceeds from the auction are also used to fund grants given to Wisconsin youth programs, such as Wisconsin Livestock Breeders Youth Development, Livestock Show Camp, and Wisconsin State Fair Camp of Champions.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-celebrates-fair-youth-exhibitors-encourages
