Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: Strong Wisconsin Workforce Celebrates Unique Abilities and Skills of All Employees
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 13, 2017
Location: Madison, WI

Hi, Scott Walker here.
We know a strong Wisconsin workforce is a diverse one -- one that promotes the unique abilities and talents of all employees, including those with disabilities.
In 2014, I proclaimed the Year of the Better Bottom Line in an effort to overcome obstacles to employment for people with disabilities.
Throughout the year, we worked to highlight the advantages of employing people with disabilities, encouraged increased participation by public and private employers, and invested in programs like Project SEARCH that provide people with disabilities the practical skills they need to find a job and a good-paying career.
But our efforts didn't stop at the end of 2014. In fact, during the two most recent federal fiscal years, we helped a record 9,500 individuals with disabilities overcome barriers to employment. In the most recent fiscal year alone, 4,600 people with disabilities entered Wisconsin's workforce, helping to drive our disability employment rate up to 41.2 percent.
I'm proud to announce that Wisconsin now ranks among the top ten states in the nation for employing people with disabilities.
And looking forward, we're going to continue to promote employment for individuals with disabilities.
Our most recent budget proposal invests $35 million to maintain the maximum amount of federal funding for the Department of Workforce Development Division of Vocational Rehabilitation as well as $7.6 million to expand programs that ensure students with disabilities receive the hands-on education and training that they need for life after high school.
We're also working with the Department of Health Services to eliminate the disincentive to work for people with disabilities while protecting our most vulnerable.
Employees with disabilities have demonstrated time and time again that they want to work. By providing the training they need and giving them the opportunity to obtain a good-paying job, they prove that they are some of Wisconsin's most dedicated, passionate, and talented employees that an employer can have.

Source: https://walker.wi.gov/press-releases/weekly-radio-address-strong-wisconsin-workforce-celebrates-unique-abilities-and
