Public Statements
Governor Walker Attends Groundbreaking Ceremony at Werner Electric Supply
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 22, 2015
Location: Appleton, WI

Governor Scott Walker today joined company executives and local officials at a groundbreaking ceremony for Werner Electric Supply's new corporate offices and regional distribution center in Appleton.
"I congratulate and applaud Werner Electric Supply for its commitment to the Fox Valley and Wisconsin with this expansion project, which will create nearly 100 jobs and help continue to grow the state's economy," said Governor Walker. "Across the state, we're seeing more and more companies decide to grow their businesses right here in Wisconsin. That growth means more jobs, which is one of the reasons Wisconsin's unemployment just dropped again to 4.6 percent--the lowest it has been since June 2008."
Werner Electric Supply, which is Wisconsin's largest electrical supply distributer, has outgrown its current location and is investing $21 million on its new facility in the Town of Grand Chute. Construction on the project began this spring and is expected to be completed by the summer of 2016.
"Due to the hard work of our employees and the great partnerships we've developed with our vendors and customers, we've experienced unprecedented growth," said Scott Teerlinck, president of Werner Electric Supply. "Our current facility is nearing capacity in both inventory and resources, which impacts our ability to keep up with demand, so we are thrilled to be building our new headquarters and regional distribution center."
To help secure the new jobs, the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) has authorized Werner Electric Supply to receive up to $1,959,000 in state tax credits over the next three years. In order to receive the full credits, the company must create 97 new jobs and retain its current employees for at least five years.
"WEDC is pleased to be able to play a key role in supporting the expansion of Werner Electric Supply, which has been a strong employer in the Fox Valley for more than 65 years," said Reed Hall, secretary and CEO of WEDC, the state's lead economic development organization. "This is part of the continued overall growth we're seeing in the region."
"A strong supply chain is an integral piece of any business community," added Jerry Murphy, executive director of the New North Inc. regional economic development organization. "Werner Electric Supply is a long-time, successful company within the New North region, and it's exciting to know that it will continue to grow and thrive with the assistance of WEDC."
Werner Electric Supply provides automation, electrical, and data communication products and services to a wide range of industrial, commercial, and construction customers. Werner Electric Supply employs over 350 people in 11 locations throughout the state of Wisconsin and Upper Michigan. Werner is dedicated to not only providing improvement in the distribution of quality products and services, but also committed to the success of its employees, customers, vendors, and the communities it serves.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-attends-groundbreaking-ceremony-werner-electric-supply
