Public Statements
Governor Walker Touts Wisconsin to Spanish Business Leaders
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 16, 2015
Location: Bilbao, Spain

Governor Scott Walker today met with more than 30 business executives in the Basque Country in northern Spain to encourage companies to consider investing in Wisconsin.
"When it comes to sector strength, there are many similarities between the Basque Country and Wisconsin as that region is home to companies in industries such as manufacturing, energy, and aeronautics," Governor Walker said. "These meetings provided us with the opportunity to make a strong case for why companies in those sectors and others should consider expanding in Wisconsin or partnering with companies in our state."
Governor Walker addressed business leaders at a "Doing Business in the U.S." roundtable organized by the Basque Region Trade and Investment Agency. The session included executives, directors and managers of Basque Country companies already planning to expand their operations in the U.S. In speaking to those business leaders, the governor focused on Wisconsin's manufacturing strengths, favorable business climate, commitment to workforce development and extensive research and development resources.
In addition, the Governor met with Basque Region Secretary of Economic Development and Competitiveness Arantza Tapia to discuss the parallels between Wisconsin and the Basque region's industries, and to explore the opportunities to further economic development.
Governor Walker, Secretary Hall, and other WEDC staff members also attended a luncheon meeting with several of the major companies in the Basque Country to further promote Wisconsin as a destination for their operations.
The day wrapped up with Governor Walker and the delegation meeting with top executives at the global headquarters of Ingeteam, a global manufacturer of industrial equipment used primarily for the energy, marine, and rail markets. Milwaukee is the base of Ingeteam's North American operations and the company has more than 100 employees at its plant in the Menomonee Valley.
Governor Walker met with Javier Madariaga, president and founder of the company, Javier Ojeda, the company's CEO and other top executives to acknowledge the investment Ingeteam has made in Wisconsin, tour the facilities and talk about Ingeteam's future plans in the U.S.
The Milwaukee 7 regional economic development organization that serves southeastern Wisconsin has worked with several Basque Country companies and played a key role in this leg of the Governor's trade mission to Spain.
"The Milwaukee 7 region has established strong ties to the Basque region of Spain," said M-7 Vice President Jim Paetsch, who is part of the Wisconsin delegation. "Milwaukee has attracted significant investment from northern Spain, including Basque manufacturers Ingeteam and Inesa, as well as SIC Lazaro, which is headquartered in nearby Navarra. We value on our relationships with these companies, the Basque government, and the Basque development agency."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-touts-wisconsin-spanish-business-leaders
