Public Statements
Governor Walker Speaks at Hannover Messe Trade Show
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 14, 2015
Location: Hannover, Germany

Governor Scott Walker today highlighted the opportunities presented by the proposed Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) free trade agreement during a speech at the Hannover Messe trade show, the world's largest industrial fair.
"Wisconsin has a wealth of assets for the business community," Governor Walker said. "We have a loyal, dedicated, and skilled workforce, a strong and diverse transportation network, and an aggressive commitment to growing our economy and creating jobs. Any company looking to invest or expand should look to Wisconsin to grow your success."
TTIP is a free trade agreement currently being negotiated by the United States and European Union, which together account for one-third of global trade and nearly half the world's economic output. The agreement focuses on increasing trade and investment between the two regions.
The Governor noted that the TTIP has the potential to promote the international competitiveness of the U.S. and create jobs and economic growth through increased economic ties with our largest trade and investment partner.
After the speech, Governor Walker met with the Hannover Messe Board of Directors to further discuss why German companies should consider investing in Wisconsin and to discuss opportunities for Wisconsin to be more involved in next year's global trade show.
Governor Walker also met with Stephan Weil, the Prime Minister of the German state of Lower Saxony, to discuss opportunities for economic development collaboration between the two states.
Earlier in the day, Governor Walker and Reed Hall, secretary and CEO of the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC), met with Joachim Janssen, the CEO of the Viessmann Group, one of the world's leading manufacturers of heating, cooling and climate control technology. Viessman has operations in 11 countries, including the U.S. One of its U.S. subsidiaries is BIOFerm Energy Systems in Madison provides anaerobic digestion technology for energy generation and waste management throughout North America.
Governor Walker and the Wisconsin delegation received an update on that operation and also made a case for Viessman to consider increasing its operations in Wisconsin in part because of the state's strong energy, power and control sector.
Governor Walker is leading a 22-member delegation in a weeklong trade mission to Europe that includes visits to Germany, France and Spain. The delegation includes leadership and staff of WEDC, executives from seven Wisconsin companies and others. During the trade mission, the company executives are taking part in one-on-one meetings with potential business partners while Governor Walker and WEDC leaders will participate in meetings with European companies to discuss expansion or investment opportunities in Wisconsin.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-speaks-hannover-messe-trade-show
