Public Statements
Governor Walker Arrives in Germany for European Trade Mission
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 13, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Scott Walker has arrived in Germany to mark the start of a weeklong European trade mission to promote state exports and encourage foreign companies to consider establishing or expanding operations in Wisconsin.
"The pro-business climate we have developed in Wisconsin, and our quality workforce, help make a strong case for why companies in Germany, France and Spain should take a close look at our state if they're considering entering the U.S. for the first time, or increasing their presence here," Governor Walker said. "I look forward to meeting face-to-face with business and government leaders in all three countries, to increase awareness of all Wisconsin has to offer."
Governor Walker is leading a 22-member delegation that includes Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) Secretary Reed Hall and other WEDC staff, as well as executives from seven Wisconsin companies. Jim Paetsch, vice president of Corporate Expansion and Attraction for the Milwaukee 7 regional economic development organization; and Dean Amhaus, president and CEO of The Water Council, are also on the trip, which runs through April 21.
On Sunday, Governor Walker and the delegation attended the opening ceremony of the Hannover Messe trade show in Hannover, Germany, the world's largest industrial fair. German Chancellor Merkel and India Prime Minister Narendra Modi both spoke at the event.
Today, Governor Walker met with company leaders at Merck KGaA, the world's oldest pharmaceutical and chemical company, located in Darmstadt, Germany. Merck is in the process of acquiring Sigma-Aldrich Corp., a U.S. life sciences firm with three facilities in Wisconsin. The Governor spoke with Merck executives about how the acquisition will impact those operations and how Wisconsin's strengths in water technology and energy could possibly lead the company to make more investments in the state.
The governor also met with Tarek Mohammed Al-Wazir, deputy prime minister of the German state of Hessen, which is Wisconsin's "Sister State." Governor Walker and the entire delegation met with about 20 Hessen business, government and university leaders to build on the existing cultural relationship that was established in 1976 and to seek more economic development efforts between the two states.
Finally today, Governor Walker, WEDC leaders and Richard Moss of the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health will meet with representatives of DZNE, the German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, to discuss a plan for collaboration efforts.
Throughout the trade mission, the WEDC staff will assist the 10 Wisconsin business executives who are part of the delegation by providing them with support as they take part in personalized one-on-one meetings to develop business partnerships and increase global opportunities for their companies.
"While increasing awareness of Wisconsin among European business and government leaders is a key component of this trip, equally as important is working with state companies to help them make the right connections in their target countries," said Reed Hall, secretary and CEO of WEDC. "In 2014, Wisconsin set a record for exports and we want to provide businesses with the opportunity to build upon that success."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-arrives-germany-european-trade-mission
