Public Statements
University of Wisconsin-Madison, German Center of Neurodegenerative Diseases to Collaborate on Alzheimer's and Dementia Research
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 13, 2015
Location: Bonn, Germany

Governor Scott Walker was joined by officials of the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health and the German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) today at a signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) in which the UW Institute for Clinical and Translational Research (ICTR) and DZNE agreed to collaborate on research efforts aimed at slowing the onset of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and other neurodegenerative diseases. This partnership is forged in hopes that outcomes for patients, as well as individuals at increased risk for developing these diseases, will improve.
"Both of these institutions have conducted groundbreaking research in this area, and through this collaboration, they hope to develop ways to not only slow down the pace of Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases, but also enable early diagnosis," Governor Walker said. "Every 67 seconds someone in the U.S. develops Alzheimer's, and we must use every means possible to fight this disease that not only kills, but also drastically reduces one's quality of life."
This agreement calls for collaboration under specific areas, including: development of therapeutics designed to slow the onset of Alzheimer's disease and dementia, identification of new approaches to improving the care of patients with Alzheimer's or other neurodegenerative diseases, discovery of new drug targets for diseases such as Alzheimer's disease or Parkinson's disease, dissemination and implementation of best practices for the diagnosis and care of patients with Alzheimer's disease, and discovery of new biomarkers or other approaches to early diagnosis of neurodegenerative disease and ongoing assessment of disease progression.
Governor Scott Walker attended the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding by Dr. Richard Moss, Senior Associate Dean for Basic Research, Biotechnology and Graduate Studies at the UW School of Medicine, and Dr. Pierluigi Nicotera, Scientific Director and Chairman of the Executive Board for DZNE, as a part of a week-long trade mission in Europe. The current trade mission focuses on providing Wisconsin business leaders with the opportunity to meet one-on-one with executives in Germany, France, and Spain in order to develop new partnerships overseas, as well as meet with European companies to discuss establishing new or expanding current operations in Wisconsin. Governor Walker is joined by a 22-member delegation comprised of leaders from WEDC, seven Wisconsin companies, The Water Council, and the Milwaukee 7 regional economic development organization.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/university-wisconsin-madison-german-center-neurodegenerative-diseases
