Public Statements
Governor Walker Appoints St. Croix County Judge
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 10, 2015
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker appointed Attorney R. Michael Waterman to serve as Judge of Branch IV of the St. Croix County Circuit Court. Mr. Waterman will replace Judge Howard Cameron, who resigned on March 4, 2015.
"I am confident that Mike will step into the role of circuit court seamlessly," said Governor Walker. "He embodies all of the qualities that a judge should: integrity, intelligence, and a firm commitment to the rule of law. He will be an incredible asset to St. Croix County."
Waterman is a shareholder at the firm where he has practiced since 1995, Mudge Porter Lundeen & Seguin. In that role, he has handled general practice and civil litigation matters including insurance, real estate, zoning, and land use, and construction and commercial use. Additionally, since 1997, Waterman has served as an adjunct law professor at William Mitchell College of Law in St. Paul, Minnesota. Waterman also serves as chair of an Investigation Committee of the Office of Lawyer Regulation, and in 2012 received the President's Award from the State Bar of Wisconsin.
"Mr. Waterman displays the highest level of integrity, legal ethics, honesty, and respect for the rule of law that I have encountered in my area of practice," said Steven Goff, a shareholder at Bye, Goff & Rhode. "He conducts himself with decorum, and is truly a legal scholar. I know of no one in the St. Croix Valley Bar Association that does not hold him in the highest esteem and respect."
David Richie, a partner at Richie, Guettinger & Manydeeds, stated that Waterman "is the epitome of what an attorney should be. He is bright, he is always prepared, he is always thorough and he represents his clients well." Mr. Richie added, "Over the years I have been asked many times which lawyers I think would make good judges. I have always placed Mike Waterman at the top of that list."
Alongside his legal work, Mr. Waterman is actively involved in the St. Croix community. He serves as President of the Sunrise Branch of the Hudson Lions Club, sits on the board for the St. Croix YMCA, and volunteers for other local non-profit and humanitarian organizations. He and his wife Deborah reside in New Richmond, Wisconsin.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-appoints-st-croix-county-judge
