Public Statements
Fox News " Hannity" - Transcript: Gov. Scott Walker fires back at President Obama
Interview
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 9, 2015
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEAN HANNITY, HOST: And welcome back to "Hannity." The Obama administration makes a stunning admission about negotiating with Iran. Take a look at this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOSH EARNEST, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Specifically included in the Corker legislation is a provision that essentially makes the agreement contingent upon Iran renouncing terrorism. Now, that's an unrealistic suggestion because we've been very clear that this agreement is focused on preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, and that it is not going to succeed in resolving the long list of concerns that we have with Iran's behavior.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Unrealistic to ask them to renounce terrorism and acknowledge Israel's right to exist. Really? OK.
Now, that's not all. President Obama went after Wisconsin governor Scott Walker because Walker said that if he were the next president, he would revoke any deal with Iran on his first day in office. Here's Obama's petulant response.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: If that starts being questioned, that's going to be a problem for our friends and that's going to embolden our enemies, and it would be a foolish approach to take. And you know, perhaps Mr. Walker, after he's taken some time to bone up on foreign policy, will feel the same way.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
HANNITY: Here now with reaction, Wisconsin governor Scott Walker. Governor, you're -- if I'm you, I'm thinking this is a good thing, if President Obama's attacking you, especially on foreign policy issues, and acknowledging that he's going to give Iran a breakout time of zero in a decade, right?
GOV. SCOTT WALKER, R-WIS.: It's unbelievable. This is a president should spend more time trying to figure out how to work with governors and members of Congress instead of attacking them.
But it's not the first time. As you know, Sean, he went after me not too long ago when I signed right to work in Wisconsin, as well. But think about that statement. This is a guy who in the last year called ISIS the JV squad, who called Yemen just last fall -- his administration continues to call them a success story, who had a secretary of state under Hillary Clinton that gave Russia a reset button, and then they ultimately went into the Ukraine.
This is a guy who -- I think of the audacity to be talking about schooling anyone when it comes to foreign policy, and it's not just about Israel and it's not just about nuclear weapons. I've talked of late to a number of our allies in the Arab nations, in the Gulf states in the Middle East, who are frustrated, as well, because they don't much like the idea of Iran getting this sort of special treatment from the United States when they feel they're a real threat not just to Israel but to their own interests in the Middle East.
HANNITY: So our allies don't trust us. Our adversaries don't fear us. And evil is on the march pretty much all around the world.
Now, think about this. The Russian reset didn't work with Vladimir Putin. The red line in Syria, he ignored. Then you've got this bad deal with Iran. Now, on top of that, then you've got Yemen and Somalia, which he was hailing as a great success, and Libya's another one. And on top of that, he mishandled Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the Czech Republic, Jordan, Poland, and Canada and Australia, I think you could probably add to the list.
I mean, can you point out any success on foreign policy wise with the president?
WALKER: Well, between this president and the person who advised him in his first four years, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, I think the only place in the world where either of them can claim any success is maybe Burma. But that's about it.
I mean, you look at the mess with the Houthis coming into Yemen and what that means to the Saudis, the United Arab Emirates, certainly to their other allies throughout the region, like Jordan and Egypt. They have real concerns. They are frustrated that this administration even began talks with the premise of enriching uranium, something that very much concerned them.
And at the same time, they're backing the very Shiite militias that are going into places like Yemen right now, a real threat not only to Saudi Arabia but to all peace loving people in the Middle East and around the world.
HANNITY: All right, during these negotiations with Iran, which is what he was attacking you on and saying you need to bone up. At the very time these negotiations were going on they were chanting "Death to America" and saying the destruction of Israel is nonnegotiable. If you were president, Governor Walker, what would you do at that point? Would you stay at the table with the Iranian mullahs? Are those two issues alone deal-killers for you?
WALKER: Absolutely not would I stay at the table in that regard. Think about it. This is a combination, you've got our allies in the Arab world, not just Israel, in the Arab world that are concerned about the United States being at the negotiating table with Iran considering all the client state initiatives not only in Yemen, but you look at what they're doing to prop up Assad in Syria. You look at the other problems created around the world.
But on top of that, think about why were the Iranians at the table in the first place? After nearly two decades of sanctions, they're actually working. They're not coming to the table out of the good nature of their hearts trying to push for world peace. They're coming to the table because they were being brought to their knees because of the sanctions from the United States and our allies, particularly in Europe. And right at the time when they're working -- think about this kind of negotiation. We should have been saying here's the deal. You take it or if not we're going to go back to our allies and push for even stronger sanctions because we know they're working. And the deal is you got to get out of terrorism and you've got to prove that you don't have any nuclear weapons, and that's the only deal we're negotiating.
HANNITY: If I see one criticism of you as you potentially lead up to announcement that you're running for president, it seems to be on the issue of immigration. And recently you took time, and I've been down there 10 times myself, Governor, and I found it invaluable to actually see it up close and personal. You took time to go to the border. What did you learn there? What insight did you gain from that experience?
WALKER: I went to Texas to the border with Governor Greg Abbott who offered -- I'm going to go back to Arizona and New Mexico and maybe even to California with local and state officials there as well. But in Texas in particular Greg Abbott showed me with the men and women on the ground from the local level to the state level to even some of the fine men and women who work for the federal government, and they show that we're just being overrun, that this is an issue of safety, of security, national security.
It's ultimately an issue of sovereignty. If the United States was being attacked in one of our water ports on the east or west coast, we'd be sending in our military forces. And yet we're facing some of the same challenges with international criminal organizations, the cartels that are trafficking not only drugs but weapons and humans. And we need to step up and be aggressive. That means securing the border with infrastructure, with technology, with personnel, and the federal government's got to lead the way. We can't expect the border states to do this alone. The federal government needs to step up and act.
And you can't be talking about anything else until you do that. Once you do that, then we can talk about enforcing the laws by using an effective e- verify system for all employers, one that works for small businesses, farmers, and ranchers, and making sure that any legal immigration, no amnesty, any legal immigration system we go forward with is one that ultimately has to protect American workers and make sure American wages are going up. That's the way we prosper for every hardworking American in this country.
HANNITY: You know, I'm a big fan of your Milwaukee Sheriff David Clark. We had a shooting in South Carolina. We're going to talk about it next. What is your reaction when an incident like that happens?
WALKER: Just horrific. I stand up for good, law-abiding men and women who wear the shield, whether it be in the sheriff's department, police department, state patrol. We just had a trooper who was shot and killed in his rightful duty just a week and a half ago. For men and women who follow the law and use their training effectively I'm always going to stand to defend them.
But that video just shook my very human being to think that someone would do that. And I think anyone who's been in law enforcement knows that's not the way people are trained to act. And I sent out my sympathy to the family involved there.
HANNITY: All right, Governor, good to see you. Thank you so much for being with us. Appreciate it.
WALKER: Thank you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/transcript/2015/04/09/gov-scott-walker-fires-back-at-president-obama/
