Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Delivers Remarks at Sojourner Celebration of Courage
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 30, 2015
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker delivered remarks today at the Sojourner Celebration of Courage. Survivors of domestic violence, family members, and supporters of domestic violence prevention and intervention joined Governor Walker at the celebration.
"Each year, domestic violence damages thousands of families, but I'm thankful for the support offered by those here to provide victims with the protection and resources they vitally need," Governor Walker said. "Last year, I signed legislation safeguarding past, present, and potential victims of domestic violence. Going forward, I am committed to providing victims and their children with the support and training needed to end these cycles of abuse."
In December 2013, Governor Walker and the State Building Commission approved $10.6 million for the Sojourner Family Peace Center project, an innovative 78,000-square-foot domestic abuse shelter. Upon completion the shelter will include 56 beds to house victims, as well as mental health services, legal clinics, and education centers. The project is likely to be completed later this year.
The estimated $21,250,000 cost for the project was funded through a collaboration of General Fund Supportive Borrowing (GFSB), as well as a Children's Hospital of Wisconsin & Sojourner Family Peace Center capital campaign of gifts and grants.
About Sojourner Family Peace Center
In 1975, a faithful group of women and men organized to address the urgent issue of domestic violence in Milwaukee. Their effort sparked a movement that shines today as Sojourner Family Peace Center. With violence in homes at record levels, we remain committed to providing crisis housing, system advocacy, and individual support, just as our founders did four decades ago.
Today and every day, the Sojourner Family Peace Center supports the bravery of clients as they transform their lives. The clients are the inspiration for a vision of safe and healthy families in every home in the community. They are focused on providing safety and support for friends, family, colleagues, and neighbors impacted by domestic violence.
About the Sojourner Family Peace Center Project
Milwaukee will be the first in the nation to house holistic services for victims of domestic violence of all ages under one roof. The new facility will provide adult and child-focused services to families impacted by domestic violence and child abuse and includes an on-site shelter for victims, law enforcement services, medical and social services, legal services, district attorney services, mental health and AODA counseling, and faith-based services in the building being built at 619 W. Walnut Street in Milwaukee. Sojourner Family Peace Center and Children's Hospital of Wisconsin have formed a unique partnership to make the center a reality.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-delivers-remarks-sojourner-celebration-courage
