Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Participates in Automatän Expansion Groundbreaking
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 30, 2015
Location: Plover, WI

Governor Scott Walker today participated in the groundbreaking ceremony for an expansion at Automatän in Plover. Automatän is an international company that supplies innovative graphics-related equipment to the corrugated, folding carton, and printing industries around the world. The company is kicking off its $700,000 expansion project that will increase the manufacturing space by more than 50 percent.
"This expansion will create jobs and boost the economy in Wisconsin and is a great example of the growth and success small businesses are finding in our improved business climate," Governor Walker said. "As we work on our next state budget, we remain focused on initiatives that will boost the economy and put more people back to work - with lower taxes, streamlined regulations, and a skilled workforce."
"It is our privilege to have Governor Scott Walker at Automatän today to celebrate our expansion," Said Kevin Widder, President and CEO of Automatän, LLC. "We know when government and business are in balance, both exist equally, and stay out of each other's way. Wisconsin is working, and as our state's chief executive, Mr. Walker is a friend of the manufacturing business community, committed to see this sector grow with his favorable policies. As other states struggle, Wisconsin is moving forward -- just like our state motto says."
About Automatän:
Automatän was founded in 1976 to provide equipment to the Corrugated Cardboard Industry. Kevin Widder purchased the company in 2006 and instituted a growth plan to expand the business. With the introduction of the Robotic line by Widder, the company has grown in sales from $7 million to over $15 million in 2014. The company expects a total revenue stream of over $200 million over the next 10 years. At the same time, the labor force has grown from 34 employees to currently 55. Immediately, Automatän expects to see the labor force to grow by 8 percent because of the expansion and sales growth.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-participates-automat%C3%A4n-expansion-groundbreaking
