Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Delivers Remarks at Wisconsin Governor's Tourism Conference in La Crosse
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 16, 2015
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker addressed nearly 1,000 members of the state's tourism industry at the Wisconsin Governor's Conference on Tourism in La Crosse today. Governor Walker's remarks highlighted the state of tourism in Wisconsin and its impact on the economy.
"Wisconsin's tourism industry is a vital player in our efforts to build a Wisconsin offering more freedom and prosperity for all," Governor Walker said. "Investing in tourism promotion and marketing at the national, state, and local level is an effective way to attract visitors and keep the economy growing."
During his remarks, Governor Walker introduced the Department of Tourism's new summer TV commercial starring UW Badgers Men's Basketball Coach Bo Ryan. The latest commercial reunites Wisconsin natives and "Airplane!" writers and directors David and Jerry Zucker and Jim Abrahams (ZAZ) for the seventh time to create a TV spot for Wisconsin Tourism.
Tourism delivered a $17.5 billion impact to the economy in 2013, according to Tourism Economics, the research firm commissioned by the Department of Tourism. Tourism activity is up $2.7 billion since 2010 and Wisconsin had a record 100 million visits, up for a fourth year in a row. Tourism supports nearly 185,000 jobs and $4.6 billion in personal income. Visitors generated $1.35 billion in state and local revenue. Tourism economic impact figures for 2014 will be available in May.
The Wisconsin Governor's Conference on Tourism attracts innkeepers, restaurateurs, local tourism officials, attraction operators, state agency officials, tourism educators, and other representatives of the hospitality industry. It is Wisconsin's largest educational and networking event for the tourism industry. More information is available at www.wigcot.org/.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-delivers-remarks-wisconsin-governor%E2%80%99s-tourism
