Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Attends Manufacturing Matters! 2015 Conference
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 26, 2015
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker addressed attendees today at the Manufacturing Matters! 2015 Conference, held at the Hyatt Regency in Milwaukee. The annual conference, hosted by Wisconsin Manufacturing Extension Partnership (WMEP), is held to bring together manufacturing company executives as well as state and local leaders and allow them the opportunity to collaborate and discuss relevant manufacturing topics and ideas.
"Manufacturing is a vital part of Wisconsin's economy and at the heart of our economic recovery," Governor Walker said. "As I travel the state, I continually hear employers say they would take on more work, if they could fill the positions already available. That is why our budget proposal continues to invest in worker training and economic development, while holding the line on taxes for small businesses and working families."
The 2015 Manufacturing Matters! Conference is expected to draw approximately 450 attendees from across the state, and will include remarks from several state officials, including Reed Hall, CEO & Secretary of the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC); Reggie Newson, Secretary of the Department of Workforce Development (DWD); and Katy Sinnott, Vice President of International Business Development at WEDC. Additional breakout sessions will include information on how to secure a manufacturing workforce in Wisconsin, expand into new markets, manage rapid product innovation and growth, and use LinkedIn and other online tools to grow your business.
Manufacturing has seen vast growth since Governor Walker took office. In 2013, the industry generated more than $50 billion for the state's economy and Wisconsin consistently performs among the nation's top states for manufacturing. Wisconsin's manufacturing sector added close to 6,200 jobs from September 2013 to September 2014. More than 450,000 workers practice their trades in the Wisconsin's manufacturing industry and earn 25 percent more on average than other private sector employees.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-attends-manufacturing-matters-2015-conference
