Public Statements
USA Today - Gov. Scott Walker: I Refuse to Take the Media's Bait
Op-Ed
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 25, 2015
Location: Unknown

By Scott Walker
Americans believe our nation is facing some substantial challenges. Government spending is out of control. Terrorists seek to destroy our way of life. Our economic recovery has been slow. Our borders aren't secure. The federal government has usurped powers that rightly belong to our states.
And every day across Wisconsin, and as I travel the nation, I hear from people who share with me their worries about -- and their hopes for -- our country.
They worry about whether their children in college will be able to find a good job after graduation. And as a dad with two sons in college, I worry right along with them.
They talk to me about the rise of terrorist attacks and ISIS, and what it means for our security at home, and for Americans and our allies abroad. We all pray for American sons and daughters in the military and their safe return home.
I hear from people who lost their jobs and are back in the workforce but who still have not quite made it back to where they were before the recession -- and they wonder when, or if, they'll ever get there.
Across party lines and state lines, Americans want America to be secure and prosperous again. And they're looking for leaders who can focus on that goal and who will get results.
One thing we've learned in Wisconsin through all our challenges and successes over the past four years, is when we keep our focus on what matters to the people, we earn their respect, if not always their agreement. And, in a purple state that hasn't gone to a Republican presidential candidate in 30 years, our approach has translated into three wins in four years.
There has been much discussion about a media double standard where Republicans are covered differently than Democrats, asked to weigh in on issues the Democrats don't face. As a result, when we refuse to take the media's bait, we suffer.
I felt it this week when I was asked to weigh in on what other people said and did and what others' beliefs are. If you are looking for answers to those questions, ask those people.
I will always choose to focus on what matters to the American people, not what matters to the media.

Source: http://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2015/02/25/wisconsin-gov-scott-walker-news-media-editorials-debates/24022195/
