Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Concludes Term as Chair of Midwestern Governors Association
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 20, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

Governor Scott Walker wrapped up his year-long term as Chair of the Midwestern Governors Association today, at a meeting in Washington, D.C., where he highlighted some of the successes of his initiative as MGA Chair: "Strengthening the Propane Supply Chain."
"Propane is so much more than the product we use to cook brats and burgers on the outdoor grill," Walker said. "It's critical for the livelihood and safety of so many people. The findings, discussions, and meetings of the past year have brought about solutions, new ideas to be explored, and connected the industry, government and associations with one another in a stronger way. The steps, action-items, and new laws stemming from the past year will hopefully better enable everyone to manage any future propane supply situations, with consumers being more aware and the industry being better prepared."
The MGA Propane Supply Chain Working Group consisted of representatives from each MGA state government, including representatives from the governor's office and/or someone from a respective state agency (or agencies) handling propane; state propane associations; the National Propane Gas Association (NPGA) and other impacted associations; industry and the federal government.
In addition to dozens of organizational calls, the working group held more than one dozen specific topic calls between April of 2014 and January of 2015 to discuss a wide-range of issues, such as hours-of-service waivers, forecasts, and transportation. The group also met in person in Madison with the state and federal partners, and in Milwaukee with states, associations, businesses, federal partners, and others.
Three key outcomes stemmed directly from the working group. First, the MGA developed a propane toolkit for states to highlight state propane activity, such as Wisconsin's Call Center and Iowa's Propane Optimization Study. Second, the MGA developed a propane "triggers" document for each of the four seasons that states can use to ask appropriate questions to ensure they are prepared -- as good propane preparedness is year-round. Third, in the event of an emergency or potential developing problem, there is a standing working group available to convene quickly. As further proof of this, as this initiative began drawing to a close, the working group asked for the check-in calls to continue occasionally, so MGA and NGPA have teamed up to host propane calls later in 2015.

Source:
