Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Participates in Jobs Announcement at Toolamation in Kenosha
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 17, 2015
Location: Kenosha, WI

Governor Scott Walker today joined company executives and local officials to announce Toolamation Services Inc. is relocating its headquarters and manufacturing operations from northern Illinois to the City of Kenosha.
"I'm pleased to welcome Toolamation to Wisconsin and have them join the growing list of companies that are establishing operations in Wisconsin because of our strong business climate and outstanding workforce," Governor Walker said. "Our job growth is due in large part to the success of small and medium-sized manufacturers like Toolamation."
Toolamation, which specializes in high-volume automated production broaching, screw machine tooling products, and CNC machining services, will relocate two operations in Zion, IL, to the former IEA manufacturing site in Kenosha. The renovated 46,000-square-foot facility will enable the company to operate more efficiently and to have space for future expansion. Construction on the $1.4 million project is under way and the new facility is expected to open this spring. The company, which now has about 50 employees, plans to create 16 new jobs over the next three years.
"We are looking forward to working with the State of Wisconsin and the City of Kenosha to grow our business and to bring new opportunities to the area," said Toolamation President Tony Deieso.
To help secure the new jobs, the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) has authorized Toolamation to receive up to $300,000 in tax credits over the next three years. The actual amount of tax credits received is contingent upon the number of jobs created. The Kenosha Area Business Alliance (KABA) is also providing the company with a $490,000 loan for the purchase of the building and equipment.
The company's decision to relocate to Kenosha was praised by local and regional officials.
"We are excited that Toolamation saw Kenosha as the best community for its future growth plans. It's also great to see a building that has been vacant for a number of years have new life breathed into it again," said Kenosha Mayor Keith Bosman. "We welcome this great company to Kenosha and wish it much continued success."
Kenosha County Executive Jim Kreuser added: "Toolamation is a great fit for Kenosha County and we are very pleased to have them here. They embody the American spirit of hard work and entrepreneurship and we look forward to helping them thrive here in a community where those traits are truly valued."
The Milwaukee 7 (M-7) regional economic development organization worked closely with KABA and WEDC to help attract Toolamation here.
"We're delighted that Toolamation has selected southeastern Wisconsin for its new headquarters," said Gale Klappa, co-chair of M-7 and chairman and CEO of Wisconsin Energy Corp. "Our attractive assets and manufacturing strength--coupled with a strong, coordinated effort by our regional and state partners--led to this winning result."
Founded in 1968, Toolamation specializes in broaching and screw machine tool manufacturing, as well as CNC machining fabrication and engineering solutions to a diverse customer base that includes companies in the power tool, automotive, commercial truck, semiconductor and building industries. The company processes more than 1 million parts per month and has one of the fastest turnaround times in the industry.
This is the seventh announcement in the last eight months of a major project in Kenosha County. Altogether, the seven projects are expected to bring nearly 1,200 jobs to the county, as well as more than $210 million in capital investment.
Other recent Kenosha County projects include:
Uline announced last summer that it is doubling its corporate campus and distribution facility in Pleasant Prairie and relocation its Midwest distribution operations to the City of Kenosha. Those projects will generate 975 new jobs, $200 million in capital investment and 1.2 million square-feet of development.
Quest Products is relocating its headquarters and assembling/packaging/warehousing facility to Pleasant Prairie's LakeView Corporate Park from Gurnee, IL. The project represents approximately 60 jobs and an investment of $3.6 million.
FNA Group is relocating part of its operations from Arkansas to a 176,433-square-foot manufacturing facility in LakeView Corporate Park. The company will bring 136 jobs and more than $3 million in investment.
- See more at: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-participates-jobs-announcement-toolamation-kenosha#sthash.tTlAnG9w.dpuf

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-participates-jobs-announcement-toolamation-kenosha
