Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Announces Administration Staff Changes
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 16, 2015
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker announced the following administrative staff changes:
Scott Neitzel -- Secretary, Department of Administration
Michael Huebsch -- Commissioner, Public Service Commission of Wisconsin (PSC)
Cate Zeuske -- Deputy Secretary, Department of Administration
Tricia Braun -- Chief Operating Officer, Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC)
Brian Schimming -- Deputy Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer, Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority (WHEDA)
Ellen Nowak - Chairperson, Public Service Commission of Wisconsin (PSC), effective March 1
Bob Seitz -- Executive Assistant to incoming Chairperson, Public Service Commission of Wisconsin
"I would like to welcome all of these well-respected leaders and innovators to their new positions," Governor Walker said. "As we work to reform government, I am confident we have selected great partners to join our efforts to build a government that is more effective, more efficient, and more accountable to the public. Your leadership and professionalism will be invaluable as we work to build a more free and prosperous state. "
Scott A. Neitzel most recently served as Senior Vice President for Madison Gas and Electric Co. (MG&E) Neitzel joined MGE in 1997. Neitzel previously served as a consultant; Commissioner, Public Service Commission of Wisconsin; Executive Assistant to the Chair of the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin; Special Assistant at the United States Department of Energy in Washington DC; Special Assistant at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in Washington DC; Deputy Secretary of the Wisconsin Department of Development; Division Administrator at the Wisconsin Department of Administration; Deputy at the Wisconsin Council on Criminal Justice; Register of Deeds for Sauk County Wisconsin.
"Public service is a great honor and I am humbled Governor Walker has asked me serve in this capacity. We will continue to build upon the reforms that grow our economy and increase the efficiency of state government." Neitzel said.
"It has been an honor serving the Governor and the people of the State of Wisconsin as the Secretary of the Department of Administration," said Mike Huebsch. "I look forward to continuing to serve at the Public Service Commission. I wish all the best to Scott Neitzel, I believe he will do a tremendous job as the next DOA Secretary. Moving forward, I will work hard to ensure there is a smooth transition. I especially want to thank the people I've had the opportunity to work with, the employees of DOA, who are dedicated public servants that do a tremendous job for taxpayers each and every day."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-announces-administration-staff-changes
