Public Statements
Wisconsin Exports Hit Record High in 2014
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 12, 2015
Location: Madison, WI

Wisconsin businesses exported $23.43 billion in goods worldwide in 2014--an all-time high for the state and a 1.4 percent increase over 2013. In the last four years, Wisconsin's total exports have jumped by 18.3 percent.
Wisconsin's agricultural exports rose by 13.6 percent in 2014 to a record $3.7 billion. The state's increase was nearly three times greater than the growth rate for total U.S. agriculture exports in 2014 and marks the fifth straight year the Wisconsin's numbers have risen.
"This is great news for Wisconsin farmers, as well as businesses of all sizes and all industries," said Governor Scott Walker. "We are taking the necessary steps to improve our business climate, and help Wisconsin companies improve their position in the global market. Promoting Wisconsin business and products in helping job creators realize that exporting can open the doors to new markets and new customers. The latest record-breaking numbers are a true indication that our efforts are paying off."
Wisconsin's export growth in 2014 was spurred by an increase in shipments to Canada and Mexico, Wisconsin's top two export destinations. Exports to Mexico jumped by 12.7 percent to $2.84 billion, primarily because of an increase in the export of vehicle parts, plastics, and dairy products. Exports to Canada--the state's number one export destination--were up 5.5 percent to $7.94 billion, due primarily to an increase in organic chemicals, ethanol, fur skins, and beverage exports.
In addition to agriculture, Wisconsin saw increases in other key sectors, including water-technology-related products (up 7.4 percent to $5.03 billion); biotechnology (up 6.8 percent to $3.11 billion); and health care (1 percent increase to $1.89 billion).
"Wisconsin companies realize exporting is no longer a luxury. It's imperative for any Wisconsin company seeking a competitive advantage in the 21st century," said Reed Hall, secretary of CEO of the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation. "These strong export numbers show that Wisconsin companies are well positioned to serve the global marketplace."
Industrial machinery continues to be the Wisconsin's top export product category at $6.37 billion, accounting for 27 percent of all state exports. The second-largest product category is medical and scientific instruments, which accounts for 9 percent of all state exports at $2.17 billion.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/wisconsin-exports-hit-record-high-2014
