Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Visits UK Manufacturers
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 12, 2015
Location: London, United Kingdom

Governor Scott Walker today met with executives at UK-based Fords Packaging Systems Ltd., the world's leading supplier of aluminum capping systems to the food and beverage industry, to discuss possible investment opportunities in Wisconsin.
"Today's meeting provided us with an opportunity to not only talk about the many reasons why it makes good business sense to establish operations in Wisconsin, but also to focus specifically on the state's strengths in the food and beverage industry," Governor Walker said. "Fords already has strong partnerships with packaging and equipment manufacturers around the world. We would like them to take a look at Wisconsin as well."
Governor Walker, along with Reed Hall, secretary and CEO of the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC), and the rest of the state delegation visited the Fords manufacturing facility and new research and development center in Bedford, about 50 miles north of London. The visit was part of a weeklong trade mission to the UK that ends Friday.
In addition to Fords CEO Laura Whincup and other company officials, the Wisconsin delegation met with Richard Fuller, Member of Parliament for Bedford; Dave Hodgson, Mayor of the Bedford Borough; and Mark Oakley, Head of Economic Development at the Bedford Borough Council.
"I am pleased that Governor Walker has chosen to visit Fords Packaging during this exciting time of growth," Whincup said. "Fords has supported the world's food and beverage market for more than 90 years and we export 90 percent of our products throughout the world, with the USA representing our single largest market. I look forward to strengthening our presence in Wisconsin, and continuing our investments and growth plans within the USA. The governor made a strong case for attracting UK business to the state of Wisconsin and I believe that Fords has a bright future there."

Source:
