Public Statements
Wisconsin Hosts UK Business Networking Event in London
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 12, 2015
Location: London, United Kingdom

Governor Scott Walker joined about 100 business executives, government leaders, and economic development officials from the United Kingdom at a networking event in London today to discuss why UK businesses should consider investing or establishing operations in Wisconsin.
"To encourage British companies to invest in Wisconsin, we begin with personal connections among key decision-makers and build upon those relationships over time," said Governor Scott Walker. "This is why our face-to-face meetings here in the UK are so important--both in our one-on-one meetings with executives and at larger events such as this."
During the networking event, Governor Walker and members of the Wisconsin delegation talked with business leaders about the state's outstanding workforce and strong business climate. The event specifically focused on the state's key industry clusters, including manufacturing, energy, bioscience and water technology.
"There is no substitute for face-to-face interactions with top executives, site selectors and key other decision-makers, and today's event provided us with the opportunity to do just that," said Jim Paetsch, vice president of corporate relocation, expansion and attraction for Milwaukee 7, who is part of the delegation. "To have our message delivered directly by Wisconsin's chief executive, Governor Walker, makes our value proposition all the more compelling."
The event was co-hosted by the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation; British American Business, a transatlantic business organization; and London & Partners, London's official convention bureau.
Jeffries Briginshaw, managing director of British American Business, said attendees were anxious to learn more about the investment opportunities that exist in Wisconsin.
"At a time of American economic resurgence, we are delighted to be partnering with Wisconsin to get specific on the exciting prospects awaiting investors to that state," he said. "We were particularly pleased to be hosting Scott Walker, who is leading a very strong Wisconsin visiting delegation to the UK."
The trade mission, which ends Friday, is part of the state's foreign direct investment strategy, which calls for focusing on attracting overseas companies that best fit into Wisconsin's historic and emerging industry clusters, such as manufacturing, agriculture, energy, water technology, agriculture, biotech and medical devices.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/wisconsin-hosts-uk-business-networking-event-london
