Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Meets Top UK Officials in Visit to Parliament
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 11, 2015
Location: London, United Kingdom

Governor Scott Walker met today with top British government officials to discuss ways to strengthen economic ties between Wisconsin and the United Kingdom.
During a visit to Parliament, Governor Walker met with John Bercow, Speaker of the House of Commons. The Governor was also a special guest for the weekly Prime Minister's Question Time in the chambers of the House of Commons.
"Both culturally and economically, Wisconsin has much in common with the UK, and these meetings provided us with the opportunity to further strengthen the already close relationship that exists between the two governments," Governor Walker said. "Both sides shared stories about their successes and continuing challenges, and we look forward to further discussions on how Wisconsin can work together with the UK on initiatives that will benefit all of our citizens."
Governor Walker also met today with George Osborne, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who much like the U.S. Secretary of Treasury, oversees all economic and financial matters in the UK. During the meeting at 11 Downing Street, the two discussed the business climate and economic conditions of both the Wisconsin and the UK and shared ideas on how each is working to continue to improve their respective economies.
On Tuesday, the Governor met with British Prime Minister David Cameron and Chief of Staff Edward Llewellyn at 10 Downing Street.
The meetings are part of the Governor Walker's trade mission to encourage companies in the United Kingdom to establish new operations in Wisconsin or provide additional capital to existing Wisconsin businesses to expand their operations and create jobs. In addition to meeting with government leaders and UK companies about possible investment in Wisconsin, the state delegation also is reaching out to executives of Wisconsin companies that already have operations in the UK to enlist their support in the state's attraction efforts.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-meets-top-uk-officials-visit-parliament
