Public Statements
Governor Walker Addresses Prestigious UK Policy Institute
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 11, 2015
Location: London, United Kingdom

Governor Scott Walker discussed the importance of forging strong global partnerships during a formal address today at Chatham House, an independent policy institute based in London that is considered one of the most prominent think tanks in the world.
In his evening address, which is part of a weeklong trade mission to the United Kingdom, Governor Walker emphasized how international partnerships can fuel business growth and build prosperous local economies. He also outlined how such mutually beneficial partnerships can be developed within the global community.
"We live in a global economy, so I am thrilled to be here to talk about how we can work together to become more free and prosperous nations," Governor Walker said. "We have a strong bond with the UK, and a major part of that bond is trade and investment. Our trade relationship with the United Kingdom is also part of the Wisconsin Comeback. For the first time since 2007, the U.K. has returned as a top 5 market. In 2014, Wisconsin exports to the U.K. increased by nearly 25 percent. At the same time, imports from here to Wisconsin have gone up by more than 16 percent. This is good news for either side of the pond, and we want to build off of it throughout 2015 and beyond."
Chatham House, the Royal Institute of International Affairs Center, strives to be a "world-leading source of independent analysis, informed debate and influential ideas on how to build a prosperous and secure world for all." Founded in 1920, Chatham House engages governments, the private sector, civil society and its members in open debate and confidential discussion on the most significant developments in international affairs. Each year, the institute runs more than 300 private and public events.
Governor Walker is leading the trade mission of economic development officials as part of the state's efforts to encourage companies in the United Kingdom to establish new operations in Wisconsin, or provide additional capital to existing state businesses to expand their operations and create jobs. In addition to meeting with UK companies about possible investment in Wisconsin, the state delegation will reach out to executives of Wisconsin companies that already have operations in the UK to enlist their support in the state's attraction efforts.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-addresses-prestigious-uk-policy-institute
