Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Meets UK Business Leaders at London Briefing
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 10, 2015
Location: London, United Kingdom

Governor Scott Walker met in London today with high-level executives from United Kingdom companies to tout the Wisconsin success story and make a strong case for why UK businesses should consider investing in Wisconsin.
During the private briefing, Governor Walker and officials with the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) highlighted the opportunities that exist for UK companies in Wisconsin's historic and emerging sectors of strength, including manufacturing, energy, water technology, agriculture, and medical devices. The event was part of the Governor's trade mission to the UK, which runs through Friday.
"Today's meeting enabled us to connect with key decision-makers and gave us the opportunity to make them aware of Wisconsin's strong business climate, world-class education system, outstanding workforce, and great quality of life," Governor Walker said. "For many of these companies, it was their first exposure to Wisconsin, and we made some inroads that could pay dividends in the long run."
"It was very valuable for us to understand the challenges that UK companies face when expanding abroad," said Reed Hall, Secretary and CEO of WEDC, who accompanied the governor. "One common concern among all companies in making such a decision is the ability to find a skilled workforce. The companies we spoke with today were impressed that Wisconsin has invested $150 million in worker training and that the state is working closely with the private sector and schools to better prepare graduates for their futures."
The briefing was hosted by Financial Times Live, the global conferences and events arm of the Financial Times newspaper, and fDi Magazine, a publication that caters to international corporate decision-makers and investment professionals. The organizers selected executive level attendees for the event based on their companies' plans to begin operations or expand in the U.S.
"Financial Times Live and fDi Magazine are delighted to partner with the State of Wisconsin for this special private event," said Courtney Fingar, editor in chief of fDi Magazine. "This briefing was a great forum for C-level executives and investors to learn more about the growth opportunities in Wisconsin."
Governor Walker is leading the trade mission of economic development officials as part of the state's efforts to encourage companies in the United Kingdom to establish new operations in Wisconsin, or provide additional capital to existing state businesses to expand their operations and create jobs.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-meets-uk-business-leaders-london-briefing
