Public Statements
Governor Walker Appoints La Crosse County Circuit Court Judge
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 3, 2015
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Scott Walker appointed Candice Tlustosch to the La Cross County Circuit Court, filling the vacancy left by the retirement of Judge Dale Pasell in November.
"Candice Tlustosch has established herself as a respected and accomplished attorney in the La Crosse area," said Governor Walker. "Her broad experience, her commitment to the rule of law, and her reputation for integrity give me confidence that she will make an excellent judge."
The Honorable Todd Bjerke, a judge on the La Crosse County Circuit Court, is one of many who hold a high opinion of Tlustosch. "I have personally witnessed the abilities and competence Ms. Tlustosch has displayed as an attorney," he writes, highlighting her thoroughness, her knowledge of the law, and her candid and honorable demeanor in court. "Her moral compass points true north," he says. "The citizens of the State would benefit greatly due to her abilities, qualifications, and potential to be a great judge."
"She certainly has the support of many of the attorneys who practice in La Crosse," says Jennifer Kovari, of Hale, Skemp, Hanson, Skemp & Sleik, praising Tlustosch's work ethic, writing skills, and ability to handle difficult issues. "She has always offered conscientious and thorough advocacy for all her clients. Wisconsin is fortunate to have Attorney Tlustosch working in our state." Kyle Davis of Rice, Heitman & Davis, S.C., agrees. "Beyond her professional qualifications, Candice's character and integrity shine through," he says. Her "reputation among clients, legal professionals, and the general public as an honest, trustworthy, competent, and zealous advocate is a reputation that is well-earned." Both her "high level of integrity" and her "excellent relationship with the attorneys and court staff in La Crosse" make her a good fit for the position, writes Lisa Hamblin of Gleiss, Locante & Associates, Ltd.
Others impressed by Tlustosch include Russell Hammer, an attorney in La Crosse who writes that "Ms. Tlustosch is smart and has a deep respect for the rule of law. She has a broad range of legal experience that lends itself to the bench, including a significant amount of trial work, civil litigation, family law and transactional work." Deputy John Ruegg from Monroe County writes that Tlustosch has his respect as a member of law enforcement. "She is not afraid to ask the tough questions, but is always firm but fair," he says. "Candice is always focused, ready to go, and willing to go the extra mile."
Tlustosch has a juris doctor degree from the University of Wisconsin Law School and a bachelor of arts degree from Concordia College in Moorhead, Minnesota. She owns and manages her own law practice, and she lives in West Salem with her husband and three children.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-appoints-la-crosse-county-circuit-court-judge
