Public Statements
Governor Walker Appoints Rusk County District Attorney
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 2, 2015
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Scott Walker appointed Jim Rennicke as the District Attorney for Rusk County. Rennicke replaces outgoing Rusk County District Attorney Andrea Nodolf.
"Jim Rennicke brings a wealth of experience to the office of District Attorney," said Governor Walker. "In his long career in northern Wisconsin, he has demonstrated he has the skills, character, and judgment to serve the citizens of Rusk County well."
Rennicke has been an attorney in private practice for over thirty years, representing clients in criminal and civil matters across many counties in Wisconsin and Minnesota. As a result, he is widely known in the legal communities where he has practiced. The high quality of his work has earned him the respect of many current District Attorneys, law enforcement officers, and private members of the bar.
"Jim has decades of valuable experience and is highly qualified to serve," writes Burnett County District Attorney William Norine. "Jim brings to his practice not only a mastery of the criminal law and the rules of evidence, but also objectivity and a strong moral sense that would serve him well as a prosecutor." The Burnett County Sheriff, Dean Roland, is also impressed with Rennicke's qualifications. "Jim Rennicke knows the law and is more than ready to lead a county in successful prosecution of criminal activity," Roland says. "He is a fair a just representative of the law."
The current District Attorneys for Sawyer, Washburn, and Barron counties also speak very highly of Rennicke. "Attorney Rennicke is a straightforward and genuine man who possesses all the traits necessary to be an extremely successful District Attorney," says Sawyer County District Attorney Bruce Poquette. "Jim has the respect of our local law enforcement and the legal community." Thomas Frost, District Attorney for Washburn County, writes that, "At all times Mr. Rennicke is an extremely well prepared advocate on behalf of his clients. He is a knowledgeable and skilled attorney. He is hardworking and innovative." Frost adds that "Mr. Rennicke cares about the criminal justice system as a whole and his action as an attorney are always founded in a belief that he is acting to strengthen it. He would be a solid addition to the ranks of prosecutors in this area. I am confident he would be a strong advocate for public safety and a guardian of the rule of law." Angela Beranek, District Attorney for Barron County, also provided a reference recommending Rennicke.
Rennicke currently practices with the Wisconsin State Public Defender, an office he joined after running his own law office as a solo practitioner in Wisconsin for many years. Rennicke earned his juris doctor degree from Hamline University School of Law and his associate of liberal arts degree and bachelor of arts degree from the University of Minnesota.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-appoints-rusk-county-district-attorney
