Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Attends Summit of Wisconsin Apprenticeship Experts
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 28, 2015
Location: Racine, WI

Governor Scott Walker delivered remarks today to industry executives, workforce, and education experts and apprenticeship policy makers who gathered for the Wisconsin Apprenticeship Summit being held this week at The Johnson Foundation at Wingspread.
"For more than 100 years, Wisconsin's Registered Apprenticeship program has helped employers meet their need for well-trained workers," Governor Walker said. "Our 2015-17 State Budget proposal includes continued support for workforce readiness programs, like apprenticeship, because we believe in proven practices that help more people secure family-supporting jobs."
The Wisconsin Apprenticeship Summit, facilitated by the National Governors Association (NGA), convenes program experts and leaders to evaluate and discuss current research, analyze different models of apprenticeship and develop a plan to advance the state's Registered Apprenticeship program as a national model.
"We are pleased state and national experts are collaborating and creating an action plan that will result in significant return on investment for apprenticeship," stated Department of Workforce Development (DWD) Secretary Newson. "These are the kinds of innovative approaches that will address the skills gap, help employers remain competitive and move our state's economy forward."
Apprenticeship prepares individuals for skilled occupations by combining on-the-job learning under the supervision of experienced journey workers with related classroom instruction. Apprenticeships are sponsored by employers, employer associations, or labor/management groups that can hire and train in a working situation.
The summit is co-sponsored by DWD and The Johnson Foundation at Wingspread. Among the 40 participants are industry executives, federal and state government leaders, workforce and education experts, and innovative apprenticeship policy makers. Organizations represented among presenters include the NGA, U.S. Department of Labor, Canadian Apprenticeship Forum, Imperial Consulting Group, The Urban Institute and the German American Chamber of Commerce of the Midwest, Inc.

Source:
