Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Announces Grants for Veteran Service Providers
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 15, 2015
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker today announced $250,000 in grants to 25 non-profit organizations providing financial assistance or other services to Wisconsin veterans and their families. The grants are administered by the Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs (WDVA).
"The great state of Wisconsin, and indeed our nation, is founded upon ideals of freedom and tolerance," Governor Walker said. "These ideals are a reality thanks to the selflessness and personal sacrifice of our active service men and women, and our veterans. While there are no words to adequately express our profound gratitude for their service, I am happy to announce today that our grants will aid Wisconsin's veterans and their families."
"These grants to non-profit organizations are a reflection of the Governor's belief and our belief that the veterans community is best served when all veterans organizations work together to provide the best possible services to veterans and their families," said WDVA Secretary John A. Scocos. "We are pleased to provide resources to and partner with these non-profit organizations to ensure that our nation's heroes receive the services they have earned by serving this great nation."
The Nonprofit Grant program was passed by the legislature and signed into law by Governor Walker on April 6, 2014 and includes a maximum total of $250,000 for grants up to $25,000 for registered 501(c)(3) non-profits during the period of July 1, 2014 -- June 30, 2015.
Grant applications were considered by the Wisconsin Board of Veterans Affairs.
Grantees include:
American Legion Post 295, Bloomer: $5000 to upgrade the handicap accessibility of their facility to accommodate wheelchair bound veterans and their family members.
Celebrate Children Foundation, Madison: $5000 to help raise awareness of the childcare subsidy benefit available to low-income veteran families.
Church Health Services, Inc., Beaver Dam: $1000 for its new clinic to provide dental services to low-income and uninsured veterans.
Community Action Coalition for South Central Wisconsin, Inc., Madison: $3000 to provide resources to homeless veterans and those at risk of homelessness.
Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Sheboygan: $3000 to provide outreach and training to community groups and organizations to help deal with housing and financial issues facing veterans.
Custom Canines Service Dog Academy, Inc., Madison: $1000 for their
Heroes for Heroes program that provides fully trained service dogs to veterans diagnosed with PTSD to help decrease traumatic episodes.
Easter Seals Southeast Wisconsin, West Allis: $3000 to develop veteran services that will meet the needs of disabled veterans.
Fox Valley Veteran Council, Inc., Appleton: $25,000 to provide emergency financial assistance to and coordinate services for veterans and their families.
HistoriCorps: $3,000 to support its Veterans HistoriCorps Program at the Forest Lodge Complex in Wisconsin's Chequamegon National Forest that provides veterans with career training and public service opportunities in historic preservation while facilitating their reintegration into civilian life.
Manufacturing Diversity Institute, Madison: $20,000 for the Innovation Village Lab which will provide training and resources to veterans interested in establishing a manufacturing enterprise.
Milwaukee County War Memorial, Inc., Milwaukee: $10,000 to restore its Veterans Courtyard and Center Building in order to continue providing meeting, event and program space free of charge to veterans organizations.
Milwaukee Homeless Veterans Initiative, Milwaukee: $10,000 to place homeless veterans in permanent housing and to perform follow-up in-home assessments that monitor success and provide continued support to veterans.
National Trust for Historic Preservation in the United States: $10,000 for a HOPE Crew project at the Milwaukee Soldiers home. The project will provide on-the-job-training in the preservation trades to veterans who work on the Milwaukee Soldiers Home, one of three remaining original Soldiers Homes in the country.
Northeast Wisconsin Veterans Treatment Court Foundation, Inc., Oneida: $3000 to work with veterans who have gotten in trouble with the law and help them get back on their feet and lead productive lives.
Stepping Stone Farms School of Horsemanship, Inc., Franksville: $1000 to provide equine assisted therapy to veterans with PTSD, depression, anxiety and other disorders.
The Return & Recovery Program for Military Veterans, Appleton: $25,000 to expand the Artists for the Humanities' efforts to assist veterans suffering with PTSD, Traumatic Brain Injury, Military Sexual Assault and certain other mental health conditions using a combination of expressive art coupled with mental health counseling.
Trees From Home, Inc., Glendale: $5000 to send holiday packages, including a decorated artificial tree, to active service men and women overseas.
Trinity Equestrian Center, Eau Claire: $25,000 to provide free equine assisted therapy to veterans suffering PTSD, traumatic brain injury and other service related injuries.
UW-Superior Foundation, Inc., Superior: $25,000 to support veteran and student programming through the university's Veteran and Nontraditional Student Center.
UW-Milwaukee Military and Veterans Resource Center, Milwaukee: $25,000 to support a large-scale expansion project for the Military and Veterans Resource Center in order to meet the needs of the largest student veteran population of any school with in the surrounding six-state region.
Veterans Assistance Foundation, Tomah: $25,000 to begin the process of establishing supportive housing in Eau Claire and La Crosse counties for homeless veterans as well as to create and update computer labs at current housing locations in to be used by veterans for employment searches, housing searches and access to veterans benefits.
Veterans Employment Alliance, Inc., Milwaukee: $3000 to enroll veterans in its "From Deployment to Employment" academic workforce readiness program that will lead them to a career.
Veterans Outreach of Wisconsin, Racine: $5000 to help furnish homes, provide food, and provide other support services for veterans in need.
Wisconsin American GI Forum, Milwaukee: $4000 for outreach to unemployed, underserved and disenfranchised Wisconsin Hispanic-American veterans.
Wisconsin Council of the Blind and Visually Impaired, Madison: $5000 to develop and provide a low-vision program for veterans that would include support groups, information about reading and technology resources, and in-home training for technology such as smartphones, computers and tablets.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-announces-grants-veteran-service-providers
