Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: A Grand Vision for the Future
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 8, 2015
Location: Unknown

Hi, this is Scott Walker.
Earlier this week, I was sworn in to my second term as your Governor. I am excited and ready to continue our work together to move Wisconsin forward. Looking towards the future, we have a grand vision--a dream of freedom and prosperity for all who live here in this great state.
We will help our fellow citizens achieve the education and skills needed to guarantee success in their chosen occupations.
We will ensure every child--regardless of background or birthright--has equal access to a quality education.
We will reduce the size and scope of government to match the will of the people. We will merge state agencies to make them more effective, more efficient, and more accountable to the public.
We will continue to weed out waste, fraud, and abuse. Budgets will be set based on the taxpayers' ability to pay and not on the government's ability to spend.
We will build the needed infrastructure to support a thriving economy. This includes broadband access and a transportation system to assist major industries and fuel our growing economy.
Everyone should have an opportunity to live their piece of the American Dream.
For many of us, that dream is as simple as ensuring our children live in a place that it is even better than the place we grew up in. That's why, years ago, my wife, Tonette, and I decided to run for Governor -- because we wanted our sons to grow up in a state where they, and future generations, have the opportunity to dream big and work hard to make those dreams a reality.
Help us realize that dream of freedom and prosperity for all. For the sake of the children across this great state; and for countless generations yet to be born, we cannot let them down and we will not let them down. We will work together to move Wisconsin forward.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/media/weekly-radio-address/grand-vision-future
