Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Participates in Capitol Christmas Tree Lighting Ceremony
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Dec. 5, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Scott Walker kicked off the holiday season by lighting the State of Wisconsin Capitol Christmas Tree in the Capitol Rotunda. Following the ceremony, Governor Walker joined members of the Wisconsin Christmas Tree Producers Association for a reception.
"Lighting the Capitol Christmas tree is a symbolic way to kick-off the holiday season and encourage people to visit our State Capitol building," Governor Walker said. "Students from across the state made the incredible ornaments with the theme Honoring Wisconsin's Veterans, to remind us that the freedoms and blessings we enjoy this time of year would not be possible without the sacrifice of Wisconsin's service men and women."
In lighting the Capitol Christmas tree, Governor Walker thanked the following parties for their generous participation in creating this year's beautiful display:
o Dennis and Kim Schoeneck, Schoeneck Tree Farm, Pelican Lake, for donating this year's tree, a balsam fir which stands approximately 40 feet tall. The Schoenecks also donated a number of other trees used to decorate the Capitol Square and the Executive Residence for the holiday season.
o Dave and Mary Vander Velden, Whispering Pines Tree Farm, Oconto, for donating the tree for the Governor's Conference room.
o James and Deb Poyda, Poyda Farms, Medford, for donating wreaths.
o Patti Hellenbrand of Village Creek Quilts, Lodi, and Cindy Hasse, Cottage Grove, for designing and quilting the tree skirt.
o Ken Lucht of the Wisconsin and Southern Railroad Company for providing the locomotive circling the base of the tree.
o BouMatic of Madison, for fabricating and donating the stainless steel tree stand.
o The Elcho School District band and Choir or providing music at the ceremony.
o The Wisconsin Christmas Tree Producers Association, for contributions to the economy and promoting the industry during the holiday season and all year long.
o All of the school groups and veterans who donated ornaments relating to the theme, Honoring Our Veterans.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-participates-capitol-christmas-tree-lighting-ceremony
