Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Submits Letter in Opposition to EPA Regulations
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Dec. 1, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker submitted comments today in opposition of the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Clean Power Plan, which proposes increased regulations aimed at reducing CO2 from existing power plants. The proposed rule would have a detrimental effect on Wisconsin's manufacturing-based economy, as well as household ratepayers.
"We have made major investments to ensure we are providing our citizens with reliable, clean, affordable power," Governor Walker said. "If enacted, the EPA's Clean Power Plan would be a blow to Wisconsin residents and business owners, and I join business leaders, elected officials, and industry representatives in opposing this plan. I urge federal officials to carefully consider our concerns and the adverse economic impact this plan could have on our state, as well as the nation."
According to modeling conducted by the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin, the current version of the proposed rule would cost the state between $3.3 and $13.4 billion. A study by Energy Ventures Analysis estimates the average Wisconsin household would see its electricity bill increase by more than $485 in 2020.
The Department of Natural Resources and Public Service Commission of Wisconsin have spent months reviewing the rule and soliciting input from all affected parties, since its proposal in June of this year. Among other items, their review uncovered a number of flaws with the development of the emission rate goals, which penalizes states that have taken early action to reduce CO2 emissions by asking them to reduce emissions more than states that have done less. Wisconsin has invested approximately $10.5 billion over the past 15 years to help reduce CO2 emissions, increase renewable energy usage and energy efficiency, and install air pollution control equipment.
Governor Walker has asked the EPA to reconsider the rule based on the impact the rule will have on the cost and reliability of electricity, not only to Wisconsin's manufacturing sector and the 455,000 people it employs, but on every ratepayer in the state and the nation.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-submits-letter-opposition-epa-regulations
