Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker and First Lady Tonette Walker Host Tree Lighting Ceremony at Executive Residence
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Dec. 1, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker and First Lady Tonette Walker kicked off the holiday season and officially lit the tree that stands at the Executive Residence. Following the tree lighting, Governor and Mrs. Walker hosted tours of the Executive Residence, to show off the beautiful holiday décor presented by Wisconsin florists, landscapers, retailers, and designers. The Teen Challenge Choir provided festive holiday music, and Department of Tourism Secretary Stephanie Klett served as Master of Ceremonies for the event.
"This is a wonderful time of year here at the residence," Governor Walker said. "The spirit of the season is everywhere, and we are thrilled to share it with everyone, while wishing peace and joy for all."
"Nothing brings out the Christmas spirit like the sound of carolers in the air, as the tree lights up, casting a holiday glow on the Executive Residence," Mrs. Walker added. "This is truly a joyous occasion, made possible by the designers who work so hard on the beautiful interior and exterior displays."
2014 Holiday Designers include:
Hawks Nursery, Wauwatosa
Impressions by Esther Fleming, Milwaukee
The Front Porch, Waukesha
The Flower Studio, Sun Prairie
KEI, Oak Creek
The Bruce Company, Middleton
Edgewater Greenhouse, Portage
The Wisconsin National Guard
Dennis and Kim Schoeneck, Schoeneck Tree Farm, Pelican Lake
This year, Governor Scott Walker and First Lady Tonette Walker have partnered with Second Harvest Foodbank and the Wisconsin Department of Tourism's Big Bundle Up Campaign in order to promote selflessness and generosity this holiday season. Non-perishable food items and warm weather items, including new or gently used mittens, hats, scarves, coats, sweaters, jackets, and snow pants are happily accepted at the residence before and after the tours and will be donated to those in need.
2014 Holiday Open House Schedule:
Wednesday, December 3: Noon -- 2:00 p.m.
Thursday, December 4: Noon -- 2:00 p.m.
Saturday, December 6: 9:00 a.m. -- Noon
Wednesday, December 10: Noon -- 2:00 p.m.
Thursday, December 11: Noon -- 2:00 p.m.
Saturday, December 13: 9:00 a.m. -- Noon
The Executive Residence is located at 99 Cambridge Road on Madison's northeast side in the Village of Maple Bluff.
Tours are free of charge, and cameras are allowed. Parties of 20 or more are asked to make a reservation by calling (608) 246-5501. Parking is available directly outside the residence gates. The Executive Residence is handicapped accessible, and handicapped parking is available upon request at the time of arrival.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-and-first-lady-tonette-walker-host-tree-lighting
