Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Joins Tourism Industry in Support of Wisconsin's "Big Bundle Up" Campaign
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Nov. 25, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker and Wisconsin's tourism industry are working to keep thousands of residents a little warmer this winter with The Big Bundle Up campaign. For the fourth year, under the state-wide charity initiative, people are encouraged to donate new and gently used gloves, hats, scarves, coats, and other winter gear for those in need. Over the last three years, Wisconsin residents, travelers and businesses contributed more than 32,000 winter items donated to charities all across the state.
"From the kindness of organizations who have stepped up to serve as collection sites, to the generosity of individuals and businesses that donate, this program has been a real success," said Governor Scott Walker. "We can't thank the tourism industry members enough for their participation and the people of Wisconsin for choosing to donate to this great cause."
More than 70 sites including Travel Wisconsin Welcome Centers, tourist information centers, businesses and offices are serving as drop-off sites today through Jan. 2, 2015. A complete list of locations is available here or by going to http://www.travelwisconsin.com/experience-fun/seasonal/winter/the-big-bundle-up.
In addition to individual donations at visitor centers, private businesses have also contributed to the campaign. The last two years, Wisconsin Knitwear, a Milwaukee-based company, generously provided 1,500 knit hats that were donated to The United Way of Greater Milwaukee. This year, Wisconsin Knitwear has again agreed to donate 1,200 hats to help those in need.
"The Big Bundle Up embodies what the state of Wisconsin is all about. It's an award-winning campaign in which the entire tourism industry works together for a common cause -- to bring warmth to everyone," said Tourism Secretary Stephanie Klett.
The public can also drop off donations at the Wisconsin Executive Residence, which is open for holiday open house tours. Tours of the residence, which is beautifully decorated for the holidays, are free and open to the public. Please visit the Executive Residence website for the open house tour schedule and more information at http://wisconsinexecutiveresidence.com.
The Big Bundle Up campaign received a "Best in Show" award and an "Award of Excellence" and at the 2013 Public Relations Society of America's Paragon Awards in Milwaukee.
The mission of the Wisconsin Department of Tourism is to market the state as the Midwest's premier travel destination for fun by executing industry-leading marketing programs and establishing strategic partnerships. The Department plays a significant role in generating greater economic impact and jobs for Wisconsin. The portal for traveler information can be found at www.TravelWisconsin.com.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-joins-tourism-industry-support-wisconsin%E2%80%99s-%E2%80%9Cbig-bundle
