Public Statements
Executive Residence 2014 Holiday Tour Schedule Announced
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Nov. 21, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker's office announced the 2014 holiday tour schedule for the Executive Residence. These tours allow visitors to experience first-hand the beautiful decorations and scenery, including views of the main rooms on the first floor, which feature Christmas trees with unique decorations that have been crafted by Wisconsinites throughout the state.
"The Executive Residence belongs to the people of Wisconsin, and we are happy to open the doors to those who want to see just how beautiful it is during the holiday season." Governor Walker said.
"Every year, the displays just get better and better," added First Lady Tonette Walker. "We'd like to thank all of the designers who donate their time, talents and décor to fill each room of the residence with breathtaking displays of holiday cheer, as well as the designers and landscapers who create a Christmas wonderland outside for all to enjoy."
-2014 Holiday Designers include:
Hawks Nursery, Wauwatosa
Impressions by Esther Fleming, Milwaukee
The Front Porch, Waukesha
The Flower Studio, Sun Prairie
KEI, Oak Creek
The Bruce Company, Middleton
Edgewater Greenhouse, Portage
The National Guard
This year, Governor Scott Walker and First Lady Tonette Walker have partnered with Second Harvest Foodbank and the Wisconsin Department of Tourism's Big Bundle Up Campaign in order to promote selflessness and generosity this holiday season. Non-perishable food items and warm weather items, including new or gently used mittens, hats, scarves, coats, sweaters, jackets, and snow pants are happily accepted at the residence before and after the tours and will be donated to those in need.
-2014 Holiday Open House Schedule:
Wednesday, December 3: Noon -- 2:00 p.m.
Thursday, December 4: Noon -- 2:00 p.m.
Saturday, December 6: 9:00 a.m. -- Noon
Wednesday, December 10: Noon -- 2:00 p.m.
Thursday, December 11: Noon -- 2:00 p.m.
Saturday, December 13: 9:00 a.m. -- Noon
The Executive Residence is located at 99 Cambridge Road on Madison's northeast side in the Village of Maple Bluff. Driving directions can be found here.
Tours are free of charge, and cameras are allowed. Parties of 20 or more are asked to make a reservation by calling (608) 246-5501. Parking is available directly outside the residence gates. The Executive Residence is handicapped accessible, and handicapped parking is available upon request at the time of arrival.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/executive-residence-2014-holiday-tour-schedule-announced
