Public Statements
Transforming Education: Read to Lead Development Council Seeks Grant Applicants
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Nov. 20, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker and State Superintendent Tony Evers announced the Read to Lead Development Council is seeking applicants for Read to Lead Development Fund grants. The grants are aimed at improving literacy and early childhood development. This will be the second year the council reviews applications.
"Our Read to Lead initiative is a priority because it is imperative that we offer all children the greatest opportunities to succeed in life, Governor Walker said. "We know that children who are not skilled readers by the time they reach fourth grade, will face greater challenges in their other studies. These grants are awarded to groups and organizations that will help improve literacy, and therefore eliminate those challenges, and pave the way for a brighter future."
The Read to Lead Council partners with Wisconsin companies and community groups to promote reading and literacy. Through the Read to Lead Development Fund, the council hopes to fund worthy projects to improve literacy and serve as a model to improve the reading achievement of Wisconsin students and adults. Governor Walker and State Superintendent Evers will jointly determine the size of grants based on recommendations from board members. For this award period, the council expects the available amount of funding to be around $200,000, of which it expects to award a variety of small and large grants from $2,500 up to $40,000.
"Student literacy is a continued focus of our public schools and efforts like the Read to Lead grants help drive its success," said State Superintendent Tony Evers. "Learning to read unlocks endless future opportunities for our kids. These grants are designed to acknowledge the many collaborative, locally developed programs targeted at improving student literacy throughout Wisconsin."
The Council will aim to recommend a diverse array of applications from different organizations, geographic locations, and populations served. Programs funded may include, but are not limited to: afterschool, parent outreach, and teacher professional development efforts. Preference will be given to applications that aim to adhere to one or more of the recommendations in the Read to Lead Task Force report, such as:

Source:
