Public Statements
Year of A Better Bottom Line: Governor Scott Walker Announces $600,000 in Wisconsin Fast Forward Grants to Train Workers with Disabilities
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Nov. 13, 2014
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker announced today the intent to award more than $600,000 in worker training grants to help more than 200 persons with disabilities develop demand-driven skills to reach their employment goals. The grants are supported through Governor Walker's $35.4 million Wisconsin Fast Forward -- Blueprint for Prosperity initiative, which invests in worker training to move Wisconsin's working families along a path toward greater prosperity and independence. Governor Walker made the announcements at the St. Ann Center for Intergenerational Care in Milwaukee and at the Opportunity Development Center in Marshfield today.
"This year, we proclaimed the Year of A Better Bottom Line to encourage and promote employment opportunities for people with disabilities," Governor Walker said. "Today, I am pleased to announce additional support to prepare more than 200 workers with disabilities for careers across Wisconsin. Not only will this help workers, but with their diverse strengths and skills, it will improve a company's bottom line and spur economic growth."
During his 2014 State of the State address, Governor Walker proposed a $35.4 million expansion of the Wisconsin Fast Forward (WFF) worker training program as part of his Blueprint for Prosperity. The additional funds will support efforts to reduce technical college wait lists in high-demand fields; grow collaborative projects among school districts, technical colleges, and businesses; and enhance employment opportunities for persons with disabilities.
Governor Walker's A Better Bottom Line is tailored after Delaware Governor Jack Markell's initiative with the National Governor's Association, which details the vast benefits for employers, employees, and communities.
Also, the state is expanding Project SEARCH, a program helping young people with disabilities transition from high school to the workplace. An additional $850,000 in Blueprint for Prosperity funds will support the expansion of the number of participating businesses by 20, up from seven, over three years.
The Department of Workforce Development's Office of Skills Development is administering the grant program.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/year-better-bottom-line-governor-scott-walker-announces-600000-wisconsin-fast
