Public Statements
Veterans Day: A Video Message from Governor Scott Walker
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: Nov. 11, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker released the following video message today in honor and celebration of our nation's brave Veterans.
To view or download the video, click here or go to http://vimeo.com/111476974.
A full transcript is below:
Hi everyone, Scott Walker here.
Freedom. Endowed by our creator, defined by our constitution, and defended each and every day by the men and women who proudly wear the uniform of these great United States.
Today to those who have served, and to those serving even as we speak, we say thank you.
On this Veterans Day, I hope everyone takes a moment to reflect on the sacrifice, and recognize the courage of those who have served this great country.
Without the commitment and dedication of those in our armed forces, we would not have the freedoms we enjoy today.
Putting our appreciation into action, we have just launched a new website, WiscJobs for Vets, to help those veterans who have a service-related disability, connect with state agency jobs that are available.
We recognize that veterans have a proven work ethic and the skills to be great employees. This is "Hire a Veteran Week", and our hope is that by setting an example at the state level, and highlighting the advantages of hiring the brave men and women who have served our country, private employers will do the same.
WiscJobs for Vets is the latest of our initiatives and programs aimed at ensuring our veterans get the opportunities they deserve.
We've invested in grant programs to encourage employers to hire veterans.
We increased the state investment to the Veterans Trust Fund by more than five million dollars, and fully restored and expanded the Wisconsin GI Bill to include distance learning and online courses.
We've waived the fees for certain professional and occupational licenses, and extended the property tax credit for surviving spouses of veterans who lost their lives serving the country.
We enacted a plan to allow military members to use the skills they learned in the service, to fulfill requirements for certain professional credentials.
We also improved programs offering low-cost or free hunting and fishing licenses for disabled vets and active service members on leave, and waived state park and trail fees for all veterans on Memorial and Veterans Day weekends.
One of the highlights of my job is when I hear the stories of people who tell us they're lives are better because of the policies we put in place. I invite you to go to DWD's website -- and check out "Success Stories of Veterans". Our efforts are paying off -- but we won't stop until every veteran that wants a job, can find a great job.
Thank You -- to all of our veterans -- for all of your sacrifice and hard work. We honor your service today and every day.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/veterans-day-video-message-governor-scott-walker
