Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Promotes Worker Training, Job Creation at State Technical Colleges during Working for Wisconsin Tour
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Nov. 6, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker today travels to technical colleges across the state as part of his Working for Wisconsin tour, to promote workforce development, job creation, and economic development. He is meeting with students and faculty at technical colleges in Milwaukee, Green Bay, Wausau, La Crosse, and Madison to highlight the important role they play in meeting the demands of today's workforce.
"We're going to continue working for Wisconsin and moving our great state forward," said Governor Walker. "We are proud of our reforms and the investments we've made in our priorities. We eliminated a $3.6 billion deficit, provided more than $2 billion in tax relief, improved Wisconsin's business climate with incentives like the Manufacturing and Ag Tax credit, invested in worker training through programs like Wisconsin Fast Forward, and lowered the tax burden year after year. We are excited and ready to continue serving the citizens of Wisconsin and investing in our priorities."
Governor Walker's vision for the state continues to focus on growing our economy, developing our workforce, reforming government, transforming education, and providing tax relief to Wisconsin's hard-working taxpayers.
The accomplishments of Governor Walker's first term include reforms to improve Wisconsin's fiscal house and make the state a more competitive place to grow business and to create jobs. Through tough, but prudent decisions, Governor Walker, his administration, and legislators worked together to eliminate a $3.6 billion deficit and provide more than $2 billion in tax relief.
Governor Walker's agenda includes investing in our workforce, so people have the opportunity to learn the skills they need for the jobs of today and of tomorrow. Under Governor Walker, the state has invested $135 million in workforce development. Beyond traditional educational investments, Governor Walker's plan provides worker training grants in areas of immediate need, including items like training for healthcare-related jobs in rural and high poverty areas.

Source:
