Public Statements
Governor Walker Issues Executive Order Allowing Longer Transportation Hours for Gasoline and Diesel Truck Drivers
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 31, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker today issued an executive order declaring an Energy Emergency to extend transportation hours for gasoline and diesel truck drivers as a proactive measure for Wisconsin's gasoline and diesel supplies. The Badger Pipeline that runs from Illinois to Wisconsin is temporarily shut down for inspection, and this order ensures drivers can continue to deliver fuel statewide.
"The temporary shutdown of the pipeline has not impacted availability at the pump thus far, and this Executive Order is a proactive step to help ensure that continues to be the case," Governor Walker said.
On Wednesday, a contractor's equipment came in contact with a portion of the Badger Pipeline located in Illinois. The pipeline was immediately shut down for inspection as a safety and environmental precaution. No leaks have been detected and the pipeline is expected to be back in service in the coming days after completion of a thorough safety inspection. Once the pipeline is restarted, it will take about three days for the fuel to get to Wisconsin, and approximately 7-10 days for the supply to get back to normal.
This disruption has impacted the supply of gasoline and diesel that flows to the McFarland terminal, which is a key supply source for south central Wisconsin. The Badger Pipeline flows up through Rockford, Illinois, to Beloit, Wisconsin. From Beloit, the pipeline goes up to McFarland. Drivers may see longer lines at the terminals, or drive longer distances to get gasoline and diesel from other sources in the state.
Typically, a gasoline and diesel driver can drive 70 hours per week based upon Wisconsin and federal laws. The longer lines and further travel causes drivers to reach maximum weekly driving and on-duty limits more quickly than normal as many drivers are heading to Milwaukee, Green Bay or other terminals in Wisconsin to get supply. This Executive Order exempts drivers of commercial motor vehicles transporting gasoline and diesel from state and federal service restrictions for 10 days, from October 31 to November 9, 2014.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-walker-issues-executive-order-allowing-longer-transportation-hours
