Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: Wisconsin Tourism is a Big Deal
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 16, 2017
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker released his Weekly Radio Address today titled "Wisconsin Tourism is a Big Deal."
Hi, Scott Walker here.
Wisconsin's tourism industry is a really big deal. Last year, it had more than a $19 billion -- that's right, billion with a "b' -- more than a $19 billion impact on our economy, a 30 percent increase from five years ago. It's also a major employer, supporting more than 190,000 jobs throughout the state.
Visitors to Wisconsin spent $1.5 billion in state and local revenue last year. What does this mean for you, the Wisconsin taxpayer? Well, that money saved each household around $640. That's real money that can be saved away for a rainy day or spent, well, maybe on a fun family vacation of your own.
Earlier this week, I had the chance to meet with tourism representatives from all 72 counties, including innkeepers, business owners, attraction operators, and tourism and state agency officials at the 30th Annual Governor's Conference on Tourism in Milwaukee.
The conference is a great opportunity to learn about the latest tourism trends and brainstorm better ways we can promote Wisconsin attractions and events -- both large and small. We want to promote them to potential visitors.
One of the most effective ways to do that is through advertisements, which is why we invested more money into tourism marketing such as television, radio, and print ads.
You see, once people visit Wisconsin, they inevitably want to come back. And the reason for that is simple -- Wisconsin is fun. In fact, according to a leader in travel research, Wisconsin ranks number one in the Midwest for fun, family atmosphere, uniqueness, affordability, and recreation.
But if you ask me, it's more than that. Families and friends come back to Wisconsin year after year thanks to good, old-fashioned, Midwestern hospitality. That's something Wisconsinites have in abundance.
People like the way they're treated here. They come for the natural beauty and fun attractions, but they come back thanks to the hospitality they receive throughout their vacation from those who work in our tourism industry and from the people of our state.

Source: https://walker.wi.gov/press-releases/weekly-radio-address-wisconsin-tourism-big-deal
