Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Attends Ribbon Cutting for Midwest Engineering Systems' Expansion
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 23, 2014
Location: Pewaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker today joined employees and local officials at a ribbon cutting ceremony to celebrate the expansion of Midwest Engineering Systems, which specializes in designing, building, and installing robotic custom automation equipment. Due to increased sales of automation systems, Midwest Engineering Systems moved production to a new 100,000-square-foot facility, effectively doubling the company's floor space.
"The incredible growth that Midwest Engineering Systems has seen since its introduction to the Midwest more than 20 years ago is a testament to the dedication of its employees, as well as their superior service, and quality products," Governor Walker said. "Employees also work closely with the Waukesha, Madison Area, and Fox Valley Technical Colleges to share their expertise with student interns, providing a hands-on experience to learn in a dynamic field. I applaud Midwest Engineering Systems for these incredible accomplishments, and for supporting future generations of knowledgeable and skilled professionals in high-demand fields such as Mechanical and Electrical Engineering."
The Midwest Engineering Systems expansion is supported by new business from diverse industries, which requires additional manufacturing space, machine shop capabilities, as well as more engineering and fabrication resource capabilities. Operations at the previous facility in Pewaukee will phase out and shift entirely to this new production site by the end of the year. In addition to the production facility, Midwest Engineering Systems also recently opened an engineering office in Beloit.
The Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) supports this estimated $6 million project, with $922,410 in Business Opportunity Loan funds. Midwest Engineering Systems has committed to creating 40 new full-time positions at the production facility in Pewaukee, as well as 16 new positions at the office in Beloit.
Founded in 1991 by Scott Woida, Midwest Engineering Systems specializes in designing, building, and installing robotic custom automation equipment such as: assembly lines, robotic welding systems, full automated production lines, and web handling solutions. Catering to some of the biggest companies in the Midwest, country, and world, their products are used in a variety of industries, including agriculture, health care, aerospace, consumer goods, medical products, industrial products, tire and rubber, plastics, and countless more.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-attends-ribbon-cutting-midwest-engineering-systems%E2%80%99
