Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Participates in Jet Air Group Ribbon Cutting Ceremony
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 21, 2014
Location: Green Bay, WI

Governor Scott Walker joined employees and local officials at Austin Straubel Airport in Green Bay to celebrate the expansion of Jet Air Group's avionics potential with a ribbon cutting ceremony. Jet Air Group offers a variety of services, including aircraft maintenance, avionics, air charter services, flight training, and calibration.
"Today's expansion continues Jet Air Group's legacy in Wisconsin as a pioneer in the field of aviation," Governor Walker said. "I applaud Jet Air's investment in our state, and commitment to retain their existing full-time jobs in addition to creating new jobs. Improving and expanding our airport and other transportation operations in Wisconsin helps to attract future businesses and industries to the state, and encourages existing ones to stay and expand."
The expansion includes a new, multi-purpose 34,000 square-foot hangar which provides additional space to shelter jets indoors, necessary for aircraft refurbishment and storage during Wisconsin's frigid winters and inclement weather. The $1.9 million project was completed earlier this month and also includes an aircraft interior shop.
The Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) granted a $200,000 Business Opportunity Loan that was used to obtain equipment and aid in the construction of the new hangar. The Wisconsin Department of Transportation also contributed funding for the airport ramp expansion.
Established in Clintonville in 1969, Jet Air Group is the oldest Mitsubishi aircraft service center in the United States. Jet Air Group continued to develop throughout the years, relocating to Green Bay in 1980 in order to support new aircrafts, purchasing an existing FBO in 1984, consolidating all of their operations in 2010, and in 2012, receiving the Wisconsin Aviation Trades Association "Aviation Business of the Year" award.
This expansion of Jet Air Group's operations at Austin Straubel Airport was necessary due to the exponential increase in private and corporate aviation business, which Jet Air deals with exclusively. Additionally, international private and corporate flights seeking to clear customs have begun looking to Green Bay as an international airport, resulting in increased air traffic.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-participates-jet-air-group-ribbon-cutting-ceremony
