Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Attends Expansion Groundbreaking at Arow Global in Mosinee
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 2, 2014
Location: Mosinee, WI

Governor Scott Walker made a stop in Mosinee today to celebrate a new expansion planned at Arow Global, a leading manufacturer of window systems for buses and recreational vehicles. The project is expected to create 63 new jobs and retain 143 existing ones.
"Arow Global's decision to expand in Wisconsin is another indication of the continued strength we're seeing in the manufacturing industry as we continue to create jobs and grow the economy," said Governor Scott Walker. "Over the last 3 and a half years, the state has added nearly 30,000 manufacturing jobs--in large part because the policies we implemented have created a positive business climate encouraging companies like Arow Global to stay and grow in Wisconsin."
Arow Global is investing $1.8 million to build and equip a 22,000-square-foot addition enabling the company to manufacture two more product lines and also improve its workflow. Groundbreaking for the project took place today, and the addition is expected to be completed by February 2015.
"Our company's growth of 300 percent since 2006 is a direct result our great employees constantly striving to get better and our philosophy of creating partnerships with those we do business with--and it's obvious Wisconsin operates the same way," said Scott Firer, vice president and general manager of Arow Global. "From WEDC Secretary Reed Hall's visit to our corporate headquarters to learn more about our business to Governor Walker's personal call to our chairman to encourage our expansion in Wisconsin, this has been a true partnership between our company and the State of Wisconsin."
"The owners and management at Arow Global have long been active participants in regional workforce development initiatives," said Jim Warsaw, economic development director of the Marathon County Development Corporation. "This expansion is a major commitment on the part of the company in supporting our regional economy. The additional manufacturing and fabrication jobs being created with this expansion will provide family sustaining incomes for more than 60 employees."
The Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation is securing those jobs by providing the company with up to $200,000 in tax credits and a $300,000 loan for the expansion. Those awards are contingent upon Arow creating 63 new jobs by mid-2017 and retaining its existing 143 positions through at least June 2019.
"WEDC is pleased to assist Arow Global with this project, which will have a positive economic impact on Marathon County and the entire region," said Reed Hall, secretary and CEO of WEDC, the state's lead economic development organization. "Since 2012, WEDC has approved more than $7 million in awards for Marathon County for companies that are expected to help create or retain 3,100 jobs in the county."
The City of Mosinee also played a key role in the project by agreeing to sell the company approximately three acres of land for the expansion for $1.
"Mosinee is extremely excited about Arow Global Corp.'s expansion of their facility in the Central Wisconsin Business Park," said Mosinee Mayor Alan Erickson. "The city's number one economic development goal is to retain and grow our existing businesses. Arow Global's plan to construct an addition to their existing building and add new jobs is a key component of our economic development strategy, and their project will certainly benefit our local economy."
Arow Global Corp. has been operating in Canada and the United States since 1965, and is the number one manufacturer of mass transit bus windows in North America. The company recently expanded into the driver protection system market, and now designs and builds custom driver protection systems.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-attends-expansion-groundbreaking-arow-global-mosinee
