Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Attends Expansion Groundbreaking at Bemis Healthcare Packaging
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 2, 2014
Location: Oshkosh, WI

Governor Scott Walker made a stop at Bemis Healthcare Packaging, a global leader in the design and manufacture of medical device and pharmaceutical packaging, to take part in the groundbreaking of a $25 million expansion project that is expected to create 160 new jobs.
"I am very pleased that a global company with facilities in 13 states and 11 countries has decided to grow in Wisconsin after reviewing several options for expansion," said Governor Scott Walker. "Bemis' decision reaffirms what I hear from business leaders every day: Wisconsin's skilled workforce and pro-business climate make it the ideal place to start, relocate or expand a business."
The company, which specializes in the manufacture of films, foil barrier laminations, pouches, bags, thermoformed trays, lids, labels, and other health care packaging to a worldwide customer base, plans to renovate a building next to its existing plant and combine the two into one contiguous facility. The new 110,000-square-foot addition, which will expand the current facility to 215,000-square-feet, will operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
"Bemis' capital investment is an important step in our growth strategy. Our medical device and pharmaceutical customers have responded favorably to our value offering, requiring us to expand our operations to position ourselves for continued growth," said William Austen, President and Chief Executive Officer of Bemis Company. "Bemis' expansion of our Healthcare Packaging facility in Oshkosh complements our existing capabilities that are supported by a talented management team and an excellent workforce. As we extend our technological leadership in this global market, we are pleased with the additional opportunities that this investment will create for our Healthcare Packaging business."
The Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) is providing the company with two $1 million loans to support the project. One of the loans will be forgiven if the company creates 160 new full-time jobs and retains its existing 161 jobs through at least 2018.
"WEDC's award is helping to secure more than 300 jobs in the Oshkosh area, and that is good for the local and regional economy," said Reed Hall, secretary and CEO of WEDC, the state's lead economic development organization. "Since 2012, WEDC has approved more than $19 million in awards for Winnebago County companies that are expected to help create or retain more than 4,000 jobs."
The City of Oshkosh also is assisting with the project through the creation of a Tax Incremental Financing District and by funding stormwater facilities to control runoff from Bemis and other nearby businesses.
"The City of Oshkosh is proud to partner with a great company like Bemis to retain and create over 300 well-paying jobs," said City Manager Mark Rohloff. "Many partners, like WEDC, are needed for a successful economic development project, and the Bemis project is the result of this partnership."
Jerry Murphy, executive director of New North, the regional economic development organization serving northeastern Wisconsin, added: "Bemis has a long-standing commitment to doing business in the New North. We applaud this collaboration with the WEDC, which will double its workforce at this facility."
Neenah-based Bemis Company, Inc. is a major supplier of flexible packaging used by leading food, consumer products, medical, and pharmaceutical companies worldwide. Bemis, a publicly held Fortune 500 company, was named one of the World's Most Admired Companies by Fortune magazine and one of America's Most Trusted Companies by Forbes.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-attends-expansion-groundbreaking-bemis-healthcare
