Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Kicks Off Manufacturing Month with Dedication of Kohler Center for Manufacturing Excellence
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 1, 2014
Location: Cleveland, OH

Governor Scott Walker today delivered remarks at the dedication ceremony of the Kohler Center for Manufacturing Excellence on Lakeshore Technical College's (LTC) campus.
"We are excited to be kicking off Manufacturing Month with the unveiling of the Kohler Center for Manufacturing Excellence at Lakeshore Technical College," Governor Walker said. "This event encompasses and showcases all of what the manufacturing industry offers to the great state of Wisconsin, and the partnerships that exist to keep manufacturing robust as we continue to grow our economy. This month we highlight the many family-supporting jobs available today and the future, encourage innovation in the industry, and acknowledge the growth manufacturing contributes to our economy."
The Kohler Center for Manufacturing Excellence project consists of two buildings, the first of which is a 19,000-square-foot addition to the existing Flexible Training Arena, which trains students in industrial welding, welding fabrication, and industrial maintenance. The second is a renovation and expansion of the already existing Nierode building, which broke ground in April. It will have the capability to train CNC machinists, machine tool technicians, as well as the opportunity for automation and robotics training for industries such as food manufacturing.
Governor Walker has invested more than $100 million in worker training. Targeted investments in our workforce with programs such as Wisconsin Fast Forward (WFF) allow Wisconsin manufacturers to address the skills gap, and ensure workers have the skills they need for the jobs available today, and job creators are able to hire the workforce they need to grow and expand. In July, Lakeshore Technical College was awarded $1,384,530 million in Wisconsin Fast Forward Blueprint for Prosperity grants to train up to 352 workers in eight high-demand fields.
Governor Walker proclaimed October as Manufacturing Month in conjunction with Manufacturing Day, which is held the first Friday in October. The Wisconsin Department of Workforce Development is coordinating the planning and promotion of the month's events in partnership with the Department of Revenue, Department of Public Instruction, Wisconsin Technical College System, Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation, Wisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce, Wisconsin Manufacturing Extension Partnership, the University of Wisconsin-Stout Manufacturing Outreach Center and other stakeholders.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-kicks-manufacturing-month-dedication-kohler-center
