Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Participates in Groundbreaking Ceremony for Sojourner Family Peace Center
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 1, 2014
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker today joined the Sojourner Family Peace Center and the Children's Hospital of Wisconsin at the groundbreaking ceremony for the new Sojourner Family Peace Center in Milwaukee. This one of the first of its kind to house a Child Advocacy Center and Family Justice Center, offering comprehensive services for victims of domestic violence and their families, all under one roof.
"This is an innovative, forward-thinking institution that will benefit people statewide," Governor Walker said. "By eliminating the need for people in crisis to shuttle between various locations to get the help they need, we improve their safety and protection, and streamline access to holistic services that will help break the cycle of domestic violence. This means lower criminal justice system costs connected to domestic violence and abuse, and it also means a safer, happier Wisconsin for generations to come."
The integrated setting of the 72,000-square-foot Sojourner Family Peace Center includes a 56-bed victim's shelter as well as medical, social, legal, and mental health services, as well as alcohol and drug counseling, education, job training, law enforcement services and faith-based guidance. In concentrating on early intervention and prevention, the professionals at the Sojourner Family Peace Center aid in deterring violence from escalating as well as assisting to break the generational cycle of violence and abuse.
Governor Walker and the State Building Commission approved $10.6 million for the project in December, 2013. The estimated $21,250,000 cost for the project was funded through a collaboration of General Fund Supportive Borrowing (GFSB), as well as a Children's Hospital of Wisconsin & Sojourner Family Peace Center capital campaign of gifts and grants.
Governor Scott Walker proclaimed October to be Domestic Violence Awareness Month in order to raise awareness of violence in Wisconsin, especially highlighting the brave victims of domestic violence and their children, who demonstrate courage and perseverance every day despite the physical and emotional abuse endured. A copy of the Governor's proclamation is attached.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-participates-groundbreaking-ceremony-sojourner-family
