Public Statements
Economic Impact of Wisconsin Agriculture Jumps from $59 Billion to $88 Billion
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 19, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Today, the UW-Extension released its report on the Economic Impact of Wisconsin Agriculture, based on the 2012 USDA-NASS (National Agricultural Statistics Service) Agriculture Census. According to the report, agriculture has a $88.3 billion impact on the state's economy, up from $59 billion, an increase of 49.3 percent.
"These economic impact numbers confirm what we've known all along - Wisconsin's economy is growing and heading in the right direction, and our agriculture industry plays a major role in that development," Governor Walker said. "The fact that agriculture nearly doubled its impact on the state's economy is not only a tribute to the hard working farmers who produce a quality product, but to the broad span of businesses owners and employees who process, package and market those products here at home and abroad. Opportunities for continued growth in the future are endless when we create the right business environment that allows agriculture and other sectors to flourish. To maintain our presence as an international leader in agriculture development and innovation, we will continue our work to fuel the industry, as we have done by putting in place the agriculture tax credit, so that our farmers and processors can continue to grow, develop, and produce some of the greatest products in the world."
Occupations supported by the agriculture industry include farmers, farm employees, veterinarians, crop and livestock consultants, feed and fuel suppliers, farm machinery and equipment manufacturers, barn builders, agricultural lenders, food processors, suppliers, and equipment manufacturers, as well as employees working in insurance, marketing, accounting, and finance.
Included in the $88.3 billion:
-The dairy industry (farming and processing) accounts for nearly half of that at $43.4 billion in industrial sales contributing to 78,900 jobs.
-In 2012, on-farm activity contributed 153,900 jobs, $5.7 billion to labor income (wages, salaries and proprietor income), $8.9 billion to total income, and $20.5 billion to industrial sales.
-Food processing activity contributed 259,600 jobs, $12.9 billion to labor income (wages, salaries and proprietor income), $21.2 billion to total income, and $67.8 billion to industrial sales.
-Total agricultural activity contributed 413,500 jobs, $18.6 billion to labor income (wages, salaries and proprietor income), $30.1 billion to total income, and $88.3 billion to industrial sales.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/economic-impact-wisconsin-agriculture-jumps-59-billion-88-billion
