Public Statements
A Better Bottom Line: Governor Scott Walker Honors Participants at Best Buddies 25th Anniversary Leadership Breakfast
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 18, 2014
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker today attended the 8th Annual Leadership Breakfast of Best Buddies Wisconsin, which is celebrated in concurrence with the 25th Anniversary of Best Buddies International. Best Buddies is a nonprofit organization that seeks to provide opportunities for one-to-one friendships, integrated employment, and leadership development for people with disabilities.
"I'm thrilled to have the opportunity to attend this inspiring event this year," Governor Walker said. "Best Buddies has an impact on more than 16,000 students and family members in Wisconsin every year. In addition to formal programs offered by Best Buddies, they also put on events such as this Leadership Breakfast, as well as Best Buddies Friendship Walks. These programs and events help to transform lives, and those who participate or volunteer value inclusion, friendship, leadership, and opportunities for those with intellectual or developmental disabilities."
Founded in 1989 by Anthony K. Shriver, Best Buddies International has grown from the original chapter to almost 1,700 chapters worldwide, with representation in all 50 states as well as 50 countries around the world. The inaugural program of its kind for people with intellectual disabilities, Best Buddies provides eight formal programs that affect nearly 800,000 individuals with and without disabilities worldwide in a positive manner. These programs include Best Buddies: Middle Schools, High Schools, Colleges, Promoters, Citizens, E-buddies, Ambassadors, and Jobs. These eight programs foster friendships between participants from a variety of backgrounds and various walks of life.
The Wisconsin office of Best Buddies was founded in 2007 and quickly expanded throughout the state. Wisconsin currently boasts 43 Best Buddies chapters in middle school, high school, and college campuses. In addition to the Leadership Breakfast, Best Buddies Wisconsin hosts several Friendship Walks throughout the year in Downtown Milwaukee, North Shore, Lake Country, Eau Claire, and Madison.
Governor Scott Walker declared 2014 as Year of A Better Bottom Line to highlight the many benefits of employing people living with disabilities. Governor Walker also proclaimed today "Best Buddies 25th Anniversary Day."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/better-bottom-line-governor-scott-walker-honors-participants-best-buddies
