Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Tours New UW-Milwaukee Freshwater Sciences School
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 13, 2014
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker toured the newly opened Freshwater Sciences School at UW-Milwaukee, which builds on Wisconsin's leadership in the global water industry.
"This unique, state-of-the-art facility attracts the next generation of freshwater professionals from around the globe," Governor Walker said. "Milwaukee is international tour de force when it comes to water technology and education, and thus, the ideal location for such an impressive facility."
The facility features the Kikkoman Healthy Waters Environmental Health Labs, the Great Lakes Genomics Center, the Great Lakes Aquaculture Center, the Center for Water Policy, and labs for ecosystem dynamics, water technology, quarantine and biosecurity, and teaching.
The 92,000-square-foot, $53 million expansion of the UW-Milwaukee Freshwater Sciences School began in 2013 after several years of designing and planning. Kikkoman Foods donated a gift of $1 million for the school to build research facilities. These funds went into equipping the laboratories with cutting-edge molecular assessment technology and equipment, and a mass spectrometer for the analytical chemistry lab. In conjunction with other partners, including the Fund for Lake Michigan, these funds also contributed in purchasing a new DNA sequencer for the Great Lakes Genomics Center, which is the inaugural DNA sequencing lab in the U.S. to focus on freshwater issues exclusively. This first-class equipment and technology aids in progressing water technology and education and helps guarantee that Wisconsin's water resources are clean and secure for those who rely on them now, as well as in the future.
The University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee Freshwater Sciences program is the only graduate program in the nation dedicated to studying freshwater exclusively. The program currently boasts 55 students and 20 faculty members, but University officials aim to have 120 students following the school's expansion. The program currently offers graduate degrees and undergraduate experience in four areas: freshwater system dynamics, human and ecosystem health, freshwater technology, and freshwater economics, policy, and management.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-tours-new-uw-milwaukee-freshwater-sciences-school
