Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Attends Alliant Energy's Celebration for 100th Anniversary of Prairie du Sac Dam
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 12, 2014
Location: Prairie du Sac, WI

Governor Scott Walker today celebrated Alliant Energy's 100th Anniversary of the Hydroelectric Generating Station located in Prairie du Sac. The Wisconsin River's largest hydroelectric dam, owned by Wisconsin Power & Light Co., a subsidiary of the Alliant Energy Corporation, can produce enough power daily for 30,000 homes throughout the state.
"I commend Alliant Energy for their continued efforts in striving to provide Wisconsinites with energy solutions that are dependable, practical, and environmentally responsible," Governor Walker said. "The Prairie du Sac dam utilizes hydroelectric power and the 100th Anniversary of its construction highlights Alliant Energy's long-standing tradition and commitment to providing consistent, renewable energy. Not only does the Prairie du Sac dam provide 31-megawatts of power, it has also provided the state with one of its most popular tourist attractions--Lake Wisconsin."
The building of the dam began in January 1911 and faced several challenges and setbacks before the finalization of the project three years later. The completion of the dam, however, has had a significant and lasting impact on Wisconsin, spurring economic growth across the region, providing energy to locals throughout the area, and prompting the formation of Alliant Energy's Wisconsin utility--Wisconsin Power and Light Company. In celebration of the 100th Anniversary of the dam, Alliant Energy is partnering with the Sauk Prairie Area Historical Society to offer the unique opportunity for the public to tour the hydroelectric facility.
Providing electricity and natural gas to more than 1.4 million customers throughout Iowa, Minnesota, and Wisconsin, Alliant Energy provides service to 69,000 square miles throughout these states, with 9,700 miles of electric transmission lines and more than 9,000 miles of natural gas mains. The corporation's headquarters are located in Madison, Wisconsin, though general offices are also located in Cedar Rapids and Dubuque, Iowa.
In recognition of the 100th Anniversary of Alliant Energy's Hydroelectric Generating Station, Governor Walker has declared Friday, September 12, 2014 as Prairie du Sac Dam 100th Anniversary Celebration Day.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-attends-alliant-energy%E2%80%99s-celebration-100th-anniversary
