Public Statements
Global Biotech Company Launches New Venture in Madison
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 12, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

PSC Biotech Corp., life science company headquartered in Pomona, Calif., with customers around the world, is opening a new 37,000-square-foot facility in the University Research Park in Madison and plans to create about 100 jobs in the next three years.
PSC has created a new subsidiary--called BioTechnique--that will manufacture high-potency sterile injections, such as those used in the fight against cancer. BioTechnique will help address a global shortage of sterile injectable products. The facility is expected to be fully operational next year.
"I applaud PSC Biotech for making this level of commitment to Wisconsin and congratulate the company embarking on an initiative that will continue to strengthen Madison's position as a national leader in biotech and bioscience," said Governor Scott Walker. "The Madison area is a prime location for the bioscience industry, ranking among the top metro areas in the country when it comes to the strength of our bioscience sector. PSC's presence builds on our bioscience hub, bringing jobs to our area and fueling our economy."
"It is inspiring to me just how many individuals played a key role in the creation and founding of BioTechnique--the state of Wisconsin, the University of Wisconsin, the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation, the Morgridge Institute for Research System and many others," said PSC Biotech CEO John Clapham. "We are looking forward to fostering strong working relationships with the local academic institutions to create synergies, collaborations, and partnerships, and by being located close to the University of Wisconsin and the Madison Area Technical College, BioTechnique will be able to tap into the area's technical and intellectual capabilities and be an incubator for jobs."
State and company officials, as well as representatives of the organizations that played a key role in the project, attended a ribbon-cutting ceremony today at the facility.

Source:
