Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Joins Students at Waukesha County Technical College to Highlight Improved Access to Skills Training
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 8, 2014
Location: Pewaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker today visited Waukesha County Technical College (WCTC) to highlight the benefits of additional investments into Wisconsin Fast Forward, which allow all of the state's technical colleges to expand access to skills training for in-demand fields, as well as to celebrate and promote September as Workforce Development Month.
"Employers in Wisconsin have positions and jobs they need to fill, but they find that employees are not equipped with the knowledge and training required to fill them," Governor Walker said. "Our targeted investments allow more of our technical schools to offer more students training now, so they have access to good paying, in-demand jobs. The funds allocated to WCTC are already working to allow additional students to be trained and acquire the skills necessary to perform jobs that employers have available."
The Blueprint for Prosperity technical college grant program expands upon the success of the Wisconsin Fast Forward worker training program. Approximately $28 million in grant awards have been made available to all 16 technical colleges throughout Wisconsin, with some 4,900 additional students being trained in 10 sectors, including agriculture, apprenticeship, business, construction and architecture, education, health care, IT, manufacturing, public safety and law, transportation, and STEM.
WCTC currently intends to invest $1.4 million to expand capacity in program areas such as manufacturing, education, and transportation, including up to three dozen in welding alone. Over 100 additional students will be able to complete training in these general sectors at WCTC.
Governor Scott Walker proclaimed the month of September as Workforce Development Month in order to highlight the role that Wisconsin's workforce development plays in equipping workers and students for sustaining careers. $135 million has been invested to provide resources for worker training and education at Wisconsin's technical colleges, the UW system, and DWD. This guarantees students and potential employees gain the skills needed for high-demand jobs in high-tech fields.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-joins-students-waukesha-county-technical-college-0
