Public Statements
Forte Research Systems to Accelerate its Growth
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 2, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker today announced that Forte Research Systems Inc., a Madison-based company that develops clinical research software, has received a $550,000 state loan to help accelerate its growth, part of an investment plan expected to create 55 jobs over the next three years.
Forte, a growing company that has experienced a rise in the number of larger clients it serves, is responding to the increased demand for its systems with extended capabilities and new offerings. The company has become an industry leader in academic clinical research sites and has attracted the attention of other stakeholders in the clinical research industry.
"The assistance from the state will enable Forte Research Systems to continue growing to a point where the number of employees at the facility will be nearly double the current level," said Governor Walker, who visited the company today to make the announcement. "These are good family-supporting jobs in fields such as engineering and project management, and I'm pleased that Forte is committed to remaining and growing in Wisconsin."
"When we decided to locate in Wisconsin at the time of our founding, we knew the area was full of great people," said Srini Kalluri, founder, president and CEO of Forte. "We have been fortunate to have assembled an incredible team here in the Madison area to assist with our mission, and we look forward to building on what we have started with the help of additional team members that share a passion for changing an industry."
The company's specialized software for clinical research includes products such as OnCore Enterprise Research, Allegro CTMS and Overture EDC. Forte also provides complimentary blog articles, eBooks, webinars and more to support continuous learning on industry topics. In September, the company will be hosting a conference on clinical research operations that will draw nearly 200 visitors to the Madison area. The event, the Clinical Research Operations Forum, is dedicated to sites conducting clinical research across the country.
To support its expansion, the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation has approved a $550,000 loan under its Business Opportunity Loan Fund Program. The loan is contingent upon Forte creating 55 new jobs by August 2017 and retaining its existing 69 full-time positions through 2019.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/forte-research-systems-accelerate-its-growth
