Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Attends The Water Council's Small Business Forward Initiative Announcement
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Aug. 25, 2014
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker joined the announcement of the partnership between The Water Council and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to invest a grant of $225,000 in water technology with the help of the Small Business Forward initiative. Over the next five years, JPMorgan Chase & Co. will provide $30 million in grants to support small business clusters throughout the nation that aid in stimulating certain industries.
"I applaud JPMorgan Chase & Co. for the insight to invest in The Water Council and Wisconsin's water industry," Governor Walker said. "With over 15,000 lakes within the state's boundaries and fresh water forming three of our borders, Wisconsin is growing as a water technology leader. Investing in water technology industries will only continue to increase Wisconsin's competitiveness as a global water hub."
A premiere leader in water industry initiatives and innovation, The Water Council was established in 2009 by business, government, and education leaders in order to bring together the region's existing water companies and research clusters, develop educational programs to train the next generation, and build partnerships across industries and geographic boundaries.
"The support from JPMorgan Chase & Co. will build upon the tremendous assistance that we have received from the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation and help position The Water Council as a critical resource when global investors are seeking opportunities to be associated with small water technology businesses," said Dean Amhaus, president and CEO of The Water Council.
With the Small Business Forward grant provided by JPMorgan Chase & Co., The Water Council intends to identify firms that would be open to explore water technology investments, develop water investment training material, and conduct initial investor meetings with entrepreneurs.

Source:
