Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Announces Launch of FFLIGHT
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Aug. 13, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker joins the Wisconsin Department of National Resources today in announcing the launch of the Fields & Forest Lands Interactive Gamebird Hunting Tool, or FFLIGHT, which offers ruffed grouse, woodcock, pheasant, and dove hunters an interactive summary of public hunting lands throughout Wisconsin.
"We recognize the passion with which our state's hunters pursue these birds, and FFLIGHT will help make their time in Wisconsin's outdoors even more productive and enjoyable," said Governor Scott Walker. "This is a great way for hunters to explore new areas of the state, or even discover great hunting land right in their backyard."
FFLIGHT helps hunters of all types locate young aspen and alder habitat, pheasant-stocked public hunting grounds, and managed dove fields.
"We're thrilled to make this new tool available to hunters," said DNR secretary Cathy Stepp. "We have continued to make great strides in using technology to help our hunters, while still preserving all the traditions and fun associated with hunting in Wisconsin."
Features available within the program help hunters locate DNR public parking areas, access overlay township descriptions, and view topographic maps or aerial photos of prospective hunting areas. Each user can choose which type of habitat to highlight -- FFLIGHT will show you if there's a great dove field right down the road from your favorite pheasant-hunting spot, or help you find the best grouse and woodcock cover in the woods near your cabin.
FFLIGHT allows users to print maps and find GPS coordinates to assist in navigation and provides measuring tools to help estimate acreage and walking distance. Mobile users can use FFLIGHT on-the-go to find habitat suitable for the species they wish to pursue.
The FFLIGHT mapping application is compatible with all major desktop and mobile web browsers. To learn more and start your search for hunting land, visit dnr.wi.gov and search keyword "FFLIGHT ."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-announces-launch-fflight
