Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Kicks Off Wisconsin Farm Technology Days
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Aug. 12, 2014
Location: Stevens Point, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker delivered remarks at the opening ceremony of stopped in Portage County to kick-off Farm Technology Days Technology Days. The three-day event showcases the latest research findings and technological developments in the agricultural production industry.
"We are proud to be America's Dairyland, and we are also a leading exporter of ginseng, cranberries, corn, and whey. The agriculture industry is crucial to our economy and we are committed to helping our hard-working farmers remain on the cutting edge of technology," Governor Walker said. "I thank the Zakrzewski and Feltz families for generously hosting this year's Wisconsin Farm Technology Days."
Wisconsin Farm Technology Days, launched in 1954, is the largest agricultural show in the state. This year's event runs from August 12 through August 14 and features more than 600 vendors offering a wide variety of agricultural products and services used in today's dairy, livestock, and crop production systems. This year will focus on improving vegetable production and demonstrate the influence unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) can play in the agriculture industry.
Blue Top Farms and Feltz Family Farms are hosting this year's show. Blue Top Farms, family owned by the Zakrzewski family since 1958, farms over 1,000 acres of land and harvests corn, soybeans, and green beans. Feltz Family Farms, owned and operated by Ken and Jackie Feltz, maintains nearly 500 head of dairy cattle.
In April, Governor Walker signed Senate Bill 448, which supports advancements in agriculture technology. The legislation incentivizes agricultural businesses that invest in new farming technology and modern facilities to enhance growth and sustainability in one of Wisconsin's leading industries.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-kicks-wisconsin-farm-technology-days
