Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Attends Groundbreaking, Job Creation Announcement at Advanced Laser Machining
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Aug. 4, 2014
Location: Chippewa Falls, WI

Governor Scott Walker made a stop at Advanced Laser Machining Inc. (ALM), one of the Midwest's leading precision metal fabricators, which is expanding its facility in Chippewa Falls, a project expected to create 27 new jobs and retain about 100 existing positions.
"With this expansion, Advanced Laser Machining builds on its already-strong contribution to the state local economy," Governor Walker said. "The leadership and skilled workers at this facility are an impressive example of benefits of manufacturing and why we recognize this industry as the backbone of our economy."
The $3.5 million expansion calls for a building expansion of 32,800-square-feet and adding several pieces of manufacturing equipment. The project will allow ALM to meet the company's growing demand for its services. The expansion will allow ALM to consolidate all operations and warehousing in a single location. As ALM continues to add industry leading processes and skill sets, the company needs more room to manufacture its customer's products.
"In order to remain an industry leader, we continue to expand the services offered to our customers. This expansion is critical to our continued success in the Chippewa Valley" said John Walton, president of ALM. "The collaboration between local, county and state organizations has been very successful in bringing this project together."
Since its inception in 1996, ALM has grown from three employees in 6,000-square feet of space in a business incubator to more than 100 employees operating out of more than 68,000-square-feet once the project is complete.
The Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) is providing the company with up to $94,700 in tax credits for the project. Those credits are contingent upon ALM is creating 27 jobs over the next three years and retaining 96 existing jobs.
"Advanced Laser Machining is certainly a Chippewa County entrepreneurial success story," added Charlie Walker, president and CEO of the Chippewa County Economic Development Corporation. "They originally began operations out of the Chippewa Valley Innovation Center, our local business incubator and have continued to grow ever since. Through the efforts of CCEDC and our economic development partners--WEDC and the City of Chippewa Falls--another 27 quality manufacturing jobs will be created, while the additional space positions Advanced Laser Machining for future growth opportunities."
ALM specializes in contract manufacturing and metal fabrication, including punching, laser cutting, forming, welding, and assembly. The company serves customers nationwide in the construction, aviation, industrial equipment, defense, and communications industries.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-attends-groundbreaking-job-creation-announcement
