Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Commends WHEFA for Job Creation, Economic Development Assistance
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Aug. 4, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

The Wisconsin Health and Educational Facilities Authority (WHEFA) has issued its 2014 Fiscal Year in Review for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2014, which indicates that WHEFA saved Wisconsin nonprofit institutions more than $65 million by refinancing outstanding debt and completing 24 financings for such institutions totaling more than $794 million. WHEFA financings will help create an estimated 199 new jobs and maintain 1,055 jobs, while an estimated 678 construction jobs will be created for new capital projects. These Wisconsin nonprofit organizations employ over 45,000 people.
"WHEFA is an important partner for our non-profit organizations, looking to grow, build, and serve the community through their health care facilities, schools, community service organizations and more," Governor Walker said. "WHEFA helps facilitate affordable financing for capital projects, and contributes to the economy by helping add more new permanent jobs and new construction jobs."
Executive Director Dennis Reilly highlighted the activity included in WHEFA's 2014 Fiscal Year in Review and said, "This fiscal year will mark the end of another successful year. For 35 years, WHEFA has assisted nonprofit borrowers in obtaining low-cost capital financing. WHEFA is proud to represent the State of Wisconsin and to help the economy move forward by serving all nonprofit institutions seeking to expand and create jobs."
Highlights from the fiscal year in review include: 22 different borrowers, at 33 different Wisconsin locations, benefited from the bond proceeds during fiscal year 2014, including:
7 long-term care facilities:
Benevolent Corporation Cedar Community
Bethany Lutheran Homes
Cedar Crest
Evergreen Retirement Community
Milwaukee Catholic Home
Pine Haven Christian Home x2
Wisconsin Illinois Senior Housing
4 private schools:
Beloit College
Carthage College
Mount Mary University
St. Norbert College
4 multi-site health care systems:
Aurora Health Care
Froedtert Health
UnityPoint Health x2
Wheaton Franciscan Services
4 community providers/clinic/senior living:
Bethesda Lutheran Communities
Colonial View Apartments, Sun Prairie
District Council of Madison, Inc. -- Society of St. Vincent de Paul
Youth Services of Southern Wisconsin
3 single site hospitals:
Mile Bluff Medical Center, Mauston
Reedsburg Area Medical Center
Southwest Health Center, Platteville
Additionally, WHEFA has released an economic impact study conducted by IHS Economics which indicates capital projects financed through WHEFA on behalf of nonprofit organizations in the State of Wisconsin have boosted labor market growth by creating an average of 3,396 direct construction jobs and 6,484 direct and indirect jobs annually from 2005-2014.
WHEFA, a state authority created by Wisconsin statute, provides nonprofit 501(c)(3) organizations access to lower cost tax-exempt bond financing for their capital expenditure needs and provides active capital finance assistance to such organizations. Governor Walker's budget expanded WHEFA's authority to allow it to serve all of the state's nonprofit organizations, beginning in 2013. Bonds issued by WHEFA do not utilize any state funds or constitute indebtedness of the state. The state has no liability to repay any obligation issued by WHEFA under any circumstances.
The complete fiscal year in review and economic impact study can be found on WHEFA's website at http://whefa.com/.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-commends-whefa-job-creation-economic-development
