Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Appoints Milwaukee County Judge
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 21, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker is proud to announce the appointment of longtime prosecutor Christopher Dee to the Milwaukee County Circuit Court, replacing Judge Karen E. Christenson in Branch 37.
"Christopher Dee brings a wealth of experience to the Milwaukee County bench and is widely respected by his peers and community leaders. I am confident he will be an excellent judge who upholds the Constitution and the rule of law," said Governor Walker.
Dee currently serves as an Assistant District Attorney in Milwaukee County focusing on protecting children. He has taken on a number of leadership roles over the years, including the development of crime-reduction initiatives in coordination with the Milwaukee Police Department and many local community organizations. In addition to his fourteen years with the District Attorney's office, Dee has a wide range of civil litigation and administrative experience, having served in private practice in Kenosha and as Assistant City Attorney for the Cities of Madison and Kenosha. He has experience training police officers, child welfare social workers and other attorneys on various legal matters including courtroom preparation and termination of parental rights cases. Dee was appointed by Governor Walker to serve on the Wisconsin Advisory Board for the Interstate Compact on Juveniles and also serves on the Felmers Chaney Correctional Center Community Advisory Board.
Current Milwaukee County Circuit Court Judge Kevin Martens said of Dee, "I was extremely impressed by his knowledge, professionalism, and dedication to the children and families of Milwaukee County. Chris did a great deal to educate me regarding the complex legal matters relevant to these very difficult cases. He is well-versed in the law, passionate in the pursuit of justice, yet always respectful to other litigants. Chris brings credibility and sound judgment to the courtroom, and is well-respected among the judiciary. He has excellent advocacy skills and that rare combination of intellect and common sense necessary to effectively serve on the bench."

Source:
