Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Appoints Thomas Hruz as District III Appellate Judge
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 21, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Scott Walker today announced the appointment of Thomas M. Hruz to serve as an appellate judge on the District III Court of Appeals. He will be replacing retiring Judge Mark Mangerson.
"From his prestigious clerkships on the Wisconsin Supreme Court and the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, to his position as recent chair of the State Bar Appellate Practice Section, Tom Hruz is an ideal choice for the appellate bench. I am confident his experience, intellect, and firm commitment to the rule of law will enable him to serve the people of Wisconsin well," said Governor Walker.
Hruz is a partner at Meissner Tierney Fisher & Nichols, S.C. He has been recognized as a "Super Lawyer" in the area of appellate practice and "Rising Star" by Super Lawyers®, and an "Up and Coming" attorney by the Wisconsin Law Journal. He has clerked for Judge John L. Coffey on the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, and Justice David T. Prosser, Jr. on the Wisconsin Supreme Court. He has also served as an adjunct professor of Appellate Writing and Advocacy at Marquette University Law School, Chair of the Appellate Practice Section of the State Bar of Wisconsin, and on the board of the Marquette Law School Alumni Association.
In giving Tom Hruz her "highest recommendation," Marquette Distinguished Professor of Law and former Wisconsin Supreme Court Justice Janine Geske wrote, "Tom is highly respected by the faculty and administration at Marquette, as well as by lawyers who interact with him... If you would ask me to describe Tom, I would tell you that he is an ethical, dedicated, well-respected and scholarly attorney who, without question, would make an outstanding jurist."
Wisconsin Supreme Court Justice David Prosser said, "Tom Hruz was a brilliant law clerk who quickly established a reputation as an outstanding attorney. He will quickly be recognized as a great judge."
Marquette Law School Dean Joseph Kearney wrote, "Tom has displayed an unusual combination of intelligence, work ethic, and for a sometimes elusive thing, good judgment as a lawyer." He added that Hruz "would be a terrific addition" to the appellate bench, and that his appointment "would be an enduring contribution to our state."
Peter Kujawa, President of EO Johnson Business Technologies - Locknet Managed IT Services Division, a Wausau-based company, said, "I would feel an elevated sense of confidence in our state courts in the region knowing that Tom was seated on this appellate bench."
Hruz received his B.A. summa cum laude from the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, an M.A. in Public Affairs and Public Policy Analysis from the University of Wisconsin La Follette School of Public Affairs, and received his J.D. magna cum laude from Marquette University Law School where he served as an editor of the Marquette Law Review. He and his wife Kelly currently reside in southeastern Wisconsin, but look forward to being closer to family when they move to District III before taking the bench.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-appoints-thomas-hruz-district-iii-appellate-judge
