Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Delivers Remarks at the American Legion and American Legion Auxiliary Annual Department Conventions
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 18, 2014
Location: Appleton, WI

Governor Scott Walker today delivered remarks at the 96th annual American Legion Department Convention and the 94th annual American Legion Auxiliary Department Convention.
"The members of the American Legion and American Legion Auxiliary are dedicated to service within their communities and are a constant advocate for veterans, members of our Armed Forces, and their families," Governor Walker said. "Many thanks to the members of both organizations for their hard work and countless volunteer hours, which make so many programs possible."
Returning veterans of World War I chartered the American Legion in 1919, which has since grown into one of the largest and most prominent nonprofit groups in the country. With more than 2.4 million members worldwide, the Legion is dedicated to promoting patriotism, honor, strong national security, and continued commitment to United States service men, women, and veterans. The American Legion Department of Wisconsin organizes blood drives, donates scholarships, sponsors community projects, provides emergency aid, and hosts youth activities, such as Badger Boys State, Boy Scouts, and American Legion baseball. This week, the Legion organized the "Rhino's Run,' a three-day, 900 mile motorcycle ride throughout Wisconsin to raise funds for college scholarships for children who have lost a parent in either the September 11th attacks or the War on Terror.
The American Legion Auxiliary was founded in 1919 to support the American Legion in its endeavors, and is now the world's largest women's patriotic service organization. With almost 800,000 volunteers around the world, the American Legion Auxiliary is devoted to honoring those who serve by improving the lives of veterans, military, and their families by advocating, educating citizens, mentoring youth, promoting patriotism, good citizenship, peace, and security. The American Legion Auxiliary Department of Wisconsin supports programs such as Badger Girls State, which teaches young women about government and its functions.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-delivers-remarks-american-legion-and-american-legion
