Public Statements
Blueprint for Prosperity: Governor Scott Walker Announces $1.2 Million Grant to Train Almost 200 Workers at Chippewa Valley Technical College
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 18, 2014
Location: Eau Claire, WI

Governor Scott Walker today announced an award of more than $1.2 million in Wisconsin Fast Forward grant dollars to Chippewa Valley Technical College (CVTC) to train up to 196 workers for in-demand fields. The award is part of $28 million in grants Governor Walker recently announced as part of his Blueprint for Prosperity initiative to help Wisconsin technical college train more than 4,900 workers for jobs employers need to fill.
"Businesses around the state have jobs available, right now, but not enough skilled workers to fill them," Governor Walker said. "These grants, available through our Wisconsin Fast Forward program, will help ensure Wisconsin's workforce remains competitive and on the cutting-edge, and will help more Wisconsinites go back to work."
The Department of Workforce Development (DWD) administers the grants, which add capacity to 100 programs at the state's 16 technical colleges. Up to 4,908 additional students will be able to access training programs that cover key industry sectors including manufacturing, health care, transportation, construction and architecture, and education.
During a visit to the CVTC campus, Governor Walker announced DWD's intent to award the technical college $1,223,540 to train 196 additional workers in the following high-demand areas:
$591,150 to train 24 in nursing.
$117,075 to train 12 students to be dental assistants.
$155,400 to train 64 students in to be certified nursing assistants (CNAs).
$110,854 to train 32 students in manufacturing to be certified production technicians.
$88,852 to train 48 students in public safety.
$160,209 to train 16 students in truck driving.
"It is a vital part of CVTC's mission to support the workforce needs of the region, and to do so we must constantly keep up with a changing economy," said Chippewa Valley Technical College President, Bruce Barker. "The additional funds will increase our ability to respond rapidly to the needs of both our graduates and the employers who want to hire them. Shorter waiting lists in high demand fields serve everyone's interests."
Governor Walker signed Act 139 into law in March 2014 as part of his Blueprint for Prosperity initiative following the strong bipartisan support of the State Legislature. The legislation allocated an additional $35.4 million in funds to the Wisconsin Fast Forward worker training program with a focus on three areas:
Reduction of waits lists at Wisconsin technical colleges for high-demand fields;
Collaborative projects between high schools, technical colleges, businesses, and other partners to increase opportunities for high school pupils to earn industry-recognized credentials; and
Enhancing the employment opportunities for workers with disabilities.
Technical colleges submitted initial lists of programs for grant consideration earlier this year. DWD developed objective, data-driven measurement tools to validate wait lists for grant eligibility purposes, evaluate each technical college's funding request, make award decisions, and include accountability measures to protect taxpayers' investment.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/blueprint-prosperity-governor-scott-walker-announces-12-million-grant-train
