Public Statements
Blueprint for Prosperity: Governor Scott Walker Announces More Than $28 Million in Wisconsin Fast Forward Grants to State Technical Colleges
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 17, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker today announced the intent to award more than $28 million in Wisconsin Fast Forward grants to the Wisconsin Technical College System (WTCS) to train more than 4,900 workers for in-demand jobs. All of the state's 16 technical colleges will receive grant money to focus on training in multiple high demand fields. The awards are part of Governor Walker's Blueprint for Prosperity initiative, to move Wisconsin's working families along a path toward greater prosperity and independence.
"Our administration has made worker training a top priority, allocating more than $135 million in new resources to equip Wisconsin workers with the skills needed to fill jobs that employers have available," Governor Walker said. "This substantial investment in the Wisconsin Technical College System will help our top-notch technical colleges build the capacity to train thousands of workers across the state with skills we know are in high demand by employers."
The Department of Workforce Development (DWD) will administer the grants, which will add capacity to 100 programs at all 16 technical colleges and accommodate up to 4,908 additional students in training programs. Training programs cover key industry sectors such as manufacturing, health care, transportation, construction and architecture, and education.
"Wisconsin's working families have benefitted significantly from Governor Walker's leadership," said Secretary Newson. "Programs like Wisconsin Fast Forward demonstrate his commitment to the workers of Wisconsin, providing a hand up to ensure that they can access training to prepare for in-demand careers. With this announcement, the State of Wisconsin is giving workers the chance to increase their skills and move into a new job or a better job."




Source:
