Public Statements
Rice Lake Weighing Systems to Expand in Barron County
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 17, 2014
Location: Rice Lake, WI

Rice Lake Weighing Systems Inc., an international leader in the manufacturing and distribution of weight-related products and process-control equipment, is building a new facility in Rice Lake. The project is expected to create 57 new jobs and retain more than 400 existing positions.
The family-owned company, founded in 1946, will construct and equip a new manufacturing and distribution center in the Barron County community. Work is expected to begin in the next few weeks.
"Rice Lake Weighing Systems is a true Wisconsin success story, and I congratulate the company on its new facility," said Governor Walker. "This three-generation, family-owned business opened its doors in Rice Lake nearly 70 years ago, and has grown to become a multinational industry leader. That it continues to call Wisconsin home is a testament to the state's strong workforce and pro-business climate."
"My grandfather originally came to Rice Lake because he recognized the strong work ethic of the people of northwestern Wisconsin," said Rice Lake Weighing Systems President Mark Johnson Jr. "Our continued success is largely based on the fact that we are able to find a workforce with a broad range of talents and skills. We remain committed to Wisconsin and are very excited to continue our growth here in Rice Lake. We appreciate the support of the state and its commitment to providing the tools necessary for us to remain competitive in today's global marketplace."
Recognizing a growing need for scale service from creameries and cheese processing enterprises, Donald B. Johnson and Warren Thomas founded the company in Rice Lake. The company now offers more than 35,000 weighing, control, data collection, and communication products. Its products and technology include applications, from basic weighing and data collection to on-line scale diagnostics and real-time monitoring, from recipe formulation to traceability systems, from truck management to inventory management, and beyond.
To assist with the expansion project, the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) has authorized up to $575,000 in Jobs Tax Credits over three years. The tax credits are contingent upon the company retaining its existing number of jobs in Rice Lake and adding 57 jobs by mid-2017.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/rice-lake-weighing-systems-expand-barron-county
