Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Tours Brookdale Corporate Expansion in West Allis
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 17, 2014
Location: West Allis, WI

Governor Scott Walker today visited Brookdale Senior Living Inc.'s corporate offices in West Allis to review progress on the company's $3.9 million expansion project, which will create 200 new jobs to support its senior living communities nationwide.
Brookdale, a leading owner and operator of senior living communities throughout the country, is increasing the size of its corporate support center in West Allis by 33,000 square feet. The expansion will bring Brookdale's presence in the Summit Place building to about 155,000 square feet for the more than 400 employees at that location. Construction is now under way and is expected to be completed by the end of the month.
"Brookdale is yet another national company that already has a major presence in Wisconsin and decided to grow here because of the state's outstanding business climate and strong workforce," Governor Walker said. "I applaud Brookdale for its decision to expand here, a decision that will benefit all of southeastern Wisconsin."
"We are excited about Brookdale's growth, signaling the start of a new era in the senior living industry. This area has a deep talent pool, making it a great location for expansion of our corporate support office," said Andy Smith, chief executive officer for the company. "We are hiring people who can live our culture and who have a passion for serving seniors. Brookdale is more than a company, it's a calling."
During his tour, Governor Walker met with top company officials to learn more about Brookdale's pending merger with Emeritus Senior Living, which will create the country's first national senior living company. The merger is expected to close in the third quarter.
Brookdale operates nearly 650 senior living communities in 36 states and has the ability to serve approximately 66,000 residents. There are 18 communities in Wisconsin, including Clare Bridge Place and Brookdale Place in Brookfield, and Sterling House of Sussex. After the completion of the merger, Brookdale will have 1,160 communities in 46 states with a workforce of 80,000 associates.
The Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation authorized Brookdale to receive up to $1 million in Jobs Tax Credits over the next two years to assist with the project. The tax credits are contingent upon Brookdale retaining its existing number of jobs and adding 202 jobs by mid-2016.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-tours-brookdale-corporate-expansion-west-allis
