Public Statements
Investing in Infrastructure: State of Wisconsin Moves Forward with Rail Purchase
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 16, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker today announced the state has moved closer to purchasing a 70-mile segment of rail line between Madison to Reedsburg and Madison to Cottage Grove.
"A strong freight rail system is a key factor in supporting and growing Wisconsin's economy," noted Governor Walker. "This acquisition helps strengthen that system and further demonstrates the state's commitment to freight rail, which many Wisconsin businesses depend on."
The Wisconsin Department of Transportation (WisDOT) signed an acquisition agreement for the purchase of the Madison to Reedsburg and Cottage Grove rail corridor from the Union Pacific Railroad (UP). This is 70 mile rail line includes a bridge over Lake Wisconsin at the village of Merrimac.
The total cost of the purchase is $30 million with $5 million going toward track improvements and the other $25 million for land. The purchase is being made jointly with the Wisconsin River Rail Transit Commission (WRRTC) with funds from the Freight Rail Preservation Program which provides grants to local units of government, industries, and railroads for the purpose of preserving and rehabilitating essential rail lines. Service on the line will continue to be provided by the Wisconsin & Southern Railroad (WSOR) under lease with the WRRTC.
In 2013, WSOR transported 5,070 cars on the Madison to Reedsburg and Cottage Grove line, serving 23 active customers including: United Coop, Landmark Ag, Seneca Foods, R.R. Donnelly, Hanke, Greede Foundries, and Hydrite Chemical. Commodities transported include grain, chemicals, polymers, paper, food products, lumber, aggregate and metal.
The acquisition must now go to the Federal Surface Transportation Board (STB) for approval. The actual purchase of the corridor is expected to be complete by late 2014.
With this acquisition, there will be approximately 600 miles of state-owned track in Wisconsin. From 2007 to 2030, overall freight rail tonnage shipped in Wisconsin is forecast to grow 16 percent. Annually, Wisconsin's railroads move 33 percent, or about 180 million tons, of Wisconsin's total freight by weight.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/investing-infrastructure-state-wisconsin-moves-forward-rail-purchase
