Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Attends McLane Foodservice Milwaukee Expansion Celebration
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 9, 2014
Location: Sturtevant, WI

Governor Scott Walker visited McLane Foodservice Milwaukee today to help celebrate the expansion of the company's distribution center and to congratulate employees on earning the McLane Foodservice President's Award, an honor recognizing the company's highest performing distribution centers.
"I'm proud to be here today to recognize McLane Foodservice as an exemplary company growing in Wisconsin," Governor Walker said. "The attitude of excellence, held by both company leaders and employees, fuels the company's success. Thank you for having the confidence in our business climate, and our workforce, to expand to the Sturtevant distribution center and create dozens of new jobs."
Tom Zatina, McLane Foodservice President added, "We are proud members of the Sturtevant community and we'd like to thank our state and local leaders for their commitment to a strong pro-business environment. This benefits our customers, teammates (employees), and of course, our business."
McLane Milwaukee's 110,000 square foot expansion project is expected to be complete in August, 2014. The company has added 100 new positions since the expansion project commenced in 2012, and is currently looking to hire an additional 20.
The distribution center expansion is supported by tax credits from the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) and support from the Racine County Economic Development Corporation (RCEDC).
McLane Foodservice Milwaukee was named one of the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel's Top Workplaces in 2010, and recently earned the McLane Foodservice President's Award for the fifth time in seven years. The award recognizes McLane Company's highest performing distribution centers.
The Sturtevant distribution center currently provides service to national QSR chains such as Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and many others in the upper Midwest. McLane Milwaukee's experienced team of drivers will travel more than eight million miles this year, delivering more than 19 million cases of product.
McLane Company, founded in 1894, is a supply chain services leader that provides grocery and foodservice supply chain strategies for convenience stores, mass merchants, drug stores, and chain restaurants. Headquartered in Temple, Texas, McLane operates 80 distribution centers nationwide.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-attends-mclane-foodservice-milwaukee-expansion
