Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Attends Opening Ceremony of Wisconsin State Fire Chiefs' Association Conference
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: June 27, 2014
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker delivered the keynote address at the opening ceremony of the 86th annual Wisconsin State Fire Chiefs' Association Conference today. The ceremony served as a memorial service for the chiefs and firefighters who passed away this year. The annual conference brings fire chiefs together from across Wisconsin and features several speakers and workshops. About 400 state fire chiefs were in attendance.
"The brave men and women who serve the State of Wisconsin as firefighters risk their lives to protect the lives and property of others," Governor Walker said. "I am honored to be here to remember the courage and dedication of those who lost their lives this past year."
The Wisconsin State Fire Chiefs' Association is made up of over 1,100 active and retired volunteer, combination, and career Chief Fire Officers in Wisconsin. Its mission is to offer leadership, education, advocacy, and networking opportunities to fire and emergency professionals. The annual conference brings members together to discuss problems, provide educational opportunities, seek counsel from experts in equipment, building engineering, chemical, and research fields interested in fire prevention, and cooperate with government agencies with the goal of better serving their individual communities.
The Wisconsin State Fire Chiefs' Association is one of eight statewide public sector groups and associations that make up the Fire & EMS Legislative Leadership Coalition. Founded in 1996, the Coalition represents 40,000 chief officers, firefighters, EMTs, emergency services educators, fire inspectors, and arson investigators. The Professional Fire Fighters of Wisconsin (PFFW), International Association of Arson Investigators Wisconsin Chapter, Wisconsin EMS Association, Wisconsin Fire Chief's Education Association, Wisconsin Society of Fire Service Instructors, Wisconsin State Fire Inspectors Association, and Wisconsin State Firefighters Association are also a part of the Fire & EMS Legislative Leadership Coalition.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-attends-opening-ceremony-wisconsin-state-fire-chiefs%E2%80%99
