Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Attends Water Summit 2014 in Milwaukee
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: June 19, 2014
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker today attended Water Summit 2014 in Milwaukee, where he participated in the graduation of the inaugural class of participants in the Global Water Center's accelerator program, The BREW, and announced the second class of entrepreneurs.
The seventh annual Water Summit, held at the Hilton Milwaukee Center, brought together representatives from businesses, universities, communities, government agencies, and other organizations to explore the opportunities that exist in the global water economy. The summit reinforced Wisconsin's position as a global leader in water technology.
"Wisconsin has a rich history of nurturing water-intensive industries, including agriculture, food processing, paper production, and manufacturing, and over the years, we have learned some valuable lessons about sustainable practice," Governor Walker said. "Building upon these strengths, Wisconsin now boasts nearly 300 companies with ties to the rapidly-growing water technology industry. These companies together employ nearly 37,000 people and generate $5.7 billion in annual sales."
Because of Wisconsin's growing reputation as a leader in water technology advancements, well-established industry leaders and new startups are choosing to locate and expand operations in the Global Water Center, which opened in September 2013 in the Walker's Point neighborhood. Space in the Global Water Center is fully committed and redevelopment of an adjacent property has begun to create space for an industry park devoted exclusively to water technologies.
"A key to our recent success has been The Water Council, which draws its membership from industry, academic, utility, and private sector leaders and is the only organization of its kind in the country," Governor Walker added. "This coalition of cooperative stakeholders is directly responsible for establishment of the Global Water Center in Milwaukee, an initiative drawing international attention."
This year's two-day Water Summit, hosted by The Water Council, was attended by about 350 attendees and featured a lineup of speakers from all over the world.
Governor Walker honored the first group of participants who completed The BREW (Business. Research. Entrepreneurship. In Wisconsin.), an accelerator program for water technology startups. He also announced the next round of participants in The BREW, who were chosen from a strong pool of national and international candidates. The Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) is underwriting the rent and acceleration programming for startups, who are housed in the Global Water Center.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-attends-water-summit-2014-milwaukee
