Public Statements
Developing Our Workforce: Governor Scott Walker Signs Bill to Expand Workforce Advancement Training (WAT) Grants
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 23, 2014
Location: Onalaska, WI

Governor Scott Walker traveled to Crescent Printing Company today for a ceremonial bill signing of Act 328, which expands eligibility for Workforce Advancement Training (WAT) grants. Under the new law, businesses with up to 250 employees are eligible, up from 100 employees. The grants are available through worker training partnerships with Wisconsin Technical Colleges. The bill also allows the Wisconsin Technical College System Board to award the grant to a district board to provide assistance with market expansion or business diversification.
"Wisconsin is known around the country for our talented, dependable workforce -- in fact, for many companies looking to move here or expand here, the quality of our workforce is the deciding factor," Governor Walker said. "We are investing in our workforce to ensure job seekers can find a job, businesses can fill positions, and we remain competitive for years to come. I'd like to thank Representative Steve Doyle (D-Onalaska) and Senator Joseph Leibham (R-Sheboygan) for their leadership on this bill."
Developing Our Workforce:
In signing the 2013-2015 state budget, Governor Walker, invested $100 million in worker training, and Governor Walker's Wisconsin Fast Forward initiatives provide customized worker training in key areas including manufacturing, construction, and customer service. In March, as part of his Blueprint for Prosperity plan, Governor Walker signed into law a $35.4 million increase to the Wisconsin Fast Forward program. These additional funds are used to provide workforce training grants to technical colleges, grants for collaborative projects among school districts, technical colleges, and businesses, as well as grants to enhance employment opportunities for persons with disabilities.
The state has enrolled more than 1,200 high school students in the Wisconsin Youth Apprenticeship Program, and in December of last year, Governor Walker signed legislation to add at least 500 more high school students to the program.
Other workforce development initiatives include a $1,000 per pupil incentive for high schools to provide career and technical education programs, and a scholarship for high school students who excel in technical education. The Department of Workforce Development also launched Skill Explorer, a web-based tool allowing individuals search for openings based on skills instead of job titles.
Crescent Printing Company: Crescent Printing is a technologically advanced commercial printing company based in Onalaska, Wisconsin. The company is the type of business that may benefit from the bill's expansion of the grant program to include market expansion assistance from technical colleges.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/developing-our-workforce-governor-scott-walker-signs-bill-expand-workforce
