Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Delivers Keynote Address at Veterans Employment Conference
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 10, 2014
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker delivered remarks at VetCon: A Veteran Employment and Services Conference.
VetCon, presented by the Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs (WDVA) in partnership with Hiring our Heroes, the Department of Workforce Development (DWD), and the Department of Military Affairs (DMA), is a conference for veterans and employers looking to hire veterans. The event included a career fair, a benefits expo, workshops on financial planning and resume writing, and provided access to educational and other resources.
"Wisconsin veterans have selflessly dedicated much of their lives to serving our nation, and it is our job to help them transition smoothly back into our community," said Governor Walker. "Wisconsin is a national leader in veterans programs and services. Events, like VetCon, are just one of the many ways we can and do say "thank you' to the men and women who have served our country and chosen to make Wisconsin their home."
"VetCon is an exciting opportunity for veterans to have direct access to employers, experts in veterans benefits, and many other valuable resources," WDVA Secretary Scocos said. "While WDVA is responsible for assisting veterans on many different issues, we are especially focused on helping veterans find meaningful employment and are very excited to present VetCon with our great partners."
Veterans have access to about 150 employers at the career fair. Over the past four years, WDVA has partnered with various agencies and organizations such as DWD and Hiring Our Heroes to host 67 veteran career fairs statewide, serving nearly 14,000 veterans. Last year alone, over 4,000 veterans and spouses attended these career fairs, with many receiving a job offer or a follow-up job interview as a result. Of those who completed a follow up survey about their career fair experience, 55 percent had received a job offer or follow-up interview.


Source:
