Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Delivers Remarks at Wisconsin Conservation Congress Convention
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 9, 2014
Location: Rothschild, WI

Governor Scott Walker addressed the Wisconsin Conservation Congress (WCC) Convention today. The WCC's mission is to educate the public, gather and promote the interests of Wisconsin citizens, and convey those interests to the Natural Resources Board and the Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
"The Wisconsin Conservation Congress is one of our greatest assets in working collaboratively to best manage our natural resources and build on our sporting heritage," Governor Walker said. "The input gathered through this process helps make projects, like our Wisconsin Walleye Initiative, happen, and WCC plays an important role in the implementation of the deer trustees plan and deer management decisions. I'd like to thank everyone who offers input on conservation issues, and I'm very proud to see members of the Youth Conservation Congress participating in shaping the future of hunting, fishing, and trapping in Wisconsin."
The Wisconsin Conservation Congress is the only statutorhttp://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-delivers-remarks-wisconsin-conservation-congressy body in the state where citizens elect delegates to advise the Natural Resources Board and the Department of Natural Resources on how to responsibly manage Wisconsin's natural resources for present and future generations.
The Youth Conservation Congress (YCC) held its inaugural meeting last year. As the future stewards of Wisconsin's natural resources, members work to foster a sense of responsibility for conservation for years to come, including educating other young people about the nature-based, outdoor activities Wisconsin provides.
About the Wisconsin Walleye Initiative: Governor Walker announced the Wisconsin Walleye Initiative in May 2013 to expand production of large fingerling walleye for stocking from 40,000 per year to nearly 700,000 per year by 2016. The initiative includes resources for the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, as well as for municipal, tribal, and private aquaculture facilities to expand production and enhance their ability to stock additional large fingerling walleye in Wisconsin's waters.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-delivers-remarks-wisconsin-conservation-congress
