Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Promotes 2014 Governor's Blue Ribbon Livestock Auction
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 7, 2014
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker is attending a reception at MillerCoors in Milwaukee this evening to celebrate the success of the 2013 Governor's Blue Ribbon Livestock Auction (GBRLA) and to promote the 2014 event at the Wisconsin State Fair. The 46th Annual Governor's Blue Ribbon Livestock Auction takes place on Wednesday, August 6, 2014. The auction gives buyers an opportunity to purchase award-winning beef, swine, and lambs; a portion of the proceeds fund scholarships for youth in agriculture and grants for youth agriculture programs.
"The exceptional young people who work so hard to raise and show their animals at the Wisconsin State Fair are the future of our agriculture industry in Wisconsin," Governor Walker said. "The Governor's Blue Ribbon Livestock Auction is a fun and festive event allowing us to support their interests and help them build a future in farming, which is an integral part of Wisconsin's economy. Tonight I'd like to thank all of the buyers who have supported this auction in the past and invite everyone to join us for this great event in August. "
The 2013 Governor's Blue Ribbon Livestock Auction continued an upward trend, bringing in $239,750. The Grand Champion Steer, raised by Dan Spoerlein, sold for $30,000. Last year, 26 junior market steers, barrows, and lambs were auctioned. Additionally, four VIP packages including signed, framed, and autographed Milwaukee Brewers and Green Bay Packers prints were sold.
The Blue Ribbon Sale of Champions Foundation is increasing its scholarship awards to $12,000 this year, including one $2,000 scholarship, one $1,500 scholarship, four $1,000 scholarships, and nine $500 scholarships. These 15 scholarships help off-set the educational fees of young Wisconsin State Fair Junior Livestock exhibitors, who have shown exceptional dedication and achievements in agriculture. From 1998 to 2013, more than $135,000 has been awarded to nearly 150 Wisconsin Youth enabling them to continue their education and pursue their career goals in Scholarships.
Grants are also given to Wisconsin youth programs, including Wisconsin Livestock Breeders Youth Development, Livestock Show Camp, Wisconsin State Fair Premier Exhibitor Awards, Wisconsin State Fair. Reserve Champion Market Animal Awards, and Wisconsin State Fair Camp of Champions. The Governor's Blue Ribbon Livestock Auction has been supporting students for more than 45 years.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-promotes-2014-governor%E2%80%99s-blue-ribbon-livestock-auction
