Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Announces Nearly $350,000 in Financial Literacy Grants Awarded to Schools
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 5, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker today announced 26 grants totaling nearly $350,000 have been awarded to schools across Wisconsin to enhance the level of personal finance education. The recipients were selected by the Governor's Council on Financial Literacy out of a field of more than 90 applicants.
"Personal financial education equips our students with the skills they need to be wise consumers of financial services," Governor Walker said. "These grants will help thousands of students become better prepared to make sound financial decisions as adults."
The program, open to Wisconsin's K-12 public and private schools, is a collaborative effort between the Governor's Council on Financial Literacy, the Department of Financial Institutions (DFI), and the Department of Public Instruction (DPI). The program is funded by settlement funds received by DFI over the last couple of years, some of which were designated specifically for financial literacy efforts.
"Educators wrote innovative grant proposals that will reinforce Wisconsin's leadership in helping our kids gain the financial literacy skills they need to graduate ready for college and careers," State Superintendent Tony Evers said. "Projects will provide training so teachers increase their confidence in teaching personal financial literacy, data reviews that will help infuse personal financial literacy throughout the curriculum, and expanded course offerings to include simulations, field trips, guest speakers, and project-based learning."
DFI Secretary Peter Bildsten noted that as a result of the grants, another 15 Wisconsin high schools will make a course in personal finance a graduation requirement. A statewide survey commissioned by the Department last year showed 49 percent of Wisconsin high schools have such a graduation requirement.

Source:
