Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Casts Line into Balsam Lake at 49th Annual Governor's Fishing Opener
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 3, 2014
Location: Balsam Lake, WI

Governor Scott Walker traveled to Balsam Lake today for the 49th annual Governor's Fishing Opener. Each year, the governor kicks off the new fishing season with a local guide who leads them to the best fishing spot on the lake.
"It's wonderful to get back out on the water and drop a line," Governor Walker said. "Fishing is a great Wisconsin tradition and offers a big boost for our tourism industry, and I am proud to be here to kick-off the 2014 season. I'd like to thank our private and tribal fishery partners, as well as those at the Department of Natural Resources, who are working hard to greatly increase the number of walleye fingerlings for stocking Wisconsin lakes under our Wisconsin Walleye Initiative. Together, we're making a great day on the lake even better!"
The 2014 season opens today on inland waters for fish species including walleye, bass, and northern pike; the musky season opens in the southern zone today and opens on May 24 in the northern zone. Additionally, this is the first time in 22 years that anglers will be able to fish largemouth bass on opening day. The Department of Natural Resources (DNR) has all of the details for the 2014-15 fishing season, regulations, and licenses available here. The Wisconsin 2014 Fishing Report has a forecast for each fish population by county.
The DNR has a variety of fishing licenses to meet your needs; 2013 Wisconsin Act 20 directs the Department to offer a one-time free annual fishing license to Wisconsin resident veterans who are recently returning from active duty. They also offer discounted rates to first time buyers and to anglers who have not purchased a license in the last 10 years.
Before you head out, make sure to download the free Wisconsin Fishing, Hunting, and Wildlife Pocket Ranger® app to get all of your fishing news, lake and regulation information, and fish identification.
Wisconsin Walleye Initiative: Governor Walker announced the Wisconsin Walleye Initiative in May 2013 to expand production of large fingerling walleye for stocking from 40,000 per to year to nearly 700,000 per year by 2016. The initiative includes:
$8.2 million to the Department of Natural Resources for infrastructure improvements and $1.3 million each year for operating costs to expand production at state fish hatcheries;
$2 million grant program for municipal, tribal, and private aquaculture facilities to improve their infrastructure and enhance their ability to stock additional large fingerling walleye in Wisconsin's waters;
$500,000 in fiscal year 2014-15 to purchase large fingerling walleye from private fish farms; and
$250,000 to expand the Summer Tribal Youth Program.
Balsam Lake, in Polk County, is a 1901 acre lake with a maximum depth of 37 feet; the lake is home to panfish, largemouth bass, northern pike, and walleye. Anglers in Wisconsin catch 88 million fish each year. The state fish is the muskellunge, commonly called the musky, and Wisconsin has recorded more world record musky catches than anywhere else. Wisconsin is home to over 13,000 miles of trout streams and sportfishing has a $2.3 billion annual economic impact on the state.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-casts-line-balsam-lake-49th-annual-governor%E2%80%99s-fishing
