Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Announces 43 Farmers Awarded Grow Wisconsin Dairy 30x20 Grants
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: May 1, 2014
Location: La Crosse, WI

Governor Scott Walker today announced 43 recipients of the Grow Wisconsin Dairy 30x20 grants at Lane Creek Dairy Farm, LLC in La Crosse. The goal of Governor Walker's 30 x 20 initiative is to increase Wisconsin's milk output to 30 billion pounds by 2020. With the grant funds, farmers can invest in management, develop expansion plans, and transition their farms for the next generation.
"Our investment in Wisconsin's agriculture industry through these grants will enable these farmers to improve their profitability, and allow Wisconsin to thrive as a leader in the nation's dairy industry," Governor Walker said. "Agriculture contributes more than 350,000 jobs to the state's economy, and I'm happy to support the farmers, their families, and their staff who do the hard work. I'd also like to thank farmers like Jeffery Berg, whose passion for the industry allows them to overcome all obstacles."
Jeffery Berg and his wife Jo own Lane Creek Dairy Farm in La Crosse. Berg was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in 1989, but refused to allow the limitations caused by his disability to keep him from building his business for the next generation.
Lane Creek Dairy Farm was awarded Grow Wisconsin Dairy 30x20 grant in 2012. The Bergs used the funds to plan for new construction on the farm and installed a slatted floor with a manure pit under the free stall barn to collect waste. Governor Walker was able to see first-hand how the grant is helping the Bergs increase efficiencies and grow their business.
Governor Walker announced the Grow Wisconsin Dairy 30x20 Initiative in 2012 to offer farmers options to increase profitability and make sure the state's milk production can meet the growing demand for dairy products in the marketplace. Recipients may use the grant funds for a variety of projects, including improved record-keeping, investigating reproductive issues, and increasing cow comfort. Other grants will be used to assist with farm transfers, manure handling, and grazing management. This is the third round of grant awards.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-announces-43-farmers-awarded-grow-wisconsin-dairy-30x20
