Public Statements
Transform Milwaukee Reaches Two-Year Anniversary Goals
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 30, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker announced progress made on the two-year anniversary of Transform Milwaukee, a comprehensive initiative to help rebuild the city's workforce, manufacturing sector, and transportation network.
"Milwaukee's economy is Wisconsin's biggest economic machine, and we need to ensure it's firing on all cylinders," Governor Walker said. "With the state highways, airport, port, and freight rail system, Milwaukee is a prime location for some of the top industries in the world, and this initial investment allows us to build on that. As we see this recovery, our goal is to make sure no one is left behind -- that everyone who wants a good job, can get a good job, in Milwaukee and throughout the state."
Governor Walker and the Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority (WHEDA) first launched Transform Milwaukee on April 30, 2012. The initiative focuses on restoring economic vitality to the industrial corridor, adjacent neighborhoods, and small business development connecting Milwaukee's 30th Street Industrial Corridor, the Menomonee Valley, the Port of Milwaukee, and the Aerotropolis.
WHEDA worked with federal agencies, private foundations, the city of Milwaukee, the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC), and state agencies to package resources that grow businesses, create more jobs, and improve Milwaukee neighborhoods. To support Transform Milwaukee, WHEDA committed to a combination of both direct and leveraged investments totaling $200 million for the first two years of the initiative.
"The progress we have made with private and public partners has been phenomenal," said WHEDA Executive Director Wyman Winston. "I'm pleased that WHEDA was able to provide direct and leveraged investments totaling $205 million to kick-off the initiative. Transform Milwaukee is building momentum and the investments we are seeing in the workforce, economic development, and infrastructure are making a difference in the city."
Below are a few examples of Transform Milwaukee related projects undertaken by other state agencies:
The Transform Milwaukee Jobs Program invested $8.5 million to help individuals obtain long-term, sustainable employment, and work experience. This project was spearheaded by the Department of Children and Families;
The Department of Financial Institutions committed $2 million to demolishing vacant, blighted residential properties in the Transform Milwaukee corridor;
$10.7 million in funding from the Department of Workforce Development was allocated or awarded to provide job services, training, and employment assistance in the Transform Milwaukee area;
$20 million in grants, loans, and tax credits were provided by the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation for economic development projects in the area; and,
$56 million related to transit was invested into the Transform Milwaukee area through awards administered by the Department of Transportation.
"The investments we've made would not have been possible without the commitment from the community, business leaders, and our state agencies," said Governor Walker. "Although we've met our initial investment, our commitment and support of Transform Milwaukee will remain. Transform Milwaukee is rapidly picking up speed and we are laying the foundation for economic vitality for not only Milwaukee but the entire state."
To view a video highlighting key investments and success stories from Transform Milwaukee, visit www.TransformMilwaukee.com. The site also includes a listing of partners, financing resources and an interactive map of WHEDA-financed developments.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/transform-milwaukee-reaches-two-year-anniversary-goals
