Public Statements
Working for Wisconsin: Governor Scott Walker Attends International Cheese Technology Expo
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 24, 2014
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker delivered remarks today at the International Cheese Technology Expo, an international trade show hosted by the Wisconsin Cheese Makers Association and the Wisconsin Center for Dairy Research. While at the event, Governor Walker was presented with the 2014 Cheese Industry Champion Award for his efforts to promote and improve the dairy industry.
"We are proud to be America's Dairyland and to produce the best cheese in the country," Governor Walker said. "Wisconsin is recognized around the world as one of the leading manufacturers of quality dairy products, and in order to remain on top of the dairy world, we need to continue to invest in research and best management practices. The Dairy 30x20 initiative and construction of the University of Wisconsin -- Madison Babcock Hall and Center for Dairy Research will ensure Wisconsin remains the leader of high quality cheese and dairy production."
Founded in 1891, the Wisconsin Cheese Makers Association (WCMA) is a non-profit trade association, made up of manufacturers, processors, marketers, and suppliers, focusing on advocacy for the dairy industry and international events. WCMA works to promote a positive, competitive business climate for Wisconsin's cheese and butter manufacturers. The expo, which offers workshops and seminars for members, is the world's largest event devoted solely to the multi-billion dollar cheese and dairy products market. In addition to the biennial expo, WCMA also hosts championship cheese contests.
The Dairy 30x20 initiative aims to boost Wisconsin's annual dairy production to 30 billion pounds by 2020. The program offers grants to farmers so they can hire consultants to address their specific business needs. Farmers share the cost of this analysis by contributing 20 percent of the cost. Construction on the University of Wisconsin -- Madison Babcock Hall and Center for Dairy Research is scheduled to begin in September 2015 and be completed by April 2018. The Center is the largest dairy research center in the country, and this renovation will expand research space, add environmentally controlled rooms, and add air handling equipment.
Wisconsin is the number one cheese producing state in the country with an annual production of nearly 2.8 billion pounds. Over 27 billion pounds of milk are produced every year and 90 percent of this milk is made into cheese. Wisconsin is the country's largest producer of cheddar, limburger, feta, gouda, muenster, parmesan, provolone, and romano cheeses. In fact, if Wisconsin was a country, it would rank fourth in the world in overall cheese production, behind the United States, Germany, and France. We have more licensed cheese makers than any other state and more than 99 percent of dairy farms in Wisconsin are family-owned.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/working-wisconsin-governor-scott-walker-attends-international-cheese
