Public Statements
Working for Wisconsin: Governor Scott Walker Delivers Remarks at the Wausau Region Chamber of Commerce
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 21, 2014
Location: Wausau

Governor Scott Walker traveled to Wausau to address local officials and business leaders at the Wausau Region Chamber of Commerce Meeting.
"Our positive reforms are working, and we are putting more money back into the hands of the hard-working tax payers of our state," Governor Walker said. "The beautiful Wausau area is a key contributor to the state's economy, and I look forward to our continued partnership to grow the economy and create jobs, by fueling industries including agriculture, tourism, and manufacturing."
Working for Wisconsin:
Governor Walker and the Legislature enacted true reforms, turning a $3.6 billion deficit when he took office, into a surplus of nearly $1 billion in the most recent budget.
Under Governor Walker, taxes have been cut by $2 billion.
After a decade of increases, property taxes have gone down three consecutive years under Governor Walker. The property tax bill for a typical home is estimated to be less in 2014 than it was in 2010.
Changes to withholding (in effect as of April 1) mean parents in a typical family of four will see more than $520 more in their paychecks from April 1 to the end of this year.
Reforms and prudent actions under Governor Walker resulted in historic, consecutive, deposits in the state's rainy day fund, and increasing it to the largest balance in state history.
After losing over 133,000 jobs in four years prior to Governor Walker taking office, Wisconsin has now gained more than 100,000 jobs.
After losing more than 27,000 businesses, under Governor Walker, Wisconsin has gained more than 17,000 new businesses.
After hitting 9.2 percent in 2010, the unemployment rate is down to 5.9 percent in March, the lowest since November of 2008.
95 percent of Wisconsin job creators believe the state is "going in the right direction," up from just 10 percent in 2010 (WMC Survey, Dec. 2013).

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/working-wisconsin-governor-scott-walker-delivers-remarks-wausau-region
