Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: Wisconsin Works for Everyone
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 26, 2017
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker released his Weekly Radio Address today titled "Wisconsin Works for Everyone."
Hi, Scott Walker here.
Former Governor Tommy Thompson joined me earlier this week to announce our Wisconsin Works for Everyone reform package, which will be included in our budget this February.
Wisconsin Works for Everyone focuses on removing barriers to employment, helping people build skills through hands-on job training, and encouraging them to fulfill their true potential through the dignity that comes from work.
Just as Governor Thompson made Wisconsin an example of welfare reform in the 1990s, we plan to lead the nation once again when it comes to helping people create better lives for themselves and their families.
Our proposal will seek federal waivers to launch a pilot program requiring able-bodied adults with school-aged children to be employed or enrolled in job training while receiving food stamps or housing assistance. This will help people on government assistance transition from dependence to true independence.
We already have this work requirement in place for able-bodied adults without children. Public assistance should be a trampoline, not a hammock.
We will also significantly expand job training programs for people who are unemployed, on food stamps, those in prison, and ex-offenders. These programs will help them get the skills they need to be self-sufficient through work.
Our plan will also help families by ending the "benefits cliff" in child care assistance so people aren't left worse off by getting a raise at work. We want to reward work, not penalize it.
This set of initiatives is focused on helping those disconnected from employment realize their potential in the workforce. With Wisconsin's unemployment rate at its lowest point in 16 years, rewarding work will be my top priority in 2017 and beyond.
We want to help everyone who wants a job to find a job - and a career. For those who are able, they should be able to work. Together, we are working and winning for Wisconsin.

Source: https://walker.wi.gov/press-releases/weekly-radio-address-wisconsin-works-everyone
