Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Announces an Additional $500,000 for the Keep Wisconsin Warm Fund
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 10, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker announced another $500,000 has been released from the Department of Administration's Division of Energy Services to the Keep Wisconsin Warm Fund (KWWF). KWWF is a statewide, non-profit charitable organization providing energy-related crisis assistance to citizens. The State has transferred a total of $2 million to KWWF this heating season.
"Even though the extremely long and cold winter is finally behind us, the financial impact will be felt for many months," Governor Walker said. "The Keep Wisconsin Warm Fund has been a valuable partner in our response to the propane shortage and is instrumental in helping Wisconsinites who find themselves in crisis due to the high heating costs."
The DOA Division of Energy Services funding comes from Wisconsin's federal Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). By law, the State must use LIHEAP funds to assist citizens at or below 60 percent of the state median income. For a family of four, 60 percent of the state median income is $47,485.
KWWF places special emphasis on reaching out to households with elderly members, persons with disabilities, veterans, and working families with young children. The state released $1 million to KWWF in January and another $500,000 in February. This $500,000 brings the total to $2 million from the State.
To date, KWWF has received $2.8 million in private contributions this heating season. The additional State funding helps stretch the private donation dollars to serve more households facing high fuel costs and potential disconnections.
In addition, heating assistance is still available from the State. Residents can apply for assistance through county social service offices, tribal governments, and private non-profit agencies. To find the local agency in your area, call toll-free 1-866-HEATWIS (1-866-432-8947) or visit the Home Energy Plus Where to Apply webpage. For households that qualify, the program will pay the benefits directly to the fuel suppliers to cover a portion of their heat or fuel bill.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-announces-additional-500000-keep-wisconsin-warm-fund
