Public Statements
Investing in Wisconsin's Communities: Governor Scott Walker Signs H.O.P.E. Bills into Law
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 7, 2014
Location: Marinette

Today, Governor Scott Walker is signing into law the Heroin Opiate Prevention and Education (H.O.P.E.) legislative package during stops in Marinette, Stevens Point, Eau Claire, and Milwaukee. During the H.O.P.E. tour, Governor Walker will discuss the impact this legislation will have on those struggling with opiate abuse and addiction.
"Wisconsin, like many states across the country, is experiencing a dangerous trend -- an escalating number of cases of heroin use, addiction, and overdose," Governor Walker said. "Heroin addiction does not discriminate, and we have to take action to protect our friends, family members, and neighbors, who need help. I'd like to thank Representative John Nygren (R--Marinette) for addressing this deeply personal, and incredibly important, issue. I'd also like to thank Senator Sheila Harsdorf (R-River Falls) and Senator Alberta Darling (R-River Hills) for their work on this legislation."
"I know that our H.O.P.E. Agenda isn't the 'silver bullet' to overcoming our state's heroin epidemic," said Representative Nygren, whose daughter has battled heroin addiction. "Rather, these seven bills are an important first step in the right direction. I'm proud to help bring the issue of opiate addiction to the forefront in Wisconsin, and I look forward to building upon the foundation we've created with the H.O.P.E. Agenda in the future."
Statewide, the number of people arrested for heroin-related offenses rose 79 percent to 671 between 2010 and 2012, according to the Wisconsin Department of Justice. The quantity of heroin submitted to the State Crime Lab more than doubled during that time. Heroin overdose deaths rose about 50 percent in Wisconsin in 2012 to 199.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/investing-wisconsins-communities-governor-scott-walker-signs-hope-bills-law
