Public Statements
Developing Our Workforce: Governor Scott Walker Announces Expanded, Accelerated Training Program for Trucking Jobs
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: April 4, 2014
Location: Pewaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker made a stop at the Waukesha County Technical College today to announce the launch of a new program, designed to channel Wisconsin residents, including veterans, through accelerated training courses and into guaranteed placements at companies in the growing trucking industry. Up to 300 Wisconsinites who pass eligibility screening will earn a commercial driver's license (CDL) and advance to a placement at one of three Wisconsin trucking firms.
"Wisconsin's transportation industry is experiencing a significant skills gap that will continue through at least 2020, and we need to act aggressively to address this issue," Governor Walker said. "Innovative approaches, like this accelerated training program, are the kinds of investments we need. The incentive of a guaranteed placement at the conclusion of the program makes this initiative a win-win for employers and Wisconsin's working families."
The new CDL training program represents collaboration between the Department of Workforce Development (DWD), Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC), Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs (WDVA), Department of Transportation (DOT), Wisconsin Technical College System, transportation industry leaders, and three major Wisconsin employers: Schneider National of Green Bay, Roehl Transport of Marshfield, and WEL of De Pere.
The Fox Valley Technical College (FVTC) currently offers the course, and Waukesha County Technical College (WCTC) will begin offering it this summer. The Chippewa Valley Technical College (CVTC) and Milwaukee Area Technical College (MATC) offer related instruction at their sites.
"As Wisconsin's lead state agency for talent development, DWD supports innovative workforce solutions that prepare individuals for careers in growing industry sectors," said DWD Secretary Reggie Newson. "We were pleased to convene the workgroup that ultimately led to this new initiative. Wisconsin workers benefit with skills training and guaranteed placements and participating employers benefit with a direct pipeline to fill their openings. Both efforts benefit Wisconsin's economy."
"One of WEDC's areas of emphasis is to work with our partners throughout Wisconsin to help expand workforce training systems, especially for the state's key industries," said Reed Hall, secretary and CEO of WEDC, the state's lead economic development organization. "There is no question that Wisconsin trucking companies need more qualified drivers to ensure their continued success, and the continued success of our economy. We believe this program will play a key role in helping to fill that need."
Up to 300 eligible job seekers will complete a four-week training course that results in a Commercial Driver's License and a guaranteed placement at one of the three participating companies. Once placed, the successful graduates will complete the standard introductory stage at the company and become a permanent hire. Experienced semi-truck drivers can earn more than $23 per hour, or approximately 15 percent above the average wage in Wisconsin.
In the program, potential participants register on JobCenterofWisconsin.com and complete a series of assessments to determine their eligibility. Those deemed eligible will complete the four-week training course offered through FVTC or WCTC, and then be matched with a guaranteed placement at one of the three trucking employers.
Given a capacity of 300 placements, DWD is prioritizing veterans, dislocated workers, workers who receive federal Trade Adjustment Assistance, and certain individuals who are eligible for programs under the federal Workforce Investment Act. The training and placements will be at no cost to the participant. Other interested job seekers who are deemed eligible for the program will be asked to cover the $2,500 cost of the training.
The transportation companies' hiring needs are in line with projections showing the need for semi-truck drivers will grow by 21 percent between 2010 and 2020, to more than 55,000 semi-truck drivers.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/developing-our-workforce-governor-scott-walker-announces-expanded-accelerated
