Public Statements
Governor Walker Introduces "Wisconsin Works for Everyone"
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 23, 2017
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker today announced "Wisconsin Works for Everyone," a welfare reform package expanding upon initiatives enacted into law by Governor Tommy Thompson in 1996. Governor Walker is traveling to Milwaukee, Green Bay, Eau Claire, and Madison to highlight the proposal and will be joined by Governor Thompson today in Madison.
"Wisconsin Works for Everyone, like Governor Thompson's original W-2 initiative, is based on the fundamental principle that work is dignifying and connects individuals to society and to its values," said Governor Walker. "We believe our public assistance programs should ask able-bodied adults to take steps toward self-sufficiency through work, while also providing comprehensive tools to help them get and keep a job. The Wisconsin Works for Everyone proposal we're introducing today includes reforms to ensure that programs serve as springboards to self-sufficiency, not just mechanisms for alleviating material hardship."
Wisconsin Works for Everyone, which will be included in Governor Walker's budget proposal this coming February, seeks to extend work requirements to able-bodied adults with school-age children who are receiving FoodShare, as well as to able-bodied adults receiving housing assistance. Just like Governor Thompson's reforms, these initial changes would take place on a pilot basis.
"In 1996, I was proud to lead a national movement to transform welfare as we knew it in Wisconsin," Governor Thompson said. "Our W-2 reform was a resounding success, and Governor Walker is promoting a natural continuation of those efforts today. I have no doubt Wisconsin Works for Everyone will help break the cycle of dependence on government programs here in Wisconsin and serve as an example of successful reform for states throughout the nation."
Governor Walker's full proposal will increase investment in job and skills training for the unemployed and underemployed, reduce barriers to work and increased earnings, and expand programs that incentivize employment. Where flexibility is needed, it will also aggressively seek federal waivers under a new incoming administration to encourage work and enhance self-sufficiency, including to pilot work requirements for working-age, able-bodied adults receiving housing vouchers.

Source:
