Public Statements
Blueprint for Prosperity: Governor Scott Walker Talks Real Tax Relief
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 26, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Scott Walker traveled to Onalaska, Rice Lake, Wausau, and Waukesha today to highlight the Blueprint for Prosperity and talk about the savings residents and job creators will see under the tax relief plan he signed into law on Monday.
"Our Blueprint for Prosperity puts real money back into the hands of those who earned it," Governor Walker said. "Since I have been in office, we have passed $2 billion in tax relief -- and that is great news for all Wisconsinites. But, we aren't done yet. Right now, a typical homeowner will have a lower property tax bill in 2014 than they did in 2010 -- and we will stay the course, so your property tax bill in 2018 is even lower than 2014. Thank you to all the members of the Legislature who worked together to pass our Blueprint for Prosperity for Wisconsin families."
Governor Walker introduced the Blueprint for Prosperity in January 2014 following the news of a $911 million surplus resulting from higher than projected state revenue and sound fiscal state management. The Blueprint for Prosperity provides significant tax relief for Wisconsinites and invests in worker training.
Act 145 provides $406 million in property tax relief. A typical homeowner will see an actual reduction of more than $100 on their next property tax bill. It also cuts income taxes by $98.6 million. These reductions are targeted toward the lowest income tax bracket. Savings for a typical family of four making $40,000, will be $58.
Governor Walker also announced adjustments to withholding of $322.6 million, so you can keep more of your hard-earned paycheck. Beginning in April, working parents in a typical family of four will see $57.90 more in their paychecks each month.
Act 139, which Governor Walker signed last week, increases funding to the Wisconsin Fast Forward program by $35.4 million. This investment provides workforce training grants to technical colleges, grants for collaborative projects among school districts, technical colleges, and businesses, as well as grants to enhance employment opportunities for persons with disabilities.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/blueprint-prosperity-governor-scott-walker-talks-real-tax-relief
