Public Statements
Blueprint for Prosperity: Governor Scott Walker Signs Legislation Increasing Investment in Wisconsin Fast Forward
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 17, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker visited Blackhawk Technical College (BTC) in Janesville and Western Technical College (WTC) in La Crosse today to sign legislation providing a $35.4 million increase to the Wisconsin Fast Forward program. The additional funds will be used to provide workforce training grants to technical colleges, grants for collaborative projects among school districts, technical colleges, and businesses, as well as grants to enhance employment opportunities for persons with disabilities.
"Wisconsin boasts a highly-skilled workforce and in order to remain on the cutting edge, we need to invest in both our workers and the training programs we provide," Governor Walker said. "By addressing the skills gap now, we are training a strong, competitive workforce, which will continue to fuel our growing economy."
Blackhawk Technical College offers courses for associate degrees, technical diplomas, certificates, and apprenticeships. BTC has locations in Beloit Center, Monroe Campus, and Center for Transportation Studies and serves students in Rock and Green counties.
Western Technical College offers programs for an Associate of Applied Science Degree and technical diplomas and certificates. Their mission is to provide "relevant, high quality education, in a collaborative and sustainable environment, that changes the lives of students and grows our communities." The district serves all or parts of Buffalo, Trempealeau, La Crosse, Monroe, Jackson, Clark, Juneau, Sauk, Richland, Vernon, and Crawford counties.
Developing our Workforce
The $35.4 million investment in Governor Walker's Wisconsin Fast Forward initiative is in addition to the $100 million investment in worker training, included in the 2013-15 state budget signed by Governor Walker. Wisconsin Fast Forward initiatives provide customized worker training in key areas, like manufacturing, construction, and customer service.
Last month, the Department of Workforce Development (DWD) announced its intent to award the first round of demand-driven worker training grants under Governor Walker's Wisconsin Fast Forward initiative. The approved applications total $2.6 million for 32 innovative projects and will fund employer-specified training in high-demand fields including manufacturing, customer service, and construction. Grant recipients must commit to wage increases and/or new hires.
The Department also announced a second round of training grants available in areas including: health care, information technology, transportation and distribution, financial services, manufacturing, and construction. To learn how to apply for grants or for more information, visit www.WisconsinFastForward.com.
The state enrolled more than 1,200 high school students in the Wisconsin Youth Apprenticeship Program, and in December, Governor Walker signed legislation at Nicolet Technical College to add at least 500 more high school students to the program.
Other workforce development initiatives include a $1,000 per pupil incentive for high schools to provide career and technical education programs, and a scholarship for high school students, who excel in technical education. DWD also launched Skill Explorer, a web-based tool allowing individuals to search for openings based on skills instead of job titles.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/blueprint-prosperity-governor-scott-walker-signs-legislation-increasing
