Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker to Serve as 2014 Chair of the Midwestern Governors Association
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 6, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

A bipartisan group of Midwestern Governors selected Governor Scott Walker as the next Chair of the Midwestern Governors Association (MGA), with his term starting immediately. Kansas Governor Sam Brownback will serve as Vice-Chair. As part of the announcement, Governor Walker said his primarily focus as Chair will be on strengthening the propane supply chain.
"These past few months we learned that our propane supply can be as unpredictable as Mother Nature," Governor Walker said. "As Chair of the MGA I intend to create a working group comprised of government leaders, industry leaders, and those working in and with the propane industry, to improve propane operations, enhance consumer awareness and strengthen industry preparedness. Although it is hard to even think about next winter when there is still snow on the ground in Wisconsin, many are expecting next year's propane supply and demand issues to be equally challenging to the industry. It's paramount that we bring people together to focus on solutions and find ways to mitigate several of these issues, such as increasing the number of propane tanks filled in summer instead of fall, and I'm very grateful my fellow Governors are interested in engaging in this issue with me."
The State of Wisconsin took numerous steps during the past several months to ensure the 250,000 Wisconsin residents who use propane as their main source of heat for their home or business did not go without during a bitterly cold winter including:
Governor Walker has issued multiple Executive Orders since October 25, 2013, allowing propane transport drivers to log additional hours to transport more propane. Carriers continue to remain responsible for ensuring they operate safely.
On January 3, 2014, the Wisconsin Department of Transportation and the Department of Administration authorized a weight limit relief order for vehicles transporting energy in the state in order to increase the amount of propane carried in a single trip.
At the request of Wisconsin and other Midwestern states, the U.S. Department of Transportation issued a Midwest regional declaration of emergency on January 19, 2014, extending state emergency declarations for purposes of exempting hours of service requirements for propane and fuel transporters through March 15; and
Governor Walker issued a public service announcement on January 23, 2014, providing Wisconsin citizens with information about the current propane shortage in Wisconsin and asking their help in looking out for residents who are being impacted.
On January 29, 2014, Governor Scott Walker wrote a letter to President Barack Obama asking for the immediate release of the remaining Federal Fiscal Year (FFY) 2014 Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) allocations. On Thursday, January 30, the federal government released the funds requested by Governor Walker. The federal Department of Health and Human Services released the remaining FFY 2014 LIHEAP funding and yesterday, the State of Wisconsin received the remaining $14.2 million dollars of the total $103.1 million FFY 2014 allocation. The Department of Administration preemptively released $7 million of the $14.2 million allocation to Wisconsin counties and tribes who administer the Wisconsin Home Energy Assistance Program (WHEAP).
The Department of Administration's Division of Energy Services has contacted approximately 23,000 low-income propane customers recommending that they contact their propane vendor when their tank reaches 30 percent full to ensure they continue to have heating fuel and provided information on assistance available through the Wisconsin Home Energy Assistance Program (WHEAP).
The Department of Administration's Division of Energy Services issued information to all of the local/partner contacts for WHEAP that outlines the benefits available to customers, including the availability of Crisis Benefit dollars to pay for lodging or temporary shelters.
Wisconsin Emergency Management has contacted local emergency management directors to monitor warming sites and shelter availability.
The Keep Wisconsin Warm Fund (KWWF) has agreed to temporarily allow an increase in their income limit for propane households from 60 percent of State Median Income (SMI) to 80 percent SMI, and will allow propane households to potentially receive an increased maximum benefit of $600 and has temporarily adjusted their policy to allow propane households the ability to potentially receive two benefit payments in a year.
The Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority (WHEDA) expanded its $3 million Propane Guarantee Program created specifically for propane dealers to also include existing small businesses so that they would also be allowed to apply to purchase propane or propane equipment.
Governor Walker assumes the MGA Chair role from Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton.
The MGA is a nonprofit, bipartisan organization that brings together the governors of Midwestern states to work cooperatively on issues of importance to the region. Current members of the MGA are Gov. Pat Quinn (Ill.), Gov. Mike Pence (Ind.), Gov. Terry Branstad (Iowa), Gov. Sam Brownback (Kansas), Gov. Rick Snyder (Mich.), Gov. Mark Dayton (Minn.), Gov. Jay Nixon (Mo.), Gov. John Kasich (Ohio) and Gov. Scott Walker (Wis.).

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-serve-2014-chair-midwestern-governors-association
