Public Statements
Moving Forward with Our Blueprint for Prosperity
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: March 6, 2014
Location: Unknown

Hi, this is Scott Walker.
Two months ago, I laid out a Blueprint for Prosperity to move Wisconsin further down the road to greater prosperity. The facts show our historic reforms are working, and our state is in much better financial and economic shape than it was just four years ago.
Gone are the days of billion dollar budget deficits, record job loss, and tax hikes. Today, we have a $911 million surplus, and we've helped the private sector create more than 100,000 jobs and 15,000 net new businesses, and we're delivering significant property and income tax relief for middle class families, farmers, and seniors.
The hardworking taxpayers of Wisconsin know how to spend their money better than politicians in Madison do; and I thank members of the State Senate for helping us this week return the state's surplus to the people who earned it.
Once our Blueprint for Prosperity is signed into law, we will have delivered $2 billion in much-needed tax relief for the people of Wisconsin and more than $135 million for worker training programs. Under our plan, a typical homeowner will pay about $100 less in property taxes this December and the levy will be lower in 2014 than it was in 2010. And by changing withholding, a typical working family will see $522 more in their paychecks this year. That's real money. Additionally, we are increasing funding to the Wisconsin Fast Forward program by $35 million to focus on investments in technical colleges to eliminate waiting lists for high demand fields including manufacturing, agriculture, and Information Technology; we're helping high school students get training in high demand jobs through dual enrollment programs between our high schools and technical colleges.
I look forward to the Assembly's vote and signing this property and income tax relief into law.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/media/weekly-radio-address/moving-forward-our-blueprint-prosperity
