Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Delivers Remarks at Manufacturing Matters! 2014 Conference
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 27, 2014
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker today delivered opening remarks at the Manufacturing Matters! 2014 Conference. The annual event, sponsored by the Wisconsin Manufacturing Extension Partnership, brings together individuals from the business community, as well as officials from the state Department of Workforce Development (DWD) and the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC).
"Wisconsin's economic recovery is fueled by the strength of our manufacturing industry," Governor Walker said. "We will continue our efforts to improve the tax climate and train skilled workers, so business leaders have the confidence they need to expand and grow and create even more jobs producing quality products here in Wisconsin."
The conference will feature Rich Meeusen, President and CEO of Badger Meter as the keynote speaker. Additional presentations include: "Manufacturers Drive Real Profit from Exporting," "We're in this Together: State Financial Resources to Help Businesses Grow in Wisconsin," "Strength in Numbers: The Power of Industry Alliances," "Trends that Matter to Manufacturers," "The Skills Gap: Is It Real?," and "Advanced Talent Management/Workforce Development."
Manufacturing has seen positive growth in Wisconsin during the past several years. In 2012, the industry contributed nearly $50 billion to the state's gross state product, and workers earn on average of 20 percent more than private-sector workers. From November 2012 to November 2013, Wisconsin's manufacturing growth ranked 7th, outpacing even Indiana. Wisconsin is home to approximately 9,400 manufacturers, and job gains in 2013 are estimated to be at 13,100 year over year.
Recently, the manufacturing and agricultural tax credit for income derived from manufacturing or agricultural property went into effect. Other parts of the tax credit include a property tax exemption for manufacturer and merchant inventories, a sales tax exemption for machinery and equipment utilized in manufacturing of tangible personal property, and a 5 percent credit of qualified research expenses for a current year.
Additionally, the state has focused on addressing the workforce needs both now and into the future. The budget included incentives for technical colleges by tying funding to the placement of students in jobs related to their field study, degrees and certificates awarded in high-demand fields, programs with industry-approved curriculum, and the expansion of the dual enrollment program.
In the 2014 State of the State address, Governor Walker also announced his Blueprint for Prosperity plan to return the bulk of a $911 million surplus to the hard-working taxpayers and job creators of the state through income and property tax cuts and adjustments to withholding tables. The plan also increases the investment into the Wisconsin Fast Forward program by $35 million. The program is charged with focusing on investing in technical colleges to eliminate waiting lists for high demand fields, including manufacturing, agriculture, and Information Technology, as well as helping high school students get training in high-demand jobs through dual enrollment programs between our high schools and technical colleges.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-delivers-remarks-manufacturing-matters-2014-conference
