Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Addresses Monroe County Economic Development Conference
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 27, 2014
Location: Fort McCoy, WI

Governor Scott Walker attended the Monroe County Economic Development Conference today to discuss the economic development of the state and the Blueprint for Prosperity.
"We have a bold plan for future economic success in the state, and we continue to build on our commitment to Wisconsin taxpayers and job creators with the Blueprint for Prosperity," Governor Walker stated. "We have replaced the days of billion dollar deficits and record job loss with a $911 million surplus and the creation of 15,000 net new businesses. We have more work to do, but together we are growing the economy and moving Wisconsin forward."
The third annual conference featured presentations from the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation, the Wisconsin Department of Tourism, and Office of Business Development within the Department of Administration. Breakout sessions covered a range of topics, including Incentives for Business Growth, Economic Growth in Tourism through Marketing, and Did You Know??? Companies in Monroe County Making Big Impacts!.
Blueprint for Prosperity:
Cut property taxes by $406 million. The typical homeowner will see an actual reduction of more than $100 dollars on their next property tax bill.
Cut income taxes by $98.6 million. Targeted to the lowest income tax bracket.
Savings for a typical family of four making $40,000, will be $58. No one will get a bigger savings than that.
Adjust withholding for state income taxes by $322.6 million, so you can keep more of your hard-earned paycheck. Beginning in April, a typical family of four will see $57.90 more in their paychecks each month.
Increase the Wisconsin Fast Forward program by $35 million to focus on three new areas:
Invest in technical colleges to eliminate waiting lists for high demand fields including manufacturing, agriculture, and Information Technology;
Help high school students get training in high demand jobs through dual enrollment programs between our high schools and technical colleges;
Support the Year of the Better Bottom Line initiative, which helps people with disabilities enter the workforce.

Source: http://walker.wi.gov/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-addresses-monroe-county-economic-development-conference
