Public Statements
Blueprint for Prosperity: Governor Scott Walker Hosts Brown Bag Visit at MetalStorm, Inc.
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 27, 2014
Location: De Pere, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker visited MetalStorm, Inc. to talk about his Blueprint for Prosperity with employees and local officials.
"Manufacturing is driving our state's economic recovery, which is why we are investing in developing the workforce, to ensure companies like MetalStorm have a pipeline of skilled workers ready and able to fill the positions available," Governor Walker said. "Tax relief under my Blueprint for Prosperity puts more money into the hands of both workers and job creators, and our plan also invests in targeted worker training."
Owner Randy Liska started MetalStorm in 2001 with the mission of achieving its goals with a strong work ethic and dedicated employees. The metal fabrication company currently has about 45 workers.
Governor Walker introduced his Blueprint for Prosperity during the 2014 State of the State address following news of the state's $911 million surplus, created by a strong economic recovery and long-term structural reforms.
Blueprint for Prosperity:
Cut property taxes by $406 million. The typical homeowner will see an actual reduction of more than $100 dollars on their next property tax bill.
Cut income taxes by $98.6 million. Targeted to the lowest income tax bracket. Savings for a typical family of four making $40,000, will be $58. No one will get a bigger savings than that.
Adjust withholding for state income taxes by $322.6 million, so you can keep more of your hard-earned paycheck. Beginning in April, a typical family of four will see $57.90 more in their paychecks each month.
Increase the Wisconsin Fast Forward program by $35 million to focus on three new areas:
Invest in technical colleges to eliminate waiting lists for high demand fields including manufacturing, agriculture, and Information Technology;
Help high school students get training in high demand jobs through dual enrollment programs between our high schools and technical colleges;
Support the Year of the Better Bottom Line initiative, which helps people with disabilities enter the workforce.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/blueprint-prosperity-governor-scott-walker-hosts-brown-bag-visit-metalstorm
