Public Statements
FOX "Fox News Sunday with Chris Wallace" - Transcript: District Attorney and Medicare
Interview
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 23, 2014
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
WALLACE: Governor Walker, all of you meet tomorrow at the White House with President Obama. If he tries to put Republicans on the defensive, how are you going to push back?
WALKER: Well, I think in this particular session, the initial point that Governor Shumlin mentioned I think I agree with. For example, we're going to talk about the National Guard where I think there is a common agreement amongst all 50 governors that we shouldn't go back to pre- 9/11 standards when it comes to the National Guard in any of our states or nationally so there are issues we agree on. I think we get together as all the nation's governors both at the conference and in the White House. The one area where I would disagree with the governor is that when you look at the successful governors across America that are Republicans in states like mine where private sector job growth is the best from April through December of last year than it's been since 1994, or place like Florida where Rick Scott brought the unemployment rate down five percent, Rick Snyder did about the same thing in Michigan. Look at Susana Martinez and Nikki Haley and other governors like that. They are focused on economic and fiscal issues just like I am and that's why we're doing well across the country.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
WALLACE: Let me bring in Governor Walker on exactly that subject. I'd like you to speak to ObamaCare and the exchanges and whether this is just a blip or something more serious and to Governor Shumlin's point. You turned down $119 million in federal money to expand Medicaid. A lot of people would say, really?
WALKER: Well, in our case I don't think the measure of success in government is how many people are dependent on the government. I want people to no longer be dependent, because we empower them to get good jobs, family supporting careers in the private sector. And that's part of our philosophy. We did something unique. We didn't not do what other states did but just not taking the Medicaid expansion. We didn't take the challenges that come with the Medicaid expansion and putting our taxpayers as risk. Instead, we found a way to do something in the Wisconsin way, but we for the first time in our state's history, even my predecessor, Democrat, had people on our waiting list living in poverty for health care. We cover everyone in poverty -- who's living in poverty under Medicaid, we cover everyone above it by transitioning them to the marketplace. We have 224,000 more people covered than we did before and yet we don't put the taxpayers at risk. I think that's a win -- I think that's what people are looking for out of Republicans or Democrats as leaders who find a unique way to reform things.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
WALLACE: Governor Walker, you've got 30 seconds to respond.
WALKER: Because I love the taxpayers, and I don't want to put them at risk. Even before the Medicaid expansion I had $600 million more to Medicaid, almost 40 percent of that was to fill in the federal government reneging on commitments they've already made even before the Medicaid expansion. That commitment is not going to be there and taxpayers all across America will be on the hook. They are not going to be on the hook in Wisconsin.
WALLACE: Governor Walker, you are getting heat now for two local investigations in the state of Wisconsin. First, when you were at the Milwaukee County executive, there are allegations, and in fact people have been convicted, for working on county time to help you and the lieutenant governor get elected. Here is an anti-Walker ad that is running right now in Wisconsin. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The investigation is getting closer to Governor Walker.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What did the president know and when did he first know it?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What did Scott Walker know and when did he know it?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WALLACE: Now, we should point out that they have brought charges against a number of people. They've brought absolutely no charges against you, but the reason this is hot again is because thousands of emails were released this week that indicate that you knew that public workers were working on county time in political campaigns, which is against the law.
WALKER: Right, and that's just not -- that's absolutely not true, and if you look at the facts out there, this is old news. This is about a case that was closed last March. A Democratic district attorney in Milwaukee County spent multiple years looking at all this information. The 27,000-plus pages of documents that were just released have been looked by a team led by a Democrat in Milwaukee County and last year in March he announced the end of that case, plain and simple. It's old news. We have our political operatives at the DNC and the DGA that desperately want to switch the subject from the fact that things like us taking a $3.6 billion budget deficit and turning it into a nearly billion dollar surplus. They don't want to talk about the improvements in the economy. They don't want to talk about the success of new head (ph) of the state. Instead, they desperately want to switch this subject on a subject that's already been resolved as of last March.
WALLACE: Now, it may be old news, and I want to point out again that no charges were brought against you, but because of this dump of 25,000 documents it's new news to a lot of the people in the state and it's been big news in local papers in Wisconsin. In one email that was released this week your then chief of staff Thomas Nardelli, let's put this up on the screen writes, "Campaign and county workers that you wanted to hold daily conference calls, quote, "to review events of the day or of a previous or future day so we can better coordinate sound timely responses," and in another email county administrative director Cynthia Archer suggests that colleagues should use a private email account. "I use this private account quite a bit to communicate with SKW, that's you, and Nardelli, the former chief of staff. Question, if county workers were doing nothing wrong, why should they be using a private email account?
WALKER: Well, but that's exactly to my point. You had a Democratic district attorney spend almost three years looking at every single one of those communications, interviewing people, talking to people and closed the case last March.
WALLACE: Did you know there was a private email account?
WALKER: No, again, it's one of those right point out -- the district attorney has reviewed every single one of these issues.
WALLACE: You're not answering my question.
WALKER: No, because I'm not going to get into 27,000 different pieces of information. The bottom line is a Democrat who led the district attorney's office looked at all this, decided not to charge anything other than the individuals. You mentioned, people who had worked for county in the past, but don't work for me today. I think that's pretty straightforward. It's one of those things where they just want to keep pushing this issue into the forefront because in the end the folks running against us can't counter a positive message when it comes to the economy and creating budget surpluses.
WALLACE: But you are in an election this year, as you point out. And a lot of people talk about you possibly running for president in 2016. Should Republicans worry from all of this about you as a potential presidential candidate in 2016?
WALKER: No. I think we'll weigh the issues out. I think voters are much more concerned about the problems you mentioned with state and federal exchanges across the country because that actually affects their health care. They are concerned about the economic decisions that are distracting from putting focus on helping private sector employers creating more jobs. Those are the things they should be worried about. Those are the things we replaced in Wisconsin where our state lost 133,000 jobs because of the poor policies in the past. Instead we've created over 100,000 jobs in our state, we turned a budget surplus -- a budget deficit into a surplus. Those are the things voters are concerned about.
WALLACE: Governor Walker, Governor Shumlin, we want to thank you both for coming in today, and we'll stay on top of all of these issues.
WALKER: Thank you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/on-air/fox-news-sunday-chris-wallace/2014/02/23/sens-durbin-ayotte-where-ukraine-will-side-nations-governors-talk-tough-issues-washington
