Public Statements
State Donates $500,000 to Keep Wisconsin Warm Fund
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 21, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker announced an additional $500,000 has been released from the Department of Administration's Division of Energy Services to the Keep Wisconsin Warm Fund (KWWF). KWWF is a statewide, non-profit charitable organization that provides energy-related crisis assistance.
"The Keep Wisconsin Warm Fund has been a valuable partner throughout the propane challenge," Governor Walker said. "We are pleased they can leverage the additional support of the state to help address a segment of the population that clearly needs help."
The state funding comes from Wisconsin's federal Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). By law, the State must use LIHEAP funds to assist citizens at or below 60 percent of the state median income. For a family of four, 60 percent of the state median income is $47,485.
The additional state funding directed to KWWF for resident's meeting the federal low-income eligibility requirements will allow KWWF to redeploy existing private contributions to help citizens between 61 and 80 percent of state median income who do not qualify for traditional low-income energy assistance.
"I would encourage every citizen and company in the state who is able to make a contribution to the Keep Wisconsin Warm Fund to do so," Governor Walker said. "Even with rising temperatures, the supply and financial impacts of the propane shortage will be with us for a while. Wisconsinites coming together to help those most in need is yet another example of the fine character of the people of this state."
Previously, the state released $1 million to KWWF in January to ensure as many people as possible can be assisted during the propane shortage. The Keep Wisconsin Warm Fund has agreed to temporarily allow an increase in their income limit for propane households from 61 percent of State Median Income (SMI) to 80 percent SMI, will allow propane households to potentially receive an increased maximum benefit of $600, and has temporarily adjusted their policy to allow propane households the ability to potentially receive two benefit payments in a year. Through KWWF, over $750,000 has already been distributed to citizens between the 60-80 percent range.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/state-donates-500000-keep-wisconsin-warm-fund
