Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Delivers Remarks at the 29th Annual Superior Days
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 19, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker delivered remarks at the 29th Annual Superior Days meeting in Madison. The annual meeting focuses on connecting Northern Wisconsin business leaders and local officials with state resources to discuss issues about community and economic development.
"Northwest Wisconsin is a vital part of the state's economy," Governor Walker said. "My Blueprint for Prosperity puts more money back into your communities to continue our positive economic gains and to fuel industries, including tourism, manufacturing, and forestry."
Governor Walker announced his Blueprint for Prosperity plan during the 2014 State of the State address, following news of the state's $911 million surplus created by a strong economic recovery and long-term structural reforms that yield results. Private sector job growth from April to December was the best in nearly 20 years and according to the Wisconsin Chamber of Commerce 95 percent of Wisconsin CEOs feel the state is "going in the right direction" to foster economic growth and job creation. Governor Walker discussed other issues with the group including, improving infrastructure, tourism promotion, and land resource management.
Blueprint for Prosperity:
Cut property taxes by $406 million. The typical homeowner will see an actual reduction of $101 dollars on their next property tax bill.
Cut income taxes by $98.6 million. Targeted to the lowest income tax bracket. Savings for a typical family of four making $40,000, will be $58. No one will get a bigger savings than that.
Adjust withholding for state income taxes by $322.6 million, so you can keep more of your hard-earned paycheck. Beginning in April, a typical family of four will see $57.90 more in their paychecks each month.
Increase the Wisconsin Fast Forward program by $35 million to focus on three new areas:
Invest in technical colleges to eliminate waiting lists for high demand fields including manufacturing, agriculture and Information Technology;
Help high school students get training in high demand jobs through dual enrollment programs between our high schools and technical colleges;
Support the Year of the Better Bottom Line initiative, which helps people with disabilities enter the workforce.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-delivers-remarks-29th-annual-superior-days
