Public Statements
Blueprint for Prosperity: Governor Scott Walker Hosts Brown Bag Visit at D-LUX Screen Printing Inc.
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 17, 2014
Location: Holmen, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker traveled to D-LUX Screen Printing Inc. in Holmen to discuss his Blueprint for Prosperity with employees and local officials.
"The real work that is driving Wisconsin's economy does not happen in the Capitol building, it happens in communities like this, where someone with a dream starts a business in their garage and grows it into a multi-million dollar business," Governor Walker said. "My Blueprint for Prosperity puts more money into the hands of job creators, so they can invest in their business, and into the hands of taxpayers to further stimulate the economy."
Jim Shuda began D-LUX Screen Printing in his Holmen garage in 1972, making temporary license plates for automotive dealerships. Now, the multi-million dollar business has expanded its specialized products base to include product identification decals, graphic overlays, and magnets. In 2012, the company celebrated 40 years in operation and has recently installed over 1 million dollars in new equipment.
Governor Walker introduced his Blueprint for Prosperity during the 2014 State of the State address, following news of the state's $911 million surplus, created by a strong economic recovery and long-term structural reforms.
Blueprint for Prosperity:
Cut property taxes by $406 million. The typical homeowner will see an actual reduction of $101 dollars on their next property tax bill.
Cut income taxes by $98.6 million. Targeted to the lowest income tax bracket. Savings for a typical family of four making $40,000, will be $58. No one will get a bigger savings than that.
Adjust withholding for state income taxes by $322.6 million, so you can keep more of your hard-earned paycheck. Beginning in April, a typical family of four will see $57.90 more in their paychecks each month.
Increase the Wisconsin Fast Forward program by $35 million to focus on three new areas:
Invest in technical colleges to eliminate waiting lists for high demand fields including manufacturing, agriculture and Information Technology;
Help high school students get training in high demand jobs through dual enrollment programs between our high schools and technical colleges;
Support the Year of the Better Bottom Line initiative, which helps people with disabilities enter the workforce.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/blueprint-prosperity-governor-scott-walker-hosts-brown-bag-visit-d-lux-screen
