Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Addresses Wisconsin Economic Development Association's (WEDA) Conference on Economic Development
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 12, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker attended the Wisconsin Economic Development Association's Governor's Conference on Economic Development today in Madison. The Wisconsin Economic Development Association (WEDA) is a statewide organization working to increase economic development in the state.
"Over the past three years, we have made great strides in improving the business climate in the state by lowering taxes, developing the workforce and streamlining regulations, so job creators have the confidence they need to grow and expand," Governor Walker said. "We are not returning to the days of high unemployment -- but instead are moving toward a bright future, filled with prosperity for all Wisconsinites."
This year's conference theme is "Why Wisconsin" and offers educational seminars covering current economic development topics, exhibits, and networking opportunities. Department of Workforce Development Secretary Reggie Newson, Department of Administration Secretary Mike Huebsch, Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) Secretary and CEO Reed Hall, and WEDC Vice President of International Business Development Lora Klenke will deliver remarks during the three day conference. WEDA is celebrating its 40th anniversary this year.
At the conference, DWD Secretary Newson announced DWD's intent to award the first round of demand-driven worker training grants under Governor Walker's Wisconsin Fast Forward initiative. The approved applications total $2.6 Million for 32 innovative projects and will fund employer-specified training in high-demand fields including manufacturing, customer service and construction. Grant recipients must commit to wage increases and/or new hires.
Governor Walker's Wisconsin Fast Forward initiative includes $15 million for training grants and created the Office of Skills Development to implement the program. The initiative also includes resources for an expanded Labor Market Information System (LMIS), which will provide real time data to connect employers, job seekers, and workforce partners in making hiring and staffing decisions.
Also today, Secretary Newson announced the second round of training grants available in areas including: health care, information technology, transportation and distribution, financial services, manufacturing and construction. To learn how to apply for grants or for more information, visit www.WisconsinFastForward.com.
Governor Walker's Blueprint for Prosperity, announced in the 2014 State of the State address focuses on returning hard-earned tax dollars to the taxpayers, additional investments in worker training to ensure those who are looking for a job are fully equipped to enter the workforce, and increasing the state's rainy day fund.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-addresses-wisconsin-economic-development-association%E2%80%99s
