Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Attends Kick-Off Celebration for Commissioning of USS Milwaukee (LCS)
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Feb. 11, 2014
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Today, Governor Scott Walker attended the kick-off ceremony for the USS Milwaukee (LCS 5), commissioning which will be in the spring of 2015. The commissioning committee, Chairman Dirk J. Debbink, VADM, U.S.N. (retired), and Commander Michael Brasseur, U.S. Navy, USS Milwaukee (LCS 5) Commanding Officer, gathered with Governor Walker to present the USS Milwaukee to the community, businesses, and business leaders as they seek community support for education, scholarships, and the future crew of the ship.
"The commissioning of the USS Milwaukee (LCS 5) is an historic event, which showcases Wisconsin craftsmanship and innovation to the nation and the world." Governor Walker said. "Shipbuilding has a long history in our state, and we are proud to continue this tradition, which fuels our economy and supports national security."
The commissioning committee will plan activities and events that will recognize the crew that will serve on the ship, as well as the ship builder and the community. The committee will also work to promote educational programs, so the workforce of the future has the talent and skills needed to manufacture and produce vessels like the USS Milwaukee for the U.S. Navy in Wisconsin.
The USS Milwaukee (LCS 5) was built by Marinette Marine Corporation, part of the Fincantieri Marine Group, with LCS program contractor Lockheed Martin Littoral Ships and Systems. Founded in 1942, Marinette Marine has grown from building wooden barges to constructing world-class ships, including the U.S. Navy's Littoral Combat Ship (LCS), the Navy Lighterage System, U.S. Coast Guard icebreakers, and response vessels.
The USS Milwaukee (LCS 5) is part of a new breed of U.S. Navy combat ships designed for littoral, or coastal, missions. The crew can operate the ship in shallow water and maneuver at high speeds.
This is the fifth USS Milwaukee to be commissioned, but the first to be built in Wisconsin. USS Milwaukee ships have served in the Civil War, World War II, and the Vietnam War. In 1939, USS Milwaukee discovered the "Milwaukee Deep," which is the deepest spot in the Atlantic Ocean. The new USS Milwaukee will be the fastest USS Milwaukee in history, capable of traveling up to 45 knots. Its crest bears the Milwaukee Art Museum, the Calatrava, blue for Lake Michigan, and symbols depicting the hard work and industry of the Milwaukee area.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-attends-kick-celebration-commissioning-uss-milwaukee
