Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Addresses Standards in Education at State Education Convention
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 24, 2014
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker addressed education leaders at the State Education Convention today.
"Like every other parent across the state, I want our education system to help our kids excel and reach their full potential," Governor Walker said. "Federal standards in education may be raising the bar in some states, but in Wisconsin, we can do better. The education leaders here in our state are most qualified to assess the best way to take the standards we set for students to the next level."
Governor Walker is working with members of the Legislature in both chambers to craft legislation creating a process that would develop Wisconsin-based model academic standards. These standards will be rigorous and tailored to Wisconsin's history of high achievement and the expectations of parents and educators. The process will allow public input and open discussion.
Under his Blueprint for Prosperity plan announced in the State of the State address this week, Governor Walker also announced support to expand Dual Enrollment Academies, allowing high school seniors to take courses in Information Technology, Tool & Die, and Welding/Fabrication for both high school and technical college credits, as well as the Wisconsin Youth Apprenticeship Program. In December, Governor Walker signed legislation at Nicolet Technical College to add at least 500 more high school students to the program.
To encourage more young people to pursue high demand computer science careers, such as IT professionals, Governor Walker worked together with State School Superintendent Dr. Tony Evers on a revision to allow computer science courses to count toward math or science graduation requirements.
The 2013-15 state budget, signed by Governor Walker, includes funds for Academic and Career Plans, so schools can help kids as early as sixth grade start preparing for their careers by identifying skills and interests.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-addresses-standards-education-state-education
