Public Statements
Propane Supply in Wisconsin
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 23, 2014
Location: Unknown

Hi, this is Governor Scott Walker.
Wisconsin is one of many states that's facing a propane shortage. In Wisconsin, we're doing all we can to protect the health and well-being of the 250,000 Wisconsin citizens who depend on propane to heat their homes and businesses.
Supplies of propane across the Midwest are tight because of a wet fall that impacted corn drying, a pipeline shutdown, and a very cold winter. With forecasts calling for continued cold weather, propane supplies will remain a challenge.
Here in Wisconsin, we do what we always do in challenging times: we pull together.
I've issued executive orders that allow for truckers that deliver propane to Wisconsin to drive longer hours -- while doing so safely -- so you have the fuel you need to heat your home.
Our state Department of Transportation has authorized a weight limit relief order for vehicles transporting energy in the state to increase the amount of propane carried in a single trip.
We're also working with surrounding states and our law makers in Washington. Working together, we now have a federal declaration of emergency from the U.S. Department of Transportation so that propane and fuel transporters can help meet the demand across the Midwest. Even states as far away as Texas are helping us get propane to the Midwest.
Now, here's how you can help:
Check in on your neighbors and loved ones, particularly seniors and those most vulnerable. I know we all open our hearts, and we should also open our doors to family and friends to help keep them stay warm.
Contact your propane vendor when your tank reaches 30% full. Because of the limited propane supply, propane vendors are not able to fill tanks completely right now -- and you don't want to wait until your tank runs out.
And conserve the propane you have. Even turning down your thermostat a degree or two will help make your propane last a little longer.
In our state, we'll continue to work with our resources, our law makers, and the propane industry to help Wisconsin recover from this shortage in the months ahead. I thank you for joining in this effort.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/media/weekly-radio-address/propane-supply-wisconsin
