Public Statements
Governor Walker Highlights Economic Success at the Third Annual Future Wisconsin Economic Summit
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Dec. 15, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker highlighted the state's economic success today at Wisconsin Manufacturers and Commerce's (WMC's) Future Wisconsin Economic Summit, which was held at Monona Terrace Community Center in Madison. This third annual summit highlights WMC's Future of Wisconsin Project and focuses on what Wisconsin's economy will potentially look like in 20 years.
"As we continue to move Wisconsin forward, it's crucial for us to look towards and plan for the economic success of our state for generations to come," Governor Walker said. "We've accomplished a great deal since taking office -- our unemployment rate is 4.1 percent, significantly lower than the national rate and the lowest our state has seen since February of 2001. On top of that, more people are employed than ever. All of this is great news for the people of our great state, and today's summit allows us to continue brainstorming new ways to put our taxpayers first, grow our workforce, and strengthen our economy."
The Future of Wisconsin Project helps the state anticipate its future workforce and economic needs. WMC works in partnership with the University of Wisconsin System, Wisconsin Technical College System, Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation, Wisconsin Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction, and Wisconsin Department of Workforce Development. Together, these partners focus on improving several competitive quality indicators in Wisconsin, including talent development, attraction, and retention, business competitiveness, global engagement, government effectiveness, life quality, and entrepreneurial spirit.
The 2016 summit includes presentations from various sectors of Wisconsin's economy, including business, government, and academia. These presentations cover a variety of topics, including business climate, global engagement, and entrepreneurship and technology.
WMC is a leading Wisconsin business association dedicated to making the state one of the most competitive in the nation. It serves as the state chamber of commerce, state manufacturer's association, and state safety council. Their nearly 3,800 members represent large and small manufacturers, service companies, local chambers of commerce, and specialized trade associations.

Source: https://walker.wi.gov/press-releases/governor-walker-highlights-economic-success-third-annual-future-wisconsin-economic
