Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Announces 2014 as the "Year of a Better Bottom Line" Focus on Employment Opportunities for People with Disabilities
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 22, 2014
Location: Madison, WI

Tonight, during the State of the State speech, Governor Walker announced 2014 is the "Year of a Better Bottom Line" and recognized workers with disabilities, who demonstrate the value of their unique abilities in the workplace.
"Often these workers are categorized as disabled, when they have a variety of valuable abilities that are a great asset in the workplace," Governor Walker said. "It's all about finding the right fit. The individuals I mentioned tonight are great examples of the success both workers and business can achieve."
Those mentioned included:
Patrick Young, a finishing assistant at Tailored Label Products in Menomonie Falls. Patrick assembles shipment boxes and is one of the hardest working employees at Tailored Label Products, assembling boxes at twice the rate of the average finishing assistant. His co-workers describe him as friendly and enthusiastic.
Brady Dockendorff, Features Sports Bar and Grille in Holmen. Brady's responsibilities include everything from setting tables to washing dishes and when he's not working Brady loves to play and watch sports. He hopes to someday get involved in coaching.
Joe Nueman, Features Sports Bar and Grille, says he finds great joy and satisfaction in working. Like Brady, Joe also loves sports. He competed nationally for Special Olympics, twice.
Steven Pils, Stinebrink's Piggly Wiggly in Lake Geneva. His duties include bagging grocery orders and returning carts from the parking lot. St. Patrick's Day marks Steven's 11th anniversary at Stinebrink's Piggly Wiggly and owner Mark Stinebrink said he is a customer favorite and people often choose to go through his line just to chat with him.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-announces-2014-%E2%80%9Cyear-better-bottom-line%E2%80%9D-focus
