Public Statements
Issue Position: Health Care
Issue Position
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Ensuring Access to Affordable Healthcare
"Health care costs are the fastest rising part of a family's and employer's budget. I am focused on getting patients the treatment they need, when they need it by eliminating government red tape that increases cost and by giving families more control of their health care." -- Scott Walker
Government's role in Healthcare should be to furnish a system of checks and balances and provide a safety net for those who need it. This should be done while also encouraging competition and transparency to make the system less complicated and more manageable for consumers.
Instead of using one time stimulus funds like the previous administration and liberal Democrats, I am working to provide a long term solution to the viability of the healthcare safety net for the over one million low income families, seniors and people with disabilities throughout Wisconsin.
While I faced a large deficit left by Jim Doyle and the Democrats, I invested $1.2 billion in new state funds for Medicaid, the largest influx of state funds in Wisconsin history. Nearly all of the new revenue that the State of Wisconsin brings in over the next two years will go to fund the programs and care that is needed by so many Wisconsin families.
BadgerCare is an important part of Wisconsin's commitment to its citizens. I will continue to fully fund Medicaid services and give the Department the authority to control the growth in the program in the coming years to guarantee those in need will get assistance .
After ensuring the long term sustainability of Family Care, I called for lifting the caps on enrollment. The state legislature followed my lead and passed legislation to bring the program's many benefits to our elderly and individuals with disabilities. By signing Act 127 into law, I continue my commitment to provide care for Wisconsinites truly in need.

Source: http://www.scottwalker.com/issues/healthcare
