Public Statements
Issue Position: Jobs
Issue Position
By: Scott Walker
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Putting Wisconsin Back To Work
"I think we can have that sort of transformational difference -- from government providing all the answers to where it empowered a partnership with employers, particularly small businesses, and created an environment for more jobs." -- Scott Walker
Without question, the top concern for families across Wisconsin is the economy. As I travel our state, people tell me they're scared. They're scared about losing their jobs, about paying their bills and about caring for their families.

People are frustrated and uncertain about the future -- and with good reason. In the four years before I took office, Wisconsin lost more than 133,000 jobs.

Yet, far too many politicians seem intent on offering more of the same tired tax and spend plans that increase bloated bureaucratic red-tape and make it even harder to create jobs.

Within minutes of taking the oath of office, my first official act as governor, was to begin to implement a comprehensive Emergency Jobs Plan. I declared an economic emergency and called a special session of the legislature that began on inauguration day and did not end until the legislature passed measures that included, but were not limited to:

Cutting taxes on small businesses
Curbing frivolous lawsuits that drove costs up
Eliminating the state tax on Health Savings Accounts
Reforming the Department of Commerce into a true Economic Development Agency.
Immediately convening a Waste, Fraud and Abuse Commission that was intent on curtailing wasteful spending at all levels of state government.

Although there has been a tremendous amount of push back from out-of-state interests and proponents of big-government spending, we were successful in laying the foundation for future job growth. I will continue my focus , we were successful. Your tax burden has dropped and more jobs have been created in Wisconsin while the rest of the country still seems intent on watching unemployment rates rise.

Source: http://www.scottwalker.com/issues/jobs
