Public Statements
Transforming Education/Developing Our Workforce: Governor Scott Walker Signs Legislation to Encourage Computer Science Education
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Dec. 11, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker signed Act 63 today at SOLOMO Technology. Under the law, computer science credits may count toward the required number of math credits needed for graduation. The legislation also increases the minimum number of required math and science credits for high school students from two to three. The bill signing coincides with Computer Science Education Week.
"A strong math and science background is crucial for careers in computer science education as well as further technical education," Governor Walker said. "Our students need to be receiving the best math and science education that we can provide them. Computer science is continually changing the world we live in, and we need to appropriately prepare students to live and work in a world embedded in technology. These additional math and science credits are one step towards setting our students up for success."
"By increasing the state's math and science graduation requirements, which I proposed, Wisconsin is taking an important step forward to ensure our students graduate college and career ready," added State Superintendent Tony Evers.
Act 63 gives school boards the flexibility to count one qualifying computer science course as a math credit, and they may also count one math or science credit toward completion of a career and technical education course. The bill was introduced by the Joint Legislative Council. Governor Walker would also like to thank Senator Luther Olsen (R-Ripon) and Representative John Klenke (R-Green Bay) for their work on this legislation.
Computer Science Week focuses on the further education of computer science and the role that it plays in our day-to-day lives. The week coincides with the birthday of Grace Murray Hopper, one of the first female engineers in the world of computer science.

Source:
