Public Statements
Lt. Governor Kleefisch, Revenue Secretary Chandler to Conduct Tax Reform Roundtables Across Wisconsin
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Dec. 10, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

At the request of Governor Scott Walker, Lt. Governor Rebecca Kleefisch and Department of Revenue Secretary Rick Chandler yesterday held the first in a series of Tax Reform Roundtable discussions to be held across Wisconsin. The roundtable discussion was held at Beloit College. The purpose of the roundtables is to start a conversation with Wisconsinites and gather information and input from taxpayers on the real impact of Wisconsin taxes in consideration of future tax reform.
"This is an outstanding opportunity for the hardworking taxpayers to voice their opinions and offer suggestions on Wisconsin's tax climate," Governor Walker said. "I want to lower the overall tax burden every year I'm in office, and these Tax Reform Roundtables will start the conversation with the people of our state about their priorities for future tax reform."
Wisconsin has many taxes, which impact people in different ways. From the property taxes paid by a senior citizen to income taxes paid by a student starting her career, this isn't about one tax. The roundtables will cover property, income, sales, and business taxes and will not be about specific proposals. The conversation with taxpayers will center on the impact all taxes have on their families and their businesses.
This is just the beginning of a much broader conversation with Wisconsinites about how we can lower the tax burden in our state. The focus is on keeping more money in the pockets of hardworking families, as well as reducing the burden on job creators, so they can focus on growing our economy and creating jobs.
"Under Governor Walker's leadership, we've provided over $1.4 billion in tax relief to Wisconsin families and job creators," Lt. Governor Kleefisch said. "We want to build off of that strong foundation and we want the hardworking taxpayers to keep more of their own money. These listening sessions will offer some great insight into how we can best accomplish that vision."
"Wisconsin's economy is improving under Governor Walker's leadership and more people are getting back to work," Secretary Chandler said. "The goal of these roundtables is to build off the positive foundation we've created and position Wisconsin's economy for future growth and success."
Additional roundtables are planned throughout Wisconsin and will be announced in the coming weeks.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/lt-governor-kleefisch-revenue-secretary-chandler-conduct-tax-reform
