Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Statement on Veterans Day
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Nov. 11, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker released the following statement today in honor of Veterans Day:
We have the privilege of living in the greatest nation in the world. Our freedom comes with a heavy price, which is paid by our veterans. Our veterans have sacrificed their time and risked their well-being for our protection and we owe them our gratitude. Today, and every day, we honor their service and assist them in whatever way we can.
Thank you to each and every veteran -- your selflessness and courage will never be forgotten.
Governor Walker attended several events today in honor of Veterans Day.
First, the Governor joined Wisconsin Department of Veteran Affairs Secretary John Scocos in presenting the Green Bay Packers with a plaque thanking them for their continued dedication to our veterans. The Green Bay Packers hosted military appreciation events in both 2010 and 2011 for Veterans Day. They have also joined with Wisconsin Office for Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR), the Wisconsin Department of Workforce Development, the Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs, and Wisconsin Public Television to host a "Hiring our Heroes" job fair. Additionally, they provided a $5,000 NFL Charities National Partnership Fund Grant for a new Medal of Honor memorial.
Johnson Controls hosted the second event of the day. Johnson Controls has joined with the ESGR to affirm its commitment to hiring employees in the Guard and Reserve. Governor Walker and all Cabinet Secretaries signed similar statements of support earlier this year. This year, Johnson Controls hired 626 veterans nationwide, and their Wisconsin workforce includes 123 veterans or 3.67 percent of total employees.
Finally, Governor Walker visited patients at Clement J. Zablocki Veterans Affairs Medical Center to thank them for their service to our country.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-statement-veterans-day
