Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Joins AT&T to Announce a $10,000 Vetransfer Grant and Kicks Off Cell Phones for Soldiers Drive
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Nov. 8, 2013
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker joined with AT&T today to announce an award to Vetransfer and kick off Cell Phones for Soldiers, which helps troops connect with loved ones back home.
Innovation Award to Vetransfer
The $10,000 AT&T Innovation Award to Vetransfer will support the nonprofit's efforts to help foster and develop innovative new businesses led by veterans.
"As we observe Veterans Day, I am thrilled to join AT&T to announce a grant that will support Vetransfer's efforts to help our military veterans obtain the tools they need to succeed in the private sector," Governor Walker said. "This will help our military veterans continue to be a vital part of growing Wisconsin's economy."
The AT&T donation will support Vetransfer's 12-week mentor-driven seed accelerator class called VictorySpark. Vetransfer will provide veterans and their startups with workshops, mentor meetings, and social events designed to accelerate the development of their business model, while reducing the chances of failure.
"As a company, AT&T is committed to showing our support for our troops and our veterans each and every day," said Scott VanderSanden, President of AT&T Wisconsin. "We are very proud to support Vetransfer's mission to help our veterans develop innovative new businesses."
Vetransfer is an organization focused on helping military veterans start and grow their companies. The most innovative companies are encouraged to apply for VictorySpark.
"The goal of Vetransfer is to train our military veterans in 21st Century Entrepreneurship practices that lead to viable businesses that create jobs," said Nick Wichert, Vetransfer co-founder. "Our veterans are incredible assets to our communities, and they are hardwired to take the risk of creating jobs and increasing economic growth in Wisconsin."
Cell Phones for Soldiers
The Governor also joined with AT&T to launch a Cell Phones for Soldiers drive in the metro Milwaukee area to help troops serving overseas call their families over the holidays. For every donated phone valued over $5, Cell Phones for Soldiers is able to provide two and a half hours of free talk time to deployed troops.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-joins-att-announce-10000-vetransfer-grant-and-kicks
