Public Statements
Developing Our Workforce: Governor Scott Walker Visits Lakeshore Technical College, Promotes Worker Training Program
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Nov. 6, 2013
Location: Sheboygan, WI

Governor Scott Walker toured Lakeshore Technical College today to learn about their apprenticeship program and mobile training lab. Lakeshore Technical College is hosting a two-week public open house of its facilities and lab to celebrate Manufacturing Month.
"Lakeshore Technical College is providing critical, high-quality training to students, employees, and high school teachers," Governor Walker said. "We need partners in the technical college system and business community to make our commitment to worker training a success. Manufacturing Month was about more than just touring technical colleges and manufacturing companies ̶ we wanted to take the opportunity to emphasize how a job in manufacturing is a great family-supporting career and one that is full of highly skilled and innovative workers."
Lakeshore Technical College offers training to high school students, summer training for high school teachers, and assessments of workers' skills and competencies. Their mobile lab allows the college to provide on-site training in industrial maintenance and programmable logic controls. The lab also helps high school students earn up to five credits in the electro-mechanical technology program; these credits help students enter the workforce quickly after graduation.
The fall legislative agenda includes additional investments in apprenticeship training, incentives for high school students who graduate with job ready credentials, and scholarships for students at technical colleges. Additionally, the budget provided funding for career planning beginning in 6th grade. Many times our students do not understand the potential a career in manufacturing can have for them. These investments are part of our commitment to growing the manufacturing industry and ensuring our students are ready for a career as soon as they enter the workforce.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/developing-our-workforce-governor-scott-walker-visits-lakeshore-technical
