Public Statements
Developing Our Workforce: Governor Scott Walker Visits Waukesha County Technical College to Highlight Program Providing Skills Training to High School Students
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 29, 2013
Location: Pewaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker today met with students, faculty, and administrators at Waukesha County Technical College (WCTC) to highlight a pilot program providing manufacturing-related skills training to local high school students. The program, called the Dual Enrollment Academy, began this fall and aims to provide area high school seniors with industry-recognized workplace certificates for high-demand occupations.
"This is an awesome innovative program partnering the technical college with local school districts and job creators to meet the manufacturing industry's growing demands," Governor Walker said. "These high school seniors have an excellent opportunity to be workforce ready and rewarded with a good-paying job after leaving high school. This program is something to be proud of, and I thank everyone involved for their hard work in providing another solution to the skills gap."
The goal of WCTC's Dual Enrollment Academy is to provide high school seniors with a head start in jobs in high-demand fields and provide an immediate impact for private-sector employers looking for skilled talent. Those who participate in the program will earn 20-24 credits of course work, and students will receive industry-recognized workplace certificates. The certificates qualify students for jobs in high-demand fields. The program includes skills training in welding, metal fabrication, tool and die, and information technology.
School districts in collaboration with WCTC include: Waukesha, Arrowhead, Elmbrook, New Berlin, Pewaukee, Hamilton, West Allis, and Light House Academy. Over 500 employers volunteer their time and expertise by serving on Program Advisory Committees for specific technical college programs, including the Dual Enrollment Academy program.

Source:
