Public Statements
Wear Purple on Friday to Raise Domestic Violence Awareness
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 24, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

Today Governor Scott Walker declared Friday, October 25th, 2013 to be "Wear Purple to Help End Domestic Violence Day" in Wisconsin. Purple is the official color of domestic violence awareness and has been used throughout the United States to show support for victims and their families.
"Domestic violence is a tragedy that destroys families and damages the social fabric of our neighborhoods," said Governor Walker. "I am committed to providing victims and their children with the emotional and community supports needed to overcome their trauma and end the cycle of abuse."
Governor Walker reinforced his commitment to end domestic violence by signing a budget that provided $11 million dollars for the Family Justice Center in Milwaukee and the Domestic Abuse Services Center in Madison. These centers will provide shelter and services for families trying to recover from domestic abuse. Additionally, Governor Walker's budget provides more than $750,000 annually for GPS tracking of individuals subject to a domestic abuse or harassment restraining order.
In addition to Governor Walker's budget initiatives, the "Wear Purple to Help End Domestic Violence Day" is being promoted by The Department of Children and Families (DCF). DCF is committed to stopping domestic violence and is leading the way in Wisconsin's efforts to improve the way the state's child welfare agencies respond to domestic abuse.
"Children who witness abuse often become adults who commit acts of violence," said DCF Secretary Eloise Anderson. "By providing guidance, training, and assistance to child welfare agencies, DCF is working to end the tragic cycle of violence that plagues generations of families."
As part of the state's larger recognition of National Domestic Violence Awareness Month, Wisconsinites are encouraged to send a powerful message that there is no place for domestic violence in our homes, neighborhoods, workplaces, or schools by wearing purple this Friday.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/wear-purple-friday-raise-domestic-violence-awareness
