Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Announces the Launch of the Department of Workforce Development's Skill Explorer Job Search Tool
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Oct. 7, 2013
Location: Green Bay, WI

Governor Scott Walker today announced the launch of the Department of Workforce Development's (DWD) new Skill Explorer website during a visit to Northeast Wisconsin Technical College. The new Skill Explorer is a free job search tool allowing Wisconsin workers to search for employment opportunities that match their existing skills and training.
"DWD's new Skill Explorer job search tool will help job-seekers find opportunities that require skills which they already have," Governor Walker said. "This tool suggests jobs matching workers' experiences and training, showing similar opportunities in career fields that workers might not have considered. By providing more information and options, the Skill Explorer will help workers succeed and connect employers with workers that hold the skills they need."
Workers can search for new career opportunities on the Skill Explorer website by typing in their past or current job title. Skill Explorer will provide a list of current openings relating to the work experience of that job through openings on the Jobs Center of Wisconsin. The website will also provide overviews explaining what each specific job entails, how much workers typically make in that position, and any special training or background needed for the occupation. Skill Explorer's mapping function will show hot spots in the state for particular occupations, as well as allow individuals to search for current openings by county.
The Skill Explorer tool is part of a larger investment in workforce development aimed at equipping workers with the skills they need to find jobs in the modern workforce. Governor Walker recently announced workforce development priorities for the upcoming 2013-14 legislative sessions, which included a package of eight workforce development bills.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/newsroom/press-release/governor-scott-walker-announces-launch-department-workforce-development%E2%80%99s
