Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: "Ringing in the New School Year"
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: Sept. 5, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker released his Weekly Radio Address today titled "Ringing in the New School Year."
Transcript:
Hi, I'm Scott Walker.
On Tuesday, students across the state headed back to school. The beginning of each school year is filled with excitement and anticipation for the year yet to come. For the first day of school, I joined State Superintendent Tony Evers to ring in the school year at Garland Elementary in Milwaukee. We walked through the neighborhood with students from Garland as they headed back to school and had a great time kicking off the school year with them.
As a parent, I understand the importance of a quality education. Both of my sons will be away at college this year for the first time, and they'll be building on the academic foundation built in our local public school.
Every child deserves access to a great education -- and the foundation for academic success begins with reading. Students need to learn to read by the third grade, so that they can then read to succeed. Our state budget invests $2.8 million in the PALS reading screener program. The screener accesses students in four-year-old kindergarten through second grade for basic reading skills. Additionally, the assessment will now include an oral vocabulary component in second grade. I encourage every parent to read to their child at home so that they can sharpen their reading skills.
Tonette and I hope students all across the state have a great school year and foster a joy of learning throughout the year. Thanks to all of our teachers and administrators who dedicate their time and talents to our children day in and day out, so they can build a strong academic foundation for their future.
The state partnered with the Wisconsin Broadcasters Association to produce and distribute a brief radio address once a week. Audio files and a written transcript of this radio address can be accessed on http://www.wi-broadcasters.org and http://walker.wi.gov/Weekly-Radio-Addresses.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=6176dbb2-eae9-477e-a9f9-6b83d25f8061
