Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: "Celebrating the 110th Anniversary of Harley-Davidson Motor Company"
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: Aug. 29, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker released his Weekly Radio Address today titled "Celebrating the 110th Anniversary of the Harley-Davidson Motor Company."
Transcript:
Hi, I'm Scott Walker.
This week we celebrate the 110th Anniversary of an American icon -- Wisconsin's own Harley-Davidson Motor Company.
Over 100,000 people are expected to be in Milwaukee to commemorate the 110th. I'll be riding my 100th Anniversary Special Edition Road King during some of the rides this week. In fact, on Wednesday, I had the honor of participating in the House of Harley-Davidson's 110th Military Appreciation Day Ride which benefited Fisher House here in Wisconsin. The Fisher House is a public-private partnership that helps military service members and their families in times of need.
On Saturday, we'll be roaring down the streets of Milwaukee during the official Harley-Davidson 110th Anniversary Parade that begins at Miller Park and ends at Milwaukee's lakefront. On Sunday, I'll also be a part of the 110th Women Rider's Day, benefitting breast cancer research. Harley-Davidson and all of its riders have done a tremendous job honoring our service members, law enforcement professionals, and other great causes this week with charitable giving, and we applaud them.
Earlier this year, I was proud to attend the opening of a Harley-Davidson dealership in Tianjin, China. It was an honor to be there, and now I'm excited to welcome some of their employees and Harley riders to Wisconsin. Their attendance is a reminder of Harley-Davidson's growing influence around the globe.
I've been looking forward to getting out on the road to commemorate the 110th all summer long. Harley-Davidson is an American classic and its one that centers on celebrating the freedoms we hold dear. Congratulations to the Harley-Davidson Motor Company and all of its employees on 110 years of success.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=780eff5f-1d16-4355-b8c0-3f5c53407472
