Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Attends Connect Marketplace Conference
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Aug. 23, 2013
Location: Milwaukee, WI

Governor Scott Walker attended the Connect Marketplace Conference today. This year's event takes place in Milwaukee from August 22--24th at the Wisconsin Center, drawing thousands of business professionals to Wisconsin.
"Last year, I had the opportunity to attend the conference in New Orleans, and I am excited Wisconsin was chosen to host Connect Marketplace this year," Governor Walker said. "Tourism is an essential part of Wisconsin's economy. In 2012, tourism had a total impact of $16.8 billion on the state which was a 5 percent increase from 2011. Nearly 184,000 jobs are supported by tourism, and one in 13 jobs relies on tourism. We love when visitors and business professionals travel through Wisconsin, but our goal is to make their stay such a great experience that they continue to come back time and time again."
Connect Marketplace is a conference combining an appointment-only trade show with networking opportunities. Connect Marketplace 2013 features education sessions on subjects such as risk management, leadership, and sustainability. Additionally, Karen McCullough, an award-winning speaker, consultant, and branding expert, and Magic Johnson, an NBA player, Olympic Gold Medalist, and entrepreneur, are among the keynote speakers.
Connect Marketplace 2013 is also debuting Connect Sports Marketplace this year. The reverse trade show model is designed to bring sports events rights holders and industry suppliers together to do business. Suppliers and events rights holders are given the unique opportunity to attend educational sessions and network with other professionals in their field. Wisconsin is the perfect setting for this debut, where sports is a passion and energetic fans, volunteers, and participants are sure to make any sporting event a success.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=20f6a302-f8d8-4328-a389-6df33c7d29e2
