Public Statements
Governor Walker Highlights Success at Northern Wisconsin Economic Development Summit
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Nov. 10, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker joined members of his cabinet today at the annual Northern Economic Development Summit, held in Minocqua. In addition to highlighting the economic success in northern Wisconsin, Governor Walker also announced a $10 million investment in rural economic development through the Rural Economic and Area Development Initiative, or READI.
"Northern Wisconsin plays a crucial role in the economic success of our state and is home to many of our key industries, including tourism, forestry, and manufacturing," Governor Walker said. "The READI grants we're announcing today work to ensure the continued success of these industries and others businesses in rural areas of our state. This innovative approach encourages new business growth and job creation, trains workers and provides access to housing, which lays the foundation for sustainable, long-term growth in rural Wisconsin communities."
READI is a comprehensive category of Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds administered by the Department of Administration's Division of Energy, Housing, and Community Resources. The program will use $10 million of unallocated CDBG funds to assist rural communities with economic development, workforce housing, and workforce training. Funds are made available through an application process to Units of General Local Governments (UGLGs).
The comprehensive grants include up to $500,000 for proposals to create or expand a business resulting in the creation of low- and moderate-income jobs; workforce housing loans of up to $300,000 for proposals to attract new workers to rural areas by rehabilitating or creating workforce housing near the economic development project; and workforce training grants of up to $200,000 to train new workers at the proposed economic development project.
Governor Walker's cabinet is also participating in 61 events throughout northern Wisconsin in Iron, Price, Taylor, Vilas, Oneida, Lincoln, Marathon, Florence, Forest, Langlade, Shawano, Marinette, Oconto, and Menominee counties.

Source: https://walker.wi.gov/press-releases/governor-walker-highlights-success-northern-wisconsin-economic-development-summit
