Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: "Summer Fun in Wisconsin"
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 25, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker released his Weekly Radio Address today titled "Summer Fun in Wisconsin."
Transcript:
Hi, I'm Scott Walker.
The Wisconsin Department of Tourism is a great resource for anyone planning summer excursions and vacations. Whether you're trying to get away for the entire week, or just want to make plans for the day, TravelWisconsin.com can be your one stop guide for planning a great family trip.
Coming up this week on July 25th through the 28th is German Fest at the Summerfest grounds in Milwaukee. This great annual festival offers fun for the entire family and features authentic German cuisine, live music, a parade, fireworks displays on Friday and Saturday night, and much more.
This Saturday, if you feel like heading up to beautiful Door County, head out to Fish Creek for the Summer Harvest Cherry Fest. You can pick your own cherries, enjoy a wine tasting, sample farm market food, and enter the cherry donut eating contest. This family fun event also includes live music, wagon rides, and face painting.
Next week, I'll join an estimated 500,000 aviation enthusiasts from over 60 countries at the EAA AirVenture in Oshkosh. The daily air shows and over 10,000 airplanes make America's largest airshow a summer classic. The State Fair in West Allis is also coming up, and I'm especially excited for the cream puffs, corn on the cob, live music, and the Red, White, and Blue Ribbon Livestock Auction.
These are just a few of the great events taking place this summer across Wisconsin. For more information about these or other events, please visit TravelWisconsin.com. Their website even has a trip planner to help you make planning your getaway that much easier.
However you choose to spend the upcoming weekend and days of summer, please pay attention to the weather and make sure you're properly hydrated to prevent heat-related illnesses.
Tonette and I wish you and your family a safe and happy Wisconsin summer.
The state partnered with the Wisconsin Broadcasters Association to produce and distribute a brief radio address once a week. Audio files and a written transcript of this radio address can be accessed on http://www.wi-broadcasters.org and http://walker.wi.gov/Weekly-Radio-Addresses.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=6714f3a8-5140-448e-9297-4bfe1a0afee8
