Public Statements
Governor Walker Highlights Efforts to End Drug Abuse in Wisconsin, Applauds Findings of First Report by the Controlled Substances Board
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Nov. 1, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Walker joins the Department of Safety and Professional Services (DSPS) in announcing the findings of the first report from the Controlled Substances Board, which highlights the success of the Wisconsin Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (PDMP). The report indicates that between July 1 and September 30, 2016, the number of opioid prescriptions dispensed decreased by 8.2 million as compared to the same time period in 2015.
"We continue to take steps to fight the opioid epidemic in Wisconsin," Governor Walker said. "The statistics released in this report are very encouraging and indicate the efforts we're putting forth to combat prescription drug abuse and misuse are steps in the right direction. This decrease of 8.2 million fewer doses dispensed means there are fewer doses that may sit in medicine cabinets with the potential of being misused."
The number of opioid prescriptions dispensed in Wisconsin between July 1 and September 30, 2015 was 1,280,367, which is equivalent to 83,233,662 drug doses. Numbers released in the Controlled Substances Board report show that between July 1 and September 30 of this year, there was a 9.63 percent reduction in opioid prescriptions and a 9.89 percent reduction in drug doses when compared to the same time period in 2015.
Additional information in the report includes the number of requests for data about their patients made by health care professionals, the number of law enforcement reports submitted to the PDMP, and the quantity of prescriptions dispensed by Wisconsin dispensers located in Wisconsin versus out-of-state dispensers. It also provides data on doctor shopping, pharmacy hopping, and the number of individuals receiving both opioids and benzodiazepine prescriptions.
"We are proud that this program is making inroads in our fight against opioid abuse," said DSPS Secretary Dave Ross. "We expect the report will continue to provide improved results, especially given our upcoming rollout of the enhanced program, which will launch in early 2017."
The Wisconsin PDMP was deployed in June 2013 and is administered by DSPS. Since its inception, the PDMP has been a tool to help health care professionals make more informed decisions about prescribing and dispensing controlled substance prescriptions to patients and discloses data as authorized by law to governmental and law enforcement agencies. It stores over 40 million prescription records submitted by over 2,000 pharmacies and dispensing practitioners.

Source: https://walker.wi.gov/press-releases/governor-walker-highlights-efforts-end-drug-abuse-wisconsin-applauds-findings-first
