Public Statements
Governor Walker Announces Disaster Assistance for Western Wisconsin Flood Victims
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: Nov. 1, 2016
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker announced today that the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) approved his request for federal low-interest disaster loans for individuals and businesses affected by flash flooding in September. The SBA declared Vernon County, along with the contiguous counties of Crawford, Juneau, La Crosse, Monroe, Richland and Sauk counties. In addition, Allamakee County in Iowa and Houston County in Minnesota were also listed.
"We're pleased the U.S. Small Business Administration will be able to assist homeowners and businesses that incurred damage from floods in September," Governor Walker said. "The low-interest loans will help them get back on their feet as they continue to recover from this natural disaster."
Assistance in the form of low-interest loans of up to $200,000 are available to homeowners to repair or replace damaged or destroyed homes. Homeowners and renters are eligible for up to $40,000 to repair or replace damaged or destroyed personal property. Low-interest loans of up to $2 million are available to businesses for physical damage and economic loss from the flooding.
Heavy rains caused widespread flooding and mudslides in western Wisconsin on September 21 and September 22. Last week, the SBA completed initial damage assessments and reported more than 30 homes and businesses sustained significant damage and uninsured losses of over $3 million.
To help assist disaster victims, the SBA will open a Disaster Loan Outreach Center in Viroqua, where individuals and businesses will be able to obtain information and loan applications. The center will open Friday, November 4, 2016 at the Banta Building, 402 Courthouse Square in Viroqua beginning at 10:30 a.m.

Source: https://walker.wi.gov/press-releases/governor-walker-announces-disaster-assistance-western-wisconsin-flood-victims
