Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: "Working for Wisconsin"
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: July 3, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker released his Weekly Radio Address today titled "Working for Wisconsin."
Transcript:
Hi, I'm Scott Walker.
Last Sunday, I was proud to sign the state's two-year state budget into law in Pleasant Prairie. If I had to sum it up into one sentence, I'd say: Our budget is a win for the hardworking taxpayers.
This budget includes the largest income tax cut in 14 years by providing nearly $1 billion in tax relief to Wisconsin families and small businesses. On top of that, we're continuing to invest in our state by providing hundreds of millions of dollars more for our public schools and over $100 million in workforce development to help close the skills gap and help people find jobs faster.
In an effort to move people from government dependence to true independence, we also introduce a number of reforms in this budget. One reform I'm particularly proud of deals with the food stamp program, and it requires able-bodied adults, without children, to get a job or job training before they are eligible for benefits. Our intention with this program is to provide a helping hand up, not just a handout.
Other great items in this budget include strong property tax controls and a two-year tuition freeze for every student in the University of Wisconsin System.
This budget is a sharp contrast from where we were just two years ago. Our structural reforms, coupled with tough, and prudent, decisions, have led to a great investment in the people of Wisconsin. We're focused on making life better for the residents of our state, and this budget builds upon a solid foundation for the future.
I hope you and your family have a safe and enjoyable 4th of July.
The state partnered with the Wisconsin Broadcasters Association to produce and distribute a brief radio address once a week. Audio files and a written transcript of this radio address can be accessed on http://www.wi-broadcasters.org and http://walker.wi.gov/Weekly-Radio-Addresses.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=4ea620bd-882c-43f4-a69e-f24ea5323dc4
