Public Statements
Governor Scott Walker Signs Veterans Legislation at AMVETS Commander's Banquet
Press Release
By: Scott Walker
Date: June 21, 2013
Location: Appleton, WI

Governor Scott Walker signed Senate Bill 45 and Senate Bill 96 today. Both bills relate to veterans in the state of Wisconsin. Governor Walker signed these bills at the AMVETS Commander's Banquet in Appleton, where he was also presented with the AMVETS State Legislative Advocacy Award. AMVETS is a national organization of American veterans, who served during or since World War II.
Senate Bill 45 relates to adding an indication of veterans status to an operator's license or identification card. Veterans can first apply for the status indication six months after publication of the bill. The Department of Natural Resources and the Department of Veterans Affairs (DVA) have indicated this measure will make verifying a veteran's status easier when they apply for services and privileges.
"This commonsense bill will recognize our veterans and make it easier for them when they need to quickly provide verification of their veteran status," Governor Walker said. "I thank Senator Joe Leibham (R-Sheboygan) and Representative Warren Petryk (R-Eleva) for their work on this bill for our veterans."
"Thank you to Governor Walker and the Legislature for their continued support of veterans," Wisconsin DVA Secretary John Scocos said. "The veterans status identifier will go a long way toward ensuring that veterans get the benefits and services they have earned by serving our country."
Senate Bill 96 relates to designating State Highway 128 as the 128th Infantry Memorial Highway to honor the members of that battalion. The Department of Transportation will erect signs at two different locations along the higway to acknowledge the designation.
"We can never thank our service members and veterans enough," Governor Walker said. "Now, everyone driving on STH 128 will remember the sacrifices of the 128th Infantry. I thank Senator Sheila Harsdorf (R-River Falls) and Representative John Murtha (R-Baldwin) for authoring this bill."

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=b4f57efb-007d-463a-a432-bbdb0bdc7e5a
