Public Statements
Weekly Radio Address: "Growing Wisconsin's Dairy Industry"
Statement
By: Scott Walker
Date: June 13, 2013
Location: Madison, WI

Governor Scott Walker released his Weekly Radio Address today titled "Growing Wisconsin's Dairy Industry."
Transcript:
Hi, I'm Scott Walker.
June is "Dairy Month" in Wisconsin, and I'd like to take this opportunity to share with you how important the dairy industry is to Wisconsin's economy, and what we're doing to make it even stronger.
Agriculture is one of Wisconsin's biggest economic engines, and dairy production is a vital component to our state's economy. Wisconsin's dairy industry contributes more than $26.5 billion to our economy every year and employs more than 146,000 people.
Last year, after discussions with our state's dairy leaders, I announced the "Grow Wisconsin Dairy 30x20" plan, which set a goal of achieving an annual milk production of 30 billion pounds by the year 2020. This ambitious, but attainable goal seeks to improve the long-term viability of Wisconsin's dairy industry to meet the growing demand of the marketplace and help Wisconsin dairy farmers increase business.
So far, the 30x20 plan has distributed nearly $200,000 in grants to over 40 recipients across the state. The grants will help farmers increase productivity by improving milk quality, and plan for future investments that include pasture irrigation systems and other projects related to infrastructure improvement.
With the "Grow Wisconsin Dairy 30x20" plan, we're laying the foundation for future growth in our dairy industry, and ensuring Wisconsin remains "America's Dairyland" for generations to come.
The state partnered with the Wisconsin Broadcasters Association to produce and distribute brief radio address once a week. Audio files and a written transcript of this radio address can be accessed on http://www.wi-broadcasters.org and http://walker.wi.gov/Weekly-Radio-Addresses.

Source: http://www.wisgov.state.wi.us/Default.aspx?Page=dc8bd9e0-a251-4192-a9e8-f0b79c6f9fb0
