Public Statements
Meg Whitman, Mitt Romney Headline Inaugural Governor's Trade and Business Conference
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Oct. 21, 2014
Location: Boise, ID

Hewlett-Packard CEO Meg Whitman told more than 800 people at the inaugural Idaho Governor's Trade and Business Conference Presented by Zions Bank that Boise "is one of 30 or 40 cities in the world that are essential to HP" and that the company wants to "consolidate and grow our business" in Idaho's capital city.
Whitman and Mitt Romney -- former governor of Massachusetts and the 2012 Republican candidate for president -- were the headline speakers today at the conference, which also featured best-selling author and economist Todd Buchholz and Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter.
"You've got a great governor here in Idaho," said Whitman, who was the 2010 Republican candidate for governor of California. She discussed the keys to her own success in business and the future of HP -- including the nearly 4,000 employees at its Boise campus -- during a 50-minute question-and-answer session with David Clark, senior vice president of International Banking for Zions Bank.
Romney recounted his experience as a presidential candidate and as head of the 2002 Winter Olympic Games in Salt Lake City during his own 50-minute question-and-answer session with Mark Garfield, senior vice president and regional manager of International Banking for Zions Bank. He also shared his views on the administration and policies of President Barack Obama, contending that weakening the military and pulling back from engagement as a global leader is hurting America's ability to be a force for economic growth and positive change.
Buchholz explained the benefits of fiscal responsibility, of building public-private partnerships and of understanding what motivates global markets in an entertaining and informative presentation.
The conference also featured recognition of two Idaho companies for their special contributions to growing Idaho's economy and international trade activity. President Scott Atkison and Todd Brinkmeyer represented Idaho Forest Group in receiving the Bank Idaho Pacesetter Award, and President and CEO Robert Rebholtz accepted the Idaho Global Pacesetter Award from Governor Otter and Gary DeGrange, vice president of International Banking for Zions Bank.
"Idaho's best natural resources are right here in this room," Governor Otter said, praising the energy and enthusiasm for Idaho's economic future shown by participants in the first of what he plans to make an annual event with Zions Bank.
"It exceeded my expectations, and it confirms my belief that the sky is the limit when private enterprise and the public sector work together collaboratively to raise the tide of economic activity in a way that lifts all our boats," he said. "Idaho has come out of the economic downturn stronger and more confident than ever. We're working together to accelerate Idaho by leveraging our strengths -- the creativity and entrepreneurial spirit of our people -- to build an even more prosperous future."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2014/10%20October/pr_64.html
