Public Statements
Governor Otter Proves He Will Fight For Idaho Values In Third Gubernatorial Debate
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Oct. 15, 2014
Location: Nampa, ID

Candidates in the running to be Idaho's next Governor faced off in a debate at the Northwest Nazarene University Brandt Center in Nampa last night. From lands to the economy to education, the central theme of the debate was clear: current Idaho Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter's understanding of Idaho values and his commitment to protect the state's constitution and taxpayers clearly demonstrates that he is the only candidate consistently faithful in defending the rights of Idahoans. It's that sense of loyalty and fiscal responsibility that has the Governor questioning his Democrat opponent's lack of a long-term financial plans for his lofty goals.
On the topic of education funding, Otter has declared his commitment to implementing and funding the 20 recommendations of his bi-partisan education task force, including the $35 million that was reinvested into K-12 education this year. He sharply criticized A.J. Balukoff's lack of a specific plan for reinvesting in education, emphasizing that the only way Balukoff will be able to accomplish these and other initiatives -- including Medicaid expansion -- will be to increase taxes on the backs of all Idahoans.
"What we've got is an accountant moving money around. There has to be a bottom line. We can't borrow money like they do in (Washington) D.C.," said Otter. "Our state constitution says you can't spend more money than you bring in. If A.J.'s schools are doing so good and he wants uniform school funding across the state, then give some of that money that you are getting from the state to some of those rural districts that aren't getting as much as you."
Otter's five-year strategic plan for education, combined with his commitment to increase the earning capability of Idaho citizens, grow the state's economy and defend Idaho's constitution, demonstrated the experience and foresight that makes Otter the right choice for the next four years.
Idaho Public Television is hosting the next Gubernatorial Debate on Thursday, October 30.

Source: http://www.otter4idaho.com/press_room.php/GOVERNOR-OTTER-PROVES-HE-WILL-FIGHT-FOR-IDAHO-VALUES-IN-THIRD-GUBERNATORIAL-DEBATE
