Public Statements
State Reaches Financial Settlement with Idaho Education Network Vendors
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: March 9, 2017
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter and legislative leaders agreed today to settle all financial claims by Education Networks of America (ENA) and CenturyLink for their development of the Idaho Education Network broadband system for Idaho's public schools.
The negotiated settlements require payment totaling $3,461,213. That includes $1,516,533 to ENA and $972,840 each to ENA and CenturyLink for money owed to them by Idaho school districts.
In return, ENA and CenturyLink agreed to drop all claims against the State and all its agencies, entities and employees, including the Department of Administration and Idaho's public school districts. Those claims totaled about $13 million, including at least $11 million against the State and at least $1.9 million against the school districts.
"This is welcome progress toward clearing the way for us to continue providing the best possible educational experience to every public school in Idaho," Governor Otter said. "I'm hopeful that this will help clear the way toward continuing expanded utilization of technology for improving student outcomes and the range of learning opportunities provided by our schools."
"The capabilities developed through the IEN remain a valuable tool for improving education throughout Idaho. This isn't about the quality or importance of the product; it's about the importance of our procurement process and our responsibility to ensure that it meets not only the letter of the law but the perception of propriety," Idaho Senate President Pro Tem Brent Hill said.
"It was very important for the State of Idaho to get this issue taken care of so we can stay focused on our efforts to build and maintain the kind of school system that our students, parents, communities and employers need," Idaho House Speaker Scott Bedke said. "We feel like this settlement is in the best interest of the State's reputation, our school districts and everyone who benefits from the Idaho Education Network."

Source: https://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2017/3_March/pr_12.html
