Public Statements
University of Wyoming Joins Center for Advanced Energy Studies Consortium
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Oct. 10, 2014
Location: Idaho Falls, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced expanded opportunities today for the groundbreaking research being done at the Idaho National Laboratory's Center for Advanced Energy Studies (CAES) with the addition of the University of Wyoming to the CAES Consortium.
"Wyoming's decision to join in the state-of-the-art work being done by CAES -- in conjunction with Idaho's three research universities -- is an important step toward fulfilling this partnership's promise as a truly regional, national and global leader in the field," Governor Otter said. "CAES already is an incredible resource for Idaho. Bringing Wyoming into the mix opens great new frontiers for collaboratively advancing research on energy generation, conservation and transmission that will benefit us all."
The University of Wyoming provides a valuable strategic fit for the consortium by strengthening the competitiveness of CAES in developing sustainable research grants, expanding educational and workforce development opportunities, and more effectively engaging regional energy industries. In particular, adding Wyoming's capabilities in high-performance computing, subsurface water science, petroleum engineering, geophysics, energy and natural resource policy, economics and law, fossil energy systems, materials science and related research are areas of collaboration that will significantly advance the consortium's mission.
The University of Wyoming's School of Energy Resources has exceptionally strong relationships and partnerships with the energy industry and with international energy research institutions. That will enable CAES to access broader research and development funding opportunities and improve talent recruitment while strengthening the consortium's regional economic development impact -- steps recommended by Governor Otter's Leadership in Nuclear Energy (LINE) Commission.
As a full member of the consortium, the University of Wyoming will pay 8 percent of the annual operations costs of CAES -- the same level of investment as each of the Idaho universities pays. Wyoming Governor Matt Mead endorsed the expanded partnership with a videotaped message at today's announcement.
"If this CAES facility, the research opportunities and the faculty weren't here, these scientists and researchers probably would be working in Ohio, Pennsylvania, or maybe North Carolina," Governor Otter said. "Instead, we're keeping some of our best and brightest right here in our region, and we're attracting others because of our shared vision for a world-class facility and program. The University of Wyoming understands that; my friend Governor Mead understands that, and it's great to have them aboard."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2014/10%20October/pr_60.html
