Public Statements
Latest Reports on Unemployment and Median Incomes Prove Otter is Building a Brighter Future
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Sept. 22, 2014
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter says news about Idaho's unemployment rate continuing to decline, as the state's median incomes rise faster than the nation's, are signs that we are doing the right things in building toward a brighter future.
Idaho's August unemployment rate dropped even lower than July's and stands at 4.7 percent, which is almost 2 percent from where it was last year. This also marks nearly 13 years that the state unemployment rate has been lower than the nation's. The same day unemployment numbers were released, we also learned that Idaho's median household, family and individual incomes rose faster than the nation's in 2013.
"This is a great news. I want Idahoans to have employment opportunities, but it's also important that these opportunities are good paying jobs. I'm aware that far too many of our citizens remain underemployed or working in jobs that can't support a family. That's why I have started programs like Choose Idaho, designed for employees who want to advance their careers or for those out there looking for jobs. I've also helped launch workforce development training programs, and the Accelerate Idaho initiative which focuses on community growth as a whole."
Projections show Idaho's long-term job growth will outpace the nation. The Idaho Department of Labor anticipates annual job growth of 1.5 percent between 2010 and 2022.
"It's important that we continue to retain our employers and attract new ones. We were thrilled with the announcement that SkyWest is planning to expand to Idaho, which will open up about 100 new jobs with an average annual pay of $52,000. That's the kind of job growth we want to see in the state and you won't see that if you burden companies and even taxpayers with higher taxes. That's why careful planning and discipline is so important."
Governor Otter's Democrat opponent has not discussed any specific plans for creating more jobs in Idaho other than his focus on education, which is something Governor Otter is already doing with his K-through-Career initiative and workforce development programs.

Source: http://www.otter4idaho.com/press_room.php/Latest-Reports-on-Unemployment-and-Median-Incomes-Prove-Otter-is-Building-a-Brighter-Future
