Public Statements
State Launches Campaign to Retain, Return and Recruit Idaho Workers
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Sept. 8, 2014
Location: Unknown

As Idaho continues to recover in a post-recession economy and the labor market tightens, the state is launching an initiative to help businesses retain, return and recruit employees to help meet the demand for skilled workers.
Choose Idaho is an employee retention and recruiting initiative launched by the Idaho Department of Labor to provide a personalized matching service for employers and jobseekers by connecting incoming résumés with job openings at Idaho businesses.
"Our goal is to keep Idaho's best and brightest in Idaho, encourage former Idahoans to come home and welcome people with new skills to our communities," Gov. C.L. "Butch" Otter said.
Idahoans working to rebuild or advance their careers are invited to upload their own résumés to chooseidaho.gov or go to the site and send an electronic or paper postcard to their friends and family members, encouraging them to do the same.
The Idaho Department of Labor's professional recruiters will personally respond and look for jobs that match the skill sets listed on each résumé.
Labor's business services specialists will help employers identify and list hard-to-fill jobs, share best practices in interviewing and hiring and help identify training resources.
The state's unemployment rate has been dropping from a peak of 8.8 percent in late 2010 in to 4.8 percent this summer, while the number of workers without jobs has fallen from over 67,000 to 37,000.
And, as the number of working-age adults in the labor force falls below 64 percent, the department's occupational projections show a significant labor shortage over the coming decade.
Long-term projections forecast an increase of 109,000 jobs across the economy to 781,000 by 2022 while the labor force will should expand by less than 14,000.
"That gap should be enough of a motivator to provide opportunities for the underemployed to submit their résumés for more skill-appropriate careers and for anyone interested in coming home to a good quality of life to choose Idaho," Governor Otter said.
The department offers workshops for job seekers on résumé writing, interviewing skills and looking for work. Services for employers include customized recruiting and hiring services, access to training resources and tips on complying with labor laws and controlling unemployment insurance costs.
The ChooseIdaho.gov website is up, running and ready for sending postcards and accepting résumés. A paper postcard can be picked up at any of the 25 local Labor offices throughout the state by the end of the week. Postcards can also be ordered for distribution at conventions, college and university homecomings and holiday
and alumni association events by calling Gloria Totoricagüena at (208) 332-3570.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/pdf/09%2008%2014%20-%20State%20Launches%20Campaign%20to%20Retain%20Return%20and%20Recruit%20Workers.pdf
