Public Statements
Governor Otter Issues Executive Order Enacting Cybersecurity Task Force Recommendations
Press Release
By: Brad Little Butch Otter
Date: Jan. 16, 2017
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter signed an executive order today enacting the recommendations of his Cybersecurity Task Force. They include appointing a "Director of Information Security" to lead efforts to detect, identify and thwart hacks on the State of Idaho's computer networks.
The Cybersecurity Task Force was created in July 2015 and led by Lieutenant Governor Brad Little. It included State agency directors and specialists from the private sector.
"I appreciate the diligence and hard work of the members of the Task Force in addressing this critical and urgent issue," Governor Otter said. "We learned this past year, firsthand, just how real the threat of cyberattacks is when the Department of Fish and Game's licensing vendor was hacked. Having a comprehensive plan to protect the personal information of our citizens must be a top priority."
In developing the recommendations contained in Executive Order 2017-02, the Task Force worked with business and industry experts, counterparts from other states, and national cybersecurity specialists. Its recommendations are aimed at supporting State agencies in implementing national best practices in cybersecurity. They also address the need for employee education and training and call for development of a public outreach program to share best practices and up-to-date information.
"This is not a quick fix or a one-time solution. Addressing cyber threats will require a focused, ongoing effort to match the ever-changing technology landscape," Lieutenant Governor Little said. "However, I'm confident that the Task Force's recommendations will lay the foundation for heightened awareness and appropriate preventative measures to protect our State government cyber capabilities and the privacy of all Idahoans."
The search for a Director of Information Security will begin after the Legislature has considered funding for the position, which will report directly to the Governor.

Source: https://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2017/1_January/pr_05.html
