Public Statements
EPA Power Grab Contrasts with Idaho's Water Sovereignty, Values
Statement
By: Butch Otter
Date: Aug. 28, 2014
Location: Unknown

The Environmental Protection Agency claims it only wants to "clarify" what waterways and bodies of water fall within its regulatory jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act. But that's just semantics. In reality, the EPA is checking every nook and cranny of the United States for opportunities to expand its influence in the name of protecting us.
If you're a property owner, or if your livelihood depends on the ability to keep pursuing traditional uses of water in your area, you should be as worried as I am about how the EPA is using its rulemaking process to identify "Waters of the United States" -- or WOTUS -- over which it can expand the federal government's reach and control.
Federal agencies like the EPA have had motives and agendas of their own for years. As former chairman and now vice-chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee that considers EPA's budget, Congressman Mike Simpson has been diligently pushing back against internal bureaucratic momentum that's at least partially to blame for the agency's growing regulatory insurgency. But for the past six years the EPA has especially enjoyed the strong support and encouragement of President Obama as its grip tightens on how American citizens can use our natural resources.
House Science Committee Chairman Lamar Smith of Texas put it well recently when he said the EPA's WOTUS initiative "could fundamentally re-define Americans' private property rights" without any new law or congressional direction. That includes applying strict Clean Water Act standards and the red tape and expense accompanying them even to small streams or wetlands that only appear during periods of heavy rainfall.
The EPA contends the WOTUS rule is necessary in light of U.S. Supreme Court decisions in 2001 and 2006 that restricted the agency's authority and cast doubt on the legitimacy of federal regulatory schemes. But Bonner Cohen, a senior fellow with the National Center for Public Policy Research, said the 88-page EPA rule is a clear effort to turn lemons into lemonade for federal regulators with an end-run around Congress.
"Despite losing both cases, EPA claims ambiguities in the rulings give it greater authority than ever before to regulate private land and isolated, intermittent bodies of water," Cohen recently wrote. He specifically cited the agency's proposal for a parallel "interpretive rule" that would limit the number of traditional farming practices that would otherwise be exempt from the WOTUS rule.
Let's contrast this federal overreach to the landmark Snake River Basin Adjudication (SRBA) process that Idaho recently completed. We spent nearly 30 years legally sorting out hundreds of thousands of water rights claims throughout southern Idaho to ensure that private property and public interests both were protected from any attempts to reallocate or divert our most precious natural resource. As Supreme Court Justice Scalia said during his recent visit to Idaho to celebrate the success of the process, the SRBA "lets the people of Idaho know just what they own."
Meanwhile, President Obama's EPA is looking under every rock to determine where it can next usurp local control.
We must resist this water grab just as we have overcome challenges to our water sovereignty before. The EPA's public comment period ends October 20. You can submit your own comments to the agency here.
In 2003, when I was representing Idaho's 1st District in Congress, environmental activists were demanding that virtually all water stored in the Snake River system upstream of Hells Canyon be devoted to flushing salmon downstream. My position then remains my position today: Protecting our water is every bit as important to survival of the Idaho I know and love as protecting the Constitution is to the survival of the republic. Public policy should be grounded in values that reflect what we hold most dear.
In Idaho, those values include private property, individual liberties, and our water.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2014/8%20August/pr_51.html
