Public Statements
Idaho National Laboratory, CAES Give Idaho a Featured Role in Our Energy Future
Statement
By: Butch Otter
Date: Aug. 19, 2014
Location: Unknown

The City of Idaho Falls and its citizens should be congratulated for launching the Intermountain Energy Summit -- a fantastic opportunity for Idaho to showcase its important role in the region's and our nation's energy future.
As the only multi-program national laboratory to have its host state as part of its name, I am extremely proud of the Idaho National Laboratory and the many advances its scientists and engineers are making in nuclear research, development, demonstration and deployment. The State of Idaho takes seriously INL's designation as the nation's lead nuclear R&D laboratory, and I'm confident Energy Secretary Moniz is getting that message loud and clear this week as he meets with folks in Idaho Falls.
Support for nuclear R&D in Idaho continues to grow thanks to the efforts of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) in cleaning up legacy waste at the site. Despite uncertainty in the federal budget, DOE has responded positively to my efforts to ensure the important milestones of the 1995 Settlement Agreement continue to be met. While challenges remain on the horizon, we are working to create an atmosphere of collaboration rather than litigation and stalemates. This partnership will be critical to ensuring that the environmental issues of our past are safely and effectively resolved. I am firmly committed to this important endeavor.
Next, Idaho's Leadership in Nuclear Energy Commission (LINE 2.0, a continuation of the original LINE Commission) plays a vital role in exploring opportunities to enhance and diversify the INL's research mission. As an $860 million-a-year business with $1.3 billion in infrastructure, the INL has unique characteristics and capabilities that are needed nationally. I look forward to the LINE Commission's future work outlining how the State can most effectively leverage these assets into further opportunities and partnerships that will benefit Idaho and the region.
Finally, the INL's future growth is directly tied to the strength of our partnerships. I have mentioned our collaborative relationship with the DOE and the Lab, as well as the incredible commitment and support from eastern Idaho's people and communities. But I would be remiss if I failed to also mention the crucial role of Idaho's congressional delegation.
Against the backdrop of this landmark Summit, I believe we can expand these partnerships to our neighbors in the energy abundant Intermountain West. To that end, I have been working with Secretary Moniz to host a western governors' energy roundtable to highlight the potential for our region of having such truly world-class resources as the INL and the Center for Advanced Energy Studies here in Idaho. I look forward to bringing that goal to fruition.
I believe that the INL, Idaho Falls and the State of Idaho can and should play a significant role in a more secure, reliable and affordable energy future. The Intermountain Energy Summit is just the beginning.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2014/8%20August/pr_47.html
