Public Statements
Governor Otter's July Capital for a Day Will Be in Benewah County
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 15, 2014
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced today that his next Capital for a Day will be Monday, July 21st, in the Benewah County seat of St. Maries.
Governor Otter brings State government to Idahoans living outside Boise each month by making a different town in Idaho the state's "Capital for a Day." The meetings provide local residents an opportunity to have open discussions about government issues and public policy with Governor Otter, members of his Cabinet and other senior State officials.
The Capital for a Day on July 21st is scheduled from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Eagles Aerie No. 2012 in St. Maries. Governor Otter also will join local officials and residents at noon for a no-host lunch at the same location.
State officials joining Governor Otter at Capital for a Day will include Lieutenant Governor Brad Little, Department of Environmental Quality Director Curt Fransen, Department of Water Resources Director Gary Spackman, Department of Insurance Director Bill Deal, Department of Correction Director Brent Reinke, Office of Energy Resources Administrator John Chatburn, Office of Species Conservation Administrator Dustin Miller, State Board of Education member Don Soltman, and Northwest Power and Conservation Council member Bill Booth. Also on hand to answer questions will be representatives from the Idaho Transportation Department, Department of Health and Welfare, Department of Lands, Department of Labor and Idaho Bureau of Homeland Security.
"Benewah County is in the heart of timber country -- there's a reason St. Maries High School is the home of the "Lumberjacks.' And that timber heritage -- that culture of stewardship, responsible use and constant renewal -- is at the heart of what makes Benewah County so special," Governor Otter said. "Folks here know what it means to take care of what they have so their children and grandchildren can keep living the lifestyle they love. Nothing can be more "Idaho' than that. My Cabinet and I look forward to hearing their concerns and their ideas for making Idaho an even better place to live, work and raise a family."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2014/7%20July/pr_42.html
