Public Statements
Governor Otter Applauds Report Outlining Comprehensive Public Safety Framework - Effort Aims to Reduce Recidivism and Save Taxpayer Dollars
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Jan. 17, 2014
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter thanked legislative leaders and criminal justice stakeholders today for delivering a report and package of policy recommendations designed to make Idaho's communities safer while saving taxpayer dollars.
The proposed "Justice Reinvestment" policy framework is estimated to help Idaho avoid spending more than $288 million over the next five years to keep up with the state's growing prison population. It recommends investing $33 million over the same time period in more training for probation and parole officers, an expansion of community-based treatment options for probationers and parolees, and quality assurance measures to ensure that programs designed to keep offenders out of additional trouble are working effectively.
The report is a product of Idaho's justice reinvestment effort, a data-driven approach to avert growth in the prison system and reinvest savings in strategies that increase public safety. Idaho received technical assistance from the Council of State Governments Justice Center (CSG Justice Center) in partnership with The Pew Charitable Trusts and the U.S. Department of Justice Bureau of Justice Assistance.
The process was guided by an interim legislative committee and a nearly 30-member interdisciplinary working group, which has been reviewing data analyses and developing the policy framework since last June.
"While our crime rate is among the lowest in the nation, our recidivism rate is increasing," Governor Otter said. "This framework outlines a variety of sensible changes we can make as a state that will greatly impact both public safety and the amount of taxpayer dollars that go towards corrections. This is simply a no-brainer for me, and I hope the Legislature sees a similar value and acts accordingly."

Source:
