Public Statements
State Launches Redesigned Official Website
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Jan. 2, 2014
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced today that the State of Idaho's official Web site, Idaho.gov, has an updated appearance and greatly improved functionality.
"We want to make sure your interaction with State government is as pleasant as possible," Governor Otter said. "Being able to access the information you need, no matter what device you use, is an important step for the future. I'm excited to announce this new site and that no taxpayer dollars were used for its redesign."
Highlights of the redesigned site were created based on site analytics and user testing.
The site's topical navigation means citizens don't have to know which State agency is responsible for State finances or any other topic. Inside pages of Idaho.gov are designed to guide citizens to the online services that will help them get things done, whether it's performing a job search, updating their address with the DMV, or renewing a professional license.
The search box is featured prominently on Idaho.gov and indexes all State agencies plus many State Twitter feeds. Results include the very latest information and related online services offered by the State.
The touch-friendly site is designed for seamless use on tablets, smart phones and desktops. Idaho.gov incorporates responsive design as part of an emerging trend in Idaho government to ensure its online resources are compatible with new mobile devices.
Frequent visitors to Idaho.gov will find their most-used pages in the same spot, but enhanced. Popular online State services include the offender database search; vehicle registration renewal; personal and business tax filing and payments; motor carrier permit, registration and endorsement purchasing; UCC lien searches, filings and amendments; child support payments; and professional license renewals.
The new version of Idaho.gov is the fourth redesign in the 15-year history of Idaho's official Web presence. Idaho.gov is managed and operated without tax funds through a public-private partnership between the State and Boise-based Access Idaho.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2014/1%20Jan/pr_02.html
