Public Statements
Idaho Gets Second Presidential Disaster Declaration Amid Widespread Flooding
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: May 18, 2017
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced that President Donald J. Trump signed a Presidential Disaster Declaration today for eight northern and north-central Idaho counties, triggering the release of federal funds to help communities recover from flooding that occurred March 6-28.
Federal funds will be used to repair or replace disaster-damaged public infrastructure and for mitigation efforts to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property. Estimated total damages in Bonner, Boundary, Clearwater, Idaho, Kootenai, Latah, Shoshone and Valley counties exceed $9.6 million.
"I have been traveling around the state surveying flood-related damages since January, and I can tell you the worst is not over. As the record snowpack continues to melt, communities throughout Idaho will continue to face serious challenges," Governor Otter said. "We are grateful that President Trump signed this second declaration so recovery on this flooding event can begin immediately."
On April 21, President Trump signed a disaster declaration for 11 southern Idaho counties -- Bingham, Cassia, Elmore, Franklin, Gooding, Jefferson, Jerome, Lincoln, Minidoka, Twin Falls and Washington -- which were hit hard by severe winter storms and related flooding from February 5 through March 3.
"We are fortunate that Federal Emergency Management Agency officials are already in place in Idaho, working on the state's first Presidential Disaster Declaration, and can seamlessly begin work on this second declaration," said Brad Richy, deputy chief of the Idaho Office of Emergency Management (IOEM). "Idahoans cannot let their guard down. The warmer temperatures that are forecast mean Idaho reservoirs will continue to fill. All that water has to go somewhere. And while officials are doing an outstanding job of gauging when and how much water to release, more water is coming."

Source:
