Public Statements
Your Health Idaho Unveils New Logo and Launches Web site, Outreach Efforts
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Aug. 20, 2013
Location: Boise, ID

The Idaho Health Insurance Exchange, the marketplace where Idahoans will be able to comparison shop for health plans for coverage to begin in January 2014, is making its official public debut with the launch of a consumer-friendly Web site, a new name and a new logo. The marketplace now will go by the name Your Health Idaho.
On the new Web site, www.yourhealthidaho.org, Idahoans can learn more about the tools and resources available through Idaho's new health insurance marketplace in both English and Spanish. Later this fall, the Web site will be the destination for Idahoans to find expert resources and shop, compare and choose a health plan that works for their families and their budgets in time for new coverage to begin in January 2014.
As part of its outreach efforts, Your Health Idaho will train Consumer Connectors, which include agents, brokers and In-Person Assisters who will be available across the state to help Idahoans navigate their health insurance options both online and offline. Consumer Connectors can inform Idahoans about their options so that they can make an informed choice about purchasing a health insurance plan that is best for them.
"Your Health Idaho's mission is to create an online health insurance marketplace designed, driven and controlled by Idahoans to help our citizens research and buy affordable coverage. The launch of the new name, logo and Web site represents a lot of hard work in a short time to build a State-based marketplace offering resources and tools to help Idahoans choose a plan that's right for them and their families," Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter said.
"I am pleased that we have launched a new name and identity that was created with input from Idahoans and highlights our independent spirit," said Amy Dowd, Your Health Idaho's executive director. "Today, with the launch of the Your Health Idaho Web site, we are excited to officially kick off outreach efforts across the state to educate Idahoans about their options for purchasing health insurance and the resources they will have access to this fall through Your Health Idaho."
Your Health Idaho also will establish a consumer resource center in Idaho that will be staffed by Idahoans to field questions and help Idaho residents navigate Your Health Idaho through the telephone, email and standard postal mail.
All health insurance plans sold on Your Health Idaho have been certified by the Idaho Department of Insurance for meeting the minimum coverage requirements called essential health benefits.
About Your Health Idaho
Your Health Idaho was established by State law in 2013 to provide an online marketplace where Idaho families and small businesses can go to compare and purchase health insurance. Your Health Idaho is governed by a 19-member Board authorized by the Idaho Legislature to set the rules and regulations for implementing a State-based health insurance exchange.
Stephen Weeg of Pocatello, a retired executive director of Health West, serves as chairman of the Board. The Board must establish an exchange by January 1, 2014, as required by federal law. It is empowered by State law to develop an operating plan and contract for required services.
For more information please visit www.yourhealthidaho.org

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/pdf/Your%20Health%20Idaho%20August%2020%20announcement.pdf
