Public Statements
Idaho Governor and Controller Launch Financial Transparency Web Site
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Jan. 10, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter and State Controller Brandon D. Woolf unveiled Idaho's new state financial transparency Web site -- Transparent Idaho -- at a joint press conference in the State Capitol today.
The new site, http://Transparent.Idaho.gov, includes thousands of downloadable reports that illuminate Idaho's finances for the current and prior fiscal years. The reports range from broad summaries of State revenues and expenditures with easy-to-read charts and graphs, to detailed snapshots of agency-level finances. Raw data can even be downloaded for those who wish to conduct their own analysis of Idaho's latest financial data. "The data on Transparent Idaho is updated nightly," State Controller Woolf said.
"Brandon and I are on the same page when it comes to shining a bright light on Idaho's finances," Governor Otter said. "For our republic to function it is critical for Idaho citizens to have unfettered access to their government's financial records. Brandon has made that access even easier."
The Transparent Idaho Web site was developed by State Controller Woolf's office in cooperation with a host of other state agencies. "We worked closely with the Governor's Division of Financial Management and the Legislative Service Office," Controller Woolf said. "Together, we've laid a strong foundation for improving Idaho's online financial transparency. Over time, we intend to build on this foundation."
Governor Otter anticipates the State Controller's Office will make even more financial data available online in the future. "Our goal is to put Idaho's checkbook online, but that will take some time and resources," Controller Woolf said. Governor Otter added, "Considering they built this Web site using existing resources and no additional appropriation, it's a first step we can all be proud of."
Additional Resources
Transparent Idaho Web Site: http://Transparent.Idaho.gov
Idaho Public Television will stream the joint press conference live at http://www.idahoptv.org/insession/

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2013/1%20Jan/pr_04.html
