Public Statements
Governor Otter Sets April Capital for a Day in Paris
Statement
By: Butch Otter
Date: April 16, 2016
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced today that the Bear Lake County community of Paris will host the next Capital for a Day on Friday, April 29th.
Governor Otter brings State government to Idahoans living outside Boise each month by making a different town in Idaho the state's "Capital for a Day." The meetings provide local residents an opportunity to have open discussions about government issues and public policy with Governor Otter, members of his Cabinet and other senior State officials.
The Capital for a Day on April 29th is scheduled from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Bear Lake School District Office, 39 Fielding Road in Paris. The Governor also will attend a luncheon with local leaders and residents at the same location.
State officials joining Governor Otter and First Lady Lori Otter at Capital for a Day will include Lieutenant Governor Brad Little, Richard Westerberg of the State Board of Education, Office of Energy Resources Administrator John Chatburn, Department of Commerce Director Megan Ronk, Department of Health and Welfare Director Dick Armstrong, Department of Fish and Game Deputy Director Ed Schriever, Division of Building Safety Administrator Kelly Pearce; Lloyd Knight, administrator at the State Department of Agriculture; Josh Tewalt, chief of staff at the Department of Correction; and Bob Brammer, chief operations officer at the Department of Lands.
Also on hand will be representatives from the Idaho Transportation Department and the Department of Parks and Recreation.
"The history, culture and even the architecture of the first Mormon settlers sent north by Brigham Young remain central to Paris, Bear Lake County and the beautiful Bear Lake Valley. The rugged individualism and timeless sense of community that are so much a part of life in Paris are qualities shared by people in many of Idaho's small towns. It's what makes them so special and what makes it so important for us to listen to their concerns and hopes for the future," Governor Otter said.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2016/4_April/pr_16.html
