Public Statements
The True Cost of Idaho Wildfires
Statement
By: Butch Otter
Date: Oct. 4, 2012
Location: Unknown

State and federal tax dollars spent on wildfire suppression in Idaho so far in 2012 add up to a whopping $189 million -- and it's increasing by the hour.
But the actual cost of a bad wildfire season isn't just about dollars spent on suppression. It's also about impacts on the environment and public health, loss of life and property, and of course the lost opportunities for improving the lives of our citizens through the economic benefits offered by healthy, actively managed forests and rangelands.
Despite the best efforts of our congressional delegation, Idahoans and all Americans will continue paying in many ways for the lack of direction -- or misguided direction -- that federal laws and policies provide public land managers. And while our exceptional firefighters put their lives on the line, the challenges they face on the ground are aggravated by litigious single-interest environmental groups devoted to economically undermining such traditional industries as ranching and forest products.
Estimates indicate that Idaho wildfires this year already have been responsible for more air pollutants being released into the atmosphere than all automobiles and industrial sources in Idaho combined. Severe wildfires also create ash, fine sediment and debris that wash into nearby streams and impact important fish habitat and drinking water sources -- rolling back progress made by the millions of dollars paid every year by Idaho taxpayers and utility ratepayers to help restore salmon runs.
Wildfires also cause long-term soil instability, reducing the chance for natural restoration and re-vegetation. That compromises wildlife habitat in some areas, affecting travel corridors for species and in some cases eliminating habitat altogether. That enables the feds to further restrict multiple use of lands designated as "critical habitat" under the Endangered Species Act.

Source:
