Public Statements
Governor Names Office of Species Conservation Administrator
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 18, 2012
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced the appointment today of Dustin Miller to the position of administrator at the Office of Species Conservation -- the Governor's Office agency that coordinates efforts to control Idaho's own destiny on endangered species issues.
Miller was an environmental liaison for the agency until becoming acting administrator in March with the departure of Nate Fisher, who resigned. The University of Idaho graduate in environmental science previously was natural resources field coordinator for Senator Larry Craig and a regulatory affairs specialist and issues advocate for the Idaho Farm Bureau Federation.
"Dustin's collaborative temperament, his knowledge of Idaho's resources and landscape, his on-the-ground approach to meeting tough challenges, and his experience at the federal, state and local levels in working with public and private stakeholders make him the right person for the job," Governor Otter said. "The Office of Species Conservation is our first line of defense for responsibly protecting and restoring plant and wildlife populations, and Dustin understands the extraordinary and potentially devastating impacts that federal listings under the Endangered Species Act can bring."
Most recently, Miller has been a key participant in Governor Otter's efforts to forestall federal listing of sage-grouse, which could significantly reduce economic development opportunities and curtail many traditional uses of vast tracts of Idaho rangeland.
"It's a big responsibility, but one that I'm prepared and eager to embrace for the people of Idaho," Miller said. "I appreciate Governor Otter's confidence in my ability to represent Idaho professionally and aggressively in defense of our resources and our economy."
Miller's appointment is subject to confirmation by the Idaho Senate.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2012/7Jul/pr_38.html
