Public Statements
IGEM Council is Tasked with Fostering a Spirit of Innovation that Will Lead to New Economic Opportunities for Idaho
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: June 8, 2012
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter today announced a series of appointments to the new Idaho Global Entrepreneurial Mission (IGEM) Council.
Membership on the IGEM Council represents a balance of private- and public-sector interests in recognition of the strong partnerships that are necessary for the private sector to create viable business and career opportunities through harnessing the research and innovation that is central to the mission of Idaho's universities and the Idaho National Laboratory.
"Idaho has a tremendous opportunity to lead the nation in development of innovative technologies that will help existing businesses grow and nurture the startup of new employers," Governor Otter said. "IGEM represents a long-term investment in our state's future, and I'm confident we've assembled an experienced, knowledgeable team that will facilitate and accelerate the transfer of new technologies from our universities to the marketplace."
Members of the inaugural IGEM Council include:
Industry Representatives
Doug Sayer (Chairman) -- Owner and President, Premier Technology (Blackfoot)
William Gilbert, Jr. -- Founder/Owner, The CAPROCK Group (Boise)
Von Hansen -- Vice President and General Manager, Value Enterprise Products; LaserJet and Enterprise Solutions, Hewlett-Packard Company (Boise)
Rick Stott -- Executive Vice President, Agri Beef Co. (Boise)
Legislative Representatives
Senator John Goedde -- Idaho State Senate (Coeur d'Alene)
Representative Gayle Batt -- Idaho House of Representatives (Wilder)
Idaho Department of Commerce
Jeffery Sayer -- Director, Idaho Department of Commerce (Boise)
Idaho State Board of Education
Kenneth Edmunds -- President, Idaho State Board of Education (Twin Falls)
Idaho National Laboratory/Center for Advanced Energy Studies
Dr. David Hill -- Deputy Laboratory Director -- Science & Technology, Idaho National Laboratory (Idaho Falls)
Idaho Universities
Dr. Richard Jacobson -- Executive Director for Research and Technology Transfer, Idaho State University (Pocatello)
Dr. John (Jack) McIver -- Vice President for Research, University of Idaho (Moscow)
Dr. Mark Rudin -- Vice President for Research and Economic Development, Boise State University (Boise)
IGEM was one of Governor Otter's top legislative priorities during the 2012 legislative session, with House Bill 546 passing by an overwhelming majority in both the Idaho State Senate and House of Representatives. IGEM also received strong support from Idaho's universities, the Idaho State Board of Education, the Idaho Technology Council, Idaho Association of Commerce and Industry, the Idaho Chamber Alliance, and the Idaho National Laboratory,
One of the primary responsibilities of the IGEM Council will be developing a statewide strategic plan to foster innovation. The Council also will develop and oversee the Idaho Global Entrepreneurial Mission Grant Fund, which includes $950,000 appropriated by the Idaho State Legislature for grants. IGEM Grant Funds will leverage private-industry guidance and the talent and expertise of Idaho's research universities to commercialize innovative and viable technologies that will strengthen Idaho's economy, create more job opportunities in our communities and meet the Governor's Project 60 goals.

Source: http://commerce.idaho.gov/news/2012/06/inaugural-idaho-global-entrepreneurial-mission-council-appointed.aspx
