Public Statements
Farmers Insurance Donates $10,000 to the Idaho National Guard Youth Challenge Program
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: March 9, 2012
Location: Boise, ID

The Idaho National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program received a major boost in its development efforts today as Farmer Insurance Group presented a check for $10,000 to Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter and Major General Gary Sayler, adjutant general of the Idaho National Guard, in a special reception at the Capitol.
"We are pleased to support the Idaho National Guard Youth ChalleNGe national program because it mentors at-risk youth and gives them a chance to become productive citizens and make a good life for themselves and their families," said Kris Pacey, Farmers Insurance Idaho State Executive Director. "We thank Governor Otter, and Generals Sayler and Turner for their roles in making the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe program a reality in Idaho."
"Farmers Insurance has my sincere appreciation for stepping up to help support this program and the great opportunity it will give Idaho's at-risk youth. The residents of Pierce and Clearwater County are excited about the prospect of hosting a program devoted to helping get these young folks back on the right track in life," Governor Otter said. "I would encourage other companies to join Farmers and other generous donors in helping the Idaho National Guard put this important and innovative program in place."
Youth ChalleNGe officials said the funds will be used to help get the program started in Pierce -- a small and remote community in northern Idaho -- especially for the repair and renovation of the program's residential training facility. When completed, the facility will serve over 200 high school dropouts from all parts of Idaho as they progress through the Youth ChalleNGe's nationally proven program.
The Idaho National Guard Youth ChalleNGe program's mission is, "To intervene in and reclaim the lives of 16- to 18-year-old high school dropouts, producing program graduates with the values, life skills, education, and self-discipline necessary to succeed as productive citizens." It is a preventive rather than a remedial program for at-risk youth, focusing on participants who are unemployed, drug-free high school dropouts who are not in trouble with the law.
The program includes a 22-week residential phase where cadets learn the program's eight core components of Responsible Citizenship, Academic Excellence, Life-Coping Skills, Service to Community, Health and Hygiene, Job Skills Training, Leadership/Followership, and Physical Fitness while earning a State-approved Educational Credential.
The residential phase is followed by a year-long mentoring relationship with a specially trained member from each youth's community, who works to reinforce the lessons learned in the residential phase and assists the student in pursuing further education, employment or civic service. Learn more at www.youthchallengeidaho.org or contact Mr. Brent Ferro at (208) 272-8392 / email youthchallengeidaho@gmail.com.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2012/3Mar/pr_12.html
