Public Statements
Idaho Delegation Seeks Solutions to Federal Overreach
Statement
By: Raúl Labrador Butch Otter Mike Crapo James Risch
Date: Feb. 28, 2012
Location: Washington, DC

Members of the U.S. Senate and House Western Caucuses came together today to discuss the impacts of federal overreach on individuals, communities and businesses. Idaho was well represented at the bicameral hearing: Senator Mike Crapo served as co-chair, Senator Jim Risch and Congressman Raùl Labrador provided remarks and questions, and special witnesses included Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter and Mike and Chantell Sackett of Priest Lake, Idaho.
The hearing, entitled "Washington Barriers to Prosperity and Property Rights in the West," focused on the Administration's environmental and natural resource policies and their negative impact on jobs, economic growth and private property rights in western states and communities. The hearing was held to shed light on real world examples of government overreach, the extent of the problems and what can be done to fix them. During the hearing, members of the caucuses listened to witness' testimony and discussed the impacts that an overly-aggressive federal agenda can have on the rights of western states and individuals to manage their lands and resources.
Mike and Chantell Sackett shared their impression of how regulatory abuse hurts individuals, families, communities and the economy as a whole. In 2005, the Sacketts were in the early stages of building a home a short distance from the shore of Priest Lake when representatives of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers showed up on their property and told them that they needed a federal wetlands permit to build there. Despite no sign of standing water on the property, government agents ordered the Sacketts to stop their work, restore the land, and get a federal wetlands permit if they wished to continue building their home. Deeply concerned about their rights as landowners and the merits of the government's argument, the Sacketts sued the EPA. Just last month, the U.S. Supreme Court heard their case. While the Court's decision may not be revealed until summer, Crapo told those at the hearing today he is cautiously optimistic that the Court will side with the Sacketts.
Highlights from the hearing and reaction include:

Source:
