Public Statements
Roll Call - Otter: D.C. Could Learn About Governing From Idaho
News Article
By: Butch Otter
Date: Nov. 21, 2011
Location: Unknown

By Governor Butch Otter
How can a largely rural Western state of roughly 1.5 million people -- a state whose Republican credentials are matched only by its almost contrarian sense of independence -- possibly set an example of responsible governance for the rest of America?
In Idaho, we did it by reassessing the proper role of government in people's lives. We did it by identifying what our constitution and laws require government to do and eliminating much of what they don't. We did it by instituting zero-based budgeting and bringing business principles to government. We did it by making tough choices and difficult adjustments early in the economic downturn. And we did it by being cautious, prudent, and yes, conservative with taxpayer dollars in order to live within the people's means.
The result was meeting the Idaho constitution's requirement for a balanced budget each year, a nearly 20 percent reduction in the size of Idaho's general fund budget, and a leaner, more efficient and effective state government with an improved bond rating and a strong pension system for state employees.
We didn't raise taxes. We didn't spend down our reserve accounts at the first sign of trouble. We didn't spend one-time federal stimulus money on continuing fiscal obligations. We avoided one-size-fits-all solutions and instead built more and stronger partnerships with the private sector to address challenges such as making affordable, accessible health care available to more Idahoans and -- most importantly of all -- improving on an already business-friendly economic environment to bring more career opportunities to our citizens.
It wasn't easy, and it wasn't always popular. We took plenty of heat along the way from those for whom growing government -- and the sense of entitlement it inevitably fosters -- had become a way of life during the years of economic expansion. We listened to taxpayers, we worked to be more inclusive while overcoming hind-bound resistance to change, and we instituted sweeping reforms of our public schools to prepare our state and our students for an increasingly competitive global marketplace.

Source:
