Public Statements
Governor and Delegation React to NRC Approving Operating License for AREVA
Press Release
By: Butch Otter Mike Simpson Mike Crapo
Date: Oct. 12, 2011
Location: Washington, DC

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter and the Idaho Congressional Delegation today offered their reactions to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's announcement that it has issued a license to AREVA Enrichment Services, LLC to construct and operate the Eagle Rock Enrichment Plant near Idaho Falls, Idaho.
"Today's decision paves the way for AREVA to move forward with its eastern Idaho facility, which will be so important to the future of clean, safe and sustainable energy in our country," Governor Otter said. "NRC approval of the Eagle Rock plant is a significant step toward providing not only for America's energy needs over the long term, but also toward addressing the immediate needs for creating more career opportunities for people right here in Idaho."
"The NRC's approval is very appropriate given the talent and expertise of the workforce surrounding the Idaho National Laboratory," Senator Crapo said. "Nuclear power should remain firmly embedded as a part of our national energy portfolio and AREVA's advancements here will benefit both Idaho and all of our nation's consumers by enhancing our sources of energy and our research expertise."
"The announcement that AREVA Enrichment Services has received their license for the Eagle Rock Enrichment Facility from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is welcome news. This facility will provide much-needed jobs, provide a secure source of enriched uranium within the U.S. and help our country utilize a reliable energy source that is emissions-free," said Risch, who is ranking member of the Subcommittee on Energy. "I recognize this license approval came about after a great effort by the company as well as local and state leaders. I commend everyone for their work that will result in good, permanent jobs for Idahoans."
"Currently, the United States imports nearly 90% of the uranium enrichment services it uses," said Congressman Mike Simpson. "The hard work of AREVA and the citizens of Eastern Idaho has paved the way for a multi-billion dollar facility, which will create hundreds of new jobs while providing a domestic, reliable source of uranium enrichment services. AREVA has a strong record of corporate safety and the technology that Eagle Rock will use has been well proven in numerous locations in the United States and Europe. I have been to see AREVA's facilities in France, and I have the utmost confidence in the quality, safety, and security of their facilities."

Source: http://crapo.senate.gov/media/newsreleases/release_full.cfm?id=334451
