Public Statements
Federal Agencies to Use State Landscape-Level Wildlife Mapping to Inform Land Use Decisions Across the West
Press Release
By: Chris Gregoire Butch Otter
Date: June 30, 2011
Location: Coeur d'Alene, ID

Western governors announced today an agreement with the U.S.
Department of the Interior (DOI) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) that will enable the federal government to make extensive use of state information about crucial wildlife habitats and important wildlife corridors.
The wildlife information, being developed by Western states, is pursuant to the work of the Western Governors' Wildlife Council. The agreement signed by leadership of the Wildlife Council and representatives from DOI and USDA builds upon a June 2009 memorandum of understanding (MOU) between the Western governors and the secretaries of USDA, DOI, and the U.S. Department of Energy.
The primary objective of the 2009 MOU is to support the development of spatial planning tools that provide information from states about important wildlife areas in the West and to coordinate the states' efforts with complementary federal initiatives.
"This agreement is an important step in reaffirming State authority to manage fish and wildlife populations," said Governor Otter, WGA chairman. "Local offices of these federal agencies will use this agreement to work closely with our State wildlife experts to inform their land use, land planning and natural resource decisions."
The agreement also seeks to align Western states' wildlife mapping objectives with federal initiatives such as the Landscape Conservation Cooperatives and the Bureau of Land Management Rapid Ecoregional Assessments to make wildlife mapping approaches compatible across political boundaries.
Federal agencies to use state landscape-level wildlife mapping to inform land use decisions across the West DOI Secretary Ken Salazar said, "This partnership with the Western states will help provide additional, helpful information to Interior as we work to manage our public lands and natural resources in a sustainable, science-based manner."

Source:
