Public Statements
Governor, State Security Leaders React to Bin Laden's Death
Statement
By: Butch Otter
Date: May 2, 2011
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter and the directors of the Idaho State Police and Idaho Bureau of Homeland Security issued the following statements today in reaction to the killing of Osama bin Laden.
Governor Otter said: "This is an outcome we've been wanting since those of us in Washington, D.C., at the time were still watching smoke rise from the Pentagon. Osama bin Laden and his terrorist followers behind the 9/11 attacks changed the way we live in America and how we think about the world. His death is welcome, but the fight that he started goes on. Our brave men and women in uniform -- including thousands from right here in Idaho -- continue the struggle against global terrorism every day. It's my hope that they and all bin Laden's victims take a measure of comfort from his death, and that it serves to remind the enemy that no one is beyond our reach."
Brigadier General Bill Shawver, director of the Bureau of Homeland Security; and Colonel Jerry Russell, director of the Idaho State Police, said: "The state of Idaho is at a heightened state of vigilance and awareness, but the federal Department of Homeland Security has not issued a National Terrorism Alert System (NTAS) alert at this time. Alerts are only issued upon specific or credible information and at this point there has been no such specific intelligence. Idaho's security actions, which include a number of measures both seen and unseen, will continue working to protect our state from an evolving threat picture. We continue to work with the Department of Homeland Security, Federal Bureau of Investigation and others to keep Idaho safe and Idahoans informed. The Idaho Criminal Intelligence Center is staffed by Idaho State Police, the Idaho Bureau of Homeland Security, and local and federal law enforcement agencies. The center is the clearinghouse for law enforcement information and remains committed to working hand in hand with law enforcement agencies and security officials."
"We are keeping a close eye on this situation and are working to keep officials and Idahoans informed," General Shawver said. "As always, Idahoans should be aware of their surroundings and immediately report any suspicious activities to law enforcement by calling 911," Colonel Russell said.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2011/prmay11/pr_031.html
