Public Statements
Governor, Superintendent Applaud Passage of Final Students Come First Reform Bill
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: April 1, 2011
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter and State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tom Luna -- along with House Education Chairman Bob Nonini -- issued the following statements today in response to the 44-26 Idaho House of Representatives vote giving final legislative approval to Senate Bill 1184 -- the last of three bills included in the "Students Come First" package of public school reforms. The Governor previously signed Senate Bills 1108 and 1110 into law.
Governor Otter said: "Reform is never easy. But in this case -- as I and many others have been saying for years -- it was necessary and appropriate. And we did it right. I'm grateful to members of the Education Alliance of Idaho and the Idaho Business Coalition for Education Excellence for the inspiration and long, thoughtful work that laid the foundation for this achievement. My thanks also go to Education Committee Chairmen Goedde and Nonini, under whose leadership this legislation underwent extraordinarily thorough public and legislative vetting. The result reflects the courage, commitment and civic virtue of our citizen legislators and the value that Idahoans place on the future of our public school students. I look forward to working closely with Superintendent Luna and all stakeholders to ensure that 'Students Come First' becomes not only a reality but a success in classrooms throughout our state."
Superintendent Luna said: "This is a historic moment for the students and parents of Idaho. I commend members of the House for their foresight and courage in reforming our classrooms into 21st century classrooms. This bill will provide Idaho teachers with the tools they need to ensure every student graduates from high school prepared for the world that awaits them."
Chairman Nonini said: "I'm happy to be part of the team with the Governor, the Superintendent, and the good chairman of Senate Education to accomplish this great work done over the past few months. The children of Idaho are the real winners today."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2011/prapr11/pr_021.html
