Public Statements
Idaho and Bizkaia Strengthen Bonds
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 30, 2010
Location: Boise, ID

After meeting with Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter and President Francisco Javier "Paxti" Lopez Alvarez this week, delegations led by Commerce Director Don Dietrich and Jose Luis Bilbao, Governor General of the Bizkaia province of Spain met to discuss possible areas of mutual cooperation.
"Idaho and the Basque country have a rich and colorful history together through the men and women who found here so much of what they left behind in Spain," Governor Otter said today. "We want to take every chance we can to strengthen the bonds of friendship and brotherhood we have for one another, and to celebrate the great contributions that the Basque people continue to make here in Idaho."
The delegations discussed promoting opportunities for economic growth and job creation for the Basque province and Idaho. Areas for cooperation include trade and investment, energy and environment, knowledge and innovation, tourism and recreation, and culture and heritage.
"In addition to the historic and cultural ties between Idaho and the Basque area of Spain, we share many common trade and investment interests and opportunities," Dietrich said. "It makes sense that we should work toward a memorandum of understanding that will benefit both Idaho and the Basque province of Spain."
"It will be an honor to have the only sister-state agreement for the Basque territory of Bizkaia be with the State of Idaho," said Jose Luis Bilbao. "We look forward to strengthening our ties with commercial, cultural, innovation and technology exchange."
The territory of Bizkaia is the largest in territory and population of the seven provinces that make up the Basque country, Euskal Herria. The great majority of Basques in Idaho are descended from immigrants who came from Bizkaia.
The government of Bizkaia has a number of important autonomous economic and political powers, including taxation, culture, transportation, environment, and agriculture. This week's visit to Idaho was in conjunction with the Jaialdi 2010 celebration of Basque culture and heritage in Boise.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2010/prjuly10/pr_049.html
