Public Statements
Dyke Nally Retires; Jeff Anderson Succeeds Him at State Liquor Division
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: April 30, 2010
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced today that long-time Idaho Liquor Division Director Dyke Nally is retiring, and that Idaho Lottery Director Jeff Anderson will take on additional responsibilities in succeeding Nally.
Becky Schroeder, director of administration at the Idaho Lottery, will be elevated to chief operating officer there under Anderson's continuing leadership. Schroeder will have additional day-to-day management responsibilities at the Lottery as Anderson takes on the Liquor Division role, but will continue reporting to Anderson.
"Dyke has been doing this job for 15 years, for four governors, and he's been a State employee for almost 42 years. He has given more time, energy and effort to serving the citizens of Idaho than anyone should be expected to give. I'm proud of him and wish him the best in his retirement, and I look forward to having him around in many other capacities for years to come," Governor Otter said. "Accepting Dyke's decision was easier with someone as qualified and proven as Jeff ready to take the helm. His work at the Lottery is exemplary, and I'm pleased that he's willing to take on this new challenge."
"It's a privilege to have the trust and confidence of the Governor," Anderson said. "The freedom, flexibility and empowerment that he provides to directors are big reasons I came aboard in the first place, and he's been as good as his word. I look forward to working closely with the Liquor Division team, and with the benefit of Dyke's experience and advice, to continue efficiently and effectively serving the people of Idaho."
"Part of me feels guilty for leaving the Governor before his work is done. I couldn't ask for a better boss or friend, and I appreciate his understanding that I need to "pull over,'" Nally said. "Jeff is a great choice, and the Liquor Division has an incredible team of folks; the Division is in good hands. After having that responsibility since 1995, I'm excited about getting some rest and having the chance to catch up on a lot of other things that deserve my time and attention."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2010/prapr10/pr_030.html
