Public Statements
Op-Ed: Transmission Line Corridors Make Sense
Op-Ed
By: Butch Otter
Date: April 14, 2010
Location: Unknown

Published in the Times-News Magic Valley
Cassia County is gearing up for an expensive legal -- and political -- battle over a consortium of utilities' plans to build an electrical transmission line through the middle of the county.
Besides costing the taxpayers money, the dispute's likely outcome will be to raise Idahoans' power rates.
There's a better way, as articulated for Gov. C.L. "Butch" Otter at his Capital for a Day visit to Oakley on Monday.
The governor said he'd like to see Idaho counties establish a five-mile-wide transmission corridor that would allow the placement of electrical transmission lines and other utilities such as gas, telephone and fiber-optic cables.
"Everybody wants the power but nobody wants to see the power poles," Otter said.
The idea of transmission corridors isn't new. At the direction of Congress, the Bush administration made a serious effort to make them happen. It foundered because environmental groups didn't like the routes proposed by federal agencies and because the Bush plan didn't emphasize renewable sources of energy. But the Obama administration has renewed the drive toward West-wide Energy Corridors.
Environmental groups, including The Wilderness Society, generally support the idea -- though not the details.
The Energy Policy Act, passed by Congress in 2005, requires the Agriculture, Commerce, Defense, Interior and Energy departments to designate energy corridors on federal lands. The agencies are required to complete any environmental reviews and incorporate the corridors into existing land-use plans.
The width of most corridors under the plan approved by Congress was 3,500 feet -- about two-thirds of a mile -- although some are narrower and some will be up to five miles wide.
In total, they would cover 6,000 miles over about 3 million acres of federal land.
Most of the proposed route of Gateway West across Cassia County would be on private land, although the Bureau of Land Management has said it's willing to consider an alternate route over mostly federal land running parallel to the Idaho-Utah border. An environmental impact study is under way, and a recommendation is expected this year.
One way or another, these transmission lines -- carrying electricity, gasoline and natural gas -- are coming through our back yard. It makes sense to concentrate them, so these right-of-way battles don't have to be fought over and over again.
And shouldn't Idaho counties have the first say on where these transmission corridors should be located?

Source: http://www.magicvalley.com/news/opinion/editorial/article_69c0c0e4-4893-5daa-b209-a8a86085a9b6.html
