Public Statements
Governor Calls Preliminary Mercury Storage Decision a Step in the Right Direction
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Jan. 29, 2010
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter today welcomed a preliminary assessment by the U.S. Department of Energy that a Texas site should be selected for the storage of the nation's unwanted -- and highly toxic -- elemental mercury.
"It's a step in the right direction. But it's not a final decision. I won't be satisfied that we're safe from the prospect of having mercury stored atop the Snake River Plain Aquifer until the Record of Decision is on the books," Governor Otter said. "It's too soon to declare victory here, but I'm pleased to see that the Energy Department is moving toward a storage site other than Idaho."
After evaluating seven sites around the country, including the Idaho National Laboratory, as possible locations for a mercury storage facility, the Department of Energy this week identified the Waste Control Specialists (WCS) facility near Andrews, Texas, as its preferred alternative. Notice was published in the Federal Register today, announcing the availability of the Department of Energy Draft Long-Term Management and Storage of Elemental Mercury Environmental Impact Statement for public review and comment, and the schedule of public hearings.
Governor Otter has said from the beginning of the site selection process that "efforts to bring surplus elemental mercury for long-term storage into the Idaho National Laboratory contradict and detract from current progress being made to clean up the site" -- as well as the INL's great work in leading America's renaissance in nuclear and renewable energy technologies. In this year's State of the State address, the Governor once again pledged that he "will not allow Idaho to become the nation's dumping ground for its elemental mercury."
The Department of Energy concluded this week that the private facility in Texas meets its need to find sufficient storage capacity to accommodate an estimated 13,000-15,000 metric tons of surplus elemental mercury over the next 40 years, as required by the Mercury Export Ban of 2008. Environmental impacts in and around the Texas site have been determined to be negligible to minimal.
Next comes a 60-day public comment period that runs through March 30. Public hearings are scheduled at nine locations near the sites under consideration. The public hearing in Idaho is scheduled for February 25 at the Shilo Inn/O'Callahan's Convention Center, 780 Lindsay Boulevard, in Idaho Falls. The hearing will begin at 5:30 pm and the Governor urges the public to join him in supporting the preferred alternative.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2010/prjan10/pr_008.html
