Public Statements
Leadore to Host October Capital for a Day
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Oct. 23, 2015
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced today that the Lemhi County community of Leadore will host the next Capital for a Day on Thursday, October 29th.
Governor Otter brings State government to Idahoans living outside Boise each month by making a different town in Idaho the state's "Capital for a Day." The meetings provide local residents an opportunity to have open discussions about government issues and public policy with Governor Otter, members of his Cabinet and other senior State officials.
The Capital for a Day on October 29th is scheduled from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Leadore High School Library. The Governor also will attend a luncheon with local leaders and residents.
State officials joining Governor Otter at Capital for a Day will include Lieutenant Governor Brad Little; Brian Oakey, deputy director of the Idaho State Department of Agriculture; Sharon Kiefer, deputy director of the Idaho Department of Fish and Game; Idaho Department of Lands Director Tom Schultz, Office of Species Conservation Administrator Dustin Miller, Jim Yost and Bill Booth of the Northwest Power and Conservation Council; and Megan Ronk, chief operating officer at the Department of Commerce.
"Leadore and Lemhi County are among the more remote and isolated parts of Idaho -- all the more reason for me to bring State government decision makers to the people so we can hear their concerns and hopes face to face," Governor Otter said. "If you want to learn firsthand the impact of policies and programs imposed by absentee federal landlords; if you want to see firsthand why there is so much distrust and frustration with our national government; and if you want to better understand the public's view on natural resources, environmental and rural economic development issues, then come to Lemhi County. In my experience, folks in Leadore aren't afraid to speak their mind!"

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2015/2%20Feb/pr_66.html
