Public Statements
Governor Vows To Fight Health Care "Reform' Bills -- In Court If Necessary
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Dec. 30, 2009
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter sent letters to U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid today, arguing that health care "reform" legislation being considered by Congress sacrifices "fiscal responsibility, sound judgment and constitutionality for political expediency."
If it becomes law, he's ready to go to court to stop the federal government from imposing "a crushing unfunded mandate" on state and local governments and the people they serve.

"I question the wisdom as well as the constitutionality and legality of these bills and will explore all my options, including legal action, to protect Idaho and the U.S. Constitution should Congress adopt and the President sign compromise health care legislation," Governor Otter wrote. "Given the bills now before the conference committee all that truly will be "compromised' is our American system of government in exchange for a multi-generational legacy of debt."
In a one-and-a-half-page letter to Pelosi and Reid (attached), the Governor outlined his concerns with separate bills passed by the House and the Senate, supported by President Obama, which now are being considered by a joint committee. He said both measures reflect "a fundamental disconnect with the real challenges and priorities of ordinary Americans."
His objections include:
* Constitutionality: Governor Otter contends the U.S. Constitution does not empower Congress to mandate compulsory health care coverage or to create a nationalized health care system.
* Cost: Governor Otter contends "The astronomical costs associated with either bill will greatly impact our children and grandchildren as taxpayers shoulder the tremendous debt associated with these potential "solutions.'"
* Compromises: Governor Otter blasted the "undemocratic and inequitable compromises" reached in the Senate to push that legislation through the process, specifically providing Nebraska and Louisiana with financial rewards for their senators' votes.
The Governor said he would follow the conference committee's process and continue working with members of Idaho's congressional delegation -- all of whom opposed the two bills -- to ensure Idahoans' voices are heard.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/prdec09/pr_092.html
