Public Statements
Idaho Businesses Are Taking The Lead In Our Economic Recovery Effort
Statement
By: Butch Otter
Date: Dec. 23, 2009
Location: Boise, ID

By Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter
All Idahoans got a very special holiday gift this week with the announcement of great quarterly earnings for Boise-based Micron Technology Inc. -- $204 million, the biggest in eight years!
Analysts cited the strength of Micron's innovations in recent months in forecasting that the next quarter also will be a good one for America's No. 1 memory manufacturer. It also had a lot to do with determined, tough-minded leadership that made the difficult decisions necessary for long-term prosperity.
Of course, Micron is about more than computer chips these days. It's expanding into the "green" industry of LED, using a $5 million federal stimulus grant to reconfigure a mothballed semiconductor fabricating plant into a factory for making energy-saving light-emitting diodes.

Now, I don't want anyone to get ahead of things here, but it's my informed impression that the economy -- if not yet our State revenue picture -- may be on the mend. That's a great reason for increased hope and our continued best efforts.
Idaho food manufacturers are reporting strong new orders, home sales are starting to pick up a little, and our third-quarter exports increased by double digits.
All in all, the big-picture news leaves me cautiously optimistic. But there are instances of unequivocally good news. We had Project 60 teams working hard in recent weeks to attract new markets and investments for Idaho companies, and they had some success with lumber and mining sales.

We certainly need to celebrate our victories as they come -- big or small -- whether it's the $80 million in projects announced by the Idaho National Laboratory this year or plans for a new grocery store in Middleton.
In Pocatello, Nordic Windpower -- part of an emerging green energy corridor in eastern Idaho -- just shipped its first product to Uruguay.
In the Treasure Valley, Luxury Bath of Idaho plans to open a showroom, office and warehouse, employing up to 15 people. The company plans to invest more than $1 million in the market over the next year.
A clean-coal gasification fertilizer plant has been approved near American Falls, making it one of the first clean-coal plants in the country. The $2 billion plant will turn coal into gas to produce nitrogen fertilizer, sulfur and low-sulfur diesel fuel.
The company has committed to removing and sequestering 58 percent of carbon dioxide in the coal. This is a huge project that is expected to employ up to 1,000 people during construction and then 150 workers permanently.
In Idaho Falls, Eastern Idaho Regional Medical Center plans to spend $20 million for an expansion of its Neonatal Intensive Care Unit and a new Women's and Infant Care Center. Construction is expected to begin late next year and be completed in 2011, keeping lots of construction workers fully employed.
The Idaho National Laboratory continues its state-of-the-art research in new energy projects. Lab researchers have been awarded a $5 million grant by the U.S. Department of Energy to create a high energy battery test facility. The intent is to develop the next generation of low-cost batteries for hybrid electric vehicles as the INL continues building Idaho's reputation as a leader in energy research.
I'm inspired by the work of the Inland Pacific Hub project that involves nine northern Idaho counties working with 10 eastern Washington counties to develop a major center for global commerce. The more that we can do collaboratively to stimulate economic growth -- while engaging the private sector -- the more quickly we will reap the rewards.
Also in northern Idaho, the Idaho Forest Group has increased production after seeing a slight increase in demand. Increased production has meant more pay to employees as well as employment stability. Additional increases in demand could result in hiring, although the company is staying cautious in its forecasts.
And, by next month, Burly Products will have completed its move out of Spokane to a new 20,000-square-foot facility in Post Falls. I am very pleased to welcome this growing outdoors equipment manufacturer to Idaho.
Finally, in Lewiston, approval has been given for large components of an oil refinery to move through Idaho to Montana and onto the Kearl Oil Sands Project in Alberta, Canada. The ability to transport these super-sized pieces of equipment through Idaho could increase future traffic -- and revenue -- to the Port of Lewiston.
So as we celebrate this season of hope, let's all remember that there is plenty of reason for hope and optimism right here at home, thanks to the people of Idaho.
Happy holidays!

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/prdec09/pr_089.html
