Public Statements
Third Meeting Of Governor's Transportation Task Force Set For Wednesday, December 2nd
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Nov. 25, 2009
Location: Boise, ID

Funding roads and bridges in Idaho and nationwide will be the focus of the third meeting of the Governor's Task Force on Modernizing Transportation Funding, set for 10 a.m. on Wednesday, December 2nd, in Boise's Joe R. Williams Building.
Transportation expert Tom Warne will present information about how transportation is being funded today, and what changes are being considered across the country. Warne is former director of the Utah Department of Transportation. He now operates a national and international transportation consulting firm.
"The most important message I can share with any state leaders is that they cannot rely on the federal government to solve their transportation problems," Warne said. "Each state must take control of its own transportation future."
The Governor's task force will examine and recommend traditional and non-traditional ways Idaho can fund the maintenance and preservation of highways and bridges now and in the future. The Idaho Legislature passed a concurrent resolution earlier this year supporting a task force, and Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter created it in June through Executive Order 2009-11.
The task force will meet over 18 months and make recommendations throughout the process to the Governor, with a final report due no later than December 1, 2010. The Governor said he would welcome the task force's findings and recommendations as soon as they are ready.
"The individuals, families and businesses using our highways also are financing them. They deserve real assurance that they are getting what they pay for from our vital transportation corridors," Governor Otter said. "The task force is looking for data-driven policies and practices that work, because maintaining and improving our roads and bridges -- keeping them safe and efficient -- is in everyone's best interest."
The task force is led by Lieutenant Governor Brad Little. It includes five members each from the Idaho House and Senate, four citizens and two members of the Idaho Transportation Board. The agenda for Wednesday's meeting, additional information about the task force and a way to submit suggestions or questions can be found at http://itd.idaho.gov/taskforce.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/prnov09/pr_082.html
