Public Statements
Governor Otter Lauds Education Alliance Of Idaho's Collaboration, Goals
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Nov. 18, 2009
Location: Boise, ID

Governor Otter Lauds Education Alliance Of Idaho's Collaboration, Goals
Superintendent Luna Joins Governor In Celebrating Work Of Diverse Groups
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter joined Superintendent of Public Instruction Tom Luna today in applauding the unprecedented work of the Idaho Business Coalition for Education Excellence and the Education Alliance of Idaho toward developing a collaborative education strategy for Idaho.
"You know you're on the right track when the teachers and the administrators, the school boards and the parents, the public sector and private industry all come together to focus their collective wisdom, experience and passion on an issue," Governor Otter said. "I'm happy to be able to facilitate and encourage this effort to create a world-class education system that will enable our students to compete in the global marketplace of ideas."
The Governor and Superintendent Luna said they look forward to the State Board of Education working with the Education Alliance on advancing the alliance's "Recommendations for a Transformational Education Agenda for the State of Idaho."
"I took office with a vision for raising student achievement across Idaho, and today I am proud that all educational stakeholders are at the same table working toward this shared vision," Superintendent Luna said. "With the leadership of Governor Otter and support from parents, educators and the business community, we will all work together to meet the needs of all students and raise student achievement by implementing specific goals, such as dual credit opportunities for students, pay-for-performance for teachers, and more technology in the classroom."
Governor Otter has asked the Board of Education -- newly refocused on its constitutional responsibility for developing rather than administering education policy -- to work toward a comprehensive "K-20" strategy for integrating all aspects of Idaho's education system from kindergarten through college or professional-technical education. The Education Alliance and its recommendations promise to help significantly advance the level of that discussion, he said.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/prnov09/pr_080.html
