Public Statements
Governor Launches State Government Efficiency Web Site
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Nov. 13, 2009
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter launched a new Web site today on which Idaho citizens can easily view details of the State budget and provide their insights and perspectives on how to make State government more efficient by using taxpayers' money more wisely.
The site, http://efficiency.idaho.gov/, is part of Governor Otter's plan for involving all Idahoans in the process of addressing the State's budget shortfall. He announced the outreach plan in late September as he ordered a tiered holdback of State spending totaling about 4 percent of the General Fund appropriation for fiscal 2010.
"We need your help. Government does not have a monopoly on good ideas," Governor Otter wrote in a message on the front page of the new Web site. "There are hundreds of thousands of smart, thoughtful and civic-minded people in Idaho with constructive and useful insights on what State government should do, what it can do better, and what it shouldn't do at all."
The Web site provides graphic representations of the overall budget, as well as breakdowns by policy area, including General Government, Public Safety, Health & Human Services, Education, Economic Development, and Natural Resources. There also are breakdowns by revenue and by expenditure, and on every page an area for reader's comments.
"We want to hear from you," Governor Otter wrote in the welcome message. "Some changes made at the agency level already are making a difference -- travel restrictions, more use of video-teleconferencing and other available technologies, more consolidating of responsibilities, leaving job vacancies unfilled, and even such things as reducing the use of paper and other office supplies. But more needs to be done."
He invites readers to "walk at least a few steps in the shoes of policy makers" by offering their take on how State government can fulfill its responsibilities to the people of Idaho more efficiently and effectively. The input will be reviewed, and plans are in the works for highlighting and seeking public feedback on the results.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/prnov09/pr_078.html
