Public Statements
Dubois To Host October "Capital For A Day"
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Oct. 16, 2009
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced today that the Clark County seat of Dubois will be Idaho's "Capital for a Day" on Thursday, October 29th.
The first-come, first-served open opportunity to meet with the Governor, selected members of his Cabinet and other senior state officials is scheduled from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the community center located at 278 Community Center Drive in Dubois. The Governor also will join Mayor Keith Tweedie, other state and local leaders, and community members for lunch at the same location.
Officials joining Governor Otter at Capital for a Day will include Celia Gould, director of the Idaho State Department of Agriculture; Colonel Bill Shawver, director of the Idaho Bureau of Homeland Security; Jan Gallimore, executive director of the Idaho State Historical Society; Emma Atchley, a member of the State Board of Education; Bibiana Nertney, an administrator for the Idaho Department of Commerce; Brent Schneider, administrator of the Pocatello veterans home; Erik Neher, regional administrator for the Department of Environmental Quality; Pat Brown, area supervisor for the Idaho Department of Lands; Lavar Jolley with the Tax Commission; Sharon Duncan with the Idaho Commission on Aging; John Hathaway, regional director for the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare; Gary Vecellio with the Idaho Department of Fish and Game; and Captain Danny Bunderson, regional commander for the Idaho State Police.
"For too many Idahoans, Dubois is home to the federal sheep research station, and that's about it. I know different," Governor Otter said. "The people of Dubois and Clark County have every bit as much right as folks in any other Idaho community to be engaged in their state government, and they deserve just as much of an opportunity. I'm happy to be bringing a little of it to them this month, and look forward to hearing what's on their minds."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/proct09/pr_070.html
