Public Statements
Project 60 Web Site Launched
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Sept. 3, 2009
Location: Boise, ID

Governor Urges Businesses To Join In Growing Idaho's Economy
Hot on the heels of his daylong Governor's Business Summit, Governor C.L. “Butch” Otter today launched the Project 60 Web site -- part of his ongoing effort to grow our economy from $51 billion to $60 billion the Idaho way, by enlisting businesses large and small in a campaign to add value and create jobs that become careers.
The Project 60 Web site, www.Project60.idaho.gov, outlines the Governor's plan for positioning Idaho for recovery and prosperity by expanding our existing industries, recruiting new businesses, and attracting more foreign investment and trade. It also encourages visitors to become “Project 60 Partners” by engaging with the Governor and Idaho Department of Commerce in economic development ideas, identifying obstacles to growth, sharing good news about business successes in Idaho, and providing leads about customers, vendors and other business from out of state that might want to relocate here.
“My Cabinet and I had the chance to hear from dozens of business leaders from throughout our state at the Business Summit. And I'm looking forward to exploring new opportunities for economic development at my Innovation Summit, coming up on September 24th at Boise State University's Stueckle Sky Center. It's a great way to work with the folks who make our economy go -- who are creating employment opportunities for our people now and into the future,” Governor Otter said.
“The Project 60 Web site provides a way of continuing and expanding that discussion with even more employers, entrepreneurs and innovators all over Idaho who understand that the best helping hand any of us will ever have is right there at the end of our sleeve.”
As the site also will feature business news and perspectives, and as more Project 60 Partners sign up it will add video features and a special Twitter connection to keep the community up to date on the progress of the Governor's Project 60 initiative.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/prsep09/pr_057.html
