Public Statements
ho Education Network Bringing Broadband Connections To Idaho Schools
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Sept. 1, 2009
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. “Butch” Otter and State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tom Luna announced today that 12 Idaho schools -- from Bonners Ferry to Bear Lake -- are the first to be connected to the new Idaho Education Network (IEN).
The IEN is a statewide effort to provide state-of-the-art broadband Internet access to every Idaho student. The Idaho Legislature appropriated almost $3 million in federal stimulus funding to finance the IEN's Phase One. That already has resulted in high-speed connectivity for a dozen schools effective September 1. The IEN eventually will extend to all Idaho public schools, providing high-end content not only for schoolchildren but continuing education and workforce development opportunities for adult members of those communities.
“From the first days of my administration, one of my highest priorities has been on closing the ‘digital divide' that separates our rural from our more urban schools in terms of the learning opportunities that are available to students,” Governor Otter said. “Where you live in Idaho shouldn't be a factor in the quality of education you receive. Today is a milestone toward the goal that Superintendent Luna and I share of providing a truly world-class education for every Idaho student -- and putting a ‘community college' in every Idaho town.”
“The Idaho Education Network provides endless opportunities for increasing student achievement,” Superintendent Luna said. “Through this Network, we will create a virtual classroom in every school across Idaho, finally eliminating the technology gap between rural and urban schools.”
Jim Schmit, the Idaho president for Qwest -- the contractor bringing its technology to local school districts -- said, “The Idaho Education Network will help our state's students and teachers by using the latest telecommunications technology to bring new educational opportunities directly into the classroom. We are very pleased to partner with the State of Idaho on this important project.”
The first schools connected to the IEN are Bonners Ferry High School, Sandpoint High School, Prairie High School in Cottonwood, Grangeville High School, Emmett High School, Weiser High School, Jerome High School, Shoshone High School, Bear Lake High School, West Side Senior High School, Clark County Junior-Senior High School, and Salmon High School. All Idaho high schools are expected to be connected within the next two years.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/prsep09/pr_058.html
