Public Statements
New Statewide Project Makes Schools More Energy Efficient
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Aug. 28, 2009
Location: Boise, ID

Governor Otter Kick Starts Major Cost-Saving Project for Public Schools at Homedale High School at 9:30 a.m. on August 28
The Idaho Office of Energy Resources will spend $17.5 million in available federal stimulus money to make Idaho public school buildings more energy efficient.
The K-12 Energy Efficiency Project includes heating and cooling system tune-ups and new digital monitoring systems for each of Idaho's 703 school buildings. The project also will fund larger improvements such as new heating and cooling systems, new lighting and controls, additional insulation, and water system efficiencies in selected buildings. Energy audits for each school building will help the Office of Energy Resources identify the most cost-effective use of funds for these larger improvements.
Governor C. L. “Butch” Otter is a strong advocate of the program because it will cut school energy consumption easing the burden on taxpayers and tight school budgets. “Every penny of energy savings is more money that will stay either in the classroom or taxpayer's pockets,” Otter said.
Idaho taxpayers paid about $13 million for school utilities from the state's general fund in 2008. The project is expected to reduce schools' energy use and carbon emissions significantly over the next three years.
Schools Superintendent Tom Luna believes the project will help Idaho schools increase energy efficiency and save precious education dollars on utility costs in future years. “It also provides a great opportunity for schools to incorporate lessons about energy education in the classroom,” Luna said.
The project kicked off in July with heating system tune ups at Homedale High School, where the original building – built by the Work Progress Administration in 1940 – is still in use.
Tim Rosandick, Homedale School District Superintendent says the savings will positively impact students. “The Homedale School District expects to save considerable money, which will be used to meet other critical areas for student needs."
Energy Resources estimates that the project will create 150-250 new jobs in Idaho over the next three years. The jobs will be primarily in the heating and cooling, lighting, insulation and water efficiency industries.
More information about these projects and the Office of Energy Resources is available at http://www.energy.idaho.gov/
(END)

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/press/webnews/K-12%20Energy%20Efficiency%20Project.pdf
