Public Statements
Governor To Convene Business Summit
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Aug. 24, 2009
Location: Boise, ID

Governor To Convene Business Summit
Employers, Industry Leaders To Discuss Economy With State Officials
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter will host a daylong discussion of the challenges and opportunities facing Idaho's economy with employers and industry representatives from throughout the state on Monday, August 31st, at the Governor's Business Summit.
"Project 60 is our game plan for growing Idaho's economy. The Business Summit, and the Innovation Summit coming up on September 24th, are chances for us to assess our own team's capabilities and what's needed to successfully execute that game plan," Governor Otter said. "My Cabinet and I will do a lot of listening, and we hope to come away with a clearer picture of how to make Idaho an even better place to build businesses, careers, and futures right here at home."
The Business Summit is scheduled from 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. at the Boise Centre. Governor Otter, Lieutenant Governor Brad Little and a group of Cabinet members will listen and discuss issues throughout the day with eight industry panels, each including five business leaders from all over Idaho. A complete list of panelists and a detailed agenda is attached.
All the panel discussions are open to the public, and everyone is encouraged to attend. The panelists and Cabinet members also will join the Governor for a private midday luncheon at the Boise Centre sponsored by the Idaho Association of Commerce and Industry.
Don Dietrich, director of the Idaho Department of Commerce, will oversee development of an executive report and recommendations to the Governor based on the Business Summit's discussions.
"The small business operators, entrepreneurs, managers and corporate executives and others who know the pressure and fulfillment of meeting a payroll know what works and what doesn't for their employees, customers and communities," Governor Otter said. "I'm looking forward to hearing their ideas and doing what we can in state government to clear the way for their solutions."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/praug09/pr_053.html
