Public Statements
Eastern Idaho Highway Projects Improve Safety, Economy
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Aug. 14, 2009
Location: Unknown


Eastern Idaho Highway Projects Improve Safety, Economy
Improving Key Travel Corridors Will Enable Business, Job Growth
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter said highway improvement projects launched today in Rigby and the Pocatello-Chubbuck area will help "more safely connect students with schools and citizens with jobs" along two busy eastern Idaho routes.
"These are roads traveled by thousands of individuals and families. They also are important corridors of commerce on which our economic vitality and growth depend," the Governor said. "The benefits of these projects go well beyond the good construction jobs they are providing; they go to providing a solid foundation for Idaho's families through education, connected communities and career opportunities."
Addressing Idaho's huge and growing backlog of road and bridge maintenance, repair and improvement needs is a key element of Governor Otter's Project 60 initiative - a comprehensive, coordinated statewide effort to create jobs and economic opportunity.
The expansions of the I-86, Chubbuck-to-Pocatello Creek interchange and 1.7 miles of Idaho 48 in Rigby are expected to create or sustain more than 200 jobs. Hundreds of other new and future jobs are linked to the roads as eastern Idaho's economy prepares for more growth.
The region has seen some exciting economic activity in the past year. Farmers Insurance Group expanded in Pocatello and is expecting to add 120 jobs. Portneuf Medical Center is building a new hospital that will sustain or create 250 to 300 construction jobs over the next two years and means increased employment at the hospital when the facility is completed. Petersen Inc., a metal fabrication company, expanded into Pocatello last year creating 50 jobs, and Costco opened a store there last fall, adding more than 160 jobs. Nordic Windpower also expanded into Pocatello last year, hiring five people with plans to employ up to 40 people by next year.
Just up the road in Blackfoot, Bingham Memorial Hospital is celebrating two major expansion and construction projects and has increased its employment from 226 in 2005 to 634 this year. And Premier Technology in Blackfoot broke ground in June on a project to double its manufacturing space. Its work force has doubled to more than 350 since 2006, and it is still growing.
Business growth in the Idaho Falls region also is continuing, with several major projects under way or in the works. The uranium enrichment facility that AREVA plans to build in Idaho Falls will create hundreds of jobs during the construction and operations phases, expected to begin in 2011. Other regional projects include 225 jobs for cleanup work at the Idaho National Laboratory and a new manufacturing facility for Melaleuca that will add another 120 new construction jobs.
"State government's biggest responsibility in Project 60 is creating a climate in which our companies - large and small - can grow and contribute to sustainable communities," Governor Otter said. "Building and maintaining safe, efficient roads and bridges is essential to that effort, and a proper role of government."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/praug09/pr_048.html
