Public Statements
Governor's Transportation Task Force Meets August 6th
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 30, 2009
Location: Boise, ID


Governor's Transportation Task Force Meets August 6th
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter will deliver opening remarks, setting the agenda for the first meeting of his Task Force on Modernizing Transportation Funding in Idaho at 9 a.m. on Thursday, August 6, in the Joe R. Williams Building in Boise.
The Governor's task force will examine and recommend traditional and non-traditional ways Idaho can fund the maintenance and preservation of highways and bridges now and in the future. The Idaho Legislature passed a concurrent resolution earlier this year supporting a task force, and Governor Otter created it in June through Executive Order 2009-11. http://bit.ly/19I4aB
The task force will meet over 18 months and make recommendations throughout the process to the Governor, with a final report due no later than Dec. 1, 2010. The Governor said he would welcome the task force's findings and recommendations as soon as they are ready.
"Beginning this work is an important step toward addressing our transportation revenue needs for the long term," Governor Otter said. "This is part of the plan that we put together in collaboration with the Legislature. It takes into account the fact that we didn't get in this situation overnight, and that dealing with it isn't going to be quick or easy. But I'm confident that the collective wisdom of this task force will provide workable solutions for getting the job done."
The task force is chaired by Lieutenant Governor Brad Little. It includes five members each from the Idaho House and Senate, four citizens and two members of the Idaho Transportation Board.
In addition to Governor Otter's opening remarks, the agenda for the first meeting includes an overview of Idaho's current transportation system and how it is funded, and discussion of a planned study evaluating the fees passenger vehicles and commercial trucks pay.
"Our first meeting will largely be an organizational one," Little said. "But we intend to make substantial progress this year and return to work after the 2010 legislative session."
The agenda for the August 6 meeting, additional information about the task force, and a way to submit suggestions or questions can be found at http://itd.idaho.gov/

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/prjul09/pr_045.html
