Public Statements
It's Time for a Little Good News About Jobs, Business Expansion
Statement
By: Butch Otter
Date: June 26, 2009
Location: Unknown


IT'S TIME FOR A LITTLE GOOD NEWS ABOUT JOBS, BUSINESS EXPANSION
By Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter
With all the negative economic news, it's hard to find a bright spot. But they do exist - all around Idaho.
Good news rarely makes the front pages of the newspaper. Yet if you heard about the new contracts our companies are getting or the new jobs being added or the expansions occurring, you would be encouraged - as I am - that Idaho is weathering this storm.
That's why I plan to regularly share some of this good news with you. Our Project 60 efforts are working to strengthen Idaho's economy. Many people are working behind the scenes, helping our companies and communities recover and prosper.
None of that lessens the very real challenges still facing many Idahoans right now, but I hope it offers some hope that we are on the right track.
On to the good news.
Did you hear about the 57 jobs restored to the Idaho Air National Guard? The squadron has been charged with retrofitting half of the nation's A-10 "Warthog" combat aircraft with new high-tech equipment. This will create a "mini depot" at the Boise facility, which could open the door for even more of this type of work on the nation's military equipment right here in Idaho.
The new contract is expected to provide jobs through 2010, one step toward stabilizing employment for the region. We will do all we can to support the concept of using Gowen Field as a central depot, efficiently putting the Air National Guard's key equipment - and Idaho people - back to work.
In northern Idaho, Post Falls is benefiting from Idaho's great business climate. Burly Products is breaking ground this summer on a 20,000-square-foot plant in the Riverbend Commerce Park, bringing 16 jobs - and maybe more - to that area. Burly is moving to Post Falls from Spokane because owners say they will save on business costs ranging from payroll taxes to product liability insurance.
And it's important to note that Burly isn't just moving to Idaho. It is nearly tripling its facility size because of business growth. The company builds everything from aluminum boats to truck bodies, so its success both reflects and has the potential to create additional economic activity for other Idaho businesses and workers.
In Lewiston, there are several good-news items to report, but I'll mention just one today that has a compounding impact: Three new companies, up to 100 new jobs and outside investors showing confidence in Idaho. The three new companies are being created by a partnership between current Lewiston business Howell CNC and Machine, Ammo Load Worldwide, and an outside investment group that sees potential in expanding ammunition manufacturing here in Idaho.
We heard about this project just weeks ago, and the deal was sealed in short order with $200,000 from the Department of Commerce's Business and Jobs Development fund that will be used for needed water improvements. With this type of quick response, these companies are expected to be up and running later this year.
Folks, this is progress - the Idaho way.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/prjun09/pr_034.html
