Public Statements
Otter Elected Vice Chairman of Western Governors' Association
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: June 16, 2009
Location: Park City, UT


Otter Elected Vice Chairman of Western Governors' Association
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter was elected vice chairman of the Western Governors' Association (WGA) for the upcoming year at the WGA's annual meeting.
Montana Governor Brian Schweitzer, a Democrat, was elected chairman of the WGA at the three-day conference, which wrapped up Tuesday in Park City, Utah. The meeting included the signing of significant regional agreements with the federal government and progress on such issues of shared concern as water management, wildlife habitat, renewable energy development, power transmission, and safely transporting nuclear waste.
"It's an honor and a challenge to take on this position," Governor Otter said today. "It gives me a chance to advocate throughout the region for the kind of jobs- and opportunity-creating policies that we need in Idaho and around the West, to accomplish things in our part of the world that might never get done in Washington, D.C."
In fact, this week's meeting brought governors together with Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, and Energy Secretary Stephen Chu for high-level discussions on federal policies with direct impacts on Idaho and other states in the West. Governor Otter said such forums provide great opportunities to advance the role of states as the laboratories of the republic on issues that local leaders - and local citizens - understand best.
"Western governors from both parties share a great understanding of the importance of water, land and stewardship of our natural resources. Our issues are unique, and there is value in addressing them together," he said. "I've found working with my fellow WGA members - building strong bipartisan relationships and collaborating on solutions that work for the people we serve - to be rewarding and productive. I look forward to this expanded role."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/prjun09/pr_032.html
