Public Statements
Western Governors, Obama Administration Work to Improve State Wildlife Data Systems and Protect Wildlife Corridors, Key Habitats
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: June 15, 2009
Location: Park City, UT


Western Governors, Obama Administration Work to Improve State
Wildlife Data Systems and Protect Wildlife Corridors, Key Habitats

Western Governors and three Cabinet Secretaries agreed today to partner in enhancing state wildlife data systems that would greatly improve the decision-making process as renewable and fossil energy resources are planned and transmission lines and highways are considered. The data systems would also provide valuable information related to the impact of climate change on wildlife.
Signing a Memorandum of Understanding to formalize the partnership were Gov. Brian Schweitzer, (Mont.), incoming Chairman of the Western Governors' Association; Gov. C.L. "Butch" Otter (Idaho), incoming Vice Chairman; Secretary of Interior Ken Salazar; Secretary of Energy Steven Chu; and Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack. The signing ceremony followed a discussion during the WGA Annual Meeting on expanding development of renewable energy resources and the transmission needed to bring them online
"In 2007, the WGA began this effort to better protect wildlife corridors and key habitats, and we continue to make substantial progress with the help of the Western Governors' Wildlife Council, which we established this past year," Schweitzer said. "We urge the Secretaries to have their agencies work closely with our council in developing these systems to help minimize impacts to the wildlife that are such a vital part of our Western heritage, landscape and economy."
Schweitzer recognized Gov. Dave Freudenthal of Wyoming, who has been instrumental in leading WGA's efforts on wildlife corridors. He also noted that it is essential for the states and federal agencies to cooperate and share information since wildlife data being developed frequently involves information from both private and public lands.
"By making wildlife protection an integrated part of our clean energy
effort, we will tap the West's renewable energy resources more quickly
and in a more responsible way," Secretary Salazar said. "This agreement will accelerate renewable energy projects and new transmission lines and the jobs those projects will create."
"It is important that we take steps to protect our country's wildlife corridors as we plan infrastructure for a new energy future and updated transportation systems," said Secretary Vilsack. "This memorandum of understanding will also improve our ability to collect information about the impact of climate change on wildlife, giving us better information as we work to meet our long-term sustainability goals."
"By making wildlife protection an integrated part of our clean energy effort, we will tap the West's renewable energy resources more quickly and in a more responsible way," Secretary Chu said. This agreement will accelerate renewable energy projects and new transmission lines and the jobs those projects will create."
Gov. Otter noted the importance of wildlife issues to the people of Idaho and the West.
"Anything we can do to improve our state wildlife information and to coordinate our efforts with the federal agencies needs to be done promptly and efficiently," Otter said. "We appreciate the Secretaries coming to the WGA meeting to make this a priority."
The Western Governors' Wildlife Council will hold its regular meeting next month, during which it will also begin the process of implementing the MOU with the federal agencies.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/wga6_15_09.html
