Public Statements
Governor Vetoes Ten Bills, Including Eight Appropriations Measures
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: April 20, 2009
Location: Boise, ID


GOVERNOR VETOES TEN BILLS, INCLUDING EIGHT APPROPRIATIONS MEASURES
MORE TO COME UNLESS LEGISLATURE PROVIDES FOR TRANSPORTATION FUNDING
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter vetoed 10 bills today in an effort to clarify to the Legislature his determination that they will not be leaving town without addressing Idaho's transportation funding needs.
The Governor this morning vetoed two House measures that he found flawed, using the opportunity to let the Legislature know he remains determined to deal with the state's enormous and growing backlog of highway and bridge maintenance and improvements.
When the initial response from legislators was unsatisfactory, Governor Otter then vetoed eight Senate bills - appropriations measures providing funding for the Idaho State Police, Department of Fish and Game, Department of Parks and Recreation, Public Employee Retirement System of Idaho (PERSI), the Public Utilities Commission, the Office of Species Conservation, the State Board of Education, and the Office of Energy Resources. They were Senate Bills 1176, 1177, 1178, 1179, 1181, 1188, 1189 and 1190.
"I have no problem with these bills. At some point they will merit positive consideration," Governor Otter wrote in his letter informing the Senate of his action. "However, consistent with my desire to provide you with the time to positively address our need for an ongoing source of transportation revenue, I am vetoing these bills and will continue vetoing appropriations bills until an adequate transportation bill is approved by the Legislature and delivered for my consideration.
"I tried to be diplomatic and respectful of the Legislature and its deliberations with the actions I took earlier today. Yet it seems my efforts instead left many confused and questioning my resolve. So to eliminate any doubt about where I stand and to expedite the legislative process, I am vetoing these appropriations bills before me immediately.
"Further, let me say unequivocally that I do not intend to call a special session of the Legislature because I am not going to let this session end until this legitimate and proper role of government is addressed in the manner it deserves."
The Governor earlier today vetoed House Bill 161 as amended, and House Bill 245.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/prapr09/pr_024.html
