Public Statements
Governor Otter Honors Science Teachers with Giants Award
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: April 20, 2009
Location: Boise, ID


GOVERNOR OTTER HONORS SCIENCE TEACHERS WITH GIANTS AWARD
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter today recognized the exceptional efforts of three Idaho science teachers by presenting them with the 2009 GIANTS Award at a ceremony held at the Discovery Center of Idaho.
Post Falls High School teacher Salvatore Lorenzen; Daniel Richards of Meadow Valley Schools (New Meadows); and Vision Charter School (Caldwell) teacher Tricia Huckins were awarded $2,000 each as recipients of the Governor's Industry Award for Notable Teaching in Science (GIANTS).
"Salvatore, Daniel, and Tricia are models for how educators can work with industry to enhance science and technology education," Governor Otter said. "Teachers have a tremendous responsibility to prepare today's students for tomorrow's workforce. More than ever, we need teachers who can inspire students to lives spent in discovery, learning and achievement. Those teachers who excel deserve our support and recognition."
The GIANTS program was initiated by the Office of the Governor and is sponsored by the Science and Technology Roundtable - a group of industry leaders including the Micron Foundation, Idaho National Laboratory, URS-Washington Division, Hewlett-Packard, LCF Enterprises, Premier Technology, Inc., and Idaho Power Company. With support from the Idaho State Commercial Innovation Division, the State Department of Education and Office of the State Board of Education, as well as the Discovery Center of Idaho, GIANTS recognizes teachers for their efforts to link industry and the economic future of Idaho to the classroom by enhancing science and technology education.
Honorable Mention awards of $500 each were presented to two additional teachers and two elementary teams of teachers: DaNel Huggins of Kuna High School, Susan Kirking of Jenifer Junior High School (Lewiston), the TESLA team at Orchards Elementary School (Lewiston) and the NASA team from Kenneth J. Carberry Intermediate School (Emmett).
All the participating teachers were nominated by the student council and/or parent groups at their school for making science exciting, challenging, and relevant. A cash prize of $500 goes to each school/student council that nominated the GIANTS award recipients, with a cash prize of $100 going to each school/student council that nominated the Honorable Mention award recipients.
The GIANTS partners are firmly committed to advancing science and technology education and consider it vital to Idaho's economic future. The Governor and the industry partners congratulate this year's winners and honorable mentions for their significant contributions to education.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/prapr09/pr_023.html
