Public Statements
Wolf Delisting, State Management Long Overdue
Statement
By: Butch Otter
Date: Jan. 16, 2009
Location: Unknown


WOLF DELISTING, STATE MANAGEMENT LONG OVERDUE
By Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter
Like many Idahoans, I was encouraged to see wolves removed from the federal list of threatened and endangered species this week. Unfortunately, given the history of this contentious issue, encouragement could quickly become frustration as many of the same environmental groups who fought to bring Canadian wolves to the region in the mid-1990s already are threatening to file a lawsuit to prevent the State from assuming management under our approved state plan.
Even though the federal government announced the delisting of wolves in Idaho, state control cannot officially occur until 30 days after the federal rule is published in the Federal Register. Normally, this is not much of an issue; however, an incoming administration has the ability to freeze all rules not already effective when it takes office.
Environmental groups certainly will push the new administration to freeze implementation of the rule indefinitely in hopes that new population thresholds will be set for delisting. While this may delay state management under our plan, it has not deterred the Idaho Fish and Game Commission or me from seeking additional authority in the meantime to reduce the unacceptable impacts of wolves on our ungulate and livestock herds.
Since 2002, the State has met and exceeded every requirement set by the federal government necessary for delisting wolves. The federal government has repeatedly stated that a population of 300 wolves distributed throughout the region constitutes a recovered and viable population. Today, roughly 1,500 wolves roam the states of Idaho, Montana and Wyoming with more than half residing in Idaho.
Idaho is committed to managing for a viable, self-sustaining population of wolves. In fact, Idaho's State Management Plan calls for managing for no fewer than 518 wolves - nearly five times the minimum number agreed upon for our state prior to reintroduction. My administration supports that commitment - and I personally support that commitment - contrary to what has been said in the past.
Despite the resounding success of wolf recovery in Idaho, the State's level of effort has not always been matched by that of the federal government. Until recently, the federal commitment to Idaho and other states to delist wolves once recovery objectives were met has gone largely unfulfilled.
While the fate of the delisting rule will be decided in the coming weeks, I am directing my Office of Species Conservation and the Idaho Department of Fish and Game to work collaboratively with the new administration to ensure our perspective on the importance of state management is well understood.
The State of Idaho has demonstrated through its management of such species as black bear and mountain lions that it will be a responsible steward of wolves as well - now and into the future. It is time to close this chapter and reward states that actually live up to their conservation commitments.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/prjan09/pr_003.html
