Public Statements
Brad Little Named Lieutenant Governor
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Jan. 6, 2009
Location: Boise, ID

BRAD LITTLE NAMED LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR
GOVERNOR APPOINTS EMMETT SENATOR TO SUCCEED JIM RISCH
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter appointed state Senator Brad Little of Emmett to become Idaho's new lieutenant governor today. The appointment was effective immediately but is subject to confirmation by the Idaho Senate.
Little, who was elected in November to his fifth term in the Idaho Senate, succeeds Jim Risch, who resigned as lieutenant governor today after being elected to the United States Senate in November.
Little's appointment was announced just one hour after Risch was sworn in as a member of the U.S. Senate in Washington, D.C. Governor Otter said he was impressed by the civic virtue he found among those willing to be considered for the position of lieutenant governor, and that many of those with whom he talked would have been excellent choices.
"For me, it came down to the fact that Brad is one of best public servants I know - and one of the best people. Nobody understands the issues, the personalities or the possibilities better than him, and nobody will work harder for the people of Idaho," Governor Otter said. "It is a privilege to be able to recognize and reward our new lieutenant governor's talents and abilities. Brad believes, as I do, that Idaho's greatest days are ahead of us. I'm proud to be associated with him."
Little, a farmer, rancher and businessman, was Republican Caucus chairman in the Idaho Senate. He also served on the Senate Resources and Environment, State Affairs, and Transportation committees. The University of Idaho graduate is a former board member of the Idaho Community Foundation and the Gem County School District Foundation. He is a past chairman of the Idaho Association of Commerce and Industry, the Idaho Woolgrowers Association and the American Land and Resources Foundation.
Little and his wife, Teresa, have two sons.
"I'm honored to have this chance to keep serving the people of Idaho the best I know how," Lieutenant Governor Little said. "Butch and I have been friends a long time. We understand how one another thinks; we share values and ideals. Jim Risch leaves big shoes to fill. I will do my best, and I'm happy to have the confidence and support of Governor Otter and my colleagues in the Legislature in that effort."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2009/prjan09/pr_001.html
