Public Statements
Governor Releases Gentry Report, Directs Actions by Tax Commission
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Aug. 20, 2008
Location: Boise, ID


GOVERNOR RELEASES GENTRY REPORT, DIRECTS ACTIONS BY TAX COMMISSION
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter directed the Idaho State Tax Commission today to clarify its process for handling disputes over out-of-state corporate tax collections, and to provide legislators with the information they need to evaluate the process.
The directives came after the Governor received a report on Monday from veteran Boise accountant P. LaVern Gentry on his independent review of Tax Commission practices prompted by "whistleblower" allegations raised by a Commission auditor. A copy of Gentry's report is attached.
Gentry found that the Commission was not violating any laws or rules in its so-called "compromise and closing" process for settling disputed out-of-state corporate tax obligations. However, he determined that how the Commission decided whether a dispute qualified for the settlement process was ambiguous and undefined - contributing to a perception that it was acting arbitrarily and without justification.
Governor Otter directed the Commission by September 30th to define the process clearly, including specific criteria for how it may be used. In addition, he ordered that the Tax Commission submit an annual report to the germane legislative committees - House Revenue and Taxation and Senate Local Government and Taxation - beginning in January 2009 detailing all the "compromise and closing" settlement cases for review. All information allowed under Idaho and federal law and Internal Revenue Service rules will be included in those reports.
"These next steps reflect the shared commitment of the Legislature and my administration to building trust in our tax system and the public servants who administer it. That requires ensuring taxes are apportioned and collected justly and consistently for everyone. Mr. Gentry is a highly respected accounting professional who found - as the Attorney General did before him - that the Tax Commission is not violating the law or rules. Both deserve our thanks, as do the commissioners whose skill, experience and judgment on complex tax cases provides an essential bridge between bureaucracy and common sense," Governor Otter said.
"However, I also welcome and want to assist the Legislature in asserting its oversight authority," he said. "It's my hope that providing this additional information will help legislators determine whether the Commission's practices are consistent not only with the letter but with the spirit of the law."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2008/praug08/pr_042.html
