Public Statements
Governor Initiates Independent Review of State Tax Commission Concerns
Statement
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 8, 2008
Location: Boise, ID


GOVERNOR INITIATES INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF STATE TAX COMMISSION CONCERNS
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter appointed veteran Boise accountant P. LaVern Gentry today to conduct an independent review of concerns about Idaho Tax Commission policy raised by one of the commission's long-time auditors.
Gentry is a licensed CPA who practiced for 34 years before retiring from Deloitte & Touche, LLP in 2004. Widely respected in the accounting field, Gentry is a past chairman of the State Board of Accountancy and past president of the Idaho Society of CPAs.
"All of us in state government have a responsibility to maintain the public's trust. When concerns are raised which call that trust into question, it's our responsibility to take the necessary steps to regain it," Governor Otter said. "This review is aimed at ensuring that questions are answered and concerns are addressed in a professional and thorough manner."
Senate Local Government and Taxation Chairman Brent Hill of Rexburg and House Revenue and Taxation Committee Dennis Lake of Blackfoot endorsed the appointment.
"A professional and independent review such as the one directed by Governor Otter is necessary to restore public confidence in the fairness and equity of Tax Commission policies and operations," Senator Hill said. "I look forward to Mr. Gentry's findings."
"The Legislature is keenly interested in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, and this review should go a long way toward providing the information we need to do that effectively," Representative Lake said. "Our ability to accomplish the functions of government depends on the trust we are able to maintain with the people. This is a step in the right direction, and we stand ready to follow up on whatever recommendations result from Mr. Gentry's review."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2008/prjul08/pr_033.html
