Public Statements
Letter to The Honorable Lawerence Denney, Speaker of the House, Idaho House of Representatives
Letter
By: Butch Otter
Date: April 1, 2008
Location: Boise, ID


Letter to The Honorable Lawerence Denney, Speaker of the House, Idaho House of Representatives
April 1, 2008
The Honorable Lawerence Denney
Speaker of the House
Idaho House of Representatives
Legislative Annex
Boise, ID 83720
VIA HAND DELIVERY
Dear Mr. Speaker,
I hereby advise you that I have transmitted to the Office of the Secretary of State, with my approval, the following House Bill, to wit: H 586
within the time prescribed by law, the same having arrived in the Office of the Governor at the hour of 11:05 a.m. on March 26, 2008.
Clean air is among Idaho's most precious resources. We are blessed with skies as open and clear as any in the world. Unfortunately, there are a few relatively heavily populated areas of our state where congestion and the pollution that comes with it threaten to put us under the federal regulatory thumb. Within those areas, we face the very real prospect of losing control of our own destiny - unless we act first and decisively.
This legislation is a less-than-perfect solution. Vehicle emission testing is not the only way to avoid a non-attainment designation. I sign the bill into law with reservations, and only with assurances from its sponsor, Representative Mark Snodgrass, and others that they will work diligently with me to improve on it and return to the Legislature with proposed changes in 2009.
Specifically, those improvements must include a broad enough range of alternatives to vehicle emission testing for counties to maintain the level of self-determination that is critical to local accountability. The Department of Environmental Quality has identified an impressive list of alternatives, including truck stop electrification, anti-idling programs, improving local government fleets with lower-emission vehicles, and establishing high-occupancy vehicle lanes on major traffic corridors.
Annual vehicle emission testing typically is the most cost-effective and easily implemented measure. However, the options available to counties should not be limited to the lowest-hanging fruit. This bill is only the first step.
Representative Snodgrass, the DEQ and I are committed to pursuing additional ways for counties to continue as the architects of their own destiny while meeting the undisputed needs of maintaining and improving our air quality. Both are elements of Idaho's enviable quality of life.
As Always - Idaho, "Esto Perpetua"
C.L. "Butch" Otter
Governor of Idaho
Cc: Secretary of State

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/
