Public Statements
Governor Welcomes Basque President: Reaffirms Longstanding Cultural & Economic Ties
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 29, 2015
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter welcomed the President of the Basque Country, Iñigo Urkullu, to Idaho and the State Capitol on the first day of his official trip to Boise. President Urkullu and members of the Basque delegation met with the Governor and other state officials to discuss enhancing areas of collaboration between Idaho and the Basque Country.
The meeting focused on strengthening economic ties and promoting more cultural exchanges between the two regions. "The cultural heritage of the Basque people in Idaho is an integral part of who we are as a state," said Governor Otter. "I am honored to welcome President Urkullu and his delegation as we look for ways to enhance our understanding and our appreciation for one another as well as promote our shared economic interests."
More than 16,000 people of Basque heritage live in the State of Idaho, and President Urkullu said he hopes his visit will improve upon an already very special relationship. "Boise is the city outside of the Basque Country where the presence and Basque influence, both in politics and in culture are felt the strongest", said President Urkullu. "The cultural affinity, knowledge and respect for the Basques in Boise make this place an outstanding platform for the Basque Country in the United States."
Both leaders agreed on the need to open a pathway for collaboration and take advantage of opportunities that the Great State of Idaho offers, especially in sectors like renewable energy, new technologies and agriculture. After meeting with the Governor, President Urkullu is expected to meet with more than 20 Idaho businesses.
Governor Otter also signed a proclamation celebrating the Basque culture. President Urkullu expressed his desire to share the culture of the new Basque Country with Idaho, while maintaining their roots, and pursuing a strategy for sustainable growth and human development.
Also attending the meeting with the Governor was: Lt. Governor Brad Little; Director Celia Gould, (Idaho Department of Agriculture); and Ben Ysursa, former Idaho Secretary of State. Basque dignitaries in attendance included the Minister of Education, Language Policy and Culture, Cristina Uriarte; the General Secretary of Foreign Action, Marian Elorza and the Delegate of the Basque Government in the United States, Ander Caballero.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2015/2%20Feb/pr_50.html
