Public Statements
Letter to The Honorable Lawerence Denney, Speaker of the House, Idaho House of Representatives
Letter
By: Butch Otter
Date: March 17, 2008
Location: Boise, ID


Letter to The Honorable Lawerence Denney, Speaker of the House, Idaho House of Representatives
The Honorable Lawerence Denney
Speaker of the House
Idaho House of Representatives
Statehouse Mail
Boise, ID 83720
VIA HAND DELIVERY
Dear Mr. Speaker,
I hereby advise you that I have transmitted to the Office of the Secretary of State, with my approval, the following House Bill, to wit:
H 465 within the time prescribed by law, the same having arrived in the Office of the Governor at the hour of 11:40 A.M. on March 11, 2008.
As a father, grandfather and husband, I understand and share folks' concerns about transitional homes in their neighborhoods. As Governor, ensuring public safety and protecting individual property rights are among my fundamental responsibilities.
My challenge is reconciling those priorities while upholding the Idaho Constitution. That's not always an easy task, but it is one I sought and humbly accepted from the citizens of Idaho when they chose me as their Governor.
Recognizing that challenges also can be opportunities, this legislation provides a valuable chance for cities and counties to engage in a more dynamic partnership with the state in addressing our shared public safety concerns. It also encourages local solutions in the best interest of both individuals and Idaho communities. And it gives concerned citizens throughout our state local forums in which they can express their concerns and look for viable solution.
While greater accountability is inherent in developing local solutions, it also is important for cities and counties - and citizens themselves - to use this opportunity to acknowledge their responsibility and play a meaningful role in safely and effectively reintroducing former inmates to society. Shouldering that responsibility at the local level is critical to the success of the statewide correctional system upon which local governments rely. Local governments have an enormous stake in successfully reintegrating inmates to society.
Local responsibilities do not end in the county prosecutor's office.
The fact is this legislation may not provide all the relief to our communities that its advocates believe. For example, it provides no recourse for local government to address inmates who serve their entire sentence and leave prison unsupervised to reside in a group residence while recovering from drug and alcohol addiction. There is only so much that state government can or should do. This legislation identifies where it is incumbent upon local governments to fulfill their own unique and integral role.
Frankly, I was amazed that so little was said during the public and legislative debate on the need for state and local governments to jointly develop better solutions. The focus instead was on what should be prohibited, rather than on what we can accomplish by working together.
Make no mistake: Transitional homes do a vital job in the rehabilitation of offenders. There is no doubt that the homes help reduce recidivism and provide an irreplaceable gateway for a community's own residents to return to productive and contributing citizenship. Indeed, the state's inmate population is made up in large measure of individuals from cities and counties throughout Idaho who, after paying their debt to society, want to return home to familiar and potentially nurturing surroundings.
So, after much serious thought and contemplation, I am signing HB 465 into law.
By doing so, I am expressing my commitment and that of my administration to working on the issue with the Legislature, cities and counties with the goal of reducing to the greatest degree possible the potential impact on our neighborhoods, our correctional system and - most importantly - on the taxpayers of Idaho.
Let me make this entirely clear: This law must not be used as a hammer by local government to merely close down these facilities and turn a blind eye to the important role that transitional housing plays in our system.
For my part, I pledge the resources of the State of Idaho to act in a supporting role to local governments in developing workable solutions on the location and regulation of these facilities.
The bottom line is that transitional homes play too vital a role to our correctional system for me to allow the baby to be thrown out with the bathwater. Simply shutting them down without providing alternatives is the wrong thing to do - for offenders, for taxpayers, and for the safety of our citizens.
As Always
C.L. "Butch" Otter
Governor of Idaho
Cc: Secretary of State

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/
