Public Statements
Opinion: Protecting Idahoans is Government's Most Important Job
Op-Ed
By: Butch Otter
Date: March 6, 2008
Location: Unknown


OPINION: PROTECTING IDAHOANS IS GOVERNMENT'S MOST IMPORTANT JOB
By Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter
"All political power is inherent in the people. Government is instituted for their equal protection and benefit."
Sound familiar? It should. It's from Article I, Section 2 of the Idaho Constitution.
Yet it seems to be a foreign concept to some of those most in need of understanding and embracing this concept. To me, no role of government is more essential and proper than protecting the people in whom all political power is inherent.
At the Legislature, the Joint Finance-Appropriations Committee gets the first cut at deciding how Idahoans' tax dollars should be used to fulfill government's proper role. It's a daunting task, carrying with it both prestige and problems.
Among the budget items I asked JFAC to authorize this year, consistent with government's role of protecting our citizens, was $637,000 for forensic scientists at the Idaho State Police's crime labs. The request came at the request of the Idaho Sheriffs' Association, the Idaho Chiefs of Police Association and the Idaho Prosecuting Attorneys Association.
Those are not special interests looking for a government handout. They are criminal justice professionals, each as committed as the next to investigating crime, apprehending those responsible for crime, and ensuring our citizens receive fair and swift due process of law.
A review by Colonel Jerry Russell, director of the Idaho State Police, found a serious need for additional laboratory personnel at the crime labs, especially since they were unable to complete work on criminal cases in a timely manner.
For example, the understaffed labs were able to meet only 43 percent of the turnaround target times for DNA testing, and only 24 percent of latent fingerprint testing was accomplished on time. The Idaho State Police Forensic Laboratory system has been steadily improving its effectiveness and efficiency over the years, but more scientists are needed.
Forget all the fancy stuff you see on "CSI." We are not talking about bells and whistles here. We're talking about basic laboratory services. And 85 percent of the analysis done by the labs is for local law enforcement agencies.
Remember, the Sixth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution requires that criminal defendants receive a speedy trial. Without providing the tools that professionals need, we run the risk of violating the very Constitution we swear to uphold.
My budget recognized the need for Idaho to have timely forensic analysis and included a request for funding to provide the support that law enforcement officials throughout Idaho need to make our communities safer for law-abiding citizens.
However, JFAC decided it was more important that the $637,000 in a state budget of over $3 billion go toward other purposes - something other than your local police chief or sheriff has determined is needed to help protect you and your family.
Once again, remember this phrase from the Idaho Constitution: "All political power is inherent in the people." Maybe if the Legislature is reminded of that, state government will be better able to carry out one of its truly proper and most important roles.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2008/prmar08/pr_014.html
