Public Statements
Governor's Cup is No' Special Interest'
Op-Ed
By: Butch Otter
Date: Feb. 26, 2008
Location: Unknown


GOVERNOR'S CUP IS NO ‘SPECIAL INTEREST'
By Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter
Some recent news reports have mischaracterized the annual Governor's Cup as a special interest event run by a statewide trade association - a boondoggle run by lobbyists to influence elected officials.
Let me set the record straight.
The Governor's Cup is a registered 501c3 charitable organization governed by a 12-member board of directors. It has been in existence for about three decades, through both Republican and Democrat administrations.
Its mission is to raise money for scholarships to help Idaho students continue their education here in Idaho. That's it - nothing political or underhanded; nothing secret or scandalous. It's simply Idahoans who have done well in business and in life contributing some of their money to help another generation do likewise.
The numbers alone tell a good deal of the story.
Less than 4 percent of those participating were elected state officials. Yet a record $600,000 was raised for scholarships.
That will pay for a lot of scholarships at Idaho's academic and professional-technical schools.
Yes, there are opportunities for business people and government people to talk. Yes, there is golf, trap shooting, fly fishing and other entertainment at some of the most beautiful spots on Earth, like Sun Valley last year and Coeur d'Alene in 2008. Yes, there is camaraderie and good humor and - dare I say it? - fun.
But the only "special interest" that benefits is our children and grandchildren, the next generation of business and government leaders, entrepreneurs and professionals who will help ensure Idaho remains the greatest place in the world to live, work and raise a family.
Have we really gotten to the place in America, and in Idaho, where we naturally assume there is an "angle" attached to everything we do? Maybe I'm just old fashioned or naïve, but I hope I never get cynical enough to believe that.
The Governor's Cup has become a great tradition for a good cause - too great to be used as a stalking horse for lobbying reform or ad hominem attacks on the civic virtue of elected officials.
The naysayers and cynics can carp all they want. As far as I'm concerned, the scholarship effort will continue as long as I am privileged to be your governor, and I hope long after.
In the meantime, I will work to keep the Governor's Cup growing and generating money so a lot more kids can get the education and training they need to make productive and involved lives for themselves right here at home.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2008/prfeb08/pr_011.html
