Public Statements
Presidential Disaster Declaration Signed for 11 Southern Idaho Counties
By: Butch Otter
Date: April 21, 2017
Location: Unknown

President Donald J. Trump signed a Presidential Disaster Declaration today for 11 southern Idaho counties, triggering the release of federal funds to help communities repair public infrastructure damaged by severe winter storms and related flooding from February 5 through March 3.
Damage assessments in Bingham, Cassia, Elmore, Franklin, Gooding, Jefferson, Jerome, Lincoln, Minidoka, Twin Falls and Washington counties exceed $30 million. Many primary and secondary roadways were damaged beyond repair, forcing residents in some areas to get around in small boats or kayaks.
"We are grateful that President Trump acted quickly to support parts of Idaho struggling through one of our worst weather-related disasters in recent memory," Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter said. "But it's important to remember that areas of Idaho beyond these 11 counties also were impacted and now face the threat of serious flooding as a result of our heavy winter snowfall. This is great news, and there should be more to come."
Last month the State of Idaho requested a Presidential Disaster Declaration for five Idaho counties affected by severe winter snow in December 2016 and throughout the month of January. Residents in Ada, Canyon, Custer, Payette and Washington counties sustained widespread damage to roofs, roadways and additional infrastructure as a result of record snowfall. That request was denied and the State has appealed.
"The destruction caused by all this water is breathtaking in its scope and magnitude," said Brad Richy, deputy chief of the Idaho Office of Emergency Management. "The assistance made available through this Presidential Disaster Declaration will go a long way in repairing disaster damaged public infrastructure. There is still a lot of flooding going on around the state. It is critically important that all Idahoans heed the warnings for flooded areas, and be prepared for worst-case scenarios."
Information on signing up for alerts and warnings, along with Flood Watch information, can be found at www.IOEM.Idaho.gov. The Idaho Emergency Operations Center also remains activated due to ongoing spring flooding statewide.

Source: https://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2017/4_April/pr_19.html
