Public Statements
Governor's Executive Order Creates Cybersecurity Task Force
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 27, 2015
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced today that he signed an executive order to ensure that Idaho becomes more vigilant in the face of world-wide, cybersecurity threats. Building upon on-going efforts to protect Idaho families, businesses and government entities from the growing threat posed by organized cyber attacks, Idaho Governor C.L. Butch Otter signed an executive order creating the IDAHO CYBERSECURITY CABINET TASK FORCE.
"We have seen dozens of cyber attacks that seem to be increasing in frequency and boldness, costing our businesses and taxpayers untold billions of dollars each year," said Governor Otter. "I believe in the old Boy Scout motto: "be prepared.' By signing this executive order, I want Idahoan's to know that our state continues to prepare to meet any cybersecurity threat, whether from viruses, malware, and security breaches to outright theft of personal and private information."
Members of the Idaho Cybersecurity Task Force will be charged with developing policies, programs and strategies to detect vulnerabilities and prevent attacks. The Task Force will also be charged with promoting a culture of cybersecurity awareness in which all Idahoans are vigilant and aware of vulnerabilities and cyber risks.
"Idaho's thriving business community, along with state agencies that provide essential services, face real threats posed by cyber criminals around the world," said Governor Otter. "This task force will work on strengthening our defenses to proactively protect data and infrastructure."
The Task Force will by chaired by Lt. Governor Brad Little. Members of the Task Force will include representatives from the Idaho Bureau of Homeland Security, Idaho State Police, Department of Administration, Tax Commission, Idaho Transportation Department, Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, state colleges and universities and other agencies.
"Idaho's long term economic competitiveness is intimately linked to cybersecurity," said Lt. Governor Brad Little. "But our companies and government networks are not the only ones vulnerable to cyber attacks. All Idahoans are under threat if our state is not vigilant about protecting our citizens' privacy."
In November 2014 the Idaho Bureau of Homeland Security convened the Idaho Cybersecurity Interdependencies Workshop. The Idaho National Laboratory, Micron Technology, Hewlett-Packard, St. Luke's Health System, Supervalu Inc., Boise State University, Norco, the City of Boise, sheriff's offices statewide and roughly a dozen state agencies participated. The workshop was the first in a three year initiative to develop public/private sector partnerships.
"A key strategy in combating cyber attacks and remaining nimble to growing and evolving cyber threats is to tap in to public and private expertise," said Brad Richy, Director, of the Idaho Bureau of Homeland Security. "Governor Otter's decision to create this task force is a tangible and proactive way Idaho can remain on guard against those who seek to harm our critical functions and services."
The first meeting of the Cybersecurity Task Force will take place at 1:30 p.m., on Wednesday, September 16, 2015.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2015/2%20Feb/pr_49.html
