Public Statements
Governor Touts Lincoln and Idaho Museum Exhibit
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Jan. 30, 2008
Location: Boise, ID


GOVERNOR TOUTS LINCOLN AND IDAHO MUSEUM EXHIBIT
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter, recovering from hip resurfacing surgery, urged Idahoans to make time in the coming month to visit the Lincoln and Idaho Museum Exhibit, which has its grand opening at 7 p.m. Friday at the Idaho State Historical Museum.
Two exhibits - "Lincoln and Idaho" and "Forever Free" - celebrating the 200th birthday of President Abraham Lincoln and his relationship to the Idaho Territory, will be on public display at the museum in Boise's Julia Davis Park from Saturday through March 1.
The bicentennial of Lincoln's birth is February 12, 2009. It will be marked by events, exhibits and activities until December 1, 2009.
"This is a unique opportunity to experience the historical significance of one of our greatest presidents, and to witness another perspective on the birth of what would become Idaho," Governor Otter said. "I hope you'll join me in viewing part of our political, social and cultural heritage as Americans, and as Idahoans."
"Lincoln and Idaho" features copies of original Lincoln artifacts covering the 16th president's youth, his time as a lawyer and as an Illinois legislator. Also featured will be sections on Lincoln's candidacy and presidency, his connection with the Idaho Territory and his assassination. Accompanying the exhibit will be six cases of original artifacts.
"Forever Free" is a traveling panel exhibit that reexamines President Lincoln's efforts to abolish slavery during the Civil War. It contains reproductions of rare historical documents, period photographs and cartoons, lithographs, and political materials.
The Boise appearance of both exhibits is sponsored by the Idaho Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission. Its chairman, David Leroy, said, "More than any other state, Idaho is related to Abraham Lincoln. This museum exhibit tells that story in documents and artifacts rarely seen by the public. Lincoln's signature on the bill creating the Idaho Territory, his last known survey and the last note he ever wrote, should not be missed."
A $20 donation is requested for Friday night's grand opening. Starting Saturday, admission to the Idaho State Historical Museum is $4 for adults, $2 for seniors and $1 for students ages 6-12. Children 5 and under are free.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2008/prjan08/pr_004.html
