Public Statements
State Christmas Tree Lighting Set
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Nov. 26, 2007
Location: Boise, ID


STATE CHRISTMAS TREE LIGHTING SET
GOVERNOR AND FIRST LADY INVITE PUBLIC TO DECEMBER 4TH EVENT

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter and First Lady Lori Otter invite the public to join them on the evening of Tuesday, December 4th, for the lighting of the official state Christmas tree.

"The tree is an enduring symbol of hope and perseverance, of rebirth and opportunity," the Governor and First Lady said. "We look forward to gathering around the tree with friends, family and neighbors to celebrate the season and the blessings that our community, our state and our nation enjoy."

The state Christmas tree, an approximately 60-foot spruce, is located at the southeast corner of the Borah Building grounds, at the intersection of Capital and Bannock streets in downtown Boise. It will be lighted with about 12,000 power-conserving LEDs.

State Christmas trees traditionally are donated by Idaho citizens and located on the front steps of the Capitol. However, that site is unavailable due to the continuing Statehouse renovation. It is the first known use of a live tree for the official state Christmas tree.

The Brass Quintet and the Tuba Quartet from the Idaho National Guard's 25th Army Band will begin performing at 5:30 p.m., and the Children's Choir from Meridian's Cecil D. Andrus Elementary School will perform at 5:45 p.m. The tree lighting itself is scheduled for 6 p.m., with a countdown by the First Lady. Members of the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve also will have Toys for Tots bins at the event, and the public is encouraged to donate new unwrapped toys for the annual effort.

Refreshments will be served beginning at about 6:15 p.m. in the 2nd Floor Conference Room on the north end of the Borah Building. The Governor and First Lady thank Albertson's for donating the cookies and apple cider, and Starbucks for donating the coffee and hot chocolate that will be served.

The First Lady also will be reading Christmas stories to children in the conference room, and distributing gifts to participating children from the Treasure Valley Reading Foundation starting at 6:30 p.m. The Governor, First Lady and Idaho's constitutional officers will greet members of the public from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the courtroom at the south end of the Borah Building's 2nd Floor.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2007/prnov07/pr_096.html
