Public Statements
Governor Sets Domestic Violence Policy
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Nov. 20, 2007
Location: Boise, ID


GOVERNOR SETS DOMESTIC VIOLENCE POLICY
As families begin gathering for the holiday season and stress runs high, Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter signed an executive order today designed to raise awareness of domestic violence and ensure that victims get the state services they need.

"This time of year brings out the best in people. Unfortunately, sometimes it also brings out the worst," Governor Otter said. "It's important that folks know there is help out there, that they know how to find it, and that they have realistic options for freeing themselves from a volatile and dangerous situation. Domestic violence impacts all of us - from victims and their families who are physically and emotionally abused, to offenders who have lost control of their lives, to our first responders, health care and social services providers who work to pick up the pieces. We offer hope, help and support."

Executive Order 2007-18 directs all state agencies, offices, departments and divisions to:
*Ensure that personnel policies and procedures prohibit discrimination against victims of domestic violence, protect the confidentiality of and are responsive to the needs of victims of domestic violence;
*Inform employees of available resources for assistance by including information provided by the Idaho Coordinated Response to Domestic & Sexual Violence - a state-level committee of governmental and non-governmental organizations - on domestic violence awareness and services as part of new-employee orientation and integrate information on domestic violence into existing materials, literature, policies, protocols and procedures, as appropriate;
*Include in training for human resource personnel information on domestic violence and its impact on the workplace as provided by the Idaho Coordinated Response to Domestic & Sexual Violence.
In 2006 there were approximately 5,000 "intimate partner" violence crimes reported in Idaho; 4,955 domestic-violence civil protection order filings, and 8,701 calls to the Idaho Domestic Violence Hotline. The Bureau of National Affairs estimates that domestic violence costs Idaho employers $17 million a year in lost time and productivity.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2007/prnov07/pr_095.html
