Public Statements
Governor Takes 'Capital for a Day' to Wallace
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Nov. 5, 2007
Location: Boise, ID


Governor Takes 'Capital for a Day' to Wallace
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced today that Wallace, the historic North Idaho mining community and Shoshone County seat, will be Idaho's "Capital for a Day" on Tuesday, November 13th.

The first-come, first-served open opportunity to meet with the Governor, selected members of the Governor's Cabinet and other senior state officials is scheduled from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Wallace Senior Drop-In Center, 621 Cedar Street. The Governor also will join state and local leaders for a no-host luncheon from noon to 1:15 p.m. at the 1313 Club, 608 Bank Street in Wallace.

State officials joining the Governor at Capital for a Day will include Idaho Department of Water Resources Director David Tuthill; Idaho Department of Environmental Quality Director Toni Hardesty; Office of Energy Resources Administrator Paul Kjellander; Gerald Hunter, president and executive director of the Idaho Housing and Finance Association; Idaho Fish and Game Commissioner Tony McDermott; Damon Allen, District 1 engineer for the Idaho Transportation Department; and Terry Harwood, executive director of the Coeur d'Alene Basin Commission.
A number of area mayors, county commissioners, legislators, tribal officials, and congressional delegation and state agency representatives also have been invited to attend.
"The Silver Valley is one of those parts of Idaho where it's easy to feel isolated and even a little cut off from what's going on anywhere else. Geographically, it's almost as closely tied to Montana and Washington as it is to Idaho. But the folks in Wallace and throughout Shoshone County are Idahoans, and it's up to their state government to ensure they have the chance to feel a part of that," Governor Otter said. "Capital for a Day is a reminder that the government's responsibility for serving the people doesn't stop at the Salmon, the Snake or the St. Joe. North, south, east or west - it's all Idaho."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2007/prnov07/pr_090.html
