Public Statements
Jason Kreizenbeck Named Chief of Staff
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Nov. 2, 2007
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter, traveling in China with an Idaho trade delegation, announced today that Jason Kreizenbeck, director of government affairs for Micron Technology Inc., will succeed Jeff Malmen as his chief of staff at the end of November.
Idaho Power Co. announced today that Malmen had accepted a senior position with its public affairs team, effective at month's end.
"Jeff's great political instincts and encyclopedic knowledge of Idaho were a key element of my success during six years in Congress and my first year as governor. I lack the words to fully express my gratitude for his contribution, his counsel or his friendship," Governor Otter said. "Transitions are always difficult, but it's comforting to know that I will have a new chief of staff cut from the same bolt of cloth."
Kreizenbeck joined Micron in 1999 as the Idaho state government coordinator. He now is director of government affairs, responsible for the company's global government affairs program.
Before joining Micron, Kreizenbeck worked as deputy campaign manager and finance director for the Mike Simpson for Congress campaign in 1998, and was a field director for the Batt for Governor campaign in 1994. He then served as a policy and legislative adviser to Governor Phil Batt on natural resources and environmental policy issues. Kreizenbeck also worked in the Idaho Legislature as an independent contract lobbyist for a variety of clients.
He is a graduate of Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington, where he received a bachelor's degree in politics.
"I have known and respected Jason for years. He's a terrific leader and a good friend. It will be great to have him on the team," Governor Otter said. "Jason's wealth of experience in state and federal government, his grasp of the issues, of Idaho's economy and political landscape, and the positive working relationships he has built with people in the private sector and at every level of government throughout Idaho will be invaluable to me and my administration."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2007/prnov07/pr_089.html
