Public Statements
Governor, Shoshone-Bannock Tribes Sign Fuel Tax Agreement
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Oct. 24, 2007
Location: Boise, ID

GOVERNOR, SHOSHONE-BANNOCK TRIBES SIGN FUEL TAX AGREEMENT
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter and Shoshone-Bannock Tribal Chairman Alonzo A. Coby signed a landmark agreement today, amicably resolving long-standing questions over the collection and allocation of motor fuel taxes on eastern Idaho's Fort Hall Indian Reservation.
"I'm grateful to Shoshone-Bannock leaders for the spirit of cooperation and shared responsibility they have brought to this process," Governor Otter said. "The savings we realize by keeping this out of court are substantial. But more importantly, this agreement reflects the positive and constructive understanding that my administration and tribal representatives have built. We're moving forward together as partners for all Idahoans."
The agreement provides that the tribes will impose a 25-cents-per-gallon tax - the same rate as the state motor fuels tax - on sales of gasoline and diesel delivered to the Fort Hall Indian Reservation by fuel distributors. The tribes also must increase the tribal fuel tax in the future if the state increases its tax.
In addition, the agreement requires the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes to spend tribal fuel tax revenue on transportation needs - on the reservation - which includes planning, construction, repair and maintenance of roads and highways or improvement of navigable waterways. The tribes can do so independently or in partnership with federal and state agencies, counties, cities and highway districts.
The agreement also provides that the state can collect and keep the state tax on 85 percent all the diesel fuel delivered to tribal retailers on the Fort Hall Reservation. That is expected to generate between $850,000 and $1 million a year. Roughly one-third of that revenue will be used to pay the 25-cents-per-gallon rebate that long-haul interstate trucking companies receive under the International Fuel Tax Agreement for diesel purchased - but not burned - in Idaho. The remaining state revenue will go toward state transportation needs.
Fuel tax discussions also are progressing well with the Nez Perce Tribe, and Governor Otter said he remains hopeful that an agreement can be reached before the December 1 deadline imposed by the Legislature last winter.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2007/proct07/pr_085.html
