Public Statements
Governor, Coeur D'Alene Tribal Leaders Sign Fuel Tax Agreement
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Oct. 16, 2007
Location: Boise, ID


GOVERNOR, COEUR D'ALENE TRIBAL LEADERS SIGN FUEL TAX AGREEMENT
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter and Coeur d'Alene Tribal Chairman Chief Allen signed an historic agreement today, amicably resolving long-standing questions over the collection and allocation of motor fuel taxes on North Idaho's Coeur d'Alene Indian Reservation.
"We did it ourselves, cooperatively, civilly and without getting the courts involved," Governor Otter said. "It's a testament to the quality of our relationship with the Coeur d'Alene Tribe and to our shared willingness to work together, as sovereign governments, in the common interest of our people."
The agreement provides that tribal retail outlets on the Coeur d'Alene Reservation will impose a 25-cents-per-gallon tax - the same rate as the state motor fuels tax, which they already do - on sales of gasoline and diesel delivered to the reservation by fuel distributors. The tribe also must increase the tribal fuel tax in the future if the state increases its tax.
In addition, the agreement requires the Coeur d'Alene Tribe to spend its tribal fuel tax revenue on transportation needs - on and off the reservation - in partnership with federal and state agencies, counties, cities and highway districts. That spending could include planning, construction, repair and maintenance of roads and highways, improvement of navigable waterways or regional public transportation.
Tribal retail outlets generate an estimated $800,000 a year in tribal fuel tax revenue. The state generated $212 million from its 25-cents-per-gallon fuel tax in 2006.
"The numbers and the dollars are important, of course. But it's just as important to me that this agreement represents a framework for cooperation on other issues," Governor Otter said. "I appreciate the work that tribal leaders have put into this, and the spirit of collaboration that it represents."
Fuel tax discussions also are progressing well with the Nez Perce and Sho-Ban tribes, and Governor Otter said he remains hopeful that agreements can be reached before the December 1 deadline imposed by the Legislature last winter.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2007/proct07/pr_083.html
