Public Statements
Governor Signs Four-State Agreement, Appoints Wildfire Rehab Committee
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Oct. 2, 2007
Location: Boise, ID


GOVERNOR SIGNS FOUR-STATE AGREEMENT, APPOINTS WILDFIRE REHAB COMMITTEE
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter, during a meeting in his office today with Wyoming Governor Dave Freudenthal, signed a four-state agreement pledging cooperation with Wyoming, Utah and Nevada on actions to prevent catastrophic wildfires and rehabilitate burned acreage.
Governor Freudenthal, a Democrat and chairman of the Western Governors Association, participated via telephone on August 6 as Governor Otter met with Utah Governor Jon Huntsman and Nevada Governor Jim Gibbons in Boise to discuss improving cooperative responses to wildfires in the Intermountain region.
That meeting resulted in an agreement to develop a "Memorandum of Understanding" (MOU) on ways to work together more effectively on wildfire suppression, prevention and rehabilitation. Governor Otter officially signed the MOU today as he met with Governor Freudenthal about a range of issues that Idaho and Wyoming have in common. The MOU also has been distributed to the three other governors for their signatures.
"More than 2 million acres of private, county, state and federal land burned in Idaho during this year's fire season. Thousands of people were temporarily forced out of their homes, and lives were put at risk. We owe it to the people we serve to act in concert with our neighboring states to reduce this annual threat and restore the lands on which our lifestyle and economy depend," Governor Otter said.
Besides the MOU, Governor Otter signed an executive order today establishing a Statewide Wildfire Rehabilitation Committee to work with counterparts in Wyoming, Utah and Nevada on implementing the multi-state agreement. The committee will consist of the directors of the state departments of Agriculture, Environmental Quality, Fish and Game, Lands, Water Resources, and Transportation. Members also will include the director of the Idaho State Police and the administrator of the Office of Species Conservation.
Governor Otter also may appoint stakeholders to the committee, including representatives of grazing permittees, conservation groups, local elected officials, the timber industry and Indian tribes.
One of the focuses of the committee will be addressing the "tremendous threat to the sagebrush steppe ecosystem and other landscapes from invasive plant species and noxious weeds, including cheat grass, in the aftermath of these wildfires across Idaho," according to the executive order.
To that end, at 9 a.m. on October 9th, Governor Otter will join a call for volunteers to participate in a project led by the Department of Fish and Game to gather wild plant seeds for use in rehabilitation efforts on Idaho rangeland burned by this year's wildfires. Please contact Fish and Game for additional information.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2007/proct07/pr_077.html
