Public Statements
Governor Adds Idaho to Climate Registry
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Aug. 8, 2007
Location: Boise, ID


GOVERNOR ADDS IDAHO TO CLIMATE REGISTRY
Vowing that Idaho will work to establish and promote a voluntary statewide greenhouse gas emissions reporting and verification system, Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced today that he has applied for Idaho to become the 38th state member of The Climate Registry.
"The registry is an excellent opportunity for state government to take a leadership role in this important area and Idaho is eager to take our place at the table," Governor Otter wrote in a letter requesting Idaho's membership. "We look forward to participating in The Climate Registry's open, transparent and collaborative process."
The Governor also used the letter to designate Toni Hardesty, director of the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality, to be Idaho's official representative to The Climate Registry. Hardesty is Governor Otter's point person for coordinating and implementing greenhouse gas reduction efforts throughout state government in Idaho. That includes developing a greenhouse gas emission inventory and providing recommendations to the Governor on how to reduce those emissions.
"Collaborating with other states on building a consistent accounting system for measuring and tracking greenhouse gas emissions is an important task. I look forward to participating in this groundbreaking program," Director Hardesty said.
The principles and goals to which Idaho is committing as a member of The Climate Registry include:
* Working to establish and endorse a voluntary statewide greenhouse gas emissions reporting and verification system.
* Working to identify a set of greenhouse gas emissions minimum data quantification standards.
* Providing an accurate, complete, consistent, transparent and verified set of greenhouse gas emissions data, supported by a robust accounting and verification infrastructure.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2007/praug07/pr_062.html
