Public Statements
Governor Announces Amber Alert Partnership
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: June 27, 2007
Location: Post Falls, ID


GOVERNOR ANNOUNCES AMBER ALERT PARTNERSHIP
ELECTRONIC BILLBOARDS THROUGHOUT IDAHO TO BE INCLUDED IN NOTIFICATION SYSTEM
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter joined Colonel Jerry Russell, director of the Idaho State Police, in announcing a partnership with Lamar Advertising today that will expand and improve the statewide Amber Alert emergency notification system.
Lamar has agreed to participate in the Amber Alert system by donating the use of its digital billboards throughout Idaho. Colonel Russell, who leads Idaho's Amber Alert program, and Scott Butterfield, Northwest Region manager for Lamar Advertising, put together the partnership to help increase public awareness and improve the chances for successful recovery in missing child cases.
"The extension of our digital billboards to the Amber Alert system in Idaho is in keeping with our policy of supporting the communities where we conduct business," Butterfield said. "Through these billboards located throughout the state of Idaho, we have the potential to reach thousands of citizens. The general public often plays a critical role in locating a missing child. Lamar is pleased to be working with the state in a partnership to locate missing children."
The announcement was made during a news conference at a Lamar electronic digital billboard in Post Falls near the intersection of Seltice Way and Huetter Road. Lamar also operates three digital billboards in the Boise area, two in Pocatello and one in Idaho Falls.
"Governor Otter has tasked me with building and maintaining strong relationships with law enforcement officials throughout Idaho, and providing the kind of support service to them that benefits all Idahoans. Improving the Amber Alert system by getting the word out faster to more people is part of that effort," Colonel Russell said. "I appreciate Lamar's willingness to devote resources to this good work."
"Scott and his team have really gone out of their way to coordinate with the State Police and local law enforcement folks. Under Colonel Russell's leadership, Idaho's Amber Alert program is moving from little more than a good idea to a great tool for protecting our children and apprehending those who would do them harm," Governor Otter said. "This is the kind of public-private partnership that makes both more effective. It connects citizens and our business community with our first responders in a positive way."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2007/prjun07/pr_053.html
