Public Statements
Soda Springs is June Capital for a Day
By: Butch Otter
Date: June 7, 2007
Location: Boise, ID

SODA SPRINGS IS JUNE CAPITAL FOR A DAY
GOVERNOR OTTER TAKES THE SEAT OF GOVERNMENT TO SOUTHEASTERN IDAHO COMMUNITY
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced today that the southeastern Idaho community of Soda Springs will be Idaho's "Capital for a Day" on Tuesday, June 19th.
The first-come, first-served open opportunity for residents to meet with the Governor, First Lady Lori Otter, selected members of the Governor's Cabinet and other senior state officials is scheduled from 9 a.m. to noon at the Soda Springs City Hall, 9th West 2nd South. State and local leaders will attend an open luncheon for the community, hosted by member companies of the Idaho Mining Association, from noon to 1:30 p.m. at Tigert Middle School, 250 East 2nd South, where the open public session with state leaders will continue from 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m.
State agency officials joining the Governor and First Lady will include Department of Commerce and Labor Director Roger Madsen; Department of Environmental Quality Director Toni Hardesty, Department of Lands Director George Bacon, Idaho Public Utilities Commission President Paul Kjellander; Ed Bala, District 5 Engineer for the Idaho Transportation Department; Gary Spackman, Water Management Division manager for the Idaho Department of Water Resources; and Mark Gamblin, Southeast Region supervisor for the Idaho Department of Fish and Game.
The First Lady will visit the Soda Springs Public Library and meet with area children during the morning as Idaho's Summer Reading Ambassador.
"Like much of Idaho, the issues that resonate with folks in Soda Springs include education, the economy, transportation, the environment, water and recreation. Rural southeastern Idaho also has some unique qualities and challenges that set it apart, and will make it a great place to focus the attention of state leaders," Governor Otter said. "I'm looking forward to hearing local residents' concerns, their hopes and they're perspectives on how we can make this part of the state and all of Idaho an even better place to live, work and raise and family."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2007/prjun07/pr_051.html
