Public Statements
Keith Johnson Leaving Administration
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: May 15, 2007
Location: Boise, ID


KEITH JOHNSON LEAVING ADMINISTRATION
KEY CABINET MEMBER RESIGNS TO PURSUE PRIVATE SECTOR OPPORTUNITY
Keith Johnson, director of the Idaho Department of Administration and former State Controller, announced today that he is resigning at month's end to become the director of state and local government for the computer software company Oracle.
Johnson, a Meridian native, leaves state government after more than 12 years of public service, including four years as Idaho State Controller and four years as Oklahoma State Comptroller. His new role will allow him to keep living in Boise.
"Keith is an incredibly talented and accomplished manager, administrator and public servant. His judgment, integrity and skills are unquestioned. The people of Idaho owe him a debt of gratitude for his contributions to our state, which I'm confident will continue in the private sector," Governor Otter said. "I value Keith's friendship. I was proud to have him become a part of my administration, and I'm equally sorry to see him go."
"When the Governor asked me to lead the Department of Administration, it was my intention to give it at least six months and finish the task that he initially set for me - to work my way out of a job. Unfortunately, events intervened. But I believe we're on the right track," Johnson said. "I am truly grateful to the people of Idaho for placing their trust in me, and for the great experiences and opportunities that serving our state has provided. It was important to me in accepting this new position that I get to keep living here. Idaho is my home, and always will be."
Johnson's new employer, Oracle Corporation, is based in Redwood Shores, California. It is the world's leading supplier of software for information management, and the world's second-largest independent software company.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2007/prmay07/pr_045.html
