Public Statements
Governor Recounts Cuba Trip's Outcome
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: April 16, 2007
Location: Boise, ID


GOVERNOR RECOUNTS CUBA TRIP'S OUTCOME
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter was back in the Statehouse today after he and First Lady Lori Otter returned from a trade mission to Cuba with a 35-member delegation late Friday night.
"We did a lot of field preparation down there; I have high hopes that the work we've done and will continue doing in the weeks and months ahead, sowing the seeds of commerce, will result in a fruitful harvest for Idaho producers and businesses," Governor Otter said. "The relationships we're building in Cuba could pay dividends for years to come."
Relationships were nurtured during the four-day visit by meetings where the Governor, First Lady and other delegation members held discussions with Cuban officials including Pedro Alvarez, chairman and CEO of the official Cuban importer Alimport; Raul de la Nuez, Cuba's Minister of Foreign Trade; and Ricardo Alarcon, President of the Cuban National Assembly.
The trip also included visits to the Policinico Universiario clinic and hospital, a "diversified agricultural co-op," the Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology; and Finca La Vigia, the historic home of author Ernest Hemingway.
Celia Gould, director of the Idaho Department of Agriculture, said meetings during the week resulted in the beginning of cooperation with Carlos Borroto, vice director of the Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, on the issue of nematodes. Those talks also could result in a Cuban market for Idaho seed potatoes if Borroto is allowed to travel to Idaho for a site visit before issuing an import permit.
Independent Meats plans to ship 54 metric tons of boneless pork legs to Cuba in June, a contract worth more than $100,000. And company officials in Twin Falls are optimistic about future sales.
In addition, Hands of Hope donated medical supplies to the Policinico Universiario clinic on behalf of the state of Idaho.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2007/prapr07/pr_032.html
