Public Statements
Idaho Water Summit Begins a Process
Statement
By: Butch Otter
Date: March 27, 2007
Location: Unknown


IDAHO WATER SUMMIT BEGINS A PROCESS
By Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter
It's no secret to anyone who spends more than five minutes with me that water is one of my favorite topics.
Probably more than a few of you have heard me talk about the fact that our space program sends probes halfway to God, and the first thing we look for is water. And few people here on Earth know more about its importance than Idahoans. Our economy and our way of life depend entirely on its management, protection and wise use.
Stakes that high make it natural that so much attention is focusing on the Water Summit I proposed during the campaign. The Idaho Supreme Court's March 5 ruling that the state has authority to manage ground water and surface water as a single resource cleared the way for that summit to occur.
The Idaho Department of Water Resources and my staff have been working hard the past few weeks to put the summit together. I'm happy to announce that it will occur April 17 in Burley, and that a list of principle and supporting participants in the negotiations is on its way to completion. I will be personally involved and will do my best to ensure the summit is a success.
However, that begs the question of how success should be measured.
It is critically important that the summit not be seen as an end in itself, but rather as an important starting point to a continuing process. The results of the April 17 meeting may not seem dramatic to the public, but the fact that so many diverse interests share a commitment to finding solutions is itself groundbreaking.
Many of the issues involved in managing Idaho's limited and precious water resources have been debated and litigated for decades. I am more realistic than to believe they can be resolved in a single day. However, I will make it clear to the participants and the public that we cannot go forward with the status quo.
Whatever solutions eventually are reached likely will not please everyone involved. But what I seek is public policies that work. In my view, understanding and accepting that premise will go a long way toward success.
You might say April 17 will be a watershed day in the history of Idaho water policy. I am very hopeful, but more importantly I am determined, and committed to reaching both near-term and long-range solutions.
As Winston Churchill said in November 1942 after the British defeated the German Afrika Corps in Egypt, "This is not the end. It is not even the beginning of the end. But it is, perhaps, the end of the beginning."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2007/prmar07/pr_025.html
