Public Statements
Resolution Reached in Ellk Ranch Situation
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: March 15, 2007
Location: Boise, ID

RESOLUTION REACHED IN ELK RANCH SITUATION
STATE AGENCIES AGREE ON HANDLING OF WILD BIG GAME ON SE IDAHO RANCH
The Idaho departments of Agriculture and Fish and Game announced an agreement late Thursday on the handling of wild big game enclosed within Rulon Jones' southeastern Idaho elk ranch.
The Idaho Department of Agriculture is reviewing records and other information to confirm that no instances of tuberculosis, brucellosis, chronic wasting disease, meningeal worms and muscle worms exist within in the domestic elk herd on Jones' ranch in the Soda Springs area.
Once that is established, representatives of both agencies will meet with Jones to discuss ways to remove the wildlife from his enclosure. Options include hazing or baiting the animals into passing out of the enclosure on their own, and possibly trapping for physical removal. Whether he does it himself or with help from the agencies, Jones has agreed to assume all costs of removal.
The wild big game identified on his ranch includes an undetermined number of mule deer, elk and moose.
If the removal effort is unsuccessful within a time frame to be determined by the agencies, the Department of Fish and Game will provide Jones with a permit to kill all the wild big game remaining on his property.
Officials from both Fish and Game and Agriculture will be available to help Jones kill the animals, at his request and at his expense.
"I appreciate the spirit of cooperation that both agencies have shown in dealing with this situation. Mr. Jones also has been extremely cooperative with state officials throughout this process," Governor Otter said. "This resolution reflects my emphasis on dealing with difficult situations case by case, and on state government helping individuals achieve goals that serve the public interest and their own."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2007/prmar07/pr_023.html
