Public Statements
Press Release - Otter Pushes For Regulatory Streamlining
By: Butch Otter
Date: Sept. 18, 2006
Location: Boise, ID

Otter Pushes For Regulatory Streamlining
Gubernatorial Candidate Pledges Closer Cooperation With Local Officials
BOISE, Idaho - Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter announced on Monday that, as Governor of Idaho, he will work with local leaders to create one-stop regulatory resource centers that reduce red tape and improve efficiency.
Otter, the Republican candidate for governor, welcomed enthusiastic support from city and county officials in his native Canyon County, where he hopes to launch a pilot program for this and other efforts to improve efficiency at all levels of Idaho government.
Too many of government's regulatory functions - at the city, county and state levels - are cumbersome and duplicative, with overlapping jurisdictions and inadequate communication. Congressman Otter said working together, combining resources and even integrating operations as much as possible will streamline and simplify many of the everyday functions of government in communities throughout Idaho.
The bottom line will be more responsive government and savings for taxpayers.
"For too long people seeking the government's permission to create jobs and opportunities for Idahoans have faced a gauntlet of city, county and especially state requirements - permits, licenses, inspections, assessments and the like," Otter said. "Sometimes it seems like the idea is to set up enough hurdles so people will either give up and quit bothering us or get caught out of compliance and pay us a fine. That's no way to run a business, or a government."
Otter said he will break from the "proscribe and punish" mindset that has dominated government for decades, and instead focus on educating and assisting people to comply with government regulations in a way that keeps the public safe without discouraging economic activity and job creation.
http://www.otter4idaho.com/news_regstreamline.php
