Public Statements
American Horse Slaughter Prevention Act
By: Butch Otter
Date: Sept. 7, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


AMERICAN HORSE SLAUGHTER PREVENTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I submit for the RECORD an editorial from the Dallas Morning News and also an editorial from the Star-Telegram.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Chairman, the House of Representatives is voting today on an amendment to the Horse Protection Act that actually would irresponsibly endanger the welfare of the very animal that it purports to help. I oppose H.R. 503, which is driven by raw emotion and misinformation rather than by the facts. By eliminating the option of humane slaughter of the horses, the bill provides no directive as to what will happen to the 90,000 unwanted horses annually processed in our slaughter facilities. It increases the probability of unwanted horses becoming the victims of neglect, starvation, or abandonment. It criminalizes a legitimate and legal U.S. industry. It eliminates hundreds of U.S. jobs. It mandates costs estimated at $3 billion to $4 billion on private citizens. And it creates far more problems than it actually solves.
It limits horse owners' choices for disposing of their animals, and it infringes on the owners' private property rights. Private property rights have long been held dear by the families and the land owners in the west, and for good reason. Their farms and ranches have been their livelihood and part of their national heritage since the frontier was closed and the west was settled.
Not many months ago, many of my colleagues, most of those who are on the opposition side of this bill, on a bipartisan basis, rose in indignation at the Kelo v. New London, Connecticut, the City of New London, Connecticut decision, because it was taking private property rights.
I have stood many times with many of those folks who are now proponents of this bill to protect intellectual private property rights. I see no difference. And like it or not, a horse is private property. They are not humans. They must be treated humanely and cared for appropriately. However, when a horse is no longer wanted or cannot be cared for, Congress should not be in the business of deciding how the animals can or cannot be disposed of.
We fight for the protection of personal property rights and intellectual property rights, everything from dirt to ideas, Mr. Chairman. This is no different. I strongly encourage Members to oppose this misguided effort and continue preserving a strong tradition of private personal property rights in the United States.
Mr. Chairman, I yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Goodlatte).
http://thomas.loc.gov/
