Public Statements
Otter Issues Clean Campaign Challenge
By: Butch Otter
Date: Sept. 5, 2006
Location: Boise, ID


Otter Issues Clean Campaign Challenge
BOISE, Idaho - Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter, the Republican candidate for Governor of Idaho, challenged his Democrat opponent on Tuesday to join him in signing a clean campaign pledge.
"Politics should reflect the clean and honest character of our great state," Otter said. "The election for Governor of the State of Idaho should be conducted with dignity, honor and respect for the voters. The campaign should be on issues and ideas, not the strategy of personal assaults and character assassination."
To that end, Otter offered his opponent the opportunity to join him in signing the following statement, which was adapted from a pledge signed in Montana by Democrat Governor Brian Schweitzer. So the gubernatorial campaign is conducted in a tone of civility and respect the voters of Idaho deserve; and that candidates express their positive visions for the state's future while drawing legitimate contrasts between their candidacies; we, the undersigned candidates for Governor, promise to provide Idahoans with a clean and issues-based campaign as follows:
1. The two candidates agree that all TV, radio, direct mail, print and outdoor advertising will contain descriptions of our positive visions for the future of Idaho.
2. If a candidate or his campaign chooses to criticize or discuss his opponent, he must take responsibility by using his own voice and, where applicable, his own image. A candidate cannot hide behind actors or announcers.
3. Each candidate agrees in good faith to prevent third parties from conducting attacks against the opposing candidate. If this request is ignored by a third party, the candidate who has the most to gain from the attack will immediately criticize the activity and publicly demand that the attacks stop immediately. If they do not cease, this agreement will become void.
4. If any part of this agreement is broken, nothing in this agreement will constrain the opposing candidate from responding, and the opposing candidate will no longer be bound by this agreement.
http://www.otter4idaho.com/news_cleancampaign.php
