Public Statements
TURNABOUT: Simpson and I Agree More Than We Differ
By: Butch Otter
Date: Aug. 6, 2006
Location: Unknown


TURNABOUT: Simpson and I agree more than we differ.
- By Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter
Contrary to the personal opinions that Jim Fisher expressed in his Aug. 2 editorial, my positions on public lands issues are being shared every day with my constituents, colleagues and stakeholders throughout Idaho.
Forgoing the exercise in futility that getting the news media to accept or support those positions is not the same as having no positions or keeping them to myself.
Despite Jim's personal opinions about where I stand, my position is that Idahoans need and deserve the maximum possible access to our public lands for jobs, recreation and traditional uses. I am committed to working to that end.
That is not the same as opposing protection of special and fragile public lands, supporting unlimited or unrestricted use of our public lands or supporting or opposing a particular wilderness proposal. The issues are far more subtle and multifaceted than that.
Answers seldom are clear-cut. Most people understand that.
Achieving consensus about something as complex as wilderness or other public land issues is not simply a matter of having editorial writers agree on a position. Conversely, disagreeing with editorial writers about issues as important as management of our public lands does not constitute being at "the far end of the spectrum."
While Jim apparently disagrees, I do not consider Idaho ranchers or off-road vehicle enthusiasts to be on the far ends of the political spectrum. On the contrary, they are far more representative of the Idaho mainstream than editorial writers will ever be.
They are among the constituents, stakeholders and citizens throughout Idaho expressing to me their support for multiple use of our public lands for hunting, fishing, livestock grazing, whitewater rafting, horseback riding, snowmobiling and even simply sightseeing.
Frankly, staying in Jim's good graces is far less important to me than communicating with those folks, people who scratch a living from our public lands or whose vacation options extend to a few days at a Forest Service campground just off the beaten path rather than a few weeks in the Alps.
Regarding the most recent media-driven controversy, let me be clear: All the sound and fury propagated by those hoping to divide Republicans signifies nothing more than an honest disagreement among friends.
The fact is that there are far more issues upon which Congressman Simpson and I agree than disagree. On most, Jim disagrees with us both. They include:
» A constitutional amendment exempting the violence-promoting desecration of the American flag from free speech protections;
» Keeping government out of the business of officially sanctioning marriages other than those between men and women;
» Tax relief that has rejuvenated our economy while actually increasing government revenues;
» Holding the federal government accountable for meetings its Payments in Lieu of Taxes and other financial responsibilities to Idaho's public lands-dependent rural communities.
» A recent public lands exchange between the Bureau of Land Management, the state of Idaho and the city of Boise that resulted in more protected open space in the Boise Foothills and valuable, productive northern Idaho timberlands being added to the state endowment fund portfolio;
» The absolute necessity of protecting Idaho's limited water resources from being appropriated out of state or despoiled here at home;
» Protecting Americans' Second Amendment rights against those who believe guns cause crime;
» More active and reasonable forest management policies that promote healthy, sustainable timber growth and reduce the threat of catastrophic wildfires;
» Reining in frivolous lawsuits that drive up costs and restrict access to health care;
» A regionally driven approach to salmon restoration that addresses the whole range of factors influencing the life cycle of Northwest fish runs without breaching dams or putting Lewiston-area jobs at risk;
» Reducing America's dependence on foreign energy through conservation, more use of alternative and nuclear energy and using safe, clean new technology to explore and develop our plentiful domestic resources.
My level of agreement with Congressman Simpson even extends to wilderness.
We both believe that areas of the Boulder-White Clouds deserve protection. We both believe that Mike's approach of engaging and investing stakeholders in the process has produced a bill that already is far better than anything that's come before.
I also believe that feeding the media's insatiable appetite for contention is not the most productive way to proceed. Of course, that is entirely unacceptable to editorial writers.
But here's a news flash for Jim: That is not the same as being unacceptable to most Idahoans.
http://www.otter4idaho.com/news_turnabout.php
