Public Statements
Governor Candidate Supports Special Session, Proposed Legislation
By: Butch Otter
Date: Aug. 4, 2006
Location: Unknown


GOVERNOR CANDIDATE SUPPORTS SPECIAL SESSION, PROPOSED LEGISLATION
- By Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter
Governor Risch and legislative leaders have my support for their approach to providing Idahoans with real and lasting property tax relief while also resolving our long-term school funding dilemma.
Their plan calls for financing $210 million in property tax relief with a 1-cent sales tax increase, and providing another $50 million in relief from the state's estimated $200 million general fund revenue surplus.
It also calls for setting aside $100 million of this year's general fund surplus to help protect the education budget during the transition from dependence on property taxes.
In this way, Governor Risch and legislative leaders appear to have solved the problem that has eluded state policy makers for years, Republicans and Democrats alike - how to establish a more stable, broader-based and consistent source of funding for maintaining and improving our public schools while easing the burden on Idaho homeowners.
The sales tax is the most reliable and evenhanded source of revenue available to provide realistic, lasting relief to beleaguered homeowners.
The change will offer significant, sustainable tax relief to homeowners who are struggling to cope with the consequences of spiraling property taxes. It also has the added benefit of enlisting visitors to Idaho in the work of financing our schools while more accurately reflecting the ability of our own citizens to pay.
Merely shifting a disproportionate share of the property tax burden to small businesses and other employers, as some have proposed, has been found unconstitutional in the past.
Even if it somehow passed constitutional muster, such action would seriously damage Idaho's chances of attracting jobs, investment and opportunities.
That is especially true in sparsely populated rural areas of Idaho where the tax base already is too narrow to pay for needed public services, mostly due to the large percentage of untaxed federal land.
The education of our children, and the state's constitutional responsibility to provide it, are too important to leave to the chance of annual revenue windfalls. Governor Risch and legislative leaders understand that, and are acting wisely and decisively to ensure much-needed property tax relief does not come at the expense of students and Idaho's future.
We all have heard the excuses of those who would rather keep waiting, wringing their hands and hoping that the people give them additional direction, obviously worried more about the next election than the next generation.
Current members of the Idaho Legislature heard them and as a result have been researching, debating and considering property tax relief options for much of the past two years.
Seniors trying to make ends meet on fixed incomes should no longer have to fear being taxed out of their homes. But that relief should not come at the expense of small business owners trying to make the American Dream come true for themselves, their employees and their families.
Idaho taxpayers need and deserve tax relief. Idaho children need and deserve a quality education and a secure future. It's time to decide.
http://www.otter4idaho.com/news_taxrelief.php
