Public Statements
Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2007
By: Butch Otter
Date: June 14, 2006
Location: Washington, DC

TRANSPORTATION, TREASURY, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, THE JUDICIARY, THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA AND INDEPENDENT AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. OTTER. In my 1 minute, Mr. Chairman, I would like to make a couple of points that were already touched on by Mr. Hastings, but are awfully important to the whole idea of the consolidation of TRACON.
First off, the FAA has furnished us with rules on cost savings which are just totally unrealistic.
Number two, in the Boise airport to which Mr. Hastings referred we have not only general aviation, commercial aviation and the National Guard control out of the Boise tower, but we also have the National Interagency Fire Center, which attacks the wildfires on BLM and Forest Service ground all over the West.
And finally, I would say this is such a bad idea, but it would be a terrorist dream. To consolidate all of our air traffic control into one center would be a tremendous target for those folks.
And so, with that, Mr. Chairman, once again I thank Mr. Hastings for his leadership on this and for the time. And I would like to offer letters from the Governor, from the National Guard Bureau and also from other interested parties for the record.
Mr. Chairman, in support of the amendment offered by Mr. HASTINGS, the FAA has embarked on a plan to collocate TRACON--radar--facilities from airports around the United States.
My colleagues from Idaho and I have had a number of contacts and meeting with FAA on this issue--and still, there are few answers and lots of concerns about the proposed move of the only TRACON located in Idaho--Boise Airport--to collocate facilities at Salt Lake City.
There are lots of reasons I could share about why this move is of concern to my constituents and I: redundancy of TRACON facilities in the vast Intermountain West, dramatic growth in the region, air space flexibility for our biggest airport, which also serves as the home to Idaho's active Air National Guard as well as the National Interagency Fire Center, which serves the whole West.
But there are general concerns that I think speak to why it is important to support the amendment offered by Mr. Hastings:
Poor cost analysis--limited savings: The FAA has only been able to show negligible savings with the proposed collocation. After two meetings and repeated requests for detailed cost information--to include short-term expenses and savings, as well as long-term projected costs, etc.
On April 27, my delegation colleagues and I met with Administrator Blakey, at which time a rudimentary cost savings analysis was provided, claiming only $2.47 million in savings over 25 years--less than $100,000 per year.
More importantly, by the FAA's own admission, this ``analysis'' does not take into account all personnel costs, such as the need to hire additional controllers due to loss of flexible scheduling, dual training and other efficiencies currently used at the Boise tower, as well as other potential cost increases.
Therefore, the planned move will likely result in greater costs over that 25-year period.
Poor Planning: It appears that the FAA's ``alternatives analysis'' being conducted on TRACON collocation does not have a long-range plan or vision.
There is no plan on how TRACON facilities will be collocated and/or consolidated around the Northwest--let alone across the country--as they look to maximize use of their new STARS radar system. At least none has been communicated by the FAA when questions have been raised at meetings.
The process, as presented by FAA staff, appears to be based solely on those projects that are currently working on getting funding or those that have funding earmarked and are ready to go to construction.
In the case of Boise Airport, a much needed new air traffic control tower project has been delayed or benched after more than $16 million in earmarks have been worked on over the past 3 years by my Idaho colleagues and me.
This setback will negatively impact the economic development opportunities, security and safety concerns we have expressed to the House and Senate Appropriators in support of funding for this project.
Colleagues, we aren't talking about decreasing the size of government or lowering our costs here. Until FAA can articulate real cost savings and a national strategy for TRACON collocation and consolidation, we ought not go down this path any further. I urge your support for the Hastings/Wexler/Shaw/Foley Amendment.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov/
