Public Statements
Governo Otter Makes Senator John Tippets Enviornmental Quality Director
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: June 15, 2015
Location: Unknown

(BOISE) -- Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced the appointment today of State Senator John Tippets of Bennington to be the next director of the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality.
Tippets begins his new job at DEQ on July 6. He succeeds Curt Fransen, who retired in May.
The appointment is subject to confirmation by the Idaho Senate, where Tippets is serving his third term after six two-year terms in the Idaho House of Representatives. He rose in the House to become chairman of the State Affairs Committee and majority caucus chairman. His Senate portfolio includes chairmanship of the Commerce and Human Resources Committee and membership on the Health and Welfare and Judiciary and Rules committees.
Tippets will resign from his Senate seat representing District 32 -- which includes Bear Lake, Bonneville, Caribou, Franklin, Oneida and Teton counties. The district's Republican legislative committee will submit three nominees from which the Governor will choose a replacement to complete Tippets' term, which runs through 2016.
A retired public affairs manager for southeastern Idaho fertilizer manufacturer Agrium, Tippets has agreed to recuse himself from any DEQ issues involving his former employers. He has a bachelor's degree from Brigham Young University and a master's degree in human resource management from Utah State University.
"John is what ranchers call a "good hand.' When he's assigned a responsibility, you can rest assured it will be accomplished professionally, thoughtfully and efficiently," Governor Otter said. "During this selection process I was particularly impressed with his vision for the agency, his commitment to its success, his grasp of the issues and his understanding of the dynamic between DEQ and the EPA. That's critically important as Idaho works to assume control over issuance of water pollutant discharge permits in the coming years."
"I am extremely grateful for the confidence Governor Otter has shown in me by this appointment," said Tippets. "I look forward to working closely with the Governor and fulfilling DEQ's mission to protect human health, preserve the quality of Idaho's air, land, and water for today and into the future."

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2015/2%20Feb/pr_39.html
