Public Statements
House Votes To Speed Up Forest Recovery
By: Butch Otter
Date: May 17, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


House Votes To Speed Up Forest Recovery 5/17/2006
SIMPSON AND OTTER BACK BILL TO CUT RED TAPE, IMPROVE FOREST HEALTH
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and C.L. "Butch" Otter joined the 243-182 bipartisan House majority on Wednesday in approving legislation to cut through red tape that often forces federal agencies to wait years before properly managing forests ravaged by wildfire or other natural disasters.
Both Simpson and Otter are cosponsors of the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act, H.R. 4200, which was written after nine congressional hearings conducted at the Capitol and in national forests around the country.
The bill calls for the departments of Agriculture and Interior to work with land-grant colleges and universities on research and development, then on implementing the most effective, ecologically sound methods and management practices for long-term forest recovery and short-term emergency stabilization projects.
It does not mandate a particular course of action for land managers, such as salvage logging, but instead acknowledges that the right policy is to allow federal land managers on the ground to determine which of the best management practices developed under the bill, if any, a forest needs after a natural disaster, and how quickly it needs them.
"This bill will allow forest managers to establish a much needed, scientifically based plan to recover and restore federal forests after natural disasters, such as wildfires, tornados and hurricanes," Simpson said. "It will also increase the involvement and collaboration with states, local governments, tribes and universities while recovering damaged forests after a natural disaster has taken place."
"The folks who know best how to restore forest health too often are prohibited from doing their jobs in a timely fashion, leaving stricken areas filled with dead and dying trees. That's an invitation for more devastating fires, erosion, degradation of streams and the spread of bug infestations and disease," Otter said. "Every day we lose in getting to work on the job of forest restoration hurts the resource, and all the people who depend on it."
http://otter.house.gov/news.aspx?ID_News=53
