Public Statements
House Again Approves Right-To-Ride Bill
By: Butch Otter
Date: May 17, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


House Again Approves Right-To-Ride Bill 5/17/2006
IDAHO LAWMAKERS SUPPORT PROTECTING PACK AND SADDLE ACCESS TO PUBLIC LAND
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives late Tuesday approved legislation cosponsored by Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and C.L. "Butch" Otter to safeguard the traditional use of pack and saddle stock animals on America's public lands.
The Right-to-Ride Livestock on Federal Land Act, H.R. 586, passed the House by voice vote. The bill recognizes that the use of horses, mules and other stock has a long tradition in American culture that deserves protection. A similar bill was approved by the House in 2004, but failed to clear the Senate.
The measure, which once again now goes to the Senate, would ensure that public lands will be managed to "preserve and facilitate the continued recreational use of pack and saddle stock animals." It recognizes the importance of livestock use on National Park Service, Bureau of Land Management and Forest Service properties, including wilderness areas.
The historical legacy of livestock use on public lands runs deep. President Theodore Roosevelt, a renowned environmentalist and outdoorsman, explored the West extensively on horseback. John Muir, founder of the Sierra Club, traveled with packhorses in 1869 through what later would become Yosemite National Park.
"The chance to see Idaho's backcountry on horseback is a legacy I'm determined to save for my grandchildren," Congressman Otter said. "The tradition of exploring nature from the top of a horse goes beyond professional outfitters it includes families, youth organizations, church groups, senior citizens and the disabled. It's a part of our heritage that shouldn't be left to history books and old movies. This bill ensures it can be passed on from generation to generation."
"Without the ability to ride horses, so much of our western way of life would not have been possible. Allowing for the continued use of horses and other pack animals on federal lands not only makes sense, it is important to the future of the West," Congressman Simpson said. "Not only does this bill allow for the continued use of pack or saddle stock on federal lands, but it also preserves the tradition of horses in American culture."
http://otter.house.gov/news.aspx?ID_News=52
