Public Statements
House Blocks Tax Increases
By: Butch Otter
Date: May 10, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


House Blocks Tax Increases 5/10/2006
Bill Will Protect Families, Seniors, Small Business Owners
WASHINGTON, DC - Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and C.L. "Butch" Otter voted today to protect families, seniors and small businesses by supporting the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005, H.R. 4297. The measure will continue spurring economic growth by extending relief under the Alternative Minimum Tax, raising the limit on small business expensing and reducing tax rates on capital gains and dividends.
"Our economy continues to grow driven largely by the ingenuity of American entrepreneurs, productivity of American workers, and the Bush tax cuts that were set to expire soon," said Simpson. "The concept is pretty simple, put more of a taxpayer's hard earned money back into their pockets and let them decide how to spend it. By doing so, we're not only giving taxpayers more freedom over their earnings, we're feeding the economic engine of our nation."
"We're not done building an economy that provides incentives for creating jobs and investing in the future of our families, but this bill pushes that work forward," Congressman Otter said. "We've seen how effective people can be when they're free to choose how best to put their own money to work. The business of government should be about ensuring those choices are available, and that's what this legislation does."
H.R. 4297 extends the alternative minimum tax relief for an additional year while increasing the limit on small business expensing. It lowers the tax rate on dividend income through 2010, thus preventing a $13 billion tax increase over the next four years every one in two taxpaying senior citizens will benefit.
The Tax Increases Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005 extends the lower tax rate on capital gains income through 2010. This will prevent a $7 billion tax increase over the next four years nearly one in three senior citizens will benefit.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://otter.house.gov/news.aspx?ID_News=50
