Public Statements
Jeff D. Lawsuit Settlement Will Lead to Improved Mental Health Services for Idaho Children
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: June 12, 2015
Location: Unknown

An estimated 9,000 Idaho children with serious emotional disturbances could have better access to
community-based mental health services as a result of the settlement of a federal class action lawsuit
initially filed in 1980, known as the Jeff D. lawsuit.
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter applauded the leadership and staff at all the State agencies impacted by the
Jeff D. case for their perseverance and dedication to doing the right thing for the children of Idaho
throughout a long and difficult legal process.
"I'm proud of our people. I'm proud of the processes and priorities they have put in place. And I'm very
pleased that their hard work and determination has brought us to this day," the Governor said. "The Jeff
D. case has been part of Idaho's political and public policy landscape for decades. Changing cultures and
overcoming tough challenges often takes time, but we understand that realizing success will mean a
continuing commitment to upholding the letter and spirit of this agreement."
The settlement provides an opportunity for the state of Idaho to resolve the long-standing lawsuit. "The
settlement gives Idaho a clear path in delivering needed community-based mental health services," said
Ross Edmunds, administrator of the Division of Behavioral Health at the Idaho Department of Health and
Welfare (DHW). "Most importantly, it provides an effective system to treat youth with serious emotional
disturbances and their families. Our success with this settlement will ultimately bring an end to the Jeff D.
lawsuit."
"The Governor should be applauded for supporting collaborative improvement of Idaho's children's
mental health system," said Patrick Gardner, an attorney with Young Minds Advocacy Project who
helped negotiate the settlement. "Idaho is a model for other states in its commitment to serve children in
need using a coordinated system of care."
The settlement aims to address the gaps in Idaho's mental health system, making it more effective and
efficient in meeting the needs of children with serious emotional disturbances and their families. The
settlement commits the state to taking a number of concrete steps to develop and implement a sustainable,
coordinated, and comprehensive mental health system, including:
* Creating a statewide process, across all child-serving systems, to identify and screen youths for
unmet mental health needs
* Providing a comprehensive array of community-based services and supports to children when
medically necessary
* Delivering services using a consistent approach that engages families, youths, and their support
systems
* Monitoring and reporting on service quality and outcomes for youths




















































Source:
