Public Statements
State Can Should Costs Of Schools
By: Butch Otter
Date: April 30, 2006
Location: Unknown


State Can Should Costs Of Schools
By Butch Otter
I agree wholeheartedly with those Idahoans for whom rising property tax bills are the greatest grievance they have with the government. They are too high and unfairly apportioned, and more must be done to restore balance and fairness.
The First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution guarantees Americans the right "to petition the Government for a redress of grievances." Yet there is no mechanism in the Idaho Constitution or state laws enabling citizens to petition their local government for redress.
As your governor, I would ask the Legislature to allow residents to petition their local taxing districts for an election on reducing their property tax levy. As it stands, voters are only asked to accept larger tax burdens. Despite the constitutional mandate, voters are never given the option of forcing taxing districts to reprioritize or reduce spending and keep levies affordable.
The financial well-being of individuals, families and even businesses rises and falls with the times. Governments only get bigger, richer and more powerful, no matter what the economy does. A balance must be restored.
However, government has certain legitimate responsibilities to its citizens. Among the first of those, according to the Idaho Constitution, is to "establish and maintain a general, uniform and thorough system of public, free common schools."
The Idaho Supreme Court has ruled that the state government itself, not local school districts as political subdivisions of the state, must shoulder the responsibility for public schools. To meet that judicial mandate, and to provide fundamental and lasting reform, I will call on the Legislature to complete the work started during Gov. Batt's administration by moving the rest of our public school district general maintenance and operations costs from local property taxes to the state general fund.
The result would be an estimated $250 million a year in property tax relief statewide, an amount that would grow in proportion to the cost of maintaining and operating all K-12 public schools throughout Idaho.
Local property taxes still would finance any school enhancements that voters choose, but the state would at last unequivocally be fulfilling its constitutional responsibility for schools as interpreted by the Supreme Court.
Property taxes have been a primary concern for citizens and state government throughout my public life. Its time to address the issue in a way that stands the test of time, and that balances the scales of government growth and individual rights.
http://209.200.75.163/election_2006/content/debates/govnernor_043006.php#8
