Public Statements
Public's Interests Must Be Foremost
By: Butch Otter
Date: April 2, 2006
Location: Unknown


Public's Interests Must Be Foremost
By Butch Otter
I think my experiences in public service and as a businessman have prepared me well to address Idaho's challenges and capitalize on opportunities to make Idaho an even better place to live, work and raise a family.
From improving our students' math and science skills to expanding our community college system, from protecting our water to ensuring development does not despoil our resources or public lands, from coping with such issues as illegal immigration and prison crowding to keeping health care affordable, managing growth is key.
Canyon County's most pressing challenges include an inadequate transportation infrastructure that is frustrating, inefficient and dangerous; drug- and gang-related crime that leaves us feeling unsafe in our homes and neighborhoods; and spiraling property taxes that threaten seniors on fixed incomes and younger Idahoans' dream of home ownership.
My 30-year career with the J.R. Simplot Co. was about managing growth — of the company, of markets, of Idaho's economy and of my own family while traveling the globe promoting Idaho products and creating jobs here at home. Among the most important lessons I learned was to prepare for growth by living within your means, planning carefully for the future and taking responsibility for yourself. I believe they apply just as well to the challenges facing Idaho's next governor.
I came to value legislative relations during two terms in the Idaho House of Representatives and 14 years as lieutenant governor. The governor must communicate clearly and consistently with the people and the legislative branch. No challenges are too daunting when we work together in the best interest of the public.
My experience in the Idaho House, as president of the Idaho Senate and as acting governor prepared me to lead collaborative decision-making at the state level.
Serving Canyon County in Congress since 2001 has reinforced the public's need for decisive and principled leadership. Meeting growth's challenges is nearly impossible unless people trust their leaders, and trust must be earned every day. Good government is based on candor that instills trust and integrity that nurtures it.
Finally, experience has taught me the importance of people most directly influenced by government policies playing a direct role in their development. Vigilance is needed to keep the best intentions from being thwarted by rigid bureaucracy and one-size-fits-all regulations — and a flexible, pragmatic, principled approach to problem solving will be my trademark as your governor.
http://209.200.75.163/election_2006/content/debates/govnernor_040206.php#5
