Public Statements
The American Form of Government
By: Butch Otter
Date: March 9, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


THE AMERICAN FORM OF GOVERNMENT -- (House of Representatives - March 09, 2006)
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Speaker, in "The Glorious Quest," James R. Evans wrote, "No historian of the future will ever be able to prove that the ideas of individual liberty practiced in the United States of America were a failure. He may be able to prove that we were not yet worthy of them. The choice is ours."
I bring this to our attention, Mr. Speaker, because recently in a poll that was revealed by the McCormick Tribune Freedom Museum, a survey found out that on questions on the first amendment, one American in a thousand could name all five of the freedoms in the first amendment to the Constitution. However, in that same survey, 69 percent of those surveyed knew who the five members of the TV cartoon family "The Simpsons" was. They knew and could name all five members of the Simpson family.
I bring this to our attention because now more than ever, Mr. Evans' words ought to ring clear to us. And in that glorious quest that he talked about, educating ourselves and then using that education for political action was one of the most important things that we could do as Americans to sustain our form of government.
I bring this to our attention as well, because oftentimes I relish the opportunity to speak to students in my district, especially those in the honors government class. Invariably when I ask those students, whether they be high school seniors not too far off from casting their first vote to sustain this Republic, or to college freshmen somewhere in the curriculum, I ask them: Where do your freedoms come from? What are the source of your freedoms?
Many times they will raise their hand and say it is the first 10 amendments to the Constitution. Only one in a thousand can name the five freedoms in the First Amendment. Those students are sorely fit, I would say, to go forward and lead this great Nation under our constitutional form of government, because, as I usually explain to them, actually the 10 amendments are a document of prohibition, not a document of establishment of freedoms. That is your birthright from when you were born.
That was the great magic of the Founding Fathers. For the first time, they elevated the individual above the crown, above the king, above royalty, above all else except he who created them. For the first time, the individual was elevated higher than anyone else on this Earth.
If I might, let me briefly read from the first 10 amendments. Amendment I: The prohibition. Congress shall make no laws.
Amendment II: Shall not be infringed.
Amendment III: Without the consent of the owner.
Amendment IV: The right of the people shall not be violated.
Amendment V: No person shall be held, nor shall any person be subjected, nor shall any person be compelled, nor shall any person be deprived, nor shall any private property be taken without just compensation.
Finally, amendment VIII: Shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor crucial and unusual punishment inflicted.
These are all documents of prohibition because they recognize that the first 10 amendments were not the source of our freedom. That is our birthright. These are documents of prohibition against government action.
So if only one in a thousand can tell us what those first five freedoms are, how can they establish, then, the freedom of speech and religion and press, and freedom to address the government with our grievances; and finally, the freedom of assembly. Two of the most important elements, at one time or another, to resist our government.
So, Mr. Speaker, I conclude by pointing once again to one of the Founding Fathers, which I often do, maybe to the boredom of some, but it was Ben Franklin, as he walked out of a little church in Philadelphia, who was asked by a citizen, Mr. Franklin, what form of government have you given us?
And he said, Madam, we have given you a republic. And it will fall to each and every generation to defend, to sustain, and to improve it.
Mr. Speaker, with the results of that poll, I would tell you that we are tardy in our work and we need to pick up the speed and educate our people as to the form of government that we got.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
