Public Statements
Otter Backs Tough Child Safety Measure
By: Butch Otter
Date: March 8, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


Otter Backs Tough Child Safety Measure 3/8/2006
CONGRESSMAN SUPPORTS EFFORT TO PROTECT CHILDREN AGAINST VIOLENCE, GANGS
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter joined his House colleagues on Wednesday in supporting legislation to toughen federal laws protecting children from sexual predators and gang violence.
The Children's Safety and Violent Crime Reduction Act, H.R. 4472, reforms federal sex offender registration and notification laws to improve law enforcement coordination and effectiveness against such crimes. It broadens definitions of crimes against children, increase reporting requirements for known offenders, and increases penalties for those convicted of sexual or violent crimes against minors.
"Unfortunately, we in Idaho have become all too familiar with this kind of crime, and this kind of criminal. There is no role of government more basic or vital than protecting the most vulnerable among us," Congressman Otter said. "No amount of compassion and understanding and treatment after the fact can take the place of preventing even one of these terrible attacks on innocent young victims. No system is perfect, but this bill takes a big step toward keeping these sick predators on a short leash and away from our children."
More than 500,000 convicted sex offenders live in the United States. About 150,000 of them are unaccounted for. Once released, sex offenders are four times more likely to be rearrested for a sex crime. To help combat that, H.R. 4472 calls for:
*Ensuring sex offenders register and keep officials up to date on where they live, work and attend school
*Improving verification systems for sex offender information
*Ensuring states notify each other when a sex offender moves to another state
*Protecting foster children from sexual abuse and exploitation
*Giving states and local school districts more tools to protect children from harm.
The bill also addresses the growing problem of gang violence. The U.S. Justice Department says more than 25,000 gangs and over 750,000 gang members are active nationwide. H.R. 4472 strengthens efforts to assist local law enforcement in targeting and prosecuting violent criminals who are associated with street gangs.
http://otter.house.gov/news.aspx?ID_News=33
