Public Statements
Idaho to Host First Agritech Summit June 16th
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: June 11, 2015
Location: Boise, ID

The future of farming and ranching will be on display when Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter -- along with the Idaho State Department of Agriculture and the Idaho Department of Commerce -- hosts the first Idaho Governor's AgriTech Summit on Tuesday, June 16th, at the Boise Centre.
The goal is to provide a forum for Idaho's agriculture, technology and research sectors to learn from one another and explore opportunities for accelerating development of agricultural technology within Idaho. The event will feature three panels of statewide industry leaders to discuss how existing Idaho resources and strengths can be leveraged to promote technology application in new and different ways.
"We've come a long way since they started putting lights on tractors in the 1930s, and Idaho has always been in the thick of it. Through this summit, we want to learn where new opportunities exist, where research is headed, and where technology can add value in the production process," Governor Otter said. "With Idaho's diverse economy, we are well positioned to ensure that our traditional industries and key growth sectors collaborate so we can build on our strengths and become America's agri-tech capital."
Commerce Director Jeff Sayer added, "Technology and agriculture have worked hand in hand for decades, but communities new to the discussion are taking notice, investing capital and developing new technologies that could help make agriculture increasingly efficient and sustainable."
"Idaho agriculture is globally recognized and incredibly productive because we've been early adopters of technology for years," Agriculture Director Celia Gould said. "Technology-based solutions have had very tangible impacts on all sectors of our vibrant industry, and this event continues in that same vein of agriculture's innovative legacy."
Audience input will be solicited during the AgriTech Summit to identify agriculture-related issues needing creative solutions and existing technology competencies that could apply to agriculture.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2015/2%20Feb/pr_38.html
