Public Statements
Otter Casts Symbolic Patriot Act Vote
By: Butch Otter
Date: March 7, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


Otter Casts Symbolic Patriot Act Vote 3/7/2006
CONGRESSMAN APPLAUDS SENATOR CRAIG'S WORK WANTS CONTINUED OVERSIGHT
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter, in what he acknowledged was a symbolic gesture, voted on Tuesday against final congressional approval of reauthorizing the USA PATRIOT Act.
He said the compromise is a great improvement over the original USA PATRIOT Act, and he praised Senator Larry Craig's work to convince the White House that Americans' constitutional freedoms must be protected. However, Congressman Otter said his vote sent a message that Congress and the people must be ever vigilant against even the slightest erosion of their liberties.
"The process we have just been through, a careful and thoughtful assessment of the real needs and the potential consequences of expanded federal law enforcement authority, is what should have happened in the first place in those frantic weeks after 9/11. Senator Craig deserves much of the credit for that. This is a much better bill, providing the tools we need to effectively combat terrorism while providing at least some level of judicial oversight," Congressman Otter said. "However, I can't in good conscience support making so many of the original PATRIOT Act's provisions permanent. It confirms my fears that it's nearly impossible to reduce government's power once it's surrendered. New sunsets would help ensure Congress and the people will again assert themselves as they have during this recent debate, and further refine the law."
The USA PATRIOT Act and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization, S. 2271, makes permanent all of the law except Section 206 (roving wiretaps) and Section 215 (warrants issued by the Foreign Intelligence Security Act or FISA court authorizing search and seizure of all "tangible items" related to a terrorism investigation). All 14 remaining sections due to expire are permanently renewed.
