Public Statements
Appointment of Conferees on H.R. 3199, USA Patriot and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act of 2005
By: Butch Otter
Date: Nov. 9, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON H.R. 3199, USA PATRIOT AND TERRORISM PREVENTION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2005 -- (House of Representatives - November 09, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. OTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the motion to instruct.
* [Begin Insert]
We have heard much from many sides about the USA PATRlOT Act--concerns about what the bill does, statements about what it does not do, and fears about what it could do in the future. We have shared these discussions with constituents, state and local officials, businesses, librarians, and other government agencies.
But earlier this year we had an important opportunity to move those conversations back to Congress to examine--in a light much more clear and objective than that in which we passed the original bill--how the PATRlOT Act has protected us from further terrorist attack, and also how balance between national security and personal security needs to be restored.
As a result of the opportunity to debate, deliberate, and discuss, we made important changes to the original USA PATRlOT Act in H.R. 3199, changes that enable law enforcement to continue to investigate and prosecute crime while protecting civil liberties. Congress was able to go back and make those changes because the original bill included a sunset and made many questionable provisions subject to it.
This sunset served us well, and so I am perplexed that in the same bill where we made vital revisions to the USA PATRlOT Act we also eliminated many of the sunsets and extended others for a decade or more. In doing so, H.R. 3199 takes away from Congress the opportunity to periodically review these provisions and ensure that the tools they provide law enforcement are necessary and that they are not being abused.
I am glad that, in respect to Sections 206 and 215 of the USA PATRlOT Act, the Senate did not act as rashly as we did. I strongly urge conferees to see the wisdom of four-year sunsets for these sections, as passed by the Senate, and I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting this motion to instruct.
* [End Insert]
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
