Public Statements
Lawmakers Join Jones' Call for President to Protect Military Chaplains' First Amendment Rights
By: Butch Otter
Date: Oct. 25, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


LAWMAKERS JOIN JONES' CALL FOR PRESIDENT TO PROTECT MILITARY CHAPLAINS' FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS
Tuesday, October 25, 2005
Washington, D.C.-In a letter today to President Bush, 69 Members of Congress joined Third District Representative Walter B. Jones (R-NC) in urging the President to protect by Executive Order the constitutional right of military chaplains to pray according to their faith. In a Capitol Hill press conference last week, Representatives Mike McIntyre (D-NC), Todd Akin (R-MO), Trent Franks (R-AZ), Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Jim Ryun (R-KS) joined Jones to call attention to the pervasive problem of the suppression of religious freedom throughout our nation's Armed Services.
Expressing their concern for those who have suffered from restrictions placed on the religious expressions of their faith, Members of Congress sent the following letter to President Bush:
We are disappointed and gravely concerned to learn that the right of military chaplains to pray according to their faith is in jeopardy. As you may know, the Air Force leadership recently released proposed guidelines that will restrict how Air Force chaplains can pray, and if approved, those guidelines may well be implemented throughout the entire DoD. We believe that the Air Force's suppression of religious freedom is a pervasive problem throughout our nation's Armed Forces, and it has come to our attention that in all branches of the military it is becoming increasingly difficult for Christian chaplains to use the name of Jesus when praying. There are currently no laws or regulations that prohibit chaplains from praying according to their respective denominations or different faiths, and we are deeply concerned that chaplains are now being instructed on what to say when they pray.
Throughout our nation's history, chaplains not only have remained an integral part of our military, but they also have always prayed according to their faith tradition. We believe that if chaplains are chosen to pray before a professional setting, they have a constitutional right to adhere to the religious expressions of their faith. For Christian chaplains, praying in the name of Jesus is a fundamental part of their belief and to suppress this form of expression would be a violation of religious freedom.
