Public Statements
Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act
By: Butch Otter
Date: Oct. 20, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


PROTECTION OF LAWFUL COMMERCE IN ARMS ACT -- (House of Representatives - October 20, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to add my support to S. 397, the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act.
I also commend Senator Larry Craig from Idaho on his leadership on this legislation, defending Americans' Second Amendment right to bear arms.
The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, S. 397, is bipartisan, common-sense legislation that takes an important step toward preventing reckless lawsuits targeting the firearms industry. Such misguided claims against the legal manufacture and sale of firearms and ammunition are akin to suing the Postal Service or an envelope manufacturer over someone committing the crime of mail fraud--it just doesn't make sense. The bill provides protection for those in the firearms industry from lawsuits arising from the acts of people who criminally or unlawfully misuse their products. The bill preserves citizen access to firearms and ammunition for all lawful purposes, including hunting, self-defense, collecting and competitive or recreational shooting.
I believe that manufacturers and sellers of firearms and ammunition must be protected from restrictions on interstate or foreign commerce. In light of the concerted efforts by opponents of the Second Amendment to destroy the gun industry through frivolous lawsuits, it has become imperative that we protect the jobs and economic well-being of the thousands of people who work for manufacturers and sellers of firearms and ammunition. I find the idea of holding an industry liable for the criminal misuse of their legal products deplorable. Our nation cannot allow the innocent to pay for the dealings of the guilty, or we circumvent the very foundation of the rule of law. It is the individuals who commit violent crimes, not the makers of the means, who must take personal responsibility for their actions through the restitution and civil penalties affirmed by law. This should be the case whether or not a firearm was used to commit the crime.
Without this legislation, further unfounded lawsuits against the gun industry will lead inevitably to an encroachment upon our Second Amendment rights. Congress must work diligently to reduce the level of political rhetoric surrounding gun control, protect the Second Amendment, and promote the role of personal responsibility in society.
This bill is a key element of our effort to bring some sanity to what's become a thriving personal injury industry in this country. Americans understand that suing legitimate firearms manufacturers and dealers out of existence won't stop criminal gun violence. But trial lawyers are eager to cash in on the pain of victims, and criminals rarely have deep pockets. This puts the responsibility where it belongs.
I joined my colleagues in the House in passing similar legislation during the 108th Congress. That unfortunately got held up in the Senate. I am hopeful we will take the opportunity today to pass this bill with no changes so it can go to the President's desk for a signature. This legislation is long overdue.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
