Public Statements
Turnabout: Otter "Hooked" On Fair Trade
By: Butch Otter
Date: Aug. 2, 2005
Location: Unknown


Turnabout: Otter "Hooked" On Fair Trade 8/2/2005

By Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter
Once again, Jim Fisher caught me in the act.
He accused me in a July 28 editorial of "siding with the other members of (Idaho's) all-GOP delegation in opposing" the Central American Free Trade Agreement.
Guilty as charged.
How dare I side with those who are concerned about losing thousands of jobs and millions of dollars in farm production? How dare I side with the Idaho Wheat Commission, Idaho Barley Commission and Idaho Grain Producers Association? How dare I allow fiscal responsibility and the hard lessons of experience to guide my choice?
Yes Jim, you've found me out: I have the gall to make policy decisions based not on political expediency, partisan affiliation or even - gasp! - the opinion of columnists. Instead, I rely on the facts and what I believe to be best for my constituents. Shocking.
Clearly I would have been better off echoing the hollow claims of economic windfall touted by CAFTA supporters. At least then I might have won Jim's praise.
Never mind the Idaho families thrown to the wolves of "free trade," which the World Trade Organization's slanted or nonexistent enforcement has turned into a tragically laughable euphemism for leveling the playing field at Americans' expense.
Never mind the empty promise of profitable new markets for American exports and an improved balance of trade with Central American countries that have impoverished citizens, impossibly low labor costs and governments that heavily subsidize domestic producers while imposing virtually none of the regulatory burdens faced by exporters here at home.
Never mind that we were sold a very similar bill of goods during the NAFTA debate, and now a trade surplus with Mexico has turned into a trade deficit and we are at loggerheads with Canada over everything from beef to softwood lumber.
Yet Jim is undeterred. He blithely attributes my opposition to CAFTA to being at the beck and call of a single industry and to "crackpot" concerns about protecting U.S. citizens from the vagaries of international laws that are inconsistent with our own values and legal traditions.
Jim apparently agrees with at least five members of the U.S. Supreme Court that the Framers of our Constitution were "crackpots" too. After all, they were so "paranoid" about protecting our liberties that they came up with the Bill of Rights, which CAFTA would trump by accepting the jurisdiction of United Nations or World Bank tribunals over U.S. property rights disputes.
One of my colleagues in the Idaho delegation, Congressman Mike Simpson - a member of the House Budget and Appropriations committees - cut straight to the bottom line of the CAFTA debate recently with estimates of the agreement's costs from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.
Among its findings:
* CAFTA will cost U.S. taxpayers $500 million over the next 10 years.
* Revenues to the U.S. treasury will fall by $4.4 billion, or $440 million a year, during that same 10-year period.
* Low sugar prices and oversupply caused by CAFTA will force U.S. sugar farmers - including beet growers in Idaho - to default on loans made by the government. The result will cost taxpayers about $50 million a year.
Even more optimistic estimates from the U.S. International Trade Commission indicate that CAFTA will result in $2.7 billion in increased U.S. exports to the Central American nations involved and $2.8 billion in increased imports from those nations to the United States - at an enormous cost in displaced jobs and economic dislocation.
The bottom line is this: Trade agreements can never guarantee more positive outcomes than the parties involved already are committed to working for. They are not a magic key to prosperity, either for poor countries or our own producers - especially when there is no real commitment to evenhanded enforcement by international regulatory bodies.
I can tell you from 30 years of experience selling Idaho goods in scores of nations around the world that the best way to win a bigger share of the global market is by offering the best products at the most competitive prices. That means being good stewards of our resources, adding value with the latest technology and the most efficient energy available, and then marketing it aggressively and creatively.
Yes, Jim caught me again. I'll take hard work, Idaho ingenuity and fair trade over a so-called "free trade" agreement every time.
http://otter.house.gov/Opinions.aspx?ID_Opinions=14
