Public Statements
CAFTA- Property Rights
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 29, 2005
Location: Washington DC


CAFTA--PROPERTY RIGHTS -- (House of Representatives - July 26, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Price of Georgia). Under a previous order of the House, the gentleman from Idaho (Mr. Otter) is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss perhaps the most fundamental of the reasons for my opposition to the Central American Free Trade Agreement or CAFTA--the serious conflicts it raises with private property rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States.
I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that CAFTA contains 1,000 pages of international law establishing, among other things, property rights for foreign investors that may impose restrictions on U.S. land-use policy. Chapter 10 of CAFTA outlines a system under which foreign investors operating in the United States are granted greater property rights than U.S. law provides for our own citizens!
Mr. Speaker, that's not encouraging free trade. That's giving away our natural resources and our national sovereignty. CAFTA would empower foreign investors to go to UN and World Bank tribunals to challenge state and federal policies here in the United States regarding property rights that violate their assumed ``investor rights.'' Those foreign investors then could demand compensation in the form of U.S. taxpayer dollars for the losses caused by complying with the same domestic policies and regulations that apply to all U.S. citizens and businesses.
The standards for property rights protection that are used by the UN and World Bank to award U.S. taxpayer dollars to foreign investors would NOT be those of the U.S. Constitution, but rather international property rights standards set forth in CAFTA, as interpreted by an international tribunal. And I'm not the only one upset about this. No less than the Conference of State Supreme Court Chief Justices is among those concluding that CAFTA provides greater property rights to foreign investors than U.S. law provides you and me as U.S. citizens!
Furthermore, current rules under Trade Promotion Authority granted by Congress require that trade pacts grant to foreign investors ``no greater substantive rights with respect to investment protections than U.S. investors in the United States.'' Yet even a cursory review reveals that CAFTA fails the test on both counts. Although some words included in NAFTA's investor protection system were changed in CAFTA, the changes were simply procedural and not substantive.
Instead of basing foreign investors' property rights on U.S. law, as Congress requires, CAFTA provides foreign investors in the United States with a ``minimum standard of treatment'' set forth by ``customary international law'' and established in ``principle legal systems of the world.'' The effect is to throw U.S. sovereignty and property rights out the window in the name of ``free trade.'' CAFTA exceeds U.S. law by empowering foreign investors to go to international tribunals in an effort to be compensated in U.S. taxpayer dollars for regulatory takings.
Furthermore, new language in CAFTA almost unbelievably extends the outrageous benefits of this foreign investor-state dispute resolution system to corporations that have a ``written agreement'' with the federal government regarding ``natural resources or other assets that a national authority controls.'' For example, foreign investors could circumvent the U.S. court system entirely by bringing arbitrary challenges over oil and gas, mining, and water contracts to an international tribunal. If a foreign investor is granted a land concession for logging and, as a condition of the contract, is told that the trees must be replanted, the foreign investor can challenge the requirement to replant as an infringement on their ``foreign investor rights'' and ``minimum standard of treatment'' through UN and World Bank tribunals. The U.S. logging company down the street can only go through U.S. courts and has no such special rights.
The very notion that international tribunals should get a say in how we manage U.S. property rights and grant concessions on U.S. land is simply unacceptable. Opening new markets between Central America and the United States is one thing. Asking me to cede decisions over U.S. natural resources and property rights to international tribunals while giving foreigners greater rights to our land than our own citizens have is something else entirely. I won't accept it, and neither should you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
