Public Statements
Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 27, 2005
Location: Washington DC


DOMINICAN REPUBLIC-CENTRAL AMERICA-UNITED STATES FREE TRADE AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 27, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Speaker, in my other life I was a salesman. As a salesman, I negotiated a few trade agreements, trade agreements between my potato company in Idaho and McDonald's all over the world; in fact, 82 foreign countries.
I would venture to say that I could challenge anybody on this floor that I sold more potatoes, more French fries, more product for more money than probably anybody else in the United States Congress. So let me come at this from a little different perspective, and the reason I want to come at it from a little different perspective is because I cannot flimflam. I cannot overpromise and underdeliver hoping that people will forget in a couple of years, a la NAFTA.
Mr. Speaker, when I was working, my boss said, you come home with an order, you come home with an agreement, you get an agreement from somebody, you better perform on it.
So I would do this tonight, Mr. Speaker. I would tell Members, everybody that wants to adopt this agreement, put your job on the line. If in 2 years all of the things that you say are going to come true do not come true, quit. Quit the United States House of Representatives, because, my friends, you are the salesmen for the United States.
If you want to stand behind this trade agreement, you go ahead. But I am not; I would not risk, if I were you, your job on this, because as Patrick Henry said, I have been one lamp that guides my path into the future, and that is the lamp of experience.
We have experienced NAFTA. And by the way, as we stand on the shoulders of those Founding Fathers that built the very foundation of philosophy and politics that we stand on today, let me also quote George Washington who said, If to please the people we promise that which we ourselves disprove, how will we later defend our work?
You will not be able to defend your work, folks. Give it up.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
