Public Statements
USA Patriot and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act of 2005
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 21, 2005
Location: Washington DC


USA PATRIOT AND TERRORISM PREVENTION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2005 -- (House of Representatives - July 21, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Chairman, in my rush to get over here, I had not realized that the chairman had already accepted this amendment, and I thank the chairman for that. But there are a couple of thoughts that I would like to add to the discussion that have already been provided.
Mr. Chairman, I thank my colleague, the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Flake), who is cochair of the PATRIOT Act Caucus with myself. I know the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Flake) and the chairman worked very hard in committee to make sure that they came out with a product that would at least not be as bad as it was when we first passed it in 2001. I thank the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Flake) and also the gentleman from Wisconsin (Chairman Sensenbrenner).
Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this amendment, and I appreciate the opportunity to discuss this issue today as we engage in one of the most important debates that we will have during the 109th Congress--that is, how to ensure that neither our national security nor the individual liberties guaranteed by our Constitution are sacrificed to the threat of terrorism.
The amendment we are offering today narrows the scope of so-called ``sneak-and-peek'' delayed notification search warrants and reins in the far-reaching power that we hastily gave the federal government in the frightening and chaotic days following the 9/11 attacks. We have often heard that ``sneak and peek'' warrants were used before the passage of the USA PATRIOT Act, and I recognize that the courts have upheld their use in limited and extraordinary circumstances.
However, it deeply disturbs me that in codifying this practice we did not employ the notification procedure upheld by most courts before the PATRIOT Act or practice due caution in an effort to protect our Fourth Amendment rights. Instead, we took this already questionable practice and made it the standard rather than the exception.
