Public Statements
Court Turns Constitution On Its Head
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 15, 2005
Location: Unknown


Court Turns Constitution On Its Head 7/15/2005

AMERICANS OUTRAGED BY THREAT TO PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS
By Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter
As Americans were celebrating the 229th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, an assault on another of our founding documents was capturing the nation's attention. It was neither foreign enemy nor insurgent force threatening the most precious and cherished piece of our political heritage; it was a 5-4 majority of the United States Supreme Court.
The justices ruled on June 23 that a simple 12-word phrase in the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution - which was pointedly intended to limit the new national government's power over the people - actually grants government nearly unfettered authority to strip citizens of their homes, farms and businesses.
It ranks among history's most outrageous examples of constitutional revisionism.
The Fifth Amendment states, in part, "nor shall private property be taken for public use without just compensation." Those words were carefully chosen for clarity and precision. They speak to a principle understood well by landowners and government officials alike - including judges - for centuries. "Eminent domain" has served our republic well as an important but carefully used tool with which governments extend the benefits of the social contract through construction of roads, bridges and other public works.
Now Justices Stevens, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer and Kennedy have decided we had it wrong all that time. They concluded the Framers must have intended "public use" to include "economic development" - essentially shifting the idea of "public use" to the more expansive "public benefit." While that might seem subtle, what it does is empower government to take private property for any other use that it determines to be more profitable or productive, or that simply will generate more public revenue - taxes.
The immediate murmur of shocked criticism in response to the court's ruling in Kelo v. City of New London has turned into a cacophony of public concern and official consternation as people realize the implications: No one is safe.
As Justice Sandra Day O'Connor put it succinctly in her sharply worded dissent, "The specter of condemnation hangs over all property, nothing is to prevent the state from replacing any Motel 6 with a Ritz-Carlton, any home with a shopping mall, or any farm with a factory."
The leaders of New London, Connecticut, almost certainly would have failed if the land in question had been the habitat of an endangered plant or animal rather than a neighborhood of working-class people unwilling to give up their homes for a private development that the city determined would provide a greater public benefit.
Each state constitution, including Idaho's, imposes restrictions on the power of eminent domain. Some are more specific than the Fifth Amendment's reference to "public use." Idaho, for instance, limits the state's condemnation authority to land for projects necessary to "complete development of the material resources of the state, or the preservation of the health of its inhabitants "
However, each state constitution is required to fall within the essential principle that government is subordinate and accountable to the individual citizen, not the other way around. Put more simply, our constitutions are designed to ensure that government remains the servant, not the master.
The Supreme Court has turned that principle on its head. John Adams and James Madison, two of our Founding Fathers, knew such a power grab was possible. They warned against it.
"The moment the idea is admitted into society that property is not as sacred as the laws of God  anarchy and tyranny commence," Adams said. "Property must be secured or liberty cannot exist."
"That is not a just government, nor is property secure under it, where the property which a man has in his personal safety and personal liberty is violated by arbitrary seizures of one class of citizens for the service of the rest," Madison said.
That's why they insisted on the clear, straightforward words "public use" in the Fifth Amendment. Everyone understood what it meant; there was no disagreement or confusion. Now we find ourselves with a narrow majority on the highest court in the land willing to simply erase the foundation of our freedom and prosperity, and the beacon of individual liberty that has drawn generations to our shores.
It is unthinkable that the Framers of a Constitution designed to "secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity" would intend that private property be subject to government confiscation - and confiscation it is, for how can "just compensation" be possible when government wields the power to define "public use" so broadly?
This is not a class issue. This is not a partisan issue. This is a question of the most fundamental importance to America's future, and one on which none of us can afford to be what Thomas Paine called "sunshine patriots." That's why I am proud to be an original cosponsor of legislation to address the very real and imminent threat of government overreaching raised by Kelo v. City of New London. Rest assured it will be my highest priority.
http://otter.house.gov/Opinions.aspx?ID_Opinions=15
