Public Statements
Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2006
By: Butch Otter
Date: June 28, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


FOREIGN OPERATIONS, EXPORT FINANCING, AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2006 -- (House of Representatives - June 28, 2005)
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Chairman, I offer an amendment.
The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Amendment offered by Mr. Otter:
Page 132, after line 13, insert the following:
LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE FOR PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY AND THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE
SEC. __. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law--
(1) of the total amount of funds that are available in this Act for assistance for the Palestinian Authority (or any other Palestinian entity) or for the Palestinian people, not more than 25 percent of such amount may be obligated and expended during each quarter of fiscal year 2006; and
(2) none of the funds made available in this Act may be made available for assistance for the Palestinian Authority (or any other Palestinian entity) or for the Palestinian people during any quarter of fiscal year 2006 unless the Secretary of State determines that the Palestinian Authority has not provided support for acts of international terrorism during the three-month period preceding the first day of that quarter.
(b) In this section, the term ``quarter of fiscal year 2006'' means any three-month period beginning on--
(1) October 1, 2005;
(2) January 1, 2006;
(3) April 1, 2006; or
(4) July 1, 2006.
Mr. KOLBE. Mr. Chairman, I reserve a point of order on the gentleman's amendment.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman reserves a point of order.
Pursuant to the order of the House of today, the gentleman from Idaho (Mr. Otter) and a Member opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Idaho (Mr. Otter).
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I want to join with my other colleagues in congratulating both the chairman and the ranking member for having put together a foreign ops bill that certainly had to be an arduous task. But like the amendment that preceded me, I think that my amendment can improve on a near-perfect piece of legislation.
So, Mr. Chairman, I rise today to correct what I believe to be a fatal flaw in the way we administer our foreign aid. We cannot truly be effective, either domestically or in our role as the world leader on the world stage, when our foreign aid policy forces us to support our friends while we are indiscriminately doling out money to our and their enemies at the same time.
All the effort we put into promoting peace and cooperation is meaningless without requiring accountability from the recipients of our assistance. U.S. foreign aid should be based on a recipient's demonstrated willingness to support the ideals and the aspirations for their regions. When we provide aid to a country, we should be able to expect a marked change in that country's behavior in keeping with our and their goals.
Let me give you an example of what I am talking about here. When my children were younger, I gave them a monthly allowance. Unlike gifts that they got at Christmastime and holidays, this was money that they had to earn themselves. And this allowance came with certain strings attached. It came with an understanding that I could expect certain behavior from them. On occasion, they would forget our bargain, and their behavior would not reflect the expectations that I had set for them. But when they did not receive their allowance the next month, they were quick to fix the problem so that we could all then once again live peacefully together.
Foreign aid is like an allowance which the United States is neither obligated to offer nor give, and which does not come without strings attached. And yet we continue to act as if we are required to hand out money to nations and people who actively oppose the principles of democracy and peace. And this practice must end.
Today we have a golden opportunity to change the way we address the issue of foreign aid because of some important changes and changes in leadership of the Palestinian Authority. We have an opportunity to further the development for a partnership for peace between our countries. In light of the renewed request on foreign aid, we should act now to infuse any aid with common sense and accountability so that we can advance the realistic goals that the President has set for the Middle East.
My amendment, Mr. Chairman, is the first step. It states that no more than 25 percent of the funds appropriated to the Palestinian Authority or any other Palestinian entities will be available to the Palestinians during each financial quarter. What that means is that every quarter, the four quarters of the year, one fourth of the money in this bill that would otherwise go in one lump sum to the Palestinian Authority, but one fourth is all that will be able to be advanced to them during any one quarter. And then it will be advanced to them so long as we have the Secretary of State who will determine that the Palestinian Authority has not participated in or supported any acts of international terrorism during the previous 3 months.
In other words, our expectation is that they should quit killing people. They should quit creating acts of terrorism. And for that, we will pay them.
We know right now that those folks are being paid $25,000 a piece to wrap a bomb around themselves and go get on a bus in their so-called enemy's territory. And so that is why, with that expectation, then we make the payment.
The President is working to achieve lasting peace in this region, realistically and, I believe, in good faith; and I applaud his efforts. But if we are going to see a change in the Middle East, our approach to foreign aid must change as well. What better time than now to change our attitude and the way that we hand out foreign aid.
I encourage you to take advantage of this opportunity to assist in the peace process by making sure that our assistance carries with it the weight of our principles.
Mr. KOLBE. Mr. Chairman, if the gentleman will yield, I do not have any comments. I would make a point of order, though, if the gentleman is not prepared to withdraw his amendment.
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the chairman giving me the opportunity to make the point. One of these days, one of these years, perhaps during my lifetime in the United States House of Representatives, I will be able to frame this amendment so that it will not have a point of order successfully placed against it. And I thank the chairman for that opportunity to explain my amendment.
Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to withdraw the amendment.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
