Public Statements
Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006
By: Butch Otter
Date: June 15, 2005
Location: Washington, DC

SCIENCE, STATE, JUSTICE, COMMERCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2006 -- (House of Representatives - June 15, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from Arizona for yielding me this time and for his leadership, his continued leadership, and his exhaustive leadership on this issue.
I really had not intended to speak on this issue. I came down to speak to an amendment that I am prepared to offer against this legislation. But I just heard my good friend and our leader on the majority side make some statements relative to the uncertainty and the government's ability to look through any matter of package that may go from the United States to Cuba.
I would just remind the leader, although I see he has already left the floor, and other people in this audience that under the PATRIOT Act, what is the difference between our policy toward Cuba today and our policy toward our own people? That package could be in the hands of our postal service, which is supposed to be sacrosanct, and our government can go through it, by the way, by administrative rule rather than by the balance of the court providing for that request. It can be in our bank, it can be in our library, it can be, quite frankly, over the safety of the threshold of our own homes, and our government can still go and look through those packages.
So I would say it is an argument that has no teeth, because if we are going to criticize a government 90 miles off our shore for that kind of action, we ought to be taking a look in our own back yard before we move in that direction.
I would also like to say, Mr. Chairman, we are hearing an awful lot about CAFTA these days, and I would just tell you that if CAFTA truly offers all of the great promise that we are told by everybody, and that by treating these fledgling democracies, these people that really want to be a democracy in these five other nations, why didn't we go sell that to Cuba?

Source:
