Public Statements
Otter Introduces Water Storage Measure
By: Butch Otter
Date: May 24, 2005
Location: Washington, DC

Otter Introduces Water Storage Measure 5/24/2005
LEGISLATION AUTHORIZES BUREAU OF RECLAMATION FEASIBILITY STUDIES
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter acted on his commitment to preserving and protecting Idaho's water on Tuesday with legislation authorizing an analysis of adding storage capacity on the Snake, Boise and Payette river systems.
The bill, H.R. 2563, provides broad authorization for the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation to conduct detailed feasibility studies of addressing chronic water shortages that have been aggravated by continuing drought across the arid West.
"If there's one thing Idahoans understand, it's the importance of matching our limited water supplies to what seem to be unlimited demands. Every year our water supplies are used for irrigation, power generation, industrial and municipal needs, as well as for fish recovery and other Endangered Species Act requirements," Congressman Otter said.
"These demands are constantly growing, yet every spring we watch hundreds of thousands of acre-feet of water pass through our system that could and should be stored for beneficial uses. This is water that could be used for aquifer recharge, expanding municipal systems or even environmental mitigation.
"I have been told that the days of building new dams are over. However, I am not that easily convinced. Last year I convened a group of interested water users to consider additional storage opportunities in Idaho. The group is focusing on the Treasure Valley, but we are hopeful that success will enable the use of a similar process in other regions of Idaho. We are not just talking about building dams we also are looking at adding to existing structures, off-site storage, recharge and a host of other ideas.
"As part of this process, the Bureau of Reclamation in Idaho is undertaking an initial "appraisal level' study for the Boise and Payette river systems. The legislation I am introducing today is the next step in the process."
http://otter.house.gov/news.aspx?ID_News=4

Source: http://otter.house.gov/news.aspx?ID_News=4
