Public Statements
The Science of Freezing's Benefits for Food Safety
By: Butch Otter
Date: March 10, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


THE SCIENCE OF FREEZING'S BENEFITS FOR FOOD SAFETY -- (Extensions of Remarks - March 10, 2005)
SPEECH OF
HON. C. L. ``BUTCH'' OTTER
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2005
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in the hope that a scientific review article may spur research that could benefit public health. Specifically, Douglas L. Archer, Ph.D. authored a paper titled, ``Freezing: An underutilized food safety technology?'' which was published in the January 15, 2004, International Journal of Food Microbiology.
The article has attracted attention over the past year, including a presentation today by Dr. Archer for the House Frozen Food Caucus, of which I am co-chairman. I would like to submit for the record the abstract of Dr. Archer's article, and emphasize its conclusion: ``Through research, it seems possible that freezing may in the future be used to reliably reduce populations of food-borne pathogens as well as to preserve foods.''
Mr. Speaker, I call this article and this opportunity for improving public health to the attention of my colleagues and to the research community. [From the International Journal of Food Microbiology, 2004]
FREEZING: AN UNDERUTILIZED FOOD SAFETY TECHNOLOGY?
(By Douglas L. Archer)
Freezing is an ancient technology for preserving foods. Freezing halts the activities of spoilage microorganisms in and on foods and can preserve some microorganisms for long periods of time. Frozen foods have an excellent overall safety record. The few outbreaks of food-borne illness associated with frozen foods indicate that some. but not all human pathogens are killed by eommercial freezing processes. Freezing kills microorganisms by physical and chemical effects and possibly through induced genetic changes. Research is needed to better understand the physical and chemical interactions of various food matrices with the microbial cell during freezing and holding at frozen temperatures. The literature suggests that many pathogenic microorganisms may be sublethally injured by freezing, so research should be done to determine how to prevent injured cells from resuscitating and becoming infectious. Studies on the genetics of microbial stress suggest that the induction of resistance to specific stresses may be counteracted by, for example, simple chemicals. Research is needed to better understand how resistance to the lethal enact of freezing is induced in human pathogens and means by which it can be counteracted in specific foods. Through research. it seems possible that freezing may in the future be used to reliably reduce populations of food-borne pathogens as well as to preserve foods.
http://thomas.loc.gov
