Public Statements
Simpson And Otter Support Class Action Fairness Act
By: Butch Otter
Date: Feb. 17, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Simpson And Otter Support Class Action Fairness Act 2/17/2005
Measure Provides Common-sense Answers to Growing Abuse Problem
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and C.L. "Butch" Otter voted with the 279-149 House majority on Thursday for Senate-passed, bipartisan legislation to restore common sense and sanity to America's courts.
Simpson and Otter enthusiastically supported the Class Action Fairness Act, S. 5, which now goes to President Bush to be signed into law.
The bill prohibits lawyers for plaintiffs from accepting any settlement that costs their clients money. It also establishes primary jurisdiction in federal courts for multi-jurisdictional class-action lawsuits seeking more than $5 million and with more than 100 members of a class. That will eliminate the practice of "forum shopping," where lawyers file their cases in states with the friendliest judges and loosest procedural rules - so-called "magnet courts."
What's more, the legislation is designed to put an end to various "tricks" used by plaintiffs' attorneys to stay out of federal court - like naming a local pharmacy or convenience store in a nationwide product liability suit, or amending a complaint to add millions of dollars in claims after the deadline for removal to federal court.
Finally, the measure implements a "Consumer Class Action Bill of Rights" to protect consumers from some of the most egregious abuses in class-action lawsuits today. It contains several provisions specifically designed to ensure that class members, not their attorneys, are the primary beneficiaries of the process.
"Time and time again consumers end up with virtually nothing after a class-action suit while their lawyers end up with millions," Congressman Simpson said. "It`s time for Congress to support a class-action process that is fair to consumers and puts an end to the unscrupulous practices permitted under the current system."
"Many class-action lawsuits are justified, and people who have been legitimately damaged deserve their day in court. However, it's difficult to overstate the degree to which our personal and professional lives have been affected by the excesses of the legal profession," Congressman Otter said. "A balanced, fair legal system is critical to America's political, economic and social well-being. Yet today we have a legal system that is unfair, unbalanced and widely unpredictable. This bill will help get us back on track."
http://otter.house.gov/news.aspx?ID_News=7
