Public Statements
Hearing of House Committee on Energy and Commerce - Department of Energy's Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Proposal and the Energy Policy Act of 2005: ...
By: Butch Otter
Date: Feb. 9, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


HEARING OF HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE - DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY'S FISCAL YEAR 2006 BUDGET PROPOSAL AND THE ENERGY POLICY ACT OF 2005: ENSURING JOBS FOR OUR FUTURE WITH SECURE AND RELIABLE ENERGY
February 9, 2005
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Otter. Mr. Chairman, first, I want to thank the Secretary for appearing before the committee today.
Mr. Secretary, as you come to the Department of Energy at a time of great challenges, you know that the crises and energy supplies and prices must be addressed now. Delays are continuing America's dangerous dependence on foreign energy sources and putting our homeland security at risk and threatening our economic future.
However, there is some good news. As you know, Idaho is the home of the Idaho National Laboratory, a premier Department of Energy facility and a keystone of America's energy future. Idaho's entire congressional delegation is proud to report that exciting things are happening at INL. Researchers there are making tremendous advances in the new nuclear reactor technologies, nuclear fuels, and working on cutting-edge hydrogen technology research and helping NASA power its space missions. They are involved with international efforts to secure nuclear materials and developing significant capabilities for America's defense and national security energy.
When you visit INL, I am confident that you will be impressed with the capabilities there and the tremendous work being done, and I look forward to joining you on your tour of Idaho's, and the Nation's, premier National Laboratory.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Otter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
And once again, Mr. Secretary, welcome to the committee. I am going to move away from our power problems in the Pacific Northwest, because I think my two colleagues that just preceded me have pretty well set the tone, but I do want you to know that I want to associate myself with not only their questions but their frustrations and their hopes that we, perhaps, can get some things worked out.
But I want to, more specifically, talk about the Idaho National Laboratory. As you are aware, February 1 we got a new contractor. I believe that transition is just going great. The community has thrown their arms around that contractor and the contractor has done very much the same thing. Good corporate citizen. We are very proud of them, and very excited, with great expectations about the folks that now have that contract.
One of the things sort of holding up progress to date and now offering some anxiety is when are we going to get the new Idaho Cleanup Project contractor in place. At one time, we felt like that was going to come simultaneously with the new contractor to operate the laboratory. Now we are concerned that it has been pushed back. And I would just like to know if you can offer us--No. 1, any kind of a certain date that we could look to. Is it beyond just March 15? Or No. 2, what is holding it up, and how can the Idaho delegation, which is very enthusiastic about getting this decision made, how can we help you go forward with that?
Secretary Bodman. Well, we had committed to a March 15 date, and that is what I expect to be met.
Mr. Otter. There is no reason to believe that you are going to have to go beyond that?
Secretary Bodman. Not that I am aware of.
Mr. Otter. Well, that is reassuring. And I appreciate that.
I also notice in your 2006 budget request, there is very healthy increased funding for research and development by the administration on the next generation of nuclear plant, which of course, we expect to be at the INL. And I believe in your Senate confirmation hearing, you expressed a great deal of support for that process going forward. Can you sort of explain to me the championship that you, yourself, and your Department will be able to offer with the administration for going forward with this process in proceeding with this new next-generation nuclear plant?
Secretary Bodman. Yeah. First of all, just so the record is clear, when I went through confirmation in the Senate, I had not yet been through the whole delineation of the 2006 budget. Just so that that is clear. I was dealing with my own views and what I understood to be the views of the administration.
What is in the budget is a healthy research program that is intended to help the Department reach a conclusion as to what process is the best alternative for the next-generation nuclear plant. There are alternatives. We have talked to OMB about should we be seeking out some, you know, outside view to help us make sure that we make a good decision. And so it is hard for me to give you any date on this other than we are going to be working through 2006 on helping to make a process determination.
I expect to be an energetic advocate, no pun intended, in dealing with other members of the administration, including OMB, on matters related to basic science and engineering processes. And we have got a lot of those. And we are trying to put our money in the best possible place, and I will be very eager to participate in helping make those judgments.
Mr. Otter. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=109_house_hearings&docid=99900.wais
