Public Statements
Legislature Approves Bill to Preserve Idaho's Child Support System
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: May 19, 2015
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter applauded the Idaho Legislature today for its deliberations and decision on Monday approving legislation to preserve the State's child support system, which serves almost one-quarter of all Idaho citizens.
"It's fine to speculate and important to question issues surrounding the relationship between the State and federal governments," Governor Otter said. "But the bottom line is this legislation will keep many thousands of Idaho's single parents and children from potentially losing the court-ordered support of noncustodial parents. In the end, I'm grateful that everyone got to voice their concerns and the process worked."
Governor Otter called lawmakers into the Legislature's first special session since 2006 after Senate Bill 1067 was tabled by nine members of a House committee after being approved by the Senate. That bill would have brought Idaho into compliance with federal child support enforcement rules. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services subsequently gave Idaho until June 12 to adopt the changes or face the loss of significant federal support.
Opponents argued that they were not clearly notified about the consequences of tabling the earlier legislation. They also expressed concern about federal coercion driving State policy, and the State relinquishing sovereignty to the national government's child-support treaties with foreign countries.
Failing to pass a slightly altered but federally approved version of Senate Bill 1067 -- designated House Bill 1 -- could have cost the State $16 million in child support system operating funds, access to the federal government's tools and databases for locating and tracking parents whose child support payments are in arears, as well as the authority to garnish wages or work with other states on child support cases. The State also could have lost more than $30 million in federal support for services under the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program, including child care for low-income working families, employment training and Head Start.

Monday's special session dealt solely with the issue of Idaho's child support system. The Governor said in recalling legislators that he hoped their work could be completed "in hours, not days," which they accomplished with House Bill 1.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2015/2%20Feb/pr_28.html
