Public Statements
Creating Additional Federal Court Judgeships
By: Butch Otter
Date: Oct. 5, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


CREATING ADDITIONAL FEDERAL COURT JUDGESHIPS -- (House of Representatives - October 05, 2004)
(BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT)
(Mr. OTTER asked and was given permission to revise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. OTTER. I thank my colleague and my good friend from Idaho for yielding me this time.
Mr. Chairman, I had quite a few prepared remarks, but most all of the information that I was going to impart to this body has already been said time and time again about the overload of the courts; the workforce themselves; how many additional judges have been added; and the fact that we almost have twice as many judges now in the Ninth Circuit as there are in the next closest circuit; the geographic size and obviously the population all present tremendous problems for those of us in the Ninth Circuit.
It was said earlier that, when Congress does not like something, and especially we have been investing and assigning all manner of responsibility and all manner of attitude to why we want to divide up the Ninth Circuit, I would remind the gentleman from California and the gentlewoman from Texas that, if you read article III of the Constitution, it says very clearly that the judicial system shall be invested in the Supreme Court and such other inferior courts as Congress may from time to time deem necessary. So these courts are indeed a creature of this Congress, and so then it falls to our responsibility, I think, as the gentleman from Montana clearly pointed out, that when we need to reapportion because of size and because of geography that is involved and the amount of people that are involved, it is necessary for this Congress to take action and this action is long overdue.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of the amendment my friend from Idaho is offering to split the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. It's no surprise that the outcome of many of the Ninth Circuit's decisions is inconsistent case law that results in uncertainty among litigants.
