Public Statements
Thanking Michaels of Oregon-Hon. C.L. "Butch" Otter
By: Butch Otter
Date: Sept. 28, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


THANKING MICHAELS OF OREGON-HON. C.L. "BUTCH" OTTER (Extensions of Remarks - September 28, 2004)
HON. C.L. "BUTCH" OTTER
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 28, 2004
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to relate an inspiring story of support from the people of Idaho, from a community in my district, for our brave troops being deployed to Iraq.
On August 17, I had the opportunity to visit with some of my constituents at a business in the community of Meridian. The Michaels of Oregon plant in Meridian is a quality manufacturer of gun cleaners, holsters and related equipment for law enforcement personnel and other first responders.
During my tour, General Manufacturing Manager Brian Schroeder handed me a manila envelope. It turns out the employees knew I would be coming out to the plant, so they took up a collection and asked that I get the money in that envelope to the USO to help our troops in the Idaho National Guard's 116th Cavalry Brigade.
As I walked through the plant, I also met Michaels employee Sandra Zimmer, whose son had just returned from Kuwait, and Michelle Carskaddon, whose father was in Iraq. Everyone I met wanted me to pass on to our men and women in uniform just how proud they are of our troops and how proud they are to be Americans.
Let me tell you, I never had a more meaningful visit, and I was never prouder to be an Idahoan. But the thing is, the folks at Michaels are not unique. Meridian, Idaho-like communities all across America-is filled with individuals who care about each other, care about those who serve in our Armed Forces, and care about our country.
Mr. Speaker, it is my great honor and privilege to represent people like that here in the United States House of Representatives. Please join me in thanking the good people at Michaels of Oregon. They are to be commended for their citizenship, patriotism and generosity.
