Public Statements
Letter to Dr. Isaf Al-Nabulski, National Board on Radiation
By: Butch Otter
Date: Sept. 9, 2004
Location: Unknown


September 9, 2004
Dr. Isaf Al-Nabulsi
National Board on Radiation
500 5th Street, NW
Washington, DC 20001
Dear Dr. Al-Nabulsi,
Thank you for your work examining the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program and your stewardship of the ongoing study, to be concluded next spring, of issues surrounding radioactive fallout from historic atmospheric nuclear weapons testing. We have appreciated your responsiveness in working with us to solicit and incorporate information specifically regarding Idaho cancer cases into the Board's work. You have indicated that, to date, approximately 300 inputs from Idaho have now been received and cataloged. Additionally, we have forwarded by fax and electronic mail, on a real time basis, any information or case histories received by our local offices throughout Idaho and in Washington, DC. We will continue to do so.
You have been extremely accommodating in taking this ongoing input and we are fully supportive of your work. We are eager to see the Board's report and recommendations developed without delay of any kind. While the number of written responses is encouraging, in talking with our constituents, we are convinced that an opportunity for the public to give oral testimony, at a location in Idaho, will increase the likelihood that those Idahoans who wish to have their information incorporated in the study will have another format in which to do so. Because we do not wish to delay the ongoing study, we have asked that the Board send a representative accompanied by an official recorder and any members of the study committee who can attend to a public meeting in Idaho where oral testimony will be received and an official transcript compiled for incorporation into the study record. This approach both preserves the Board's ongoing efforts and schedule while increasing the official record of Idaho cases. Such a public meeting also would allow the Board to present to Idaho citizens a detailed explanation of the study and its objectives.
We will continue working closely with you in planning for and bringing about this public meeting. Widespread and early notification of this opportunity to citizens throughout Idaho also will be essential to maximize participation. Thank you again for your receptiveness and flexibility in working with us to ensure that Idaho's story is reflected in the Board's work to the greatest degree possible.
Sincerely,
Larry E. Craig
United States Senator
Mike Crapo
United States Senator
Mike Simpson
Member of Congress
C.L. "Butch" Otter
Member of Congress
