Public Statements
Governor Otter Posts Draft Child Support Bill for Special Legislative Session Online
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: May 4, 2015
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter posted draft child support legislation on his Web site today that will be the focus of deliberations when the Idaho Legislature convenes May 18 for its first special session since 2006.
The proposed language can be found here. Governor Otter announced last week that he was calling the special session after Senate Bill 1067 was tabled by a House committee as the Legislature prepared to adjourn its 2015 regular session last month.
The special session will deal solely with the issue of Idaho's child support system, which impacts more than 400,000 Idaho children and parents -- or about one in four Idaho citizens. The Governor said last week that he hopes the Legislature's work can be concluded "in hours, not days."
"I want every parent and family relying on court-ordered child support payments to have the chance to review this bill. I want every member of the Legislature to have a better understanding of what it does and does not do, and a fuller appreciation of what happens if we fail to act affirmatively," Governor Otter said. "The more everyone knows -- not "thinks' but knows -- about this measure, the better chance we have for success."
The proposed legislation would achieve the same goals with much of the same language as Senate Bill 1067. But Health and Welfare experts, House Speaker Scott Bedke, Senate President Pro Tem Brent Hill and Senate Majority Leader Bart Davis, the Governor's Office and some of the lawmakers who opposed its passage last month -- including Reps. Lynn Luker and Tom Dayley -- worked together to fine-tune some subtleties and reach agreement on the language in recent days. Those changes have been approved by U.S. Department of Health and Human Services officials responsible for monitoring state compliance with federal child support laws and regulations.

Source:
