Public Statements
Governor Robert Smylie
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 19, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


GOVERNOR ROBERT SMYLIE -- (Extensions of Remarks - July 19, 2004)
SPEECH OF
HON. C.L. "BUTCH" OTTER
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
MONDAY, JULY 19, 2004
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the extraordinary life and peerless achievements of Robert Smylie, the only governor in Idaho history to serve three consecutive full terms. He died Saturday at the age of 89.
Please join me in extending the sympathies of the House of Representatives to Governor Smylie's wife Lucille and their entire family.
Bob Smylie was an Iowa native educated at my alma mater, the College of Idaho in Caldwell, and then at the George
Washington University law school here in the nation's capital, where he attended classes while working as a member of the Capitol Police Force.
For 8 years as Idaho's attorney general and 12 years as governor, Bob Smylie proved time and again that he was a man of talent, vision and courage. He saw the modern challenges facing state government and understood intuitively that they required bold actions. As is the case with many people of intellect and audacity, his genius was not fully appreciated in his lifetime.
Governor Smylie was a pillar of fiscal responsibility. Yet he was far ahead of his time in recognizing that demands for
government services would increase geometrically within his lifetime, that education and transportation are investments
no state can afford to short-change, and that the public's business is worthy of our best efforts and brightest minds.
Most of all, Governor Smylie was a tough and committed public servant who accepted nothing less from his colleagues and contemporaries. His example is one of uncompromising devotion to the good of Idaho, America, and our people.
Mr. Speaker, we have lost an American original, a man whose influence and example will live on for years to come. He set the stage for the growth and progress that mark Idaho today. My state mourns his passing, but we all are better for having had Robert Smylie in our lives.
END
