Public Statements
United States-Australia Free Trade Implementation Act
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 14, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


UNITED STATES-AUSTRALIA FREE TRADE IMPLEMENTATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 14, 2004)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to address some of the important provisions contained in H.R. 4759, United States-Australia Free Trade Implementation Act. While I am unable to support this agreement due to concerns over the impact it could have on dairy farmers and cattle ranchers in my district, I am very supportive of some provisions of this agreement and feel it is important to address those issues.
I am pleased the United States and Australia, through this Free Trade Agreement, have each recognized and addressed the importance of protecting private intellectual property. The entertainment industry in the United States is a valuable part of our national economy and the zero tariffs provisions addressing technology and entertainment products will ultimately debit our Nation's import/export trade column.
By protecting creative works produced in the United States, we are ensuring the long-term vitality of the American entertainment and technology industries, as well as, reinforcing our Nation's recognition of, and commitment to protecting private property.
The increases in criminal and civil protections against piracy contained in this bill will certainly prove a valuable deterrent against electronic pirates. These kinds of private property protections are the only way to ensure creative genius is rewarded. In fact, Abraham Lincoln said, "The patent system added the fuel of interest to the fire of genius," thus leading us to understand that the protection of invention and creation, including private intellectual property, is the only way to promote further artistic creation and innovation.
Again, while I am unable to support the agreement as a whole, I felt strongly that the measures aimed at preventing creative and digital piracy should be recognized and applauded.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
