Public Statements
Hearing of the Energy and Air Quality Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Com. on the NNSA and the DOE - Transcript
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 13, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE ENERGY AND AIR QUALITY SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE HOUSE ENERGY AND COMMERCE COMMITTEE
SUBJECT: PROPOSALS TO CONSOLIDATE THE OFFICES OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AT THE NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (NNSA) AND THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
CHAIRED BY: RALPH HALL (R-TX)
WITNESSES: LINTON BROOKS, NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION ADMINISTRATOR; MICHELLE VAN CLEAVE, NATIONAL COUNTERINTELLIGENCE EXECUTIVE
LOCATION: 2322 RAYBURN HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
REP. RALPH HALL (R-TX): Okay. This hearing will come to order. And without objection, this subcommittee will proceed pursuant to committee rule 4(e), which governs opening statements by members and the opportunity to defer them for extra questioning time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
REP. OTTER: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've just got a couple of questions.
And as you can tell, we all come from different backgrounds and have different disciplines that we force on all of these issues. Mine happens to be from the business area, in fact, in the French fry business. So, what do I know about security? Well, almost all of our products were proprietary products, and so security was a big-and security of that information. And the ability and the types of processes was very, very important to us. And in fact we had a dual security system for one primary reason, and that was for the system of checks and balances. Are we-would we be getting rid, if we had this consolidation that you've now intended, would we be getting rid of a very important system of checks and balances?
And let me say that I mean this from two aspects. Obviously, you've got different folks handling different elements, and so one's watching the other. But also, in many cases, the people that worked in our labs didn't know really what was in-they knew what was sent, they knew what was brand new, they knew what they were creating, but the security people didn't because they didn't have that technical knowledge to know that not anybody could make a (Mac ?) fry or something like that. And so, there had to be some important communication between the two systems of security-one, the intellectual security and the other property security. And again, it was the property security, they didn't-maybe that's the point of access that the FBI talks about. But my concern is that is there still going to be a dual system that checks on the checkers?
MR. BROOKS: Yes sir, there is. And in fact it's wrong to think of this bifurcated system as providing checks and balances because the truth is that my field people don't know anything at the DOE labs, and the DOE field people don't know anything at my lab, so we don't have-I mean, that's not a feature of this system. Where the checks and balances comes is in a couple of areas. First, within the laboratories it comes in terms of separate security and counterintelligence organizations. Then secondly, it comes in federal oversight. I have-there's about 90 people at each of these labs in the site office headed by a member of the Senior Executive Service, and they provide oversight and the checks and balance. And then third, the Office of Performance-Independent Assessment and Performance Assurance, which does report directly to the secretary, but I draw upon as my own oversight organization, just as in this system I draw upon Steve as my own counterintelligence, and he provides a third level.
So, we have the concept of checks and balances. We have the concept in terms of double-checking material. The particular structure of counterintelligence isn't part of that. It doesn't give us that. And so there are many reasons to argue either for keeping this system or for going to what we want, but checks and balances isn't going to be improved or actually changed in either way.
With regard to your point about do the security people and the scientists work together to make sure we know what needs to be protected, generally yes. The formal classification of responsibility is a federal responsibility, but we have a lot of mechanisms for interaction and-and my experience is that it-I am not aware of a case in which we discovered something that had implications that we hadn't fully realized because the scientists and the security people were talking about it. I am aware of phenomena we discovered that after looking at we realized this could have security ramifications, but that's just inherent in the process of science.
So, I think we are doing what-what you suggest we should be. And in any event, I don't think that the change that we are proposing will make it either harder or easier to do what you're calling for.
REP. OTTER: Well, was it the-did the system enable what happened at Los Alamos-Dr. Lee-did the system itself break down?
MR. BROOKS: The-well --
REP. OTTER: What happened to the checks and balances there?
MR. BROOKS: I don't mean to sound evasive, but we're 96 hours into this incident. There is a fairly robust tradition that the first thing you learn about any operational incident is wrong. So, I've been giving the committee some impressions, but I'd urge that we wait until we have a little more of the facts. First, there's no --
REP. OTTER: Now wait a minute-pardon me for butting in here, but you must have known something for the Justice Department to go forward with a-with a criminal action against Mr. Lee, didn't you?
MR. BROOKS: Oh, yes sir. Yes sir. I'm sorry. I misunderstood you. I thought you were referring to this incident in the last-in the last couple of days. I'm sorry.
The problem at Los Alamos with Dr. Lee was a combination of things, including inadequate procedures which allowed Dr. Lee to carry out unauthorized activities, inadequate appreciation for the importance of counterintelligence, and then my understanding is some, let me just-failures on the part of individuals. We can provide you a good deal more detail on that, but I'm a little-I haven't looked at the details of that case in a little while, and I'm afraid that I'll-it's a fairly complicated case-that I'll get it garbled if I try and walk through each of the failures.
REP. OTTER: If my memory serves me correctly, and I could be wrong here too, but wasn't there an exoneration there?
MR. BROOKS: We're talking about people's reputations. There, many of the most serious charges against Dr. Lee were not-did not result in convictions.
REP. OTTER: Well, I guess that's the heart of my whole question here, is that, you know, if we've got a system that's supposed to be protecting very sensitive information, and maybe part of that system is deficient because, as Mr. Issa points out, perhaps these people don't realize these intellectual nuts or whatever they call them, these people don't appreciate the sensitivity of what they're working on because they work with it all the time. I've seen that happen in the private sector as well. But yet, there apparently was sufficient information provided by security to tell Justice that they had probable cause here to go forward with a criminal action against Dr. Lee, which then turned out to be very fruitless.
MR. BROOKS: Yes sir. I am really not the best person to talk about the Justice investigation and Dr. Lee because I don't quite remember what I know that's folklore and what I know that's fact. I'd be happy to get you additional information on it, but I am not comfortable that my own knowledge is sufficiently precise to give you a good analysis.
REP. OTTER: Thank you, Mr. Brooks. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
END
