Public Statements
Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies
By: Butch Otter
Date: July 8, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


DEPARTMENTS OF COMMERCE, JUSTICE, AND STATE, THE JUDICIARY, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2005 -- (House of Representatives - July 08, 2004)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from Vermont for his leadership and for once again bringing this amendment before us.
Last year I believe if we had this amendment before us when we had the Otter amendment and several others relative to the PATRIOT Act, we would have had and should have had at least 309 votes for this amendment as we did the Otter amendment.
I would just like to speak to a couple of things. I know my office and several other offices have received calls regarding a veto threat on this amendment. This is the ninth such amendment that we have received a veto threat on.
Well, I would tell you that if there is that much consideration, if there is that much concern on this bill as a whole, then maybe we ought to take the bill back to committee and reconsider the bill itself rather than just the amendment.
There is no greater threat to this Nation in terms of terrorism than the drugs that are on our streets today. There is no greater threat and no greater form of terrorism against our children than the pornographers in this country, and there has been no greater threat in the past on a civil and law-abiding society than organized crime.
Yet, rather than add "domestic terrorism" to this list, we have taken domestic terrorism and elevated it above those three elements with special laws. We continue to say we are doing the same thing with domestic terrorism as we have done with pornography, as we have done with drugs and as we have done with organized crime.
Not so. Not so, Mr. Chairman, because what we have done with domestic terrorism is we have removed judicial oversight and that most important role that the judiciary plays-shining that bright constitutional light into the dark shadows of probable cause.
And so I would like to join the gentleman from Vermont. I would like to join others who are prepared to say we think that these other acts of terrorism against our children and against our civil society as a whole are no less important to fight against than domestic terrorism, and, in fact, have probably taken, no, have taken, Mr. Chairman, many more lives than were lost on 9/11.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Chairman, the freedom to read what we want-it may not be the first thing that comes to mind when we talk about those basic, unalienable rights for which generations of American heroes have fought and died. The idea of a government controlling what we read is the stuff of history books and horror stories about tyrants and dictators. It is not something we expect to face here in America-the Land of the Free.
That was before the passage of the USA PATRIOT Act. Section 215 of that law has given Americans reason to wonder whether the government might be looking over their shoulders when they check out books and materials from their local library. It has dangerously undermined the people's confidence in their government and threatens the precious freedoms we enjoy under the First amendment.
That's why I support this amendment today. I fully recognize the need to provide our law enforcement officers with the tools necessary to combat terrorism and keep Americans safe. However, security bought at the price of the freedoms on which our Nation was founded is no real security at all. Certain parts of the Patriot Act, including Section 215, may have seemed understandable in the short term, but they are intolerable over time. We need to set things right before our precious constitutional rights are eroded beyond recognition.
We sacrifice something much more dear than our physical safety when we fail to be diligent in defending our freedoms. Once lost, they seldom if ever are regained. And whether the tyranny that robs me of my liberties comes from abroad or starts here at home makes no difference. It is equally unwelcome. I am just as committed to protecting Americans from their own government's excesses as from the violence of foreign extremists.
The degree to which that commitment has captured America's imagination and has found growing support here among my colleagues is one of the most gratifying experiences in my public life. A vote for this amendment is a vote to restore Americans' confidence in the ability of Congress to protect the freedoms they hold dear.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. OTTER
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Chairman, I offer an amendment.
The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Amendment No. 4 offered by Mr. Otter:
Insert before the short title at the end the following:
TITLE VIII-NOTICE OF SEARCH WARRANTS
SEC. 801. Section 3103a of title 18, United States Code, is amended-
(1) in subsection (b)--
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking "may have an adverse result (as defined in section 2705)" and inserting "will endanger the life or physical safety of an individual, result in flight from prosecution, or result in the destruction of or tampering with the evidence sought under the warrant"; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking "a reasonable period" and all that follows and inserting "seven calendar days, which period, upon application of the Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney General, or an Associate Attorney General, may thereafter be extended by the court for additional periods of up to seven calendar days each if the court finds, for each application, reasonable cause to believe that notice of the execution of the warrant will endanger the life or physical safety of an individual, result in flight from prosecution, or result in the destruction of or tampering with the evidence sought under the warrant."; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
"(C) Reports.--(1) On a semiannual basis, the Attorney General shall transmit to Congress and make public a report concerning all requests for delays of notice, and for extensions of delays of notice, with respect to warrants under subsection (b).
"(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall include, with respect to the preceding six-month period-
"(A) the total number of requests for delays of notice with respect to warrants under subsection (b); "(B) the total number of such requests granted or denied; and
"(c) for each request for delayed notice that was granted, the total number of applications for extensions of the delay of notice and the total number of such extensions granted or denied.".
The CHAIRMAN. Points of order are reserved.
Pursuant to the order of the House of yesterday, the gentleman from Idaho (Mr. Otter) and a Member opposed will each control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Idaho (Mr. Otter).
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, earlier today on another amendment, we heard the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee mention that we should leave the PATRIOT Act and my amendments there up to the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Sensenbrenner) and up to the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Conyers).
Mr. Chairman, we did not leave the PATRIOT Act up to the Committee on the Judiciary, up to the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Conyers) and up to the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Sensenbrenner), as was discussed and has never been refuted. This PATRIOT Act that we have been having to deal with for the last 3 years was snuck in at the very last minute.
So the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Sensenbrenner) and the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Conyers), who the chairman now wants to turn over the jurisdiction for the PATRIOT Act, never got a chance to take a final look at the actual PATRIOT Act itself.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today to discuss an amendment that, I believe, renews an important balance between protecting our liberties and protecting our Nation. I understand that the language is subject to a point of order, and I am prepared to deal with that. However, this issue drives to the core of who we are, or who I hope we are as Americans. And I believe it is important to address today.
The fourth amendment which protects us from unreasonable searches and seizures by government came from a firsthand experience of our Founding Fathers. Then King George III called it what it really was, writs of assistance, and before that it was also mentioned in the Magna Carta.
So what we have done with the PATRIOT Act and sneak-and-peek provisions of search warrants has destroyed many, many years of efforts by freedom fighters throughout the decades. This idea of individuality, that each person is created unique, is something unique to the United States and cannot and should not be taken away, especially not by its own government. If we cannot trust our own government to not make war on its own people, how can we trust this same government to make war with our enemies? That is why I am so concerned about the way we have expanded the power of government to do sneak-and-peek searches. The issue at hand is not when or where or how often these warrants may be executed or may be used; the fact that government has the power at all should be something of great concern to all of us.
I do not doubt that the provisions of the PATRIOT Act that address sneak-and-peek were well intended. It is important to know that we are safe and secure within the borders of this country. Mr. Chairman, we cannot, we will not be safe in this country unless we are secure under the fourth amendment to the privacy of our own person and our own property.
I understand that the sneak-and-peek warrants were used before the passage of the PATRIOT Act. We discussed that earlier. There were certain provisions which the authorities had to go through before they could simply waltz into somebody's home. By broadening the use of the sneak-and-peek warrants and making them the standard rather than the exception, the PATRIOT act threatens our liberties that were given us by our Creator and are now protected by the Constitution. That is why I am offering this amendment today.
As Americans, I believe our fundamental belief that each of us is ultimately responsible for safeguarding ourselves. It is our obligation and our duty as citizens to this great Nation to see to it that we are secure in our own liberties, and it is our responsibility first and then the government's.
We would be justifiably enraged if some individual or a group acted to destroy our Constitution, all at once to wipe away in one terrible moment the centuries of struggle and countless lives sacrificed to winning the liberties we hold so dear.
It is equally important that we jealously guard against allowing our freedoms to be chipped away piece by piece before our eyes, that we do all we can to hold back those small, but insignificant, strokes of tyrannical erosion which can in time fell even the greatest of our institutions, the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States.
I am not the first to have these concerns. Those before me have said it more eloquently than I. James Madison recognized the importance of guarding our individual liberties with constant vigilance when he said: "Since the general civilization of mankind, I believe there are more instances of the abridgment of freedom of the people by gradual and silent encroachments of those in power than by violent and sudden usurpations."
Ben Franklin was already quoted today. And Thomas Jefferson, cautioning us against relinquishing our inalienable rights to even a well-meaning government said: "A freedom government is founded in jealousy, not confidence. It is jealousy and not confidence which prescribes limited constitutions to bind those we are obliged to trust with power. So in questions of political power, speak to me not of confidence in men, but bind them down from mischief with the chains of the Constitution."
Mr. Chairman, this is the deepest root in our tree of liberty and that is the rights of individuals to be free to exercise under the fourth amendment and to be secure in their own homes and their own privacy. A vote for the people and not the government is a vote for this amendment.
Mr. Chairman, I yield for the purpose of making a unanimous consent request to the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Scott).
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
The CHAIRMAN. Does the gentleman from Idaho wish to be heard on the point of order?
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Chairman, I fully appreciate what the good chairman has said relative to my amendment and its being out of order.
Mr. Chairman, I withdraw the amendment.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding me this time. I also thank the gentleman from Virginia (Chairman WOLF) for his comments. Whether or not this is the proper place to make this correction, I think it is terribly important that the correction be made.
The dual banking system in our Nation has a long and very productive and rich history. It has played a major role in making ours the strongest and most confirmed banking system in the world. The balance between the State-chartered banks and the national banks provides critical fuel to our economy, fosters innovation and competition, and provides Americans with a safe and sound banking system as a whole.
I am deeply concerned that the OCC's preemptive rules would take that balance and put it into jeopardy. These rules could radically change our financial regulation structure, and overriding State law enforcement authority and the State laws for national banks can have serious repercussions on our Nation's banking economy and on the consumers in the State of Idaho.
We do not have to look back very far in history, Mr. Chairman, to see the long-reaching effects of preempting State financial laws. Let us take, for example, the savings and loan or the thrift industry. Until 1980, State-chartered thrifts outnumbered those of Federal charters. But in 1980, the Federal regulator issued a preemptive policy similar to the OCC's recent rulings. As a result, we have watched the number of State-chartered thrifts decline until they now make up less than 10 percent of all of the thrifts in the country.
Until 1980, in my State of Idaho we had five State-chartered thrifts. Today, all thrifts in Idaho have national charters. None have State charters. Since 1980, 14 banks have received new State commercial bank charters, but there has not been a single thrift chartered in the past 24 years.
Our economy in Idaho depends on small community banks. These banks serve the members in their communities and constantly improve the way we do business in America and through innovation and diversity. If we allow the OCC to tip the balance toward the national banks, we put consumers at risk. State and local agencies in Idaho are better equipped than any Federal bureaucracy to meet the needs and address the problems of Idahoans. Allowing our banking system to be dominated by a single Federal regulator would harm consumers and our economy.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues' support for this amendment. My apologies to the gentleman from Virginia (Chairman WOLF), because if this is the wrong place to make this correction, I would like to work with the chairman to make that correction in the proper place.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
