Public Statements
Pledge of Allegiance Speech
By: Butch Otter
Date: April 21, 2004
Location: Washington, DC

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE SPEECH -- (Extensions of Remarks - April 21, 2004)
SPEECH OF HON. C.L. "BUTCH" OTTER OF IDAHO IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2004
Mr. OTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to call the attention of my colleagues to the wisdom of a child.
One of my constituents, an 11-year-old girl from Post Falls, Idaho, named Dori Thompson, recently delivered a simple but compelling speech about the Pledge of Allegiance, about American values, and about the source of the freedoms we enjoy.
I'd like to share it with you now:
Our nation's Pledge of Allegiance is 31 words. "I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America, and to
the Republic for which it stands, one Nation under God, indivisible, with Liberty and Justice for all." Are all those
words important? I have been saying those words ever since I was in preschool and wanted to know what those words
meant, where those words came from, and why our courts want to take "under God" away.
In 1892 our country was planning for the 400th anniversary of America's discovery. Two men, Francis Bellamy and
James Upham, were interested in education and the planning of Columbus Day celebrations. To this day it is still not
known which of the two men actually wrote the pledge, but it was published in "The Youth's Companion" September
8, 1892.
One month later more than 12 million school children said those words for the first time in schools around the nation.
The pledge went through several changes over the years and the last change happened in 1954. Dwight D. Eisenhower
added the words "under God" to confirm the belief that America's heritage and future were built upon faith in God. He
thought that school children should dedicate our nation to God each day.
Now what do these 31 words mean? This is what I think:
I promise to be loyal to and love our symbol of freedom, our flag. It means each one of us is free; free because
hundreds of thousands of soldiers have died for us so that we can have that right. I promise to be loyal to and love our
government because it is for and has been chosen by the American people. Our nation exists because of God and was
founded by our faith in Him, the Lord who is life, light, justice, truth, and love. Our nation cannot be divided under
Him and we all have the right to our freedom and should be treated fairly, each and every one of us.
The 9th Circuit Court of Appeals said the Pledge is unconstitutional because of the words "under God." Our country
and values were made under the belief of God. So much of the world does not believe in God anymore. The world
wants him taken out of everything. The Bible is not taught in public schools and therefore the world is not completely
educated. Since these judges say that "under God" is unconstitutional, why do they start the day by saying "God save
the United States and this honorable court?"
The Pledge of Allegiance should not be changed because some people are offended by it. It is part of our national
heritage. I am a Christian and I understand the meaning of all those wonderful 31 words.
Mr. Speaker, I couldn't have put it better myself.
Dori attends Classical Christian Academy in Post Falls. She is the kind of young person who gives me hope and faith in
America's future. Mr. Speaker, I hope you find her words and her example as inspirational as I do.
