Public Statements
Governor Appoints New Chair for Board of Correction
Press Release
By: Butch Otter
Date: Jan. 15, 2015
Location: Boise, ID

Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter announced the appointment today of Debbie Field of Boise as chairwoman of the State Board of Correction.
Field succeeds Robin Sandy who retired from the Board January 7. Board of Correction members serve six-year terms. Field will serve the four years that remain of Sandy's term. Field's appointment is subject to confirmation by the Idaho Senate.
"Debbie has had a distinguished career as a first-rate lawmaker and member of my cabinet. I am pleased she is joining the Board and I have no doubt she will make a meaningful contribution in her new role," said Governor Otter.
Field was appointed to the Idaho House of Representatives in 1995 and was elected to serve the people of Boise's District 18 for twelve years. She served on the State Affairs and Revenue and Taxation Committee and served as Chair of the House Judiciary and Rules Committee where she worked to ensure improvements in Idaho's drug and mental health courts.
Field served 10 years as a Board Member for the Idaho Department of Juvenile Corrections. In January 2007, Governor Otter named her Administrator of the Idaho Office of Drug Policy.
"I'm honored to be asked to serve in this position," said Field. "I look forward to working with the Idaho Corrections team on issues important to them and the public safety of all Idaho citizens."
In her former capacity, Debbie served as Chair of the Interagency Committee on Substance Abuse, Prevention and Treatment. The purpose of the interagency committee was to focus on statewide efforts to address substance abuse by assessing statewide needs, developing a statewide plan, and coordinating and directing efforts of all state entities that use public funds for efforts to address substance abuse.
Debbie and her husband, Mike, have three grown children and five grandchildren.

Source: http://gov.idaho.gov/mediacenter/press/pr2015/1%20Jan/pr_05.html
