Public Statements
Governor Otter Thanks Supporters
Statement
By: Butch Otter
Date: Nov. 6, 2014
Location: Boise, ID

On the heels of his victory to serve a historic third term as Governor of Idaho, today Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter thanked his thousands of supporters throughout the state for their confidence in his leadership during the next four years. Citing continued growth in Idaho's economy along with the state's first five-year, bi-partisan strategy for K-12 public education, Otter is confident that the state will experience unprecedented success under the leadership of the newly-elected slate of Republican constitutional officers.
"November 4 was an overwhelming mandate for Republican ideas and conservative values across the nation - including right here in Idaho," said Otter. "I am thrilled with the outcome of the general election and I firmly believe that Idahoans have elected the entire slate of Republican officials here in Idaho because our message of limited government, personal responsibility and conservative values resonates with the majority of the electorate. I'd like to send my regards to my opponent, A.J. Balukoff, for running a solid race that allowed us to discuss a variety of issues that are important to all Idahoans in a public forum. Along with those currently serving who were re-elected, I'd also like to congratulate our two new constitutional officers -- Superintendent of Public Instruction-elect Sherri Ybarra and Secretary of State-elect Lawerence Denney -- and let them know that I am committed to doing whatever I can to help them be successful in their new roles. But as new leaders enter our fold, I must also express appreciation to outgoing Secretary of State Ben Ysursa and outgoing Superintendent of Public Instruction Tom Luna for their many years of dedicated services -- Miss Lori and I send our best wishes to both of them, along with Penny [Ysursa] and Cindy [Luna], in their future endeavors."

Source: http://www.otter4idaho.com/press_room.php/GOVERNOR-OTTER-THANKS-SUPPORTERS
