Public Statements
West Coast Leaders Sign Comprehensive Agreements at Global Clean Energy Ministerial
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: June 1, 2016
Location: San Francisco, CA

On behalf of a region of 53 million people, three U.S. governors and British Columbia's environment minister joined the mayors of six major West Coast cities today to announce the Pacific North America Climate Leadership Agreement at the Clean Energy Ministerial (CEM7).
Leaders from the Pacific Coast Collaborative (PCC)-- a partnership between California, Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia -- teamed up with mayors from Los Angeles, Portland, San Francisco, Seattle, Oakland, Calif., and Vancouver to approve a pact to move the region's clean energy economy forward. With a combined GDP of USD $2.8 trillion, the Pacific North America region represents the world's fifth largest economy.
West Coast leaders, including Oregon Governor Kate Brown, inked the agreement with regional states and cities as a part of the subnational portion of the Ministerial. Today and tomorrow, energy ministers, elected officials, business leaders, and other high-level delegates from 23 countries and the European Commission will work to fulfill the pledges made last December at the COP21 global climate change talks in Paris with clean energy policy commitments.
The Pacific Coast Collaborative cities agreement outlines areas of cooperation to slash greenhouse gas emissions and advance a clean energy economy. The agreement includes a specific focus on energy systems, buildings, transportation, and waste management in cities. As climate change requires decisive action at the subnational level to realize the promise of the Paris accord, cities, states, and provinces are acting with a growing recognition that they have a unique role to play in executing the wide-ranging solutions advanced in the agreement.
Key provisions of the agreement include: 1) implementing energy data reporting and benchmarking for at least 75 percent of eligible large building square footage; 2) expanding consumer, municipal, utility, and private sector adoption of zero-emission vehicles and development of a Pacific Coast electric vehicle charging network from Southern California to British Columbia; 3) accelerating the deployment of distributed, community-scale renewable energy, which is integrated into the grid to help lower the carbon intensity of heating fuels in commercial and residential buildings; and 4) reducing carbon emissions from the food waste stream by preventing and recovering organic waste and promoting composting.






Source:
