Public Statements
Lakeview Family to Represent Oregon at Great Outdoors Western Campout
By: Kate Brown
Date: May 27, 2016
Location: Salem, OR

In recognition of the 100th Anniversary of the National Parks Service, the Rucker Family from Lakeview, Oregon will join families from across the western U.S. for the Great Outdoors Western Campout, Hosted by Wyoming Governor Matt Mead, June 10-15, 2016, the campout welcomes families with fourth graders to Wyoming's Grand Teton National Park to promote outdoor recreation and exploration.
"I am thrilled that the Rucker Family will have this special chance to represent Oregon and experience one of our spectacular national parks," said Oregon Governor Kate Brown. "Exploring our state and national parks is a wonderful way for new generations of Oregonians to connect with the outdoors and discover a lifelong appreciation for our diverse natural resources."
Parents Denise and Andrew Rucker, along with their three children, Ezekiel (age 13), Audrey (age 11), and Elisha (age 10) will join some 14 other families from western states, including Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Washington, and Wyoming. The Campout coincides with the Western Governors' Association Annual Meeting, https://www.regonline.com/builder/site/Default.asp... , in Jackson, Wyo.
Families from each western state attending the Great Outdoors Western Campout are sponsored by the U.S. Department of Interior through the "Every Kid in a Park" program. The program, an initiative of the White House, and partnership with federal land management agencies, aims to expand opportunities for fourth-grade students across the country to experience federal public lands and waters firsthand.
"This kind of trip and the activities that will be available for us to take part in are beyond our wildest dreams," said Denise Rucker. "We are looking forward to meeting other families from all over who will be sharing in this experience, and I'm sure friendships will be made."
Several outdoor events and activities are also planned in Oregon throughout June to promote outdoor recreation and exploration. Governor Brown invites all Oregon families to participate in State Parks Day on June 4, featuring free camping and day-use parking. Additional activities and events are planned the same week to coincide with Free Fishing Weekend and National Trails Day. More information about these events and others throughout the summer is available online from the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department, and the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife,

Source:
