Public Statements
Senate Confirms Governor Brown's Appointee to Oregon Public Utility Commission
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: May 25, 2016
Location: Salem, OR

Today the Oregon Senate confirmed Lisa Hardie, Governor Kate Brown's appointee to the Oregon Public Utility Commission (PUC): http://www.puc.state.or.us/Pages/Index.aspx As the Commission's newest member, Hardie joins John Savage and Stephen Bloom, whose reappointment was also confirmed today by the Senate. Following her confirmation, Governor Brown designated Hardie as PUC Chair.
"Lisa's qualifications and extensive experience as an administrative law judge with the PUC and an attorney in private practice specializing in energy law make her an ideal choice to chair the Commission," Governor Brown said. "I am confident she will be able to hit the ground running."
Hardie is an energy attorney at Troutman Sanders LLP and previously served as an Administrative Law Judge for the Oregon PUC. As an Administrative Law Judge, she presided over contested case hearings, rulemakings, and regulatory dockets. Hardie provided insight and legal analysis on key issues before the Commission, earning the reputation of being an independent, fair arbiter of major rate cases and regulatory issues. Prior to her work as an Administrative Law Judge, Hardie represented the California Parties, in coordination with the California Attorney General's Office, seeking recovery of refunds to the state's ratepayers due to the California energy crisis.
"I am grateful and honored by this opportunity to serve and to use my experience and knowledge to help lead the Oregon Public Utility Commission to fulfill its mission of balancing consumer protection, reliability and affordable utility services, and a competitive marketplace," Chair Hardie said.
The Oregon PUC is responsible for regulating consumer rates and services of the state's investor-owned electric, natural gas, telephone utilities, and certain water companies. The PUC ensures that consumers have access to safe, reliable, and high-quality utility services at just and reasonable rates, while allowing regulated companies the opportunity to earn an adequate return on their investments. The Commission does so through robust and thorough analysis and independent decision-making conducted in an open and public process. Cooperatives or municipally-owned utilities are not regulated by the PUC, except in matters of safety.
Hardie earned a Juris Doctor degree with honors from the University of Texas School of Law, Austin. She is an active member of the Oregon State Bar and is currently of counsel for Troutman Sanders LLP's energy group. Hardie will succeed Susan Ackerman for a four-year appointment as Chair of the Oregon PUC.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=1123
