Public Statements
Senate Confirms Oregon's First Resilience Officer
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: May 25, 2016
Location: Salem, OR

Governor Kate Brown's appointment of Michael Harryman as State Resilience Officer was confirmed today by the Oregon Senate. As Oregon's first Resilience Officer -- a position created by the Legislature in 2015 -- Harryman is charged with directing, implementing, and coordinating seismic safety and resilience goal-setting, which includes working with state agencies to improve Oregon's seismic safety and resilience.
"Mr. Harryman has the experience and expertise needed to bring our state agencies together to ensure they are well coordinated as we work toward making Oregon seismically resilient," said Governor Brown.
As one of his first actions, Harryman will participate in Cascadia Rising, the June 7-10 region-wide, functional exercise to help prepare the Pacific Northwest to coordinate a response to a Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake and tsunami. The exercise will include state and local agencies from Oregon, Washington, and Idaho, along with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, major military commands, and private sector participants.
Geologists and seismic experts predict an earthquake and tsunami caused by seismic activity along the Cascadia Subduction Zone faultline could have devastating effects to communities throughout Oregon, especially for those along the Oregon Coast. As was documented in the 2013 Oregon Seismic Safety Policy Advisory Commission Report, much of Oregon's built infrastructure -- including hospitals, roads and bridges -- remain vulnerable to a major seismic event. Readiness and resilience are critical to Oregon's ability to quickly recover from a major earthquake and tsunami.
Prior to his appointment, Harryman served as the Director of Emergency Operations: https://public.health.oregon.gov/Preparedness/Page... for the Oregon Health Authority's Public Health Division: https://public.health.oregon.gov/Pages/Home.aspx since 2012. As Director, Harryman played a pivotal role as Oregon's Incident Manager for Oregon's 2014 Ebola preparedness and response efforts and was integral in leading response teams following the Umpqua Community College shooting. Harryman is a veteran of the U.S. Army and Oregon Army National Guard and received his master's degree in Emergency and Disaster Management from the American Military University.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=1122
