Public Statements
Governor Brown Directs DEQ to Issue Cease and Desist Order to Bullseye Glass Co.
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: May 19, 2016
Location: Salem, OR

Governor Kate Brown today took action to require Bullseye Glass Co. to cease its use of several hazardous air pollutants, including lead, following air monitoring results at a daycare near the company that showed an immediate, short-term health risk from lead levels that were three times above the 24-hour benchmark.
"Public health and safety are my highest priorities," Governor Brown said. "This swift action and public notification will help ensure the wellbeing of local residents who live and work in the area. Clean air is vital to the health and safety of our community."
At the direction of the Governor, the Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ), ordered Bullseye to cease and desist the use of lead--as well as arsenic, beryllium, cadmium, all chromium compounds, cobalt, manganese, nickel, and selenium in any uncontrolled furnace--for the next 10 days. DEQ will continue lead and industrial air toxics monitoring, and the Governor retains the authority to impose additional orders on the company as necessary.
DEQ conducts enhanced monitoring of industrial air toxics as part of Cleaner Air Oregon. This joint effort by DEQ and the Oregon Health Authority (OHA), will apply new health-risk based standards to industrial air toxics sources to better protect the public. The state is also partnering with Multnomah County and the City of Portland in these efforts.
The Governor further directed OHA to notify the daycare center, its patrons, local authorities, and the immediately impacted community to provide information related to these recent findings. Local health authority partners from Multnomah County made initial contact with the daycare this afternoon. Additional information will be made available on SaferAir.Oregon.Gov. For information on Cleaner Air Oregon, the initiative to overhaul Oregon's industrial air toxics regulations, visit CleanerAir.Oregon.Gov.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=1112
