Public Statements
OLCV Endorses Kate Brown for Oregon's Governor
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: May 12, 2016
Location: Salem, OR

Oregon League of Conservation Voters (OLCV) announced today they will endorse Governor Kate Brown in the 2016 gubernatorial election.
"In the race for governor, OLCV stands with Governor Kate Brown. Her clear environmental values and thorough command of the issues make her the strongest environmental candidate in the race," said Doug Moore, executive director of OLCV. "Under Governor Brown's leadership, Oregon became the first state to pass a law to phase out coal power, demonstrating once again Oregon's commitment to combatting climate change. Continuing our state's leadership on climate change is critical, and Governor Brown is the only one in the race with the experience and commitment to doing exactly that."
OLCV noted Brown's deep understanding of what's at stake and proven record of taking action on critical environmental issues as essential qualities needed in Oregon's leadership. In her nearly fifteen months as governor, Brown signed two historic climate policies into law that will eliminate dirty coal-fired power while doubling our state's commitment to clean energy and reduce carbon pollution from vehicles. Furthermore, with the recent discovery of dangerous air toxics in Portland, Brown has stepped up and made cleaning Oregon's air a top priority.
Governor Brown expressed her appreciation for OLCV's support. "I am truly honored to have OLCV's backing to continue serving Oregon as governor," Brown said. "Global climate change and pollution are threatening Oregon's environment, economy and our very way of life. In the next two years, I look forward to working with OLCV and our partners in the environmental movement to make Oregon cleaner and greener by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, advancing environmental health, connecting Oregonians to the outdoors and securing our water future."
"OLCV looks forward to continuing collaboration and partnership with Governor Brown on the many critical issues facing our environment, and working together towards making Oregon a leader in the fight against climate change," Moore said.

Source: https://katebrownfororegon.com/news/olcv-endorses-kate-brown-oregon%E2%80%99s-governor
