Public Statements
Governor Brown Taps Colt Gill as Education Innovation Officer
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: April 28, 2016
Location: Salem, OR

Governor Kate Brown today appointed Colt Gill as the State's new Education Innovation Officer.
Gill, an educator for 27 years and the Superintendent of the Bethel School District in Eugene, is charged with developing strategies to advance the Governor's goal of increasing the number of students completing high school.
"I want all Oregon students to complete high school and be ready for college, post-secondary training, or a job," Governor Brown said. "Colt's experience in the classroom, in the community, and as an administrator give him the perspective and vision to help us improve our dismal graduation rate."
Gill will work with local communities and school districts to scale and replicate best practices and make recommendations to the Governor, state agencies, and the Legislature about policies, resources, and accountability measures to increase the number of students who graduate. Recommendations will be filtered through the Oregon Equity Lens to ensure they are designed to improve access and opportunities for each of Oregon's students. The Education Innovation Officer, a position within the Chief Education Office, will work with Chief Education Officer Lindsey Capps and Deputy Superintendent of Public Instruction Salam Noor to guide the Governor's priorities and implementation strategies to ensure each student in Oregon graduates with a plan for their future.
In Gill's 10 years with Bethel School District, he consistently improved graduation rates for historically underserved students. Today, the graduation rate for African American students is 9 percent higher than state averages, American Indian/Alaskan Native 16 percent higher than the state, and Latino/Hispanic 7 percent higher than the state.
Gill began his career as an elementary school teacher in Creswell and later became the district's Technology Director. He also served as an elementary school principal and later the Director of Curriculum & Instruction in the South Lane School District. He has served as the Superintendent of the Bethel School District since 2006.
He is also an adjunct professor at the University of Oregon and has served in a number of boards and commissions for both the State of Oregon and education organizations.
Gill's position is effective June 1.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=1088
