Public Statements
Governor Kate Brown Signs Two New Klamath Basin Agreements
Statement
By: Kate Brown
Date: April 6, 2016
Location: Salem, OR

Today, the states of Oregon and California, PacifiCorp, and the U.S. Departments of the Interior and Commerce signed an agreement that, following a process administered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), will result in the removal of four dams on the Klamath River by 2020, making it one of the largest river restoration efforts in the nation.
State and federal officials also signed a new, separate agreement with irrigation interests and other parties known as the 2016 Klamath Power and Facilities Agreement (KPFA). This agreement will help Klamath Basin irrigators avoid potential adverse financial and regulatory impacts associated with the return of fish runs to the Upper Klamath Basin, which are anticipated after dam removal.
"These agreements are more than ink and paper, they are a roadmap to the future of the Klamath Basin and of the people who live there," said Governor Kate Brown. "I'm proud to be a part of a plan that invokes the spirit of collaboration to ensure the recovery of the area tribes' historic fishing grounds while sustaining the region's farming and ranching heritage."
California Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr.:
"This historic agreement will enable Oregon and California and the interested parties to get these four dams finally removed and the Klamath River restored to its pristine beauty."
U.S. Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell:
"Today is a historic day where the parties who have worked for decades to restore the Klamath Basin are reaffirming their commitment to each other for the shared vision of fisheries restoration and irrigated agriculture co-existing as we move into the future. This agreement is an important initial step as we work toward a comprehensive set of actions to advance long-term restoration and sustainability for tribes, fisheries, and agriculture and water users across the Klamath Basin."
NOAA Administrator Dr. Kathryn Sullivan:
"These agreements will enable the largest dam removal project in the nation. While more work lies ahead, these agreements support efforts to recover fisheries, sustain the region's farming and ranching interests, and benefit the environment and the communities who rely upon the Klamath River."
Stefan Bird, President and CEO of Pacific Power, a division of PacifiCorp:
"PacifiCorp continues to support the Klamath settlement as a fair way forward for our electricity customers in Oregon, California and beyond. The company is committed to continuing to work with our settlement partners to fully enact this important agreement."
This new agreement acknowledges additional work is necessary to fully restore the Klamath Basin, advance the recovery of its fisheries, uphold trust responsibilities to the Yurok, Karuk, and Klamath tribes, and sustain the region's farming and ranching economy. Many of these efforts will require congressional action, and the agreement commits the signatories to actively cooperate with all Klamath Basin stakeholders -- members of Congress, tribes, farmers, and others -- to develop additional agreements over the next year to offer comprehensive solutions to these issues.
The signing ceremony took place today at the mouth of the Klamath River on the Yurok Indian Reservation in Klamath, California. Governor Brown was joined by California Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr., Pacific Power President and CEO Stefan Bird, Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell, NOAA Administrator Dr. Kathryn Sullivan, representatives of the Yurok, Karuk, and Klamath tribes, non-governmental organizations, and farmers and ranchers from the Klamath Basin.
The newly amended dam removal agreement, which uses existing non-federal funding and the same timeline as the original agreement, will be filed with FERC on or about July 1 for consideration under its established processes, which includes public involvement. Under the settlement, dam owner PacifiCorp will transfer its license to operate the Klamath River dams to a private company known as the Klamath River Renewal Corporation. This company will oversee dam removal starting in 2020. PacifiCorp will continue to operate the dams until they are decommissioned.
In 2010, Klamath Basin stakeholders signed the Klamath Basin Restoration Agreement (KBRA) and the Klamath Hydroelectric Settlement Agreement (KHSA). In 2014, the Upper Klamath Basin Comprehensive Agreement (UKBCA) was signed. Members of the California and Oregon delegations introduced legislation in the past two Congresses to advance the hard-fought KHSA and two related Klamath agreements; however, the U.S. Congress adjourned last year without authorizing them. The expiration of the KBRA expired last December caused uncertainty in moving forward with the KHSA and UKBCA.
In early 2016, the parties who have spent years negotiating the pacts, resolved to find a new path forward. The amended KHSA and the 2016 Klamath Power and Facilities Agreement are the result of those collaborative discussions.
The four PacifiCorp dams on the Klamath River are operated for hydroelectric power generation. Modern environmental laws require that the dams need to be retrofitted to provide fish passage for salmon, steelhead, and other fish. The Oregon and California public utility commissions found that the original KHSA was a prudent alternative for PacifiCorp's customer.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=1058
