Public Statements
Governor Kate Brown Statement on Close of 2016 Legislative Session
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: March 3, 2016
Location: Salem, OR

Governor Kate Brown issued the following statement as the 2016 legislative session came to a close today.
"In January, I announced my priorities for 2016 -- education, equity, economy, and preparedness.
"Today, as our legislative session comes to a close, I am pleased to announce that it's only March and we have already made great gains to turn these priorities into realities.
"Together with the Legislature, we raised the minimum wage giving more workers across our state the resources to provide for their families and better their lives. The House and Senate took action to provide local jurisdictions with more tools to address the affordable housing needs facing their communities -- I look forward to receiving those bills.
"We took action to increase transparency and accountability measures and strengthen excellence in state government. I expanded support for Oregon's small businesses by increasing resources for the Office of the Small Business Advocate and creating a Small Business Advisory Cabinet that reports directly to me.
"I secured money for recovery and resiliency efforts for both Umpqua Community College and Harney County. I successfully fought for more resources to help communities prepare and address increased drought and wildfires.
"Additionally, we approved resources so the Department of Environmental Quality can continue to address health concerns related to air toxics.
"Although the session was very productive and good progress was made overall, I am disappointed that the gun safety legislation stalled. Although we approved additional resources for the Oregon State Police to conduct background checks, we must do more to address gun safety. So I will work to develop legislation for the 2017 session and explore what might be achieved using my executive authority.
"I thank my legislative colleagues for their efforts and collaboration in this process, and appreciate the many stakeholders and everyday citizens who weighed in on the issues that matter to them. Onward, Oregon."

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=1025
