Public Statements
Governor Brown Joins Bipartisan Governors' Accord for a New Energy Future
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: Feb. 16, 2016
Location: Salem, OR

Governor Kate Brown today joined a bipartisan group of 17 governors to announce the Governors' Accord for a New Energy Future - a joint commitment to take action to promote clean energy, clean transportation choices, and a modern electrical grid.
The Accord provides participating governors -- a bipartisan coalition together representing 127 million Americans -- with a platform through which their states will collaborate, learn from one another, and leverage partnerships in energy planning and policymaking.
"Efficient and innovative energy solutions are one way to help make Oregon's economy more productive and resilient," said Governor Brown. "By working together with 17 governors, Democrat and Republican, Oregon's efforts to meet the challenges of a changing climate will contribute to meaningful progress across the country."
"American prosperity has always depended on embracing new ideas and technologies," states the Governors' Accord for a New Energy Future. "Embracing new energy solutions allows us to expand our economy while protecting the health of our communities and natural resources. These improvements will help secure a safe and prosperous future for our country.
"We recognize that now is the time to embrace a bold vision of the nation's energy future, and to do so, states are once again poised to lead."
Democratic and Republican signatories to the Accord commit that their states will continue to diversify energy generation and expand clean energy sources, modernize energy infrastructure, and encourage clean transportation options. The 17 participating governors represent states that vary considerably in their energy mix and policy portfolios. However, these governors have committed to working together to make transformational policy changes to secure a stronger energy future for their states and the nation.
Senior advisors to participating governors will convene shortly to discuss initial steps to pursue their shared priorities and commitments contained in the Accord.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=999
