Public Statements
Governor Kate Brown Advances Klamath Agreement
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: Feb. 2, 2016
Location: Salem, OR

Today, the States of Oregon and California, PacifiCorp, and the federal government -- through the U.S. Departments of the Interior and Commerce -- announced an agreement-in-principle to move forward with amending the Klamath Hydroelectric Settlement Agreement (KHSA).
Under the agreement, the four main parties to the KHSA will pursue its implementation through the administrative process governed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), using existing funding and on the same timeline. Members of the California and Oregon delegations introduced legislation in the past two Congresses to advance the hard-fought KHSA and two related Klamath agreements; however, the U.S. Congress adjourned last year without acting on legislation to authorize them.
Though the agreement-in-principle focuses primarily on the dam removal portion of the broader pact, it states that the move is an important and necessary first step toward maintaining the broader Klamath settlements. The states and the federal government are actively working with all Klamath Basin stakeholders -- members of Congress, tribes, farmers, and others -- on a comprehensive resolution to restore the basin, advance the recovery of its fisheries, uphold trust responsibilities to the tribes, and sustain the region's farming and ranching heritage.
The agreement-in-principle states the four parties intend to work with each other and the more than 40 signatories of the KHSA in the coming weeks to develop terms of an amendment to the KHSA to implement its key provisions, including providing for facilities removal. The target date for signing an amended KHSA is February 29.
The KHSA as amended would then be submitted for consideration through FERC's established processes, which involve public comment. If approved, PacifiCorp would transfer title of the Klamath River dams to a non-federal entity that would assume liability and take the appropriate steps to decommission and remove the dams in 2020.
The four PacifiCorp dams on the Klamath River are authorized for hydroelectric power generation. Regulations require that the dams need to be retrofitted to provide fish passage for salmon, steelhead and other fish. Several public utility commissions, including those in Oregon and California, have ruled that removal of four dams, under the KHSA, is the best combination of least cost and risk for PacifiCorp's customers.
The agreement-in-principle is available here:
https://www.doi.gov/sites/doi.gov/files/uploads/Kl...

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=960
