Public Statements
Governor Brown Announces Accountability Measures for Medicaid Eligibility and Renewal Program
Statement
By: Kate Brown
Date: May 23, 2017
Location: Salem, OR

Governor Kate Brown today announced new accountability measures for the Oregon Health Authority's Medicaid Eligibility and Renewal program. These measures are designed so that Oregonians know that their government is committed to protecting health care and the integrity of the system that provides it.
Governor Brown released the following statement:
"Elected officials should be focused on protecting the health care of Oregonians, not playing politics with it.
"We've heard a lot about Medicaid eligibility over the last week, but we haven't heard much about the lives that depend on it. These are Oregonians who cannot afford the health care they need in order to pursue healthy and productive lives. Some are seeking preventive care, while others are battling life-threatening conditions.
"The Oregon Health Authority has completed more than 700,000 Medicaid redeterminations since March 2016, but has fallen behind as they work through the remaining 115,000 redeterminations. The cases we have left are some of the most important. These Oregonians must meet multiple eligibility criteria and may be facing significant health challenges.
"I've directed the Oregon Health Authority to process these final renewals as quickly as possible and to ensure that the Oregon Health Plan is protected from fraud and abuse. I have set a deadline to determine the eligibility of these final cases by August 31, 2017 and have directed OHA to provide weekly updates to me on their progress.
"As Governor I expect state agency leadership to work quickly and diligently to fulfill their duties and complete this task. But I will not play games with people's health care in order to score a few political points. There is too much at stake for Oregon families who need access to critical health care services."

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=2070
