Public Statements
Issue Position: Economy and Jobs
Issue Position
By: Kate Brown
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

During Kate's time in office, Oregon has been celebrated nationally as one of the strongest economies in America, with the state's unemployment rate reaching historic lows. But not every part of Oregon has fully recovered from the recent recession. We have more work to do to help small businesses and build an economy that helps Oregon families make ends meet in all parts of the state. As governor, Kate is focusing on policies that empower small businesses and working families, build a skilled workforce and invest in a strong transportation infrastructure to keep Oregon's economy moving forward.
"Seventy percent of new jobs happen when existing businesses expand. We must make investments that help Oregon businesses grow."
-- Governor Kate Brown
Helping Families Make Ends Meet
Kate is fighting to make Oregon a place where everyone can thrive. As governor, Kate passed a historic raise in the state's minimum wage, because no one working full time should have to live in poverty. She championed paid sick leave so workers can stay home when they are sick, or their child is sick, without losing their paycheck. And she passed a state retirement savings plan because every Oregonian deserves an option to save for their future.
Kate will continue to stand with working families by supporting policies that help create a system of opportunity for all Oregonians, from a good education to an affordable place to live.
Empowering Small Businesses
Small businesses are the backbone of Oregon's economy. We can encourage job growth by giving small business owners and emerging entrepreneurs the tools they need to expand. That's why Kate created the Small Business Advisory Cabinet - a group of small business owners, financial institution representatives and government leaders - to guide her in helping small businesses grow, even when that means getting out of the way.
Going forward, Kate will continue helping small businesses all over Oregon stay in the black by cutting red tape. With the input of the Small Business Advisory Cabinet, Kate will advance policies that offer small businesses important tools such as mentorship programs, access to capital, and opportunities that support entrepreneurs in rural and underserved communities.
Preparing a Workforce for Oregon's Future
Jobs of the future will depend on a skilled and educated workforce. Kate has made higher education and career-focused education one of her top priorities, expanding programs that help students access hands-on, real-world work experiences before graduating from high school or college. She also extended Oregon Opportunity Grants for 16,000 additional students attending Oregon colleges and universities, and passed the Oregon Promise - a program that helps eligible students attend community college for as low as $50 per semester.
Kate is ensuring every Oregon student graduates high school with a plan for their future. From career and technical training to affordable higher education, we must ensure Oregon continues to prioritize key programs that prepare our workforce for the jobs of the future.
Transportation that Moves Oregon Forward
Oregon's aging transportation infrastructure and mind-numbing traffic is creating slow-downs in communities all over the state, increasing commute times and degrading our quality of life. More than 500,000 jobs in Oregon depend on transportation. If workers can't get to their jobs and goods can't get to markets safely and efficiently, Oregon's economy will suffer.
Kate is working with legislators, businesses and community leaders in every corner of the state to develop and pass a transportation package in 2017 to upgrade our aging roads and bridges, and invest in public transit. As governor, she is bringing Oregonians together to build a strong, efficient, and more resilient system of transportation that meets our state's needs.

Source: https://katebrownfororegon.com/economy-jobs
