Public Statements
Issue Position: Government Accountability
Issue Position
By: Kate Brown
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

Kate became governor at a time when Oregonians' faith in their state government was badly shaken by the scandal and resignation of her predecessor. But upon taking office, she immediately rolled up her sleeves and got to work, bringing a steady hand to guide state government through a difficult time. In her first 18 months, she has already done more to improve transparency in state government than any other governor in Oregon's history.
Kate will continue leading the movement toward open and accountable government by improving transparency, strengthening ethics, and holding state agencies accountable.
"State government belongs to its people and Oregonians deserve to know how their government is working on their behalf. It is our duty to conduct state business in an open and accessible manner."
- Governor Kate Brown
Improving Transparency
Kate has a long history of fighting for better government. During her time as majority leader of the Oregon Senate and now as governor she has led efforts to enact the state's most sweeping ethics reforms in the last three decades, including measures to hold the governor's staff and significant others accountable to Oregonians so another scandal like her predecessor's will not happen again. Kate also passed lobbyist reforms and expanded the Oregon Government Ethics Commission.
Since taking office, Kate has also:
Released hundreds of thousands pages of documents to the public.
Became the first Oregon governor, and just the second governor in the nation, to establish an online public records system so that all Oregonians - not just those requesting public records - can access information released.
Ordered agencies to standardize practices for releasing information.
Become Oregon's first governor to hire a full time attorney to process public records requests.
There is much more work to be done to hold government more accountable to its people. Kate will introduce a bill to create a Public Records Advocate, an independent entity that will settle disputes between requesters and government, help the public navigate complicated records laws, and make recommendations for future public records reforms.
Making Voting Easier and More Accessible Than Ever
Kate believes your voice is your vote, and every voice matters. She is working to break down barriers so every eligible Oregonian can register to vote and cast their ballot. As Secretary of State, she developed groundbreaking legislation to create the nation's first automatic voter registration system - also known as the Motor Voter program - which she proudly signed into law as governor. This system has since automatically added over 200,000 eligible voters to the rolls so their voice can be heard in November.
Kate will continue working to ensure voting in Oregon is simple, accessible and efficient for all eligible voters.

Source: https://katebrownfororegon.com/government-accountability
