Public Statements
Issue Position: Environment
Issue Position
By: Kate Brown
Date: Jan. 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

Kate is committed to conserving the beauty and bounty of Oregon for generations to come. As governor, she will continue working to protect our land, water, and air. She will fight to reduce Oregon's greenhouse gas emissions and establish Oregon as a national leader in addressing climate change.
"Our generation will be judged not on the fact of climate change, but how we responded to it. We must fight to protect what makes Oregon special."
-- Governor Kate Brown
Clean Air & Water for Every Oregonian
Clean air and water are fundamental to our high quality of life. For the first time in our state's history, Kate created the Cleaner Air Oregon initiative to connect public health and the regulation of companies that emit toxics into our air. In the past year, she ordered a Portland manufacturer to cease production until it could safely contain toxic air emissions. She also implemented new regulations to protect educators, staff, and students from environmental hazards in school facilities, holding every Oregon school district accountable to test and share test results with the public.
Kate will continue to put public health first to protect Oregonians and our ecosystems from environmental threats.
Leading the Fight on Global Warming
This year, Oregon became the first state to envision a future without coal-powered electricity when Kate signed the nation's first "coal-to-clean" law, which will completely phase out dirty coal power by 2030 and double Oregon's reliance on renewable energy by 2040. In 2015, she stood up to Big Oil and signed a law that bolsters the use of cleaner-burning vehicle fuels in Oregon.
Kate will continue the fight to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and support innovation that reduces Oregon's reliance on fossil fuels. Oregon may be a small part of the global problem of climate change, but by working together, we can be a large part of the national solution.
Preserving & Connecting With Oregon's Environment
Oregon boasts some of the most beautiful landscapes and natural wonders in the world - and we must be careful to protect it. When an oil train derailed and caught fire in the Columbia River Gorge, threatening the community of Mosier and the natural resources around it, Kate was on the scene in support of the first responders working to keep the disaster under control, and called on the federal government to stop oil trains from running through our state until Oregonians can be assured they are safe.
Kate will work to keep Oregon clean and beautiful for generations to come by awakening present and future generations to the natural wonders of their home state.. There's no better way to develop a strong connection to nature and a passion for its conservation than spending time outdoors. That connection is an important part of growing up in Oregon, and Kate will continue to find ways -- such as Outdoor School -- for more young people to develop that kinship and keep Oregon clean and beautiful for generations to come.

Source: https://katebrownfororegon.com/environment
