Public Statements
Governor Brown Invests $250,000 to Expand Diversity Among Oregon Startups
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: Aug. 19, 2015
Location: Salem, OR

Governor Kate Brown and Business Oregon, the state's economic development agency, will invest $250,000 to support a new Inclusive Startup Fund created and initiated by the Portland Development Commission (PDC) and supported by Multnomah County. The fund will invest in Portland-area startups -- from across industry -- founded by underrepresented groups, including women and people of color.
Oregon has a vibrant entrepreneurial community, and studies show that small businesses and young companies drive job growth and wealth creation. But not all communities have benefited equally.
"Oregon is strongest when each and every one of us has the opportunity to thrive, including our emerging entrepreneurs," Governor Brown said. "By extending access to underrepresented groups, we are unlocking the potential of even more small business owners to help contribute to Oregon's economic success story. While this program begins in Portland, I am excited to bring similar efforts to entrepreneurs in rural Oregon."
"We've invested seriously in rural innovation this past year, from cross laminated timber to unnamed aerial vehicles," said Sean Robbins, Business Oregon's director. "This investment in Portland reflects where the City of Portland says they need us most and fits squarely into the Grow Our Own approach."
The Governor's Office is working on a similar startup initiative to support entrepreneurs in rural Oregon.
About the Inclusive Startup Fund:
The Portland Development Commission, the City of Portland's economic development agency, will lead a competitive process to identify and select a professional Fund Manager to oversee the fund. PDC is seeking $3 million in total contributions. The fund will start with $1.25 million in commitments with $500,000 each coming from PDC and Multnomah County. The commission will seek $1.75 million in contributions from private investors and foundations.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=775
