Public Statements
Governor Brown Announces State Funding for Affordable Housing
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: July 21, 2015
Location: Salem, OR

Governor Kate Brown is pleased to announce that Oregon Housing and Community Services (OHCS) is awarding funds to build or preserve 13 affordable housing developments across Oregon, providing needed homes to Oregonians with low incomes. The State Housing Council approved these grants and loans for a variety of partners who will oversee development and operate the housing.
"Everyone needs a decent, affordable place to call home," Governor Brown said. "By strategically investing in housing opportunities, we increase opportunities for Oregonians to make a better life for themselves and their families. These investments will ensure that children in foster care, people living with mental health issues, older adults with fixed incomes, and veterans have greater access to stable housing."
On July 17, the State Housing Council approved grants and loans for 13 projects, which include 329 new units to be built in the coming year and projects that rehabilitate and preserve an additional 287 units. State funding to support these projects comes from a mix of state and federal resources.
"These new homes provide stability for many Oregonians," said Margaret Van Vliet, Director of Oregon Housing and Community Services. "Our team was impressed with the quality of applications and expertise of the funded partners."
Increasing the amount of affordable housing units rose to the top of Governor Brown's priorities as more Oregonians face housing instability despite the state's economic recovery. The housing market has outpaced growth in wages and new jobs, and Governor Brown called on legislators and OHCS to address the significant need.
"Too many Oregonians don't have a safe, stable place to call home," said Aubré Dickson, State Housing Council Chair. "All across our state, rents are rising and people are having a difficult time finding an affordable place to live. We know these projects will meet a critical need in many of our communities."
OHCS will continue to invest in meeting the housing needs of Oregonians with new resources recently championed by the Governor and approved by the Legislature. The state will continue to partner with housing providers across Oregon to allocate more than $62 million to produce much needed affordable housing.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=755
