Public Statements
Oregon Recognized for Collaborative Effort to Modernize Manufacturing for the 21st Century
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: July 8, 2015
Location: Salem, OR

The State of Oregon, through its economic development arm, Business Oregon, and in partnership with the State of Washington, has received a federal designation as one of 12 new communities under the Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership (IMCP) initiative, http://oregon.us2.list-manage1.com/track/click?u=4... The federal program is designed to accelerate the resurgence of manufacturing by supporting the development of coordinated, long-term economic development strategies in communities.
"This program is focused on rewarding partnership and coordination when it comes to economic development strategy," said Governor Kate Brown. "I'm proud that Oregon put together a strong proposal that showcases our ability to bring together diverse state, regional, and local organizations for a common goal - economic opportunity for all Oregonians."
The Pacific Northwest Manufacturing Partnership, http://oregon.us2.list-manage.com/track/click?u=41... , focused its proposal on the opportunity to build on a traditional industry - wood products - and modernize it. While the designation will help in other areas, Oregon's position as a leader in value-added wood products such as cross-laminated timber (CLT) is a specific opportunity the team will leverage.
"From aircraft parts to semiconductors, high quality manufacturing has always been a fundamental driver of Oregon's economy," said Sean Robbins, Director of Business Oregon. "We're a place that still makes real products and we're uniquely positioned to shape American manufacturing in the 21st century. This designation will help us do just that."
Led by Business Oregon, the partnership links together key research, workforce, and public and nonprofit partners, across two states and governed by an organizational charter. Partners include: The City of Eugene, the City of Springfield, Oregon State University, University of Oregon, Portland State University, Southwest Washington Workforce Development Council, Workforce Investment Council of Clackamas County, Worksystems, Inc., Oregon Manufacturing Extension Partnership, Oregon Nanoscience & Microtechnologies Institute, Oregon BEST, Columbia River Economic Development Council, Corvallis-Benton County Economic Development, Greater Portland Inc, Portland Development Commission, and Mid-Willamette Valley Council of Governments.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=750
