Public Statements
Governor Brown: Continue Work Toward Transportation Solutions
Statement
By: Kate Brown
Date: June 25, 2015
Location: Salem, OR

Governor Kate Brown today released the following statement regarding the status of legislation to reduce carbon emissions and provide funding for transportation improvements:
"I want to sincerely thank my eight legislator colleagues for their hard work in pursuit of a single, bipartisan approach to achieving our greenhouse gas emissions reduction goals and addressing critical transportation needs statewide. I also acknowledge the support and leadership of President Peter Courtney, Senator Ted Ferrioli and the Oregon Senate in making it possible for the proposal to be heard. Given the complexity of the issues and the remaining time available, there simply isn't a path forward through both chambers for a proposal that accomplishes both this session.
"As yesterday's hearing demonstrated, both transportation and greenhouse gas emissions reductions are important and complicated policy questions that deserve adequate and focused attention. We worked hard to find a way to address them as a package, but no solution emerged that accomplished that to the satisfaction of all parties. They should be decoupled and considered separately, thus avoiding the "my way, or no highway' situation in which we now find ourselves.
"However, the testimony at the hearing from business leaders and local government officials, as well as newspaper editorials and input I have received from many Oregonians, underscores the significant statewide support for investments in transportation. As I said back in March, if it takes longer than this session to accomplish, I'm willing to continue these discussions. The bicameral, bipartisan working group I assembled earlier this session has provided excellent groundwork that will inform our future efforts. I will work with Republicans and Democrats to make it happen."

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=739
