Public Statements
142 SFS Moblization
By: Kate Brown
Date: May 15, 2015
Location: Unknown

Good morning. Thank you for inviting me to be a part of this important juncture in your lives and the lives of your families.
To the men and women of the 142nd Security Forces Squadron, it is my privilege as your Commander in Chief, to salute you as you embark on this journey.
I speak for all Oregonians when I say how proud we are that you represent our great State of Oregon.
To say you've been busy as you've prepared for deployment is an understatement. And, I hear the recent visit by President Obama meant that many of you were called upon to provide increased security and perform other important duties on base.
And though your work hours increased -- meaning more time away from your families -- you stepped up when you were needed.
While the cameras snapped and crowds cheered, behind the scenes, you executed your duties without fanfare, ensuring plenty of fanfare for President Obama, as well as a safe and positive visit to Oregon. Thank you. You make me proud to be your Governor.
Your flexibility in juggling multiple assignments while sticking together will serve you well on this mission.
Please be there for each other throughout your deployment, as you are here at home.
While we anxiously await your safe return from Kuwait, I have no doubt that you will represent Oregon with skill and honor.
Oregonians know that this deployment is not just about your personal sacrifices, as significant as they are, but also the sacrifices of your families and loved ones.
I am grateful for the strength and support of your families in facing the challenge of your absence, holding down the home front while you are away.
As your Commander in Chief, I have tremendous confidence in your abilities, though I recognize the void your departure leaves here at home. I am glad to know, though, that you will be safeguarding our base in Kuwait--many will benefit greatly from your presence.
The honor, determination and commitment of the 142nd Security Forces Squadron remind us why we are proud to be Oregonians.
God bless you, God bless your families -- and Godspeed.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/gov/media/Pages/speeches/142-SFS-Moblization.aspx
