Public Statements
Armed Forces Day
By: Kate Brown
Date: May 14, 2015
Location: Unknown

Thank you. It is an honor to be with you today.
As the daughter of an Air Force member, I have incredible respect and admiration for people who volunteer to serve and protect our state and nation.
To the service members here representing the United States Army, Navy, Marines, Air Force, and Coast Guard, thank you for the contributions and sacrifices that you make to keep our great state and nation safe.
I want to acknowledge a couple of milestones. Last week -- May 8 -- we marked the 70th anniversary of VE Day. To our Greatest Generation who served in World War II, our world is better because of your efforts.
On April 30, we also marked the 40th anniversary of the end of the Vietnam War.
We know those who served in that war were not treated to the same welcome when they returned home. However, it is this generation today that steps up and leads welcome home efforts for our troops returning from overseas. Your grace and compassion are commendable.
Over the years I have welcomed service members home who are returning from missions across our globe. And while these celebrations bring me much joy, I'm also reminded that we're still sending soldiers into the battlefield.
As a state, and as individual citizens, we must wrap our arms around our service members and their families, supporting them through their deployments and after their return home.
Military families may not serve in uniform, but they, too, serve our state and our country through their support of partners, fathers, mothers or loved ones. They keep the home fires burning, running households and raising their families, awaiting the safe return of their deployed family member.
Today we celebrate the dedication and sacrifices of service members and their families. We are grateful for your commitment, your many contributions and your strength.
Thank you, and God Bless America.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/gov/media/Pages/speeches/Armed-Forces-Day.aspx
