Public Statements
Fallen Law Enforcement Officer Memorial
By: Kate Brown
Date: May 5, 2015
Location: Unknown

Good afternoon. I am grateful to be with you today.
Annually -- the Oregon Fallen Law Enforcement Officer Memorial Ceremony -- allows us to honor 180 fallen Oregon law enforcement officers who have died in the line of duty.
Equally important is that today's event allows us to tell you, the families of our fallen, that we will never forget your losses and sacrifices.
The earliest recognized death on our state memorial is from the 1880s. Today we will add the name of a fallen officer from more than a century ago.
Sadly we know when we gather here next year we will add the name of another fallen officer. Deputy Gil Datan (pronounced DAY-TON) of the Coos County Sheriff's Office who died while on forest patrol just a few weeks ago.
This memorial honors the sacrifices made by law enforcement officers across Oregon. It includes city, county, state, tribal, and federal officers who work in law enforcement, corrections and parole and probation. To recognize the importance of this day it is now my honor to introduce our guest speaker.
Our keynote speaker is Brenda Donner.
Brenda is the daughter of Patrolman Clifton Miller, of Rossford, Ohio, who died in the line of duty on May 14, 1966.
At the time, Brenda's mom and dad had five kids with another on the way.
The Concerns of Police Survivors -- known as COPS - hadn't yet been founded, and with Dad being the first and only Rossford officer to die in the line of duty, she and her family were fairly isolated in terms of grief resources.
Brenda found out about COPS when her friend -- a Military Police Officer stationed in Washington, D.C. -- called her to tell her that her dad's name was on something called the National Law Enforcement Memorial.
She subsequently learned about COPS and the services provided, and became involved in her local chapter.
Currently, Brenda serves the great Northwest Region of COPS as a Trustee. In this capacity, she acts as liaison between the Chapters and States in her region (Alaska, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming) and the National Concerns of Police Survivors.
We are fortunate to have COPS as a resource as a resource for our state and country. I value the organization's tireless work and dedication to assist the families and co-workers of our fallen law enforcement officers.
Please join me in welcoming Brenda Donner.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/gov/media/Pages/speeches/Fallen-Law-Enforcement-Officer-Memorial.aspx
