Public Statements
Governor Brown Announces $1.5 Million Plan to Improve Air Quality in Lake and Klamath Counties
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: April 15, 2015
Location: Salem, OR

Governor Kate Brown announced today a $1.5 million plan to replace wood stoves and fireplaces in an effort to encourage economic development and improve air quality in Lake and Klamath counties. The Regional Solutions program will be used to fund the installation of certified and non-wood burning devices, such as ductless heat pumps, and home weatherization.
"This program demonstrates that, by working together, we can achieve both economic and environmental goals," said Governor Brown. "We are ensuring working families can continue to heat their homes while creating less air pollution and ultimately allowing greater business expansion in the region. Collaborative solutions such as this are key to a healthy future for the entire state."
Open fireplaces and residential uncertified wood stoves significantly contribute to air pollution. Their use is one reason why the communities of Lakeview and Klamath Falls currently exceed the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for fine particulates. This makes it difficult for local businesses to get permits from the Department of Environmental Quality and creates a barrier to economic development. The funds will also assist with preservation of existing housing stock in both Lake and Klamath counties within designated air quality limited regions.
The program will begin in May 2015. Funds will be available until they are depleted.
"This is vital to the health and economic well-being of Oregonians in Klamath and Lake counties," said Jane O'Keefe, of South Central Regional Solutions. "Without an intense effort to reduce airborne particulate matter in these counties, local businesses will be unable to expand and new businesses will face high hurdles to locate and recruit in the area."
The program is a joint partnership of the South Central Regional Solutions program and the South Central Economic Development District. Partners include the Oregon Department of Energy, the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, the Town of Lakeview, Lake County Board of Commissioners, Lake County Public Health, City of Klamath Falls, Klamath County Board of Commissioners, Klamath County Public Health, the Energy Trust of Oregon, and Avista.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=645
