Public Statements
Governor Brown's Ethics Bills Introduced With Bipartisan Support
Statement
By: Kate Brown
Date: April 7, 2015
Location: Salem, OR

Governor Kate Brown today released the following statement regarding introduction of her ethics and public records legislation:
"The turmoil surrounding Governor Kitzhaber's resignation has caused Oregonians to question their trust in state government. Together with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, we will take action this session to ensure that this situation is not repeated.
"I identified three main areas of concern:
* Our public records statutes are cumbersome and no more serve the public than the state agencies they are intended to govern.
* The role and expectations of the First Partner as a public official need to be clear and reflect modern relationships.
* We must strengthen ethics laws to ensure transparency and accountability among public officials at all levels of government.
"In response to these points, three bills have been introduced at my request.
"Senate Bill 9 requires the State Auditor in the Secretary of State's office to audit state agencies' processes for responding to requests for public records. Before we contemplate meaningful changes to improve the public records law, we need factual information about what is currently going on, including consistency of agency responses, cost, turnaround time, and compliance with existing laws. Information from this audit will allow policy makers to make informed, fact-based decisions.
Senate Bill 9
http://oregon.us2.list-manage2.com/track/click?u=4...
"Two more bills, HB 2019 and HB 2020, are intended to strengthen the efficacy of the Oregon Ethics Commission and address important structural changes, such as distributing the power to appoint members of the Oregon Government Ethics Commission across all statewide elected officials, and streamlining the investigative process. These bills also clarify the role and expectations of First Partner as a public official; increase penalties for knowingly using elective office for personal gain; and prohibit speakers' fees for all statewide office-holders or First Partner while in office.
House Bill 2019
http://oregon.us2.list-manage1.com/track/click?u=4...
House Bill 2020
http://oregon.us2.list-manage.com/track/click?u=41...
"The steps I propose will foster transparency and accountability. That is the best way to demonstrate our commitment to restoring credibility and trust in the aftermath of the recent turmoil. I am grateful to my legislative colleagues for their support and leadership."

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=639
