Public Statements
Planned Parenthood Day of Action
By: Kate Brown
Date: April 6, 2015
Location: Salem, OR

Good morning and thank you for coming to Salem to advocate your legislators on behalf of women's healthcare.
Your participation is a key part of the democratic process.
I applaud your leadership in support of women's health care and Planned Parenthood Advocates of Oregon, an organization whose principles and services I strongly believe in.
As feminists, improving the lives of women is fundamental to who we are.
Roe v. Wade was decided when I was thirteen years old, and it made a powerful impression on me -- such that I successfully recruited my mother to the pro-choice movement. Throughout my adult life, I have fought in support of the outlandish notion that every woman should have the right to make her own health decisions.
As a law student, I coordinated volunteer escort services at a Portland woman's health center so women and their partners could safely enter the building without getting harassed by protestors.
In 1991, I became the lobbyist for the Women's Rights Coalition, comprised of organizations such as Planned Parenthood and the American Association of University Women who pooled their resources to hire a lobbyist.
I was so pleased to work with many other phenomenal women to pass family medical leave, which Governor Roberts signed into law, and to expand health care access for women.
Throughout my career, I have been a strong advocate for contraceptive equity, nursing mothers, and other crucial women's health issues.
I support medically accurate, age-appropriate health and sexuality education that gives young people the information they need to make safe, responsible choices.
Attempts to assert control over women's lives and women's bodies have been going on since before we were born, and it is far from over.
These threats will likely haunt us for the foreseeable future. We must be attentive and we must be vigilant.
Legislation that threatens women's health decisions is being introduced in the Legislature. That is why it is so important that you're here to voice your opposition and make your support of pro-choice legislators known.
I'm proud to say Oregon is the only state left with no restrictions on a woman's access to safe, legal abortion.
We must work together to preserve our right to choose.
We believe that personal medical decisions should be left to a woman without unnecessary government interference.
We believe strongly in the sanctity of the doctor-patient relationship.
We believe healthcare providers should not be asked to compromise their medical judgment for political purposes.
Today demonstrates your courage to stand up for women who can't be here to share their beliefs with decision makers about who has the right to control their bodies.
We will not be silent.
Let's get it done!

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/gov/media/Pages/speeches/Planned-Parenthood-Day-of-Action.aspx
