Public Statements
Governor Brown Appoints Jeanne Atkins as Oregon Secretary of State
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: March 6, 2015
Location: Salem, OR

Governor Kate Brown announced today that she will appoint Jeanne Atkins as Oregon Secretary of State. Ms. Atkins will be sworn in at 1 p.m. on Wednesday, March 11, 2015, in the Governor's Ceremonial Office at the Capitol.
"Jeanne Atkins will serve Oregon with integrity, transparency and good sense," Governor Brown said. "I am pleased to be able to appoint a successor with such impeccable professional credentials."
Atkins recently retired from the staff of U.S. Senator Jeff Merkley, where she had served as State Director since 2009. Previously, she was Chief of Staff to the Oregon Speaker of the House of Representatives, and before that, the manager of the Women's and Reproductive Health Section of the Oregon Department of Human Services' Office of Family Health. She has also served as Staff Director in the Oregon Senate Majority Office and worked in public affairs and policy analysis for nonprofit organizations such as the United Way of the Columbia/Willamette, Planned Parenthood of the Columbia/Willamette, and the Women's Equity Action League in Washington, D.C.
"I share the values and enthusiasm for this position that Governor Kate Brown demonstrated during her tenure," Atkins said. "I will be diligent in carrying out the responsibilities of the office of Oregon Secretary of State."
Atkins earned a bachelor's degree in history from the University of Washington in 1971, and a law degree from the University of Oregon School of Law in 1978. A Portland resident married to John Atkins, she has twice been a candidate for the Oregon House of Representatives.
"Jeanne Atkins has stood for elective office, she has worked in concert with elected officials and advocacy groups, and helped craft and implement public policies," Governor Brown said. "She is ideally qualified to be Oregon's next Secretary of State."

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=622
