Public Statements
Governor Brown Names Lindsey Capps as Education Policy Advisor
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: March 5, 2015
Location: Salem, OR

Governor Brown today announced that Lindsey Capps will serve as her education policy advisor, effective Monday, March 9.
Most recently, Capps served as chief of staff and deputy to Nancy Golden, Chief Education Officer of the Oregon Education Investment Board. During his tenure there, Capps worked on the education budget and issues ranging from early learning to reinvesting in Career and Technical Education, supporting English language learners, and identifying ways to improve student assessment.
Previously Capps served as the Director of the Center for Great Public Schools at the Oregon Education Association; the Chair of the statewide Coalition for Quality Teaching and Learning; and was a steering committee member for the Oregon Leadership Network. He has served in the Clinton Administration as a special assistant at the U.S. Department of Commerce; and as a policy advisor to both the House Minority Leader and a ranking member of the Ways and Means and Joint Economic Committees in Congress.
Capps succeeds Dani Ledezma, who will now serve as the Governor's housing and human services policy advisor. Prior to coming to the Governor's Office, Ledezma served as Director of Equity, Policy, and Communications at the City of Portland's Housing Bureau. She worked for more than a decade at the City of Portland to further the city's goals to create and preserve affordable rental housing and increase homeownership.
Heidi Moawad, public safety/military policy advisor, will expand her portfolio to include the Oregon Liquor Control Commission; Measure 91 implementation; the lottery; and the Oregon Racing Commission. Moawad joined the Governor's Office with nearly 15 years of prosecutorial experience. During the 2013 legislative session she worked on justice reinvestment sentencing reform as part of House Bill 3194.
"Lindsey will be a great asset to our team. I look forward to working with him on a number of issues, including improving early education opportunities for our children," Governor Brown said. "I also want to thank Dani and Heidi for stepping up and taking on new roles in the office. Their work will be instrumental during this transition."
These portfolio changes are also effective Monday, March 9.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=621
