Public Statements
Oregon Mass Timber Summit
By: Kate Brown
Date: March 27, 2017
Location: Unknown

Good morning. I'm Governor Kate Brown, and it is my privilege to welcome you to the first-ever Oregon Mass Timber Summit.

Thank you all for being here. I want to give a special welcome to all of our international guests here today. Welcome to Oregon.

Oregon's economy was born from our natural resource-based industries, lumber in particular. Today, the economy and political landscape looks different. Yet, wood products continue to play a strong role in a thriving and ever-innovating Oregon economy.

We've made an intentional decision here in Oregon to not stand idly by as consumer demands shift and the global economy and climate changes.

While Oregon's economy holds the top GDP growth in the nation, low unemployment levels, and record export growth, we must be diligent and ensure that economic growth reaches all corners of the state, particularly in our rural communities.

As science and shared best practices guide us toward more effective, collaborative strategies to preserve and protect Oregon's diverse habitats and species, we know our natural resource-based industries will continue to be a mainstay of the Oregon economy.

Oregon's forests are a tried and true resource that may again be the key to economic stability for rural Oregon, expanding opportunity for communities hit hard by the decline of the natural resource economy.

Mass Timber presents a new opportunity for Oregon, an opportunity we are perfectly suited to take on.

Our forests grow the most desirable species for use in Cross Laminated Timber and other Mass Timber products. As Mass Timber starts to catch on as a building material--it makes sense for it to emerge from our state than any other.

This creates a great opportunity for both rural and urban Oregon alike.

In 2015, I made a 350-thousand-dollar state investment in a family-owned, rural Oregon company -- D-R Johnson. They are now the first certified, commercial producer of Cross Laminated Timber in the United States.











Source:
