Public Statements
100 Best Companies Awards
By: Kate Brown
Date: March 2, 2017
Location: Unknown

Thank you Geoff.

I'd like to welcome everyone to this celebration of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in Oregon.

But to me, what we are really celebrating tonight is a key part of what it means to be an Oregonian.

In the Governor's Office, we have about 60 amazing employees. They keep incredibly long hours and often work 7 days a week. Many commute from all over the state to our offices in the Capitol. And they all make countless sacrifices at home.

But, the one thing that binds us all together is a deep love for this state. We work our tails off because we know Oregon's families, our children, our schools, our businesses, and our priceless environment depend on how we carry this constant responsibility at every moment of the day.

This kind of passion isn't unique to my office. A driven workforce is one of the reasons that Oregon's economy is growing so well, across the entire state.

Oregonians live here because they love their state and everything Oregon's culture and natural environment have to offer. That enthusiasm carries into the workplace too.

Our workforce takes pride that whether they are building a home, creating a new ad campaign, or even designing a shoe (to name just a few of our great industries), their work is part of what makes Oregon a great place to live. It's a kind of investment in our state's future.

That's why tonight's celebration is so unique. The companies honored this evening are not ranked on some arbitrary scale by someone who has never stepped inside their offices. They are ranked by the employees themselves. Oregonians who are so proud of where they work and where they live.

I want to make it clear tonight, I am proud of the enthusiasm and drive you bring to Oregon's economy and to our way of life.

I can only hope that my staff in the Governor's Office would rank us so high!

Thank you.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/gov/media/Pages/speeches/100-Best-Companies-Awards.aspx
