Public Statements
Issue Position: Seismic Resilience
Issue Position
By: Kate Brown
Date: Jan. 1, 2017
Location: Unknown

Increasing Oregon's level of preparedness and improving the resilience of Oregon's built infrastructure, bridges, highways, and slopes are top priorities for Governor Kate Brown. For communities and the economy to thrive, Oregon must be resilient and ready to recover from the expected 9.0 Cascadia earthquake and the ensuing tsunami. To help achieve this, Governor Brown appointed Oregon's first State Resilience Officer, a position created by the Oregon Legislature in 2015.
As the State Resilience Officer, Mike Harryman travels the state with the following charge:
Direct, implement and coordinate seismic safety -- as the top-level policy advisor on resilience issues, the position helps build capacity for emergency preparedness and support the strategic vision of the Oregon Resilience Plan.
Resilience goal setting -- connect core sectors: critical infrastructure, energy, transportation, vulnerable populations, built infrastructure, business and workforce, and social factors. Establish data points to measure using national, regional, state, tribal, and local data.
State agency planning -- Support continuity of state government planning, coordinate with Governor's office policy advisors, provide policy guidance to state agencies on short and long-term resilience activities, and support our state's infrastructure systems.
Preparation to improve seismic safety and resilience -- Work with the Oregon Seismic Safety Policy Advisory Committee and with professional associations that address seismic, building codes, land use, and resilience issues. Address statewide events and exercises stemming from After Action Reports and corrective performance measures. Focus on targeted and strategic investments that reduce risks posed by the Cascadia Subduction Zone hazards and address other chronic hazards: tsunamis, landslides, floods, wildfires, coastal erosion, sea-level rise, winter storms, etc.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/gov/policy/Pages/seismic.aspx
