Public Statements
Governor Kate Brown Announces Plan to Address Gun Violence
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: July 15, 2016
Location: Portland, OR

Governor Kate Brown today announced "Oregonians United to End Gun Violence, http://oregon.us2.list-manage.com/track/click?u=41... ," a plan to address gun safety in Oregon and across the country. Governor Brown was joined by Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici, Multnomah County District Attorney Rod Underhill, faith leaders, advocates for gun safety, and more than 30 other community leaders from across Oregon to call for an end to gun violence.
"Since I was sworn in as Governor 17 months ago, more than 600 Oregonians have died from violence inflicted by a gun," Governor Brown said. "Violence answers nothing, offers nothing, solves nothing. If we want to end violence, we must instill hope and create opportunity. I call on each of us, as Oregonians and as Americans, to join this call to end gun violence now."
Governor Brown will take immediate action through executive order, http://oregon.us2.list-manage1.com/track/click?u=4... to strengthen existing Oregon law, giving Oregon State Police and local authorities more tools to track and analyze gun transactions. These tools can be used in the prosecution of illegal firearms sales and help to keep guns from falling into the wrong hands.
Additionally, Governor Brown's executive order establishes a new work group to review and assess firearms-related domestic violence offenses. The work group will make recommendations for a statewide policy that enhances the safety of domestic violence survivors. The executive order also directs the Oregon Health Authority to report annually on gun violence and its effect on public health, and when warranted, recommend polices to increase gun safety in Oregon.
Governor Brown also committed to working with the Oregon Legislature during the 2017 session to pass critical gun safety measures. The following three legislative priorities, http://oregon.us2.list-manage1.com/track/click?u=4... were outlined by Governor Brown:
* Close the "Charleston Loophole." In Oregon, if the state police are unable to determine a person's eligibility to purchase a firearm within three days, current law requires approval of the sale of the firearm. Governor Brown will prepare legislation that will make sure individuals who should not own a gun are not able to obtain one simply because authorities were unable to complete the background check within the current timelines.
* Close the "Boyfriend Loophole." By expanding the types of relationships that qualify under "domestic violence" charges, those convicted of certain crimes of domestic violence and stalking will no longer have access to firearms.
* Ban extended-capacity magazines. Outlaw the future purchases of extended-capacity magazines in Oregon. This type of ammunition enables individuals to fire repeatedly without the need to reload and significantly increases a shooter's ability to injure and kill large numbers of people.
With support from Senator Wyden and Congresswoman Bonamici, Governor Brown also called on Congress to act now to pass national firearms safety legislation in a letter to Oregon's congressional delegation, http://oregon.us2.list-manage.com/track/click?u=41... .
"Every day in the United States, 22 people die from homicidal gun violence," Governor Brown said. "I urge Congress to ban assault weapons and strengthen anti-terrorist legislation by passing the common sense 'No Fly, No Buy' ban."

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=1228
