Public Statements
Governor Brown Calls for New Investments to Ease Congestion, Improve Transportation Safety
Press Release
By: Kate Brown
Date: June 30, 2016
Location: Clackamas, OR

Governor Kate Brown today joined Clackamas County leaders to celebrate the opening of the Sunrise Expressway. The four-lane expressway, including the adjacent bike and pedestrian facilities, will reduce traffic and improve safety throughout the corridor, and includes infrastructure upgrades to the latest seismic safety standards.
"A well-managed transportation system is the backbone of a thriving Oregon economy," Governor Brown said. "The Clackamas Sunrise Expressway is a prime example of how strategic transportation investments can ease congestion and spur economic growth in every region of the state."
After three years of construction, the Sunrise Expressway will open to the public starting at 5 a.m. on Friday, July 1. The project removes traffic off local streets and includes the following improvements:
* Safer bicycle and pedestrian routes
* Less congestion on area roads at Interstate-205
exits 12 and 13
* Faster connections to I-205 from the east,
including the Clackamas Industrial District
* A quicker link to the Clackamas Highway and
Mount Hood from I-205
Projects such as the Sunrise Expressway that ease congestion are particularly important to Oregon businesses that rely on the timely transportation of goods throughout the state. The project received funding from the 2009 Jobs and Transportation Act, and the project's planning process involved representatives from the North Clackamas Chamber of Commerce, as well as local employers including Safeway and Fred Meyer, which both operate regional distribution centers in the area. The project broke ground in 2013 and was completed on time and on budget.
Governor Brown today also underscored statewide transportation challenges with mind-numbing congestion and the importance of investments in critical seismic infrastructure improvements and transit that meets the needs of local communities. In a report, recently released by the Governor's Transportation Vision Panel, Oregon's population is expected to increase by 25 percent and freight volume in Oregon is expected to increase by 60 percent by 2035.
"Transportation infrastructure projects activate local economies and add much needed family-wage jobs for Oregonians." Governor Brown added. "We must act now to renew our investments in transportation to support a strong economy to move Oregon forward."
Governor Brown called for creative, multi-pronged solutions to meet mounting transportation needs throughout the state. A joint legislative transportation committee, created by House Speaker Tina Kotek and Senate President Peter Courtney, is touring every region of the state and hosting public forums to better understand Oregon's transportation needs. Governor Brown and the joint legislative committee are committed to developing and presenting a robust transportation package during the 2017 legislative session.

Source: http://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=1190
