Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Praises Water for 2060 Advisory Council on Final Water Efficiency Report
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Oct. 23, 2015
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

In the wake of Oklahoma's worst drought in decades, Governor Mary Fallin today praised Oklahoma's Water for 2060 Advisory Council for its diligent work to develop a blueprint for drought-proofing Oklahoma.
The advisory council's final report will help in achieving the statewide goal of consuming no more fresh water in 2060 than was consumed in 2012. The advisory council was charged with studying and recommending appropriate water conservation practices, incentives and educational programs to improve efficiency of statewide water usage while preserving Oklahoma's population growth and economic development goals.
"I am pleased to receive the advisory council's final report and recommendations for encouraging prudent water use measures across all of Oklahoma's major water use sectors," said Fallin. "Oklahoma is truly unique in setting such an ambitious goal for water efficiency, conservation, recycling and reuse. I look forward to reviewing the recommendations put forward to determine our next steps in ensuring that all Oklahomans have access to fresh water resources for decades to come, while at the same time promoting continued economic development and improved quality of life in our state."
The report includes 12 key recommendations that are the product of interactive dialogue with water users across Oklahoma and collaborative discussions to determine approaches that can effectively promote water efficiency efforts by all Oklahomans. The advisory council based its recommendations on best practices in use in Oklahoma and incentive programs in place in other states. The information was supplemented with an analysis of data from the 2012 Oklahoma Comprehensive Water Plan and estimates of the cost-effectiveness of various measures for enhancing water use efficiency and the use of alternative sources of supply.
"I am encouraged by the advisory council's analysis that it is indeed possible to achieve the Water for 2060 goal through increased conservation and the use of non-traditional sources to offset future growth in demand," Fallin said. "However, there is no doubt that it will take each and every one of us working together to become the nation's most water-efficient state."

Source: https://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=16874
