Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Announces OETA Board Member Appointments
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: July 24, 2015
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today announced the appointments of Richard Beck and Garrett King to the Oklahoma Educational Television Authority (OETA) Board of Directors.
Beck, of Claremore, is serving a seven-year term that began July 1. He succeeds Lisa Harbison.
King, of Weatherford, is filling out the remainder of the term of Jerry Nye, who passed away. King's term will expire June 30, 2019.
Beck fills an appointment slot that is required to be from the 2nd Congressional District and King fills the position from the 3rd Congressional District. The governor has seven appointees on the 13-member board.
Beck is vice president for academic affairs at Rogers State University (RSU). He has served since 2008 on the Community Advisory Board for RSU Public Television.
"Richard Beck is an experienced administrator who has worked extensively with public television. He will be an excellent addition to the board and will help OETA provide diverse and high-quality television programs to viewers across Oklahoma," said Fallin.
Beck has been vice president for academic affairs at RSU since 2008. Before that he served seven years as associate vice president for academic and student affairs at Angelo State University in San Angelo, Texas, and 12 years as a music professor and director of The Teaching and Learning Center at Del Mar College in Corpus Christi, Texas.
Beck earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point, his master's degree from the University of North Texas and his doctorate from the University of Iowa. He and his wife, Tiffany, reside in Claremore.
King serves as assistant to the president for institutional advancement at Southwestern Oklahoma State University (SWOSU). He also is executive director of the SWOSU Foundation, which has more than $20.8 million in assets dedicated to supporting the university.
King, who was raised on a peanut farm and cattle ranch in northern Caddo County, says he brings a rural and agricultural perspective to the board.
"Garrett King knows that public television is a valued resource especially for those living in rural areas. He brings to the board a strong commitment to the promotion and preservation of public television," Fallin said.
King is a member and serves on the board of directors of the Weatherford Food Resource Center and the Weatherford Community Habitat for Humanity and is a member of the Weatherford Rotary Club. King, who earned a bachelor's degree from SWOSU, lives in Weatherford with his wife, Carissa, and their daughter, Nellie.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=16390
