Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Welcomes New Pardon and Parole Board Director
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: July 20, 2015
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin applauded today's hiring of DeLynn Fudge as executive director of the Oklahoma Pardon and Parole Board.
Fudge, who has worked the past 14 years as federal grants division director for the Oklahoma District Attorneys Council, begins her new duties Aug. 10. Fudge previously worked 10 years coordinating a statewide training program for professionals on issues surrounding child abuse and neglect, and domestic violence for the Oklahoma Department of Health's Office of Child Abuse Prevention.
"DeLynn Fudge has a long record of successfully working with federal, state and local partners on a wide range of issues, including child abuse and neglect, domestic violence, drug enforcement, violent crime investigations and residential substance abuse treatment for incarcerated offenders," said Fallin. "She understands the criminal justice system and is a skilled manager who will provide guidance and stability to the agency."
Fudge replaces Van Guillotte, who resigned in May. Melinda Romero, who had been serving as interim executive director, will assume the duties as deputy director of the agency.
"Ms. Fudge will be an asset to the agency in its continued progress to ensure the safety of communities across Oklahoma as we strive to maintain a delicate balance between public safety, victim's rights and re-integration of the offenders," said Pardon and Parole Board Chairman Vanessa Price.
The five-member Pardon and Parole Board votes to recommend parole for violent offenders to the governor and to grant parole for non-violent offenders. Three of the members are appointed by the governor; one appointment is filled by the chief justice of the Oklahoma Supreme Court and the other is filled by the presiding judge of the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=16222
