Public Statements
FOX News " Hannity" - Transcript: Oklahoma Supreme Court Decisons
Interview
By: Mary Fallin
Date: July 8, 2015
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
GOV. MARY FALLIN, R-OKLA.: I'm doing good, Sean. How are you doing?
HANNITY: I'm good. So are you going to stand up to the mean old State Supreme Court? Do you need a cake with a file or something? I'll come bail you out. Are you worried about that?
FALLIN: I appreciate that. We've had a lot of calls from across the nation about this issue. And basically, Sean, what we have is a privately funded historical monument that was put on our capital, actually a piece of legislation passed years ago to allow to put this monument up there, that shows the Ten Commandments and talks about its historical significance to our system of laws in the United States. And so our Oklahoma Supreme Court ruled that it was impermissible to have it on the ground based upon the Blaine Amendment which is in the Oklahoma constitution. And that's their ruling.
HANNITY: And the legislature can also jump in on this as I understand that they could actually clarify this. Is that going to move forward?
FALLIN: Well, I'm hoping that the legislature will address this. They said they would. Our session won't be until next year in February. But we do need to clarify, and I think we just get rid of the Blaine Amendment in the Oklahoma constitution. The U.S. constitution does not say that we can't have the historical monument on the Oklahoma capitol grounds. So if we pass a resolution through the vote of the people to say we remove the Blaine amendment, then we can have, we believe, the monument on the capital grounds.
HANNITY: All right, Governor, thank you so much joining us and updating us on that story. We appreciate it.
FALLIN: You're welcome.
HANNITY: Coming up, we need your help. Tonight's "Question of the Day" straight ahead.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/transcript/2015/07/08/parents-children-killed-by-illegal-immigrants-sound-off-gov-fallin-wont-remove/
