Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Requests Federal Aid for Individuals and Businesses in Thirteen More Counties
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: June 1, 2015
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today requested a federal disaster declaration for thirteen Oklahoma counties hit hard byflooding,tornadoes, severe storms and straight-line winds that have occurred since May 5. If approved, individuals and business owners affected by storms in these counties would be eligible for federal assistance for housing repairs or temporary housing, U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) low-interest loans to repair or replace damaged property, disaster unemployment assistance, and grants for serious needs and necessary disaster expenses not met by other programs.The counties include: Atoka, Bryan, Comanche, Johnston, Kiowa, Le Flore, McClain, McCurtain, Okfuskee, Pottawatomie, Pittsburg, Pushmataha and Tulsa. Additional counties may be added to the request as damage assessments are completed.
"In the last few weeks, I have met with families whose homes or businesses have been washed away by flooding or severely damaged by storms and tornadoes," said Fallin. "Our emergency management officials are working around the clock to complete damage assessments and get those Oklahomans the assistance they need to get back on their feet."
Cleveland, Grady and Oklahoma Counties have already been approved by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for disaster assistance to individuals and business owners. Fallin has also requested public assistance in sixteen counties, which would deliver federal funding to municipalities, counties and rural electric cooperatives to help with infrastructure repairs, debris removal and costs associated with responding to the storms (see a list of those counties here).
As the state continues to receive damage reports from across the state, other counties may become eligible for disaster assistance. Fallin said that, regardless of county, individuals with storm or flooding damage to their homes or businesses should reach out to FEMA and report their losses.
"If you live in Oklahoma and have suffered storm damages, please report your losses to FEMA," Fallin said. "Doing so will help to support the case for additional federal assistance for the many Oklahoma families and businesses in need."

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=15914
