Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Announces Job, Resource Fairs Scheduled in Enid, Tulsa
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 28, 2015
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today announced that Oklahoma Job and Resource Fairs will be held next month in Enid and in Tulsa.
Job and resource fairs are scheduled for June 3 in Enid at Autry Tech and June 9 in Tulsa at Tulsa Tech's Lemley campus. Both events are from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m.
The events are part of a series of job and resource fairs being held across the state as part of Governor Fallin's "Oklahoma Works initiative." The initiative seeks to support private and public efforts to give Oklahomans the work skills and education they need to find good-paying, fulfilling careers. It's also to ensure that Oklahoma businesses have the access they need to the educated and skilled workforce that today's modern economy demands.
The job fairs are also designed to help those who may have been directly affected by the recent loss of some Oklahoma energy sector jobs as well as those who have been displaced because of the energy industry downturn.
On March 26, more than 200 people attended the inaugural Oklahoma Job and Resource Fair in Elk City. Thirteen companies looking to hire qualified applicants were also represented at that job fair.
The governor has instructed Secretary of Education and Workforce Natalie Shirley and Secretary of Commerce and Tourism Deby Snodgrass and their staffs to work with the energy sector and nonprofit organizations to help displaced workers and job seekers make the transition to new job and career opportunities while also meeting the immediate needs of families.
"These job and resource fairs can help people find jobs or get the skills they need to qualify for them," said Fallin. "We just need to connect the right people with the right skill sets to those jobs. I encourage those who are looking for employment or considering a different career to attend."
Oil Patch Chaplains, a faith-based organization, is coordinating with local organizations and churches throughout the region to provide resources such as food, clothing and health care if needed at a later time.
The Oklahoma Job and Resource Fair will have a Rapid Response presentation from the Oklahoma Employment Security Commission and the Oklahoma Department of Commerce. Rapid Response activities are designed to quickly address employee, employer and community needs. Employees are educated about the assistance available to them, such as re-employment services, unemployment insurance, child care assistance, health insurance, training opportunities and other supportive services. These services are aimed at helping transition the workers from notification of layoff to re-employment.
A career fair for those who are seeking employment will also be held at both events. Chambers of commerce and area economic developers are working to have companies that are hiring to have booths at the events. Advisers from local technology centers along with representatives from colleges and universities will be available to discuss additional training and re-education that might be needed to place individuals into new careers.
The Oklahoma Department of Human Services and the Oklahoma State Department of Health will be present to provide information about available programs and to facilitate applications. Families will be able to sign up for WIC benefits by bringing a photo ID, proof of residency and income verification. Parents and children must be present to qualify.
The Oklahoma Baptist Disaster Relief will provide lunch for those attending.
The Oklahoma job and resource fairs are hosted by the Office of the Governor, Oil Patch Chaplains, Oklahoma Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary of Education and Workforce Development, Oklahoma Employment Security Commission, Oklahoma State Department of Health, Oklahoma Department of Human Services and the State Chamber of Oklahoma. Local partners include regional technology centers, colleges and universities, business partners and faith-based and community organizations.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=15883
