Public Statements
Federal Assistance Granted for Three Oklahoma Counties Devastated by Storms, Floods
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 26, 2015
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin announced today that FEMA has approved the state's request for disaster assistance for three Oklahoma counties hit hard by flooding, tornadoes, severe storms and straight-line winds.
The disaster assistance benefits individuals and business owners affected by severe storms that have occurred since May 5 in Cleveland, Grady andOklahoma counties. The designation makes available federal assistance for housing repairs or temporary housing, U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) low-interest loans for individuals and businesses to repair or replace damaged property, disaster unemployment assistance, and grants for serious needs and necessary disaster expenses not met by other programs.
To apply for disaster assistance, individuals and business owners in these three counties may call 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or go online at www.disasterassistance.gov.
Other counties could be added to the declaration in the future. Damage assessments of storms that struck other parts of the state since May 10 are continuing.
"I appreciate FEMA for quickly coming to the aid of Oklahomans in these three counties," said Fallin. "As damage assessments continue, my hope is that the federal government recognizes the considerable losses many families and businesses in other areas of the state have suffered as well."
Fallin said that, regardless of county, those with storm or flooding damage to their homes or businesses should reach out to FEMA and report their losses.
"If you live in Oklahoma and have suffered storm damages, please report your losses to FEMA," Fallin said. "Doing so will help to support the case for additional federal assistance for the many Oklahoma families and businesses in need."
In light of continued storm and flooding damage over the weekend, Governor Fallin today amended an executive order declaring a state of emergency in 44 counties to a statewide emergency declaration. All 77 counties are now in a state of emergency. Under the executive order, state agencies can make emergency purchases and acquisitions needed to expedite the delivery of resources to local jurisdictions.
In recent weeks Oklahoma has experienced widespread flash flooding, damaging winds, baseball-size hail and at least 25 tornadoes. From May 5 to May 10, three Oklahomans lost their lives because of those storms. In addition, 828 homes and businesses were damaged during that time period. More have been damaged since then due to ongoing flooding and storms.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=15863
