Public Statements
Governor Mary Fallin Announces Launch of Earthquakes.ok.gov
By: Mary Fallin
Date: April 21, 2015
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today announced the launch of earthquakes.ok.gov, a public resource dedicated to sharing research, regulations, updates and news items related to Oklahoma's recent earthquakes.
The website is a result of the work of the Coordinating Council on Seismic Activity. In September 2014, Governor Fallin directed Oklahoma Secretary of Energy and Environment Michael J. Teague to lead the Coordinating Council to organize state resources and activities related to Oklahoma's recent increase in seismic activity. The body's primary responsibility is to work cooperatively to develop solutions, identify gaps in resources and coordinate efforts among state agencies, researchers and the state's oil and gas industry.
"This website will help provide Oklahomans with up-to-date and timely information about our ongoing earthquake response," said Fallin. "I appreciate the work of the Coordinating Council and the state agencies, universities, industry and environmental groups that have contributed to its progress."
The launch of the new website came the same day as the release of a new statement by the Oklahoma Geological Survey, which states that OGS believes many of the earthquakes in Central and North-Central Oklahoma are triggered by waste-water disposal wells related to energy production. Fallin called the statement by OGS significant, and said that state agencies have already begun to implement new policies to address increases in seismicity (read: NewsOk: "Oklahoma regulators expand areas for oil and gas disposal well scrutiny").
"Oklahoma state agencies are already taking action to address this issue and protect homeowners," said Fallin.
Earthquakes.ok.gov will be continuously updated with the latest data, studies, developments and proposed actions related to the state's response to earthquakes.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=15743
