Public Statements
After White House Denies Disaster Assistance, Gov. Fallin Ask for SBA Disaster Declaration
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: April 6, 2015
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today announced the White House has denied the state's request for assistance to aid individuals and businesses in Tulsa and Cleveland counties that were hit hard by last month's deadly tornadoes. The governor said she is disappointed in the decision, but the state is continuing to work to bring assistance to those affected by the storm. She announced today that the state has now requested a disaster declaration for Tulsa and Cleveland counties through the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA).
"Having toured the damage near Sand Springs and Moore, I know firsthand how devastating last month's tornadoes were to these communities," said Fallin.
"While I am disappointed by the White House's decision to deny individual assistance, it is my hope the community can still receive help from the Small Business Administration. Many families and businesses could benefit greatly from the low interest loans the SBA provides to those who have suffered from storm damage."
If approved, an SBA declaration would deliver SBA low-interest disaster loans for renters, homeowners and business owners to repair or replace any property damaged by the tornadoes and severe weather which was not covered by insurance or other assistance programs. The loan program would also be available to assist businesses that sustained economic injury due to the storms. If the request is approved, SBA assistance could be available to those impacted in Moore, Oklahoma City, Sand Springs, Tulsa and other areas in Tulsa and Cleveland counties as well as in all contiguous counties.
Fallin last week requested a presidential declaration for Tulsa and Cleveland counties in an attempt to deliver federal aid to those impacted by the tornadoes that resulted in four deaths and 26 people suffering injuries that required treatment at area hospitals. Damage assessments showed 1,047 homes and businesses were damaged in the tornadoes, severe storms, straight-line winds and flooding that occurred March 25 in Cleveland and Tulsa counties.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=15678
