Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Appoints C. Renzi Stone to the University of Oklahoma Board of Regents
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Feb. 19, 2015
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today announced the appointment of C. Renzi Stone of Oklahoma City to the University of Oklahoma (OU) Board of Regents. He will succeed Tom Clark and will serve a seven--year term, pending confirmation from the Oklahoma Senate.
Stone is the founder, CEO and chairman of Saxum, an independent integrated marketing communications agency with offices in Oklahoma City and Tulsa, Okla. and Houston, Texas. Stone is a Tulsa native.
At OU, he serves on the board of visitors for the Gaylord College of Journalism and Mass Communication, College of International Studies and is on the Athletics Advisory Council.
"Renzi Stone is a committed public servant and an exceptional businessman who knows the importance of a quality education to be successful in today's job market," Fallin said. "His leadership skills and dedication to the University of Oklahoma make him an ideal candidate for this position. I look forward to working with him as we strive to increase educational attainment and make it easier for students to graduate in a timely manner with less debt."
Stone also serves on several local and national boards of directors, including president of the Americas for IPREX, a global alliance of communication agencies, the PR Council in New York, Young Presidents Organization (YPO) chapter of Oklahoma City, CURE Epilepsy and the Oklahoma Heritage Association.
Stone received a bachelor's degree from OU, where he played basketball from 1996 to 2000. In 2009, Stone was a recipient of the OU Regents' Award for his contributions to OU. During his college career, Stone was honored with several awards for excellence in athletics and academics, including being named the Big 12 Conference Medal Winner, which honors the conference's top senior student athlete. He was one of OU's finalists for the prestigious Rhodes Scholarship.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=15460
