Public Statements
Governor Mary Fallin Appoints Natalie Shirley as Secretary of Education and Workforce Development
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 22, 2015
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today announced that Natalie Shirley, president of Oklahoma State University-Oklahoma City (OSU-OKC), will be joining her Cabinet as secretary of education and workforce development. Shirley will begin serving on Monday, January 26.
Shirley became president of OSU-OKC in 2011. She is the first female president in the OSU system.
Prior to her role at OSU-OKC, Shirley served as Oklahoma secretary of commerce and tourism for former Governor Brad Henry. She also served as the executive director of the Department of Commerce, the state's leading economic development agency. Shirley has also served as president of ICI Mutual, an insurance company.
Fallin called Shirley a perfect fit for helping to achieve a goal outlined in the governor's inaugural address: increasing educational attainment.
"One of my top priorities going into 2015 is to increase educational attainment in Oklahoma," said Fallin. "We know that the best way to help Oklahomans -- especially those living in poverty -- is to get them the skills they need for a good job. Similarly, the best way we can support our businesses and grow our economy is to produce a more educated workforce. Making that goal a reality will take a cooperative effort between Oklahoma public education and our business community.
"I've asked Natalie to help oversee and energize that public/private partnership and work to ensure we are increasing educational attainment in Oklahoma. I believe she has the experience and the skill-set we need for that important task. Natalie has been a successful president at OSU-OKC; she has been a leader in both the public and private sector; she is respected by members of both political parties; and she has experience working with and managing large government agencies. Most importantly, she is absolutely committed to ensuring that Oklahoma provides the best education possible to our students."
Shirley currently serves on the board of directors for the United Way of Central Oklahoma, SSM Health Care of Oklahoma, the Girl Scouts, the Greater Oklahoma City Chamber of Commerce, the Oklahoma City Convention and Visitors Bureau, BancFirst, the Oklahoma State Fair Board, AAA Oklahoma/South Dakota, as a trustee on the Jasmine Moran Children's Museum and on the community development advisory council for the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City.
"I am honored Governor Fallin has asked me to join her Cabinet," said Shirley. "As an educator and business person, I know that a great foundational education, learning a skill and earning a degree can produce lifelong benefits. This in turn will make Oklahoma a stronger and better place to live and work."
Shirley received a bachelor's degree from Oklahoma State University and a law degree from the University of Oklahoma.
She and her husband, Russ Harrison, have six children.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=15271
