Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Announces Oklahoma Tax Commission Appointment
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 21, 2015
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today announced the appointment of Steve Burrage to the Oklahoma Tax Commission. He will serve a six-year term succeeding Jerry Johnson, who is retiring January 31.
Burrage is chairman of the board at FirstBank in Antlers.
He also serves as secretary on the Oklahoma Board of Corrections and as chairman of the board's finance and audit committee. Fallin appointed Burrage to the Corrections Board in 2012. Burrage will resign from the Corrections Board effective January 31.
His appointment to the Tax Commission requires confirmation from the state Senate.
Burrage served as Oklahoma state auditor and inspector from 2008 until 2010. He is also a former board member of the State Chamber of Oklahoma.
"Steve Burrage has a wealth of both private and public sector experience in banking and accounting," said Fallin. "I appreciate him serving on the Tax Commission and lending his expertise to their important mission. I know Steve shares my passion for ensuring that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely, both in government agencies and as it relates to the state's many tax credits and economic incentives."
Burrage has served as a board member for The Independent Bankers Bank in Dallas; the Oklahoma City branch of the Federal Reserve Bank; vice chairman of the audit and finance committee for BancInsure, Inc.; and on the national accounting committee, government relations council and chairman of the state membership board for the American Bankers Association; chairman and government relations council chairman of the Oklahoma Bankers Association. He is also a certified public accountant.
Burrage received a bachelor's degree in accounting from the University of Oklahoma.
He and his wife, Roberta reside in Antlers, Oklahoma and have three children.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=15263
