Public Statements
Gov. Mary Fallin Announces Appointment to Oklahoma Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 20, 2015
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today appointed Greg Mashburn to the Oklahoma Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs Control Commission.
Mashburn is filling the district attorney slot on the commission. He is replacing former Tulsa County District Attorney Tim Harris, who didn't seek re-election and resigned from the commission.
Mashburn will serve the remaining four years of the seven-year term pending confirmation from the Oklahoma Senate.
In November, Mashburn was elected to serve his third term as the district attorney for Cleveland, Garvin and McClain Counties. He previously served as an assistant district attorney in Oklahoma County for nearly a decade before winning the District 21 seat in 2006.
"Greg Mashburn is a committed public servant who has spent his career making sure his community and state are safe," said Fallin. "I know he will serve this commission with the same integrity and excellence he has shown during his time as a prosecutor."
Mashburn currently serves on the board of directors for the Oklahoma District Attorney's Association, where he previously served as president. He is also a member of Norman Legacy Rotary.
In 2008, Mashburn was named outstanding district attorney in the state of Oklahoma.
He received a bachelor's degree from Harding University in Searcy, Arkansas and a law degree from the University of Oklahoma.
About the Oklahoma Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs Control
The Oklahoma State Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs Control is a law enforcement agency with a goal of minimizing the abuse of controlled substances through law enforcement measures directed primarily at drug trafficking, illicit drug manufacturing, and major suppliers of illicit drugs.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=15258
