Public Statements
Gov. Fallin to Light State Capitol Christmas Tree
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Dec. 1, 2014
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin will take part tomorrow in the annual Christmas tree lighting on the south steps of the Oklahoma Capitol. The 30-foot-tall artificial tree, adorned with nearly 2,000 energy-saving LED lights, is to be lit at about 6:15 p.m. Tuesday, Dec. 2.
The tree-lighting ceremony is part of an annual event that hosts an afternoon of festivities.
Elementary school students from across the state will decorate Christmas trees at various locations in the Capitol building. They will be joined by performing arts groups singing Christmas carols and performing dance routines.
Santa Claus and Rumble, mascot for the Oklahoma City Thunder basketball team, will also be on hand for the tree-lighting ceremony. Bryan and Donna Komers, a couple from Noble with five adopted children, will help the governor light the Christmas tree.
"Lighting the state Christmas tree is a great way to kick off the holiday season," said Fallin. "I appreciate all of the students and schools from across the state that came up to help decorate the trees on display, sing Christmas carols and take part in the festivities."
Fallin said the celebration also helps showcase Oklahoma culture.
"Each Christmas tree shows off something that's unique and special to Oklahoma, with homemade ornaments showcasing things like our tribal and Western heritage or the Oklahoma City Thunder basketball team. I invite Oklahomans and visitors to the state to stop by the Capitol this month to see the displays and enjoy the great work done by our school children."
The governor will be joined by state Superintendent of Public Instruction Janet Barresi for a tour of the student Christmas tree displays. This year's emcee is Bobbie Miller, morning news co-anchor for KWTV-9 in Oklahoma City. The event is sponsored by McDonalds, Manhattan Construction and Weyerhaeuser Co. Foundation.

Source:
