Public Statements
Governor Mary Fallin's Feeding Oklahoma Drive Exceeds Goal
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Nov. 12, 2014
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin's fifth annual Feeding Oklahoma Drive raised more than 4million meals for hungry Oklahomans this holiday season. The drive, which ran October 1-31, exceeded its goal of raising 2 million meals. In total, the drive collected $519,543 in donations and 1,692,743 pounds of food.
"I am continually impressed by the support and generosity shown by Oklahomans in all 77 counties, and this year's food drive proves to be no different," Governor Mary Fallin said. "I want to especially thank all the sponsors and the caring people of this state who donated their time and resources to help feed our Oklahoma neighbors. Oklahoma is a great place because of its people. Their support of this food drive ensures more Oklahoma families will have warm meals this winter."
The Feeding Oklahoma Drive benefited the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma, the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma and their partner agencies across Oklahoma. Over the last five years, more than 4,271,036 pounds of food and $1,659,114 has been raised through the Feeding Oklahoma Drive, which has provided more than 11.8 million meals for hungry Oklahomans.
Food drop-off sites during the month-long drive included: BancFirst , Bob Moore dealerships, select AT&T locations, Oklahoma Farm Bureau, the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma, the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma and their partner agencies.
"We are extremely appreciative of Governor Fallin's continued support in the fight against hunger in Oklahoma," said Rodney Bivens, executive director of the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma. "We also want to thank our friends who joined us in raising meals for our hungry Oklahoma neighbors. During the winter months, 40 percent of our clients have to choose between food and heat for their home. Thanks to your support, they won't have to make that choice this year."
In Oklahoma, 675,000 citizens are at risk of going hungry every day, with one in four children struggling with inconsistent access to food. The Regional Food Bank provides enough food to feed 110,000 Oklahomans every week, 37 percent of which are children. The Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma distributes more than 335,000 meals per week. Demand increases through the winter months and holidays.
"I am extremely grateful to Governor Fallin for her work toward ending hunger and to the many people of Oklahoma who donated to the drive," said Eileen Bradshaw, executive director of the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma. "Everyone involved went above and beyond to help us exceed the Governor's goal. With winter approaching, we can now help even more families in need."
Bivens joined Bradshaw in expressing their thanks to all the people of Oklahoma who made this year's Feeding Oklahoma Drive a success.Chairing the statewide food drive for Governor Fallin is businesswoman Laure Majors with co-chairs, Laura Watts and Brenda Jones Barwick.
For more information on the Feeding Oklahoma drive or to make a donation, please visit www.feedingoklahoma.org.
About the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma
The Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma is the state's largest hunger relief organization. The nonprofit provides enough food to feed more than 110,000 hungry Oklahomans each week through a network of more than 1,200 schools and charitable feeding programs in 53 central and western Oklahoma counties. Since its inception in 1980, the Regional Food Bank has distributed more than 540 million pounds of food to feed Oklahoma's hungry. For more information, visit http://www.regionalfoodbank.org; find us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/regionalfoodbank or follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/rfbo.
About the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma
Founded in 1981, the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma is one of the largest, private hunger-relief organizations in Oklahoma. It distributes donated grocery items to 450 Partner Programs in 24 counties of Eastern Oklahoma. These programs include food pantries, soup kitchens, emergency shelters, after-school programs, shelters and senior centers. Collectively, they distribute more than 335,000 meals a week. In addition, the Food Bank helps raise public awareness about hunger and the role of food banking in alleviating hunger. In 2013, the Food Bank distributed more than 20.8 million pounds of food.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=14951
