Public Statements
Governor's Column: Honoring Our Military Families
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Nov. 3, 2014
Location: Unknown

This Tuesday, November 11, is Veterans Day. As they always do, Oklahomans will honor those who have fought for this country and served in our military.
What many may not realize, however, is that the entire month of November is National Military Family Appreciation Month. It is intended as a time to reflect on the selfless commitment and devotion of the family members standing behind those in the armed services.
Oklahoma has approximately 10,000 soldiers and airmen in the Oklahoma National Guard. More than half of them have been deployed overseas for one or multiple tours of duty. Right now there are about 70 men and women deployed in Afghanistan who are due back in the next few months.
Every time those men and women are deployed, they leave behind children, wives, husbands, family and friends. They miss birthdays and holidays. There are soldiers fighting overseas while their children say their first word or take their first step.
That is an enormous sacrifice for those military men and women, and it is why we honor them on Veterans Day. Sometimes forgotten, however, is what an enormous sacrifice it is for their families.
That is why, as governor, I've worked to support policies that provide opportunities for military families as well as servicemen and women.
For instance, I've been proud to sign legislation that grants in-state tuition to the children and dependents of all military personnel stationed in Oklahoma. That legislation ensures that military families have great opportunities to educate and advance themselves here in Oklahoma.
The state of Oklahoma also offers robust reintegration programs to help our soldiers and their families' transition back into civilian life after a tour of duty. These programs offer everything from what a family can expect when their loved one returns home, workshops that reconnect soldiers with families and marriage enrichment programs.
Finally, we know the best way to help military families can often be to get servicemen and women transitioning back to their civilian lives good jobs. That's why I've signed legislation giving veterans special consideration when applying for state jobs, and why I worked closely with the Oklahoma Department of Commerce to launch OKJobMatch, a website that is helping to match veterans and other skilled Oklahomans with jobs in the private sector.
Military service demands sacrifice. The people who choose to make those sacrifices deserve our respect and the support of our Oklahoma community. That includes their families.
This Veterans Day, I know Oklahomans will have the men and women of the United States military in their thoughts and prayers. Let's make sure we also keep in mind their families, not just on November 11, but for all of Military Family Appreciation Month.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=14923
