Public Statements
KOTV - Oklahoma Governor Candidates Make Final Weekend Push Before Election
News Article
By: Mary Fallin Joe Dorman
Date: Nov. 1, 2014
Location: Tulsa, OK

By Tony Russell
The race for Oklahoma governor is in the home stretch with only a couple of days left before Tuesday's election.
Both Gov. Mary Fallin and Joe Dorman made stops in Tulsa over the weekend trying to get out the vote.
Running for her second term, Republican Gov. Fallin is spending her last hours on the campaign trail in all parts of the state.
Fallin made stops in Tahlequah on Friday night to meet with voters at a local coffee shop.
"Our goal is to keep the momentum going for our state, continue to create jobs, continue to generate a healthy economy, more people keep their hard earned money in their pocket and certainly to focus on things that are important -- Wade and I have six children between us and so certainly making sure our children get a good quality education is very important to the two of us," Fallin said.
A state lawmaker for more than a decade, challenger Joe Dorman is out trying to court undecided voters in Tulsa.
He spent the afternoon at the Rudisill Library in north Tulsa at a candidate forum.
I've worked on fire protection issues, education issues, we fought the high stakes tests, the third-grade exams, we've tried to put more money into school programs, we need to bring in the funds from Washington, DC that Oklahoma taxpayers have sent there to help keep our hospitals open, we need a governor that will put the politics aside and work for the best interests of the people of the state of Oklahoma," Joe Dorman Democratic candidate for Governor said.
Exclusive polling shows Fallin in the lead by eight points.
Our pollster says gap is narrowing.
"We're happy that we have a lead, but until the final election day is here, we're not going to take it for granted, we're going to keep campaigning up until that time," Fallin said.
Dorman said, "We are confident that the undecided voters, the ones that haven't made up their minds yet are going to lean towards my campaign and as we travel around, we're closing that gap, there was one poll that said she was up 22 points, there was another poll that said she was up 8 points, our polling says it's a one-point race."

Source: http://www.newson6.com/story/27185227/oklahoma-governor-candidates-make-final-weekend-push-before-election?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter
