Public Statements
Edmond Sun - "You Are a Person, Not a Diagnosis'
News Article
By: Mary Fallin Joe Dorman
Date: Oct. 20, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Mark Schlachtenhaufen

EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the fifth in a five-part series examining the state of mental health in Oklahoma. For previous installments, see www.edmondsun.com. All material will be republished in a special section Nov. 15 in The Edmond Sun.
A reduction in state-appropriated dollars, a growing prescription drug abuse epidemic and continuing stigma are challenging Oklahoma's mental health providers.
The Oklahoma Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services provides services to Oklahomans affected by mental illness and substance abuse, an estimated 950,000 Oklahomans. Each year, the agency provided services to about 190,000 individuals, Mental Health Commissioner Terri White said.
Despite the enormity of the issues, mental illness and addiction remain a largely unaddressed problem as a whole. The problem is even greater in specific regions such as rural areas outside the Interstate 44 corridor, where the majority of available services are located.
Many individuals, including 40 percent of youth who need mental health services and 80 percent of youth who need substance abuse treatment, don't get it.
Earlier this year, advocates including the Oklahoma Policy Institute, warned about the consequences if lawmakers did not increase state funding for mental health services. The Oklahoma Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services needed $21 million in new funding just to maintain existing services.
A flat budget for the ODMHSAS, assuming the agency's maintenance request was not funded, would be an actual reduction of $21 million needed just to maintain core services at the current level, according to the agency's FY15 budget and performance review.
During the session, lawmakers ended up appropriating an additional $2.2 million for the ODMHSAS. However, some of those dollars were for pay raises, White said. The agency had to cut $20 million in behavioral health rehabilitation services except for those who need them most, she said.
CANDIDATE VIEWS
Gov. Mary Fallin said since taking office, she has secured an additional $18.9 million in funding for the ODMHSAS, money being used to strengthen the Systems of Care Initiative helping children, building new crisis centers for people who need immediate help and improving the services the state offers for suicide prevention and prescription drug abuse counseling.
"Prescription drug abuse, in particular, has become a major scourge in Oklahoma and has replaced meth as the No. 1 drug-related killer," Fallin said. "That's why I supported legislation this past year that would have required doctors to check the state's online prescription monitoring program before prescribing a narcotic."
Fallin said part of treating mental health and substance abuse issues requires rethinking the way our criminal justice system works and being both "smart on crime" and "tough on crime."
"The old practice of putting nonviolent criminals with mental illness or addiction behind bars no longer is effective -- it doesn't reduce crime or help the people recover from their illness," Fallin said. "We're working on getting those non-violent offenders treatment and rehabilitation so they can rejoin their families as healthy and productive members of society, rather than wards of the state who sit in prison on the taxpayers' dime."
Fallin said she has supported -- and recently ramped up efforts --- for the state to pursue the Justice Reinvestment Initiative, a program designed to get non-violent offenders rehabilitation, treatment and supervised parole.
Fallin said she also has supported the use of drug courts as alternatives for non-violent offenders with substance abuse issues. Fallin said she continues to be an advocate for programs like "Women in Recovery," a public-private partnership that offers treatment and alternative sentencing for women with drug problems.
However, there are offenders who do deserve to be in prison, and protecting law-abiding citizens will always be her top priority, Fallin said.
State Rep. Joe Dorman, D-Rush Springs, is challenging incumbent Mary Fallin for the governor's office. Dorman said 20 years' worth of cuts and ignoring the issue has not helped. Neither has the state's high incarceration rate, he said.
Dorman said the push for funds to repair the state Capitol instead of funding services related to mental health treatment shows priorities are out of touch.
"We've got Oklahomans who are suffering and the leadership has been lacking at the Capitol," Dorman said. "There's been a willful neglect when it comes to some of these programs that should be funded and treatments that should be addressed."
No one is stepping up and bringing that forth in the budget, Dorman said. If elected, Dorman said he will do his part to make sure Oklahoma funds programs. He also wants to recruit students into the field of counseling. And he said he will look at long-term solutions to address these problems.
Many individuals and families are struggling, and many have no place to turn, Dorman said.
"We've got to provide resources to make sure families have those opportunities," Dorman said. "It's heartbreaking."
SUCCESS STORIES
State Rep. Doug Cox, R-Grove, a physician who chairs appropriations and budgeting for the House Public Health and Social Services Committee, said the state needs to put more dollars into treating addictions to drugs like meth and increase the number of treatment beds.
To date, the ODMHSAS has received $7.5 million of an original $12.5 million to expand behavioral health crisis beds resulting in three new crisis centers in Tulsa, Ardmore and Sapulpa, White said.
Two more centers, which cost about $2.5 million each, are needed to meet the original request and provide relief for patients and associated law enforcement transport issues, White said. They will be part of the agency's FY2016 budget proposal, she said.
White said each center will have 16 beds and an urgent care component; the beds alone will serve about 2,000 people.
Other ODMHSAS success stories include the agency's 2.7 percent administrative cost rate, cost savings from mental health court, having most treatment services delivered by private providers and jail screenings. More than $20.7 million in one year is obtainable by diverting women with children away from prison into drug or mental health courts, the agency states.
White said the Systems of Care program, federal money matched by state money, being implemented in a growing number of counties, targets impacted children ages 6-18 with serious emotional and behavioral problems at home, school and in the community.
Significant achievements in a child's behavior when measuring outcomes have been reported. After just six months of services, data confirms a 30 percent reduction in out of home placements, a 53 percent reduction in school detentions, a 39 percent reduction in self-harm attempts and a 48 percent reduction in arrests.
Other ODMHSAS programs include day reporting, a post-booking program that keeps participants in the community while they are awaiting trial, jail diversion, re-entry programs and a program for assertive community treatment.
CONYERS' RECOVERY
Thanks in part to help from family members, Randy Conyers found himself living in a Kansas town where his sister-in-law knew he could get help.
He was assigned a therapist, a case worker and an advanced registered nurse practitioner to evaluate and prescribe medications. The fact that his federal insurance ran out, he was a self-employed computer engineer and wasn't on Medicaid was not a problem with a community mental health center.
"They respected me as a person," the Edmond writer-activist wrote in his book "Mott's Mind." "They recognized I was in need and they were there to help me, regardless of how much time was involved. They were fantastic."
Six weeks later, Conyers was approved for Social Security disability benefits. The community mental health center helped with medications, a huge cost-saver. He also found free prescription drug carriers; the drugs weren't free, only the enrollment was free. But they did have a preferred provider list, discounting drugs from retail prices he used to pay.
He had access to medications for two years, when Medicare became effective, which meant he had to find a Part D carrier. Finding the right medicine cocktail took three years. He learned coping skills and attended a self-discovery class.
Conyers' case worker introduced him to the local affiliate of the National Alliance on Mental Illness, a national advocacy group originally comprised of family members who advocated to Congress and state legislators to speak up for the rights of people who could not advocate for themselves. Many members were people from Conyers' community mental health center.
"That appealed to me, hoping some day or some year I would be strong enough to be one of those advocates," Conyers wrote.
Conyers received the NAMI Executive Director Award for his service. NAMI provides resource lines for individuals to call for a number of services, and only makes support suggestions. Conyers said part of the reason he came to Edmond was the reputation of the local NAMI affiliate.
For individuals or families struggling with issues, Conyers had some advice.
"You are not alone," he said. "Many are in the same situation even though it seems impossible. You are a person, not a diagnosis. Life is not limited, even though you have been told that it is. Change is possible. And recovery works."
Conyers urged citizens to educate themselves about mental health issues. Conyers said NAMI Oklahoma or local affiliates have free extensive educational classes and resources.
"Cross the line of discrimination," Conyers said.
If you or someone you know is in a crisis situation call 911. In Edmond, crisis intervention trained officers are available 24/7. You can call 211, a number that connects individuals with local resources.

Source: http://www.edmondsun.com/news/article_bf97870e-58d4-11e4-a49e-fb8d8ca58c27.html
