Public Statements
State Regents Certify PASS Standards, Oklahoma to Reapply for No Child Left Behind Waiver
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Oct. 16, 2014
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

The Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education today certified Oklahoma's PASS academic standards as "college and career ready." That certification is a benchmark meant to ensure that Oklahomans graduating from high school have demonstrated proficiency in subject matter that prepares them both for entry level college courses and career-relevant skills. The certification is also significant because the U.S. Department of Education uses "college and career ready" certification as a qualifier for states to apply for a waiver to the federal No Child Left Behind education law. Reestablishing Oklahoma's waiver, which it lost in response to the state's decision to repeal Common Core, would ensure that Oklahoma schools retain control over up to $30 million in federal funds.
The State Regents performed a thorough, scholarly review of the PASS standards, using experts in each subject matter field. Governor Mary Fallin said she has asked Oklahoma State Board of Education members to begin the process of reapplying for a No Child Left Behind waiver.
"Now that these standards have been certified "college and career ready," said Fallin. "I will work with the U.S. Department of Education to revisit the issue of Oklahoma's No Child Left Behind waiver. The federal government needs to act quickly to ensure our schools do not lose the use of any federal funds."
Fallin said that, while the PASS standards represent a baseline demonstrating competence, they must be improved. The Board of Education is currently working on new, rigorous Oklahoma-made standards to replace both PASS and the recently repealed Common Core Academic Standards.
"The PASS standards are a baseline which we should never allow our students to fall below," said Fallin. "The fact remains that we have to do better. The State Board of Education is currently working with administrators, teachers and parents to develop even more robust standards that will guarantee a greater percentage of our students find success in college and the workplace after graduating high school."

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=14874
