Public Statements
State Struggling to Pay for Current Medicaid Costs; Obamacare Expansion Would Be Irresponsible
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Oct. 15, 2014
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today reiterated her opposition to the Medicaid expansion in Obamacare after the Oklahoma Health Care Authority reported that it would need an additional $164 million to maintain Medicaid at its current level. Read more here.
"There are currently 818,000 Oklahomans on Medicaid," said Fallin. "These are low-income Oklahomans, children, pregnant women, the elderly and people with disabilities. Because of the sky-rocketing cost of medical care, and the failure of Obamacare to bend that cost curve, states are increasingly struggling just to keep these individuals covered.
"The Oklahoma Health Care Authority estimates we need $164 million more just to cover our current obligations. I am committed to finding the resources we need to ensure that none of our current Medicaid recipients lose their coverage.
"In light of that need, the idea that we should dramatically expand Medicaid -- as called for under Obamacare -- is downright irresponsible. Washington has tried to entice Oklahoma and other states into a federal health care scheme that threatens to create the kind of budget crisis in our states that already exists on a federal level.
"Medicaid costs rise every year for Oklahomans. We already struggle to cover those costs and provide health insurance to the truly needy. Accepting a huge expansion of that program through Obamacare would be a billion dollar expense that would truly create a fiscal catastrophe. Not only would that threaten the viability of the current Medicaid program, it would jeopardize our ability to pay for other priorities like public education.
"Luckily, most Oklahomans understand why the state is not and should not pursue an Obamacare expansion. Our entire federal congressional delegation, House Speaker Jeff Hickman, Senate President Pro Tem Brian Bingman and the large majority of our state legislators have all joined me taking a stand against Obamacare, and I commend them for doing so."

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=14869
