Public Statements
Governor Mary Fallin Kicks Off Feeding Oklahoma Drive
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Sept. 29, 2014
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin kicked off her fifth annual Feeding Oklahoma Drive today with the goal of raising 2 million meals to help feed hungry families, children, and seniors. The month-long food drive will benefit the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma, the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma, and their partner agencies across the state.
"Time and again, Oklahomans have proven themselves to be the most caring and giving individuals in the nation," Fallin said. "Last year, Oklahomans from all 77 counties came together and donated over 2 million meals in time for the holiday season. This year, we can do even more for the hungry in our state."
Oklahoma consistently ranks among the top hungriest states in the nation, with more than 675,000 Oklahomans struggling with hunger every day. The Regional Food Bank provides enough food to feed more than 110,000 people each week, 37 percent of which are children. The Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma distributes more than 335,000 meals per week. Demand increases during the holiday season.
"Governor Fallin's Feeding Oklahoma Drive means so much in the fight against hunger in our state," said Rodney Bivens, executive director of the Regional Food Bank. "Every dollar donated provides five meals for Oklahomans who are struggling to keep food on their table during the difficult winter months. We are grateful for the past generosity of Oklahomans and hopeful for another season of giving."
Non-perishable food items can be donated at all BancFirst , OKC metro area Bob Moore dealerships, select AT&T locations, the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma, the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma and all partner agencies.
Monetary gifts can be made online at www.feedingoklahoma.org. UPS will pick up donations from BancFirst and AT&T locations in the Tulsa and Oklahoma City metro areas and deliver those to the Oklahoma food banks.
"Walking through our warehouse, you will see many more empty shelves than even a month ago," said Eileen Bradshaw, executive director of the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma. "We have much less variety in the items that we do have, and fewer staple items. It is difficult, as our partners are feeling the dip in food supply, but not a dip in food requests. This drive comes at a critical time, and we are grateful for the help."
Bivens and Bradshaw stressed that the most-needed items include canned meat, canned vegetables, canned fruits, canned tuna, peanut butter and rice and beans.
Once again chairing the statewide food drive for Governor Fallin is businesswoman Laure Majors with co-chairs, Laura Watts and Brenda Jones Barwick.
The food drive runs through Oct. 31 and Governor Fallin is encouraging businesses, organizations and individuals to make donations to her Feeding Oklahoma Drive in order to meet the needs of our hungry neighbors this winter. For a complete list of participating businesses, or to make a monetary donation online, visit www.feedingoklahoma.org. All donations are tax deductible and will benefit hungry Oklahomans. For more information, email feedingoklahoma2014@yahoo.com.
About the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma
The Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma is the state's largest hunger relief organization. The nonprofit provides enough food to feed more than 110,000 hungry Oklahomans each week through a network of more than 1,200 schools and charitable feeding programs in 53 central and western Oklahoma counties. Since its inception in 1980, the Regional Food Bank has distributed more than 538 million pounds of food to feed Oklahoma's hungry. For more information, visit http://www.regionalfoodbank.org; find us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/regionalfoodbank or follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/rfbo.
About the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma
Founded in 1981, the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma is one of the largest, private hunger-relief organizations in Oklahoma. It distributes donated grocery items to 450 Partner Programs in 24 counties of Eastern Oklahoma. These programs include food pantries, soup kitchens, emergency shelters, after-school programs, shelters and senior centers. Collectively, they distribute more than 335,000 meals a week. In addition, the Food Bank helps raise public awareness about hunger and the role of food banking in alleviating hunger. In 2013, the Food Bank distributed more than 20.8 million pounds of food.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=14787
