Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Announces Broken Arrow Manufacturing Company Set to Expand
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: June 20, 2017
Location: Broken Arrow, OK

Alfa Laval is creating a "competence center" here for the manufacturing of its spiral and air-cooled heat exchanger ranges. A parcel of land has been selected that will adjoin the existing facility to a new facility being built to house the operations for the Alfa Laval Spiral Heat Exchanger range.
"Alfa Laval's decision to concentrate some of its manufacturing in Oklahoma showcases that our state has much to offer international companies," said Governor Mary Fallin. "We have positioned ourselves well in the global marketplace, and I am pleased that they have chosen to invest in our state."
The "competence center" will provide a greater critical mass of welded heat exchanger design and manufacturing expertise, better serving Alfa Laval's customers. The new facility will have expansion potential to accommodate future growth.
"We are pleased that Alfa Laval selected Broken Arrow as the site of its planned manufacturing facility," said Broken Arrow Mayor Craig Thurmond. "Broken Arrow's skilled workforce, pro-business mindset and job acquisition efforts positioned us for this outstanding investment in our community."
The existing Broken Arrow facility will be improved to make it a more updated manufacturing space.
The project, which will begin this year, is expected to be completed by the end of 2018. Further details about this project and its positive impact on the community will be announced at a groundbreaking event planned for later this summer.
Alfa Laval is a leading global provider of specialized products and engineering solutions, based on its key technologies of heat transfer, separation and fluid handling. The company's equipment, systems and services are dedicated to assisting its customers in optimizing the performance of its processes. Alfa Laval's solutions help its customers to heat, cool, separate and transport products in multiple industries worldwide.

Source: https://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=33337
