Public Statements
SBA List Candidate Fund Endorses Governor Mary Fallin for Re-Election
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Sept. 17, 2014
Location: Unknown

Today the Susan B. Anthony List Candidate Fund, a national pro-life political action committee, announced its endorsement of Governor Mary Fallin (R-OK).
"A longtime champion of women and the unborn in Congress, Governor Fallin spent her first term championing the same pro-life, pro-woman policies she fought for while in Washington," said SBA List Candidate Fund President Marjorie Dannenfelser. "In fact, Governor Fallin supported and signed into law every pro-life bill to reach her desk, including a compassionate limit on abortion after 5 months. The SBA List Candidate Fund is thrilled to once again endorse Mary Fallin's candidacy for Governor of Oklahoma."
"I came back to Oklahoma City determined to enact live-saving measures that foster respect for the unborn and protect the women of Oklahoma," said Governor Mary Fallin on receiving the SBA List Candidate Fund endorsement. "I am proud of my pro-life record and the work I have done with the Susan B. Anthony List. Last year, I was pleased to join the Leadership Team of the SBA List's National Pro-Life Women's Caucus and launch an historic effort to build up the role of pro-life women legislators across the nation. We need more women's leadership in politics, whether here at home or in Washington."
Former U.S. Representative Mary Fallin was elected Governor of Oklahoma in 2010. Fallin was elected to the House of Representatives in 2006 to serve Oklahoma's 5th Congressional District and worked on the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Small Business. Fallin was the first woman to represent Oklahoma in Congress since 1920. She has more than 19 years in public office having previously served as Oklahoma's first female Lieutenant Governor for over ten years.
The Susan B. Anthony List and its Political Action Committees, the SBA List Candidate Fund and Women Speak Out PAC, are dedicated to pursuing policies and electing candidates who will reduce and ultimately end abortion. To that end, the SBA List emphasizes the education, promotion, mobilization, and election of pro-life women at all levels of government. The SBA List is a network of more than 365,000 pro-life Americans nationwide.

Source: http://maryfallin.org/article/sba-list-candidate-fund-endorses-governor-mary-fallin-for-re-election
