Public Statements
Governor's Column: Oklahoma: Leading the Way towards North American Energy Independence
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Sept. 8, 2014
Location: Unknown

Oklahoma is an undisputed leader in the energy industry. We are the fourth-largest natural gas producing state in the country, the fifth-largest oil producing state, and the sixth-largest state for wind power.
Some people talk about an "all of the above" energy strategy. Oklahoma is doing it. We are helping to lead an energy revolution that has made North American Energy Independence -- once an impossible goal -- within reach.
In 2013, Oklahoma produced 111,368 thousand barrels of oil, an increase of 67 percent from 2009. And while we are prospering from an oil boom, we're also building the infrastructure for alternative energies like natural gas and wind power. Take a drive west along Interstate 40 and you'll not only have access to the largest number of CNG fueling stations per capita in the country, you'll also see a rapidly increasing number of wind turbines providing Oklahomans with affordable, reliable energy.
And while Oklahoma energy is literally powering the country's economy, we're also working to protect our environment and conserve our most precious resources, like water.
Energy companies have developed remarkable technologies for water reuse, and the state has established one of the most aggressive water conservation policies in the country: The Water for 2060 plan. The goal of Water for 2060 is simple: we will use no more water in 2060 than we did when the plan was first introduced in 2012.
When new issues arise, we tackle them head on.
We all know Oklahoma is now experiencing more earthquakes today than the state was several decades ago. At last weeks' Fourth Annual Governor's Energy Conference, I announced the creation of a Coordinating Council on Seismic Activity to link researchers with policy makers and energy industry experts.
Oklahoma Secretary of Energy and Environment Michael Teague will lead that council, which will include input from public sector groups like the Oklahoma Geologic Survey, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission, and the Oklahoma Energy Resources Board; research institutions including the University of Oklahoma and Oklahoma State University; industry groups like the Oklahoma Independent Petroleum Association and the Oklahoma Oil and Gas Association; and state legislators.
Our goal is to ensure we have the tools and the science we need to make smart, informed policy decisions moving forward. We can't examine a complex issue like seismic activity in a vacuum; everyone needs to be at the same table and talking.
Moving forward, I know that Oklahoma will continue to be a leader in the energy industry and a model for the nation. In other parts of the country, it may be Greenpeace vs. "drill baby drill." But in Oklahoma, we understand that smart energy policy includes smart environmental policy and responsible conservation.
I'm proud of our industry and the hundreds of thousands of working men and women who power it. I'm excited to be a part of history, as Oklahoma continues to lead the way towards North American Energy Independence.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=14677
