Public Statements
Governor Mary Fallin to President Obama: Stop Playing Politics with Our Children's Education
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Aug. 28, 2014
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today called on the Obama Administration to stop playing politics with children's education and reverse its decision to strip Oklahoma of its No Child Left Behind (NCLB) waiver. The federal government today announced that it would not continue to grant Oklahoma schools a NCLB waiver. The change in designation came in response to the state's decision to repeal the Common Core State Standards and replace them with college and career ready standards developed by Oklahomans. As a result of Oklahoma losing its waiver, schools may have to reexamine their budgets to comply with NCLB federal requirements.
Common Core was repealed when the governor signed bipartisan legislation that passed with overwhelming majorities in the House and Senate (HB 3399 passed 71-18 in the House and 37-10 in the Senate).
"It is outrageous that President Obama and Washington bureaucrats are trying to dictate how Oklahoma schools spend education dollars," said Fallin. "Because of overwhelming opposition from Oklahoma parents and voters to Common Core, Washington is now acting to punish us. This is one more example of an out-of-control presidency that places a politicized Washington agenda over the well-being of Oklahoma students. I join parents, teachers, and administrators in being outraged by this decision, and I will fight it with every tool available to the state of Oklahoma."
Fallin said the Obama administration was seeking to replace local and state priorities with a Washington agenda.
"Oklahomans spoke loud and clear: we do not want the federal government telling us what to teach our children or how to teach our children. We have great teachers and administrators. The Obama administration needs to get out of their way and let them do their jobs, rather than tying their hands with additional federal rules and regulations."
The state of Oklahoma continues to move forward to develop new college and career ready standards to replace Common Core.
"Oklahomans will continue the process of writing rigorous, robust new standards in English and mathematics," said Fallin. "Our standards will set the bar higher than Common Core ever did. For the sake of our children, we can do no less."

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=14644
