Public Statements
NFIB Endorses Fallin for Second Term as Governor
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Aug. 14, 2014
Location: Unknown

The National Federation of Independent Business, the nation's and Oklahoma's leading small business association, said today it has endorsed Mary Fallin for a second term as governor. NFIB announced its endorsement at APSCO Inc., an NFIB member business in Tulsa.
"Governor Fallin understands just how important small business is to Oklahoma's economy," said Jerrod Shouse, state director of NFIB/Oklahoma, the state's leading small-business association with 4,200 dues-paying members representing a cross section of the state's economy.
"The governor knows that small business accounts for 97 percent of private-sector employers in Oklahoma, and she's she worked to deliver lower taxes, protection from frivolous lawsuits, and workers' compensation reform that lowers cost for small businesses.
"Under Governor Fallin's leadership, Oklahoma has created over 100,000 jobs, our state's gross domestic product has grown faster than 45 other states and unemployment dropped from above 7 percent to just 4.5," Shouse said. "That doesn't happen without a governor who cares about and fights for small businesses."
"Governor Fallin has kept her promises to help Oklahoma's small businesses," Shouse said. "This makes her the clear choice for a second term as governor."
NFIB's political support is based on the candidate's position and record on small business issues. The endorsement comes from the NFIB/Oklahoma SAFE (Save America's Free Enterprise) Trust, the political action committee for NFIB/Oklahoma's membership.
"Small businesses are the lifeblood of Oklahoma's economy," Governor Fallin said. "The best way to help working families is to make sure we are helping small businesses grow and thrive. I'm honored to receive this endorsement and I will continue to push the kind of pro-growth agenda that will make Oklahoma the best place in the country to start a small business."
Today's endorsement puts the considerable grassroots support of the state's small businesses behind Fallin's campaign. Small-business owners and their employees vote in high numbers and are known for recruiting friends, family members and acquaintances to vote.
NFIB will encourage its Oklahoma members to help turn out the influential small-business voting bloc on Election Day.

Source: http://maryfallin.org/article/nfib-endorses-fallin-for-second-term-as-governor
