Public Statements
KOTV - Poll Numbers Show a Democrat Could Be Oklahoma's Next Governor
News Article
By: Joe Dorman Mary Fallin
Date: July 28, 2014
Location: Tulsa, OK

By Meagan Farley
A recent Rasmussen poll shows a Democrat could dethrone Oklahoma's sitting governor. The poll shows Governor Fallin at 45 percent and her challenger, Democratic State Representative, Joe Dorman, at 40 percent.
While another poll from just a couple days ago shows them 10 points apart, that's still not a massive difference and the race is now piquing a lot of interest.
"I am amazed that it's that close in this short period of time," said Democratic State Representative, Joe Dorman.
Dorman made his way around the room of his new Tulsa Campaign headquarters, confident on the heels of the recent polls that show the race between Fallin and him tightening up. He believes the reason stems from the contentious debate over state education.
"Over the last four years you've seen Mary Fallin and Janet Barresi push an education agenda that's been very unpopular in Oklahoma," Dorman said.
Dorman instead favors progress exams to replace current high stakes testing.
Fallin fired back saying she "has fought for more funding for schools and more accountability in education. Joe Dorman has been relentlessly negative in this campaign because he does not have a record of accomplishment to run on."
Dorman began his career in the Oklahoma House of Representatives more than a decade ago and said another major issue for him, if elected, will be creating jobs, especially in healthcare.
"We see a crisis across the state with jobs being lost in hospitals and we've got to do what we can to keep those facilities open and keep a quality of life that people expect, no matter whether they live in Oklahoma," he said.
Fallin's office touts its economic impact saying, "We have always known and planned for a competitive campaign. Ultimately, we think voters will re-elect the governor because she's done exactly what she said she would do, which is get our economy back on track."
The Tulsa office is Dorman's second, after his location in Oklahoma City. He said to expect to see him in the Tulsa area a lot because, he said too often, Tulsa and northeast Oklahoma can feel left behind by politicians.
He said his campaign began as a grass roots movement, but now that people have seen the polls tightening, voters no longer hope he has a chance, but believe he does, so the fundraising money is increasing.

Source: http://www.newson6.com/story/26134963/poll-numbers-show-a-democrat-could-be-oklahomas-next-governor
