Public Statements
The Tulsa World - Fallin Slams Obama on Immigration, Says Kids Will Be Financial Burden to States
News Article
By: Mary Fallin
Date: July 16, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Randy Krehbiel
Gov. Mary Fallin harshly criticized the Obama administration's immigration policies on Wednesday and said she fears the recent influx of unaccompanied minors from Latin America will become a financial burden to the states.
"Many of our public schools are already at capacity and need additional funding," Fallin said. "Our health-care system is strained as it is. Now, instead of allowing us to address those needs for Oklahomans, President Obama is forcing us to add an unspecified number of illegal immigrants to our public education and public health systems.
"The president is ignoring the very real needs of Oklahomans -- and Americans everywhere -- so that he can continue a policy of amnesty for families that want to send their children to the United States. Ultimately, it's American taxpayers who are picking up the tab."
Fallin's broadside came one day after state Rep. Mike Ritze, R-Broken Arrow, called for the 1,200 minors housed at Fort Still to be "quarantined" because of supposed health issues.
Federal officials, however, say the juveniles are given at least two medical examinations, including tests for communicable diseases, as well as vaccinations upon arrival in the U.S.
Last week, staff at the Fort Sill facility said juveniles stay an average of 15 days before going to a sponsor.
The Oklahoma Department of Human Services says it has been told few if any of the minors will wind up in Oklahoma and any that do will be the responsibility of their sponsors.
The juveniles are being held in facilities such as the one at Fort Sill because of a 2008 federal law intended to deter human trafficking. It specifies that unaccompanied minors from countries other than Canada and Mexico must be given a hearing before a deportation order is submitted.
An independent study released this week said more than half those detained under the 2008 law are ultimately sent back to their countries of origin.
The reason for the recent surge in such immigrants from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador is hotly disputed. Wednesday, during a U.S. Senate hearing, Sen. Tom Coburn blamed Obama's 2012 executive order giving low priority to the deportation of minors who entered the U.S. before June 2007.
The order does not apply to minors arriving in the U.S. since 2007, but Coburn and others argue that the migrants believe it does.
"When you ask the people coming here, 90 percent of them say it's because they think it's a free pass," Coburn said Wednesday.
Some of the hearing's witnesses disagreed. They said the rising tide of migrants is caused by violence, poverty and increased awareness of the 2008 law.
Economist Bryan Roberts presented data showing that the number of unaccompanied minors from Honduras has increased from fewer than 1,000 in 2011 to an expected 20,000 this year.
Roberts said conditions in Honduras could not entirely account for the upsurge.
Coburn asked another witness, Latin America expert Eric Olson, to what extent youthful immigrants are being forced into illegal activity through threats against family members.
"There is evidence of it, particularly in the heroin trade, but I wouldn't say it is true of the vast majority," Olson said.

Source: http://m.tulsaworld.com/news/government/fallin-slams-obama-on-immigration-says-kids-will-be-financial/article_d58a2b1d-1905-55b8-8fff-021e040c36b2.html?mode=jqm
