Public Statements
The Journal Record - Dorman Wants Workers' Compesnation System Investigation
News Article
By: Joe Dorman Mary Fallin
Date: July 14, 2014
Location: Unknown

By M. Scott Carter
The Democratic candidate for governor Monday called for an investigation into the state's Workers' Compensation Commission and the agency's termination of 16 longtime employees.
Speaking at a press conference in front of the Denver Davison building, state Rep. Joe Dorman, D-Rush Springs, said he had requested state records to verify reports that the commission ordered expensive new furniture and delegated the accounting system of the Workers' Compensation Court to the Office of Management and Enterprise Solutions, an executive branch agency.
"We need an expeditious and unbiased workers' compensation system rather than a commission that pursues the agenda of the chamber of commerce," Dorman said.
Dorman's press conference came Monday after officials with the Workers' Compensation Commission laid off 16 state workers last week. The employees, many of them longtime staffers, were dismissed after the 2015 fiscal year began.
Workers' Compensation Commission Executive Director Rick Farmer said the agency wanted to reduce the number of full-time staff members from 74 to 58.
On Monday, Republican Gov. Mary Fallin said the old system wasn't working and needed to be changed. In a statement emailed to The Journal Record, Fallin said the previous workers' compensation system was slow, inefficient and riddled with fraud.
"Moving to an administrative system of mediation run by administrative law judges as opposed to a litigious system dominated by lawsuits and trial attorneys is better for injured workers and employers," the governor said. Fallin, who is running for re-election, said the system would also save taxpayers money.
"The new administrative system will also help grow our economy by removing the legal and bureaucratic red tape that was bogging down the old workers' compensation court," the governor said. "Recent workers' compensation reforms are already saving Oklahoma businesses more than $260 million annually, money that can now go to creating private sector jobs."

Source: http://joedorman.com/article-dorman-wants-workers%E2%80%99-compensation-system-investigation
