Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Signs Measure to Repair Crumbling State Capitol
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 29, 2014
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin signed into law today a measure that will provide funding to pay for repairing the crumbling state Capitol.
House Joint Resolution 1033 authorizes a $120 million bond issue to pay for repairs to the nearly 100-year-old building and replace outdated electrical and plumbing systems.
"It's great that this important symbol of Oklahoma is finally getting the treatment it deserves," said Fallin. "This bond issue represents a responsible approach to repair the building.
"This is the people's house, a symbol of our state, and the seat of our government. All Oklahomans have a vested interest in maintaining this building and ensuring it does not continue to fall into disrepair. My thanks go out to our legislators for taking action to restore the Capitol."
HJR 1033 also requires the formation of the State Capitol Repair Expenditure Oversight Committee, which is to oversee the repairs. The governor, speaker of the House and the president pro tempore of the Senate will each have three appointments to the bipartisan, nine-member committee.
Exterior work could begin late this summer or early fall. Interior work should begin next year.
Pieces of limestone have been falling off the building's exterior. Yellow barricades and scaffolding were put up in September 2011. The Capitol's plumbing and electrical systems are in desperate need of repair.
"This legislation comes at a crucial time for the building," said Duane Mass, the Capitol's architect. "Time and decay have met to begin to erode so many of this building's critical components.
"We can now ensure a program to halt the damaging infiltration of water, evidenced by falling limestone and concrete, and to replace worn and faulty plumbing and 100-year-old wiring, which at any moment can place this critical structure out of service. Work on the building in the months ahead will ensure that the Capitol will provide another century of service to Oklahoma."

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=14251
