Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Comments on Common Core Legislation
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 21, 2014
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today commented on plans by the Oklahoma Senate Education Committee to consider House Bill 3399 on Monday. The measure's intent is to provide for the development and adoption of new English and math standards and assessments while prohibiting the state Board of Education from entering into any contract or agreement with any federal agency or private entity that would cede or limit state control.
"As a state, we must continue to raise education standards and increase accountability in public schools. Nothing is more important to the long term success of our children, nor as essential to our ability to compete in a competitive global economy that demands a highly skilled, highly educated workforce," said Fallin.
"As we work to increase classroom rigor and raise the academic bar in our schools, I have been clear that Oklahoma must take the lead in developing and implementing our own standards and assessments. To protect the principle of local control, and to resist federal overreach from Washington and the Obama administration, I signed last year an executive order outlining Oklahoma's independence in implementing higher standards and student assessments.
"Since then, I have listened to growing concerns from parents across the state concerning Common Core, the standards currently in the process of being implemented. In light of these concerns, I have worked directly with our legislators to accomplish the goals of increasing classroom rigor and accountability while guaranteeing that Oklahoma public education is protected from federal interference. My hope is that House Bill 3399, which is soon to be heard by the Senate Education Committee, will accomplish these goals. If it does so, without creating unintended consequences that would hamstring educators or invite more federal influence in education, it will have my support."

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=13851
