Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Orders Priority Status for Low-Income Propane Users, Extends Emergency
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 31, 2014
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today ordered the Oklahoma Department of Human Services (DHS) to give priority status to requests for assistance from families who use propane as their primary or only source of heat.
Fallin issued an executive order instructing DHS to expedite applications for both the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program(LIHEAP) and Energy Crisis Assistance Program. The federal assistance programs help low-income families with heating costs in the winter, cooling costs in the summer and home insulation.

"I want to make sure we are making assistance available to Oklahomans who are struggling to keep warm because of the high propane prices," Fallin said. "Many Oklahoma residents depend on the use of propane for survival during the winter months and the effects of the shortage are being felt throughout the state."

DHS, in cooperation with the federal government, provides seasonal assistance to low-income households to assist with winter heating bills and to provide help for some families who have received utility cut-off notices. In order to qualify, persons must be Oklahoma residents and must need financial assistance for home energy costs.
Fallin also ordered DHS Director Ed Lake to open the Energy Crisis Assistance application period immediately for qualifying individuals and families who depend on propane for heat. The Energy Crisis Assistance application period was not scheduled to open until March.
Fallin's order also asks the attorney general to continue investigating reports of price gouging, as defined by the Oklahoma Emergency Price Stabilization Act. Her order requests the attorney general "to take and any all steps necessary to ensure that no one doing business in this State is violating the Act and that those who choose to violate the Act are prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law."
Propane is commonly used for heating homes in rural areas not served by natural gas. There are approximately 400,000 propane consumers in Oklahoma.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=13472
