Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Encourages Oklahomans to Wear Purple to Raise Awareness of Domestic Violence
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Oct. 1, 2013
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin, the Oklahoma Coalition Against Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault (OCADVSA),Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA), Domestic Violence Intervention Services (DVIS) and Verizon Wireless Oklahoma are encouraging Oklahomans to wear purple Thursday, Oct. 3,to show support for victims of domestic violence and to raise awareness of this rapidly-growing crime.
"Domestic violence affects many people in the state of Oklahoma," Fallin said. "I strongly believe that taking a stand against domestic violence as well as reaching out to help victims is important for our community. I am encouraged by the efforts of OCADVSA, YWCA and DVIS and Verizon Wireless Oklahoma to raising awareness within our state. I encourage all Oklahomans to wear purple on Oct. 3 to show their support for the victims of domestic violence."
Wear Purple Day in Oklahoma will take place on Thursday, October 3 and is one of the public awareness events planned in October for Domestic Violence Awareness Month.(DVAM). Purple is the symbol of the domestic violence awareness movement. Across the country, families and friends of victims have worn purple clothing or ribbons to remember and honor loved ones who have lost their lives as a result of domestic violence.
Businesses in Oklahoma are lighting their buildings purple to show support for victims of domestic violence. They include Cory's Audio Visual, Peter K. Schaffer, attorney, Lippert Bros., Inc, Drill Right Technology and, NorthCare. In addition to businesses, the Skydance Pedestrian Bridge over Interstate 40 in Oklahoma City will also be lit purple.
A full list of businesses participating can be found at www.ywcaokc.org.
"In many cases, domestic violence is a silent issue that affects more people in our community than we realize,"said Dean Taylor, president of Verizon Wireless in Oklahoma. "In fact, Oklahoma is ranked 3rd in the nation per capita for the number of women killed by men as a result of domestic violence. Because domestic violence is a growing problem, Verizon Wireless, along with YWCA, OCADVSA and DVIS help year-round to provide support, assistance, awareness and a way to connect the victims of domestic violence to their friends, family or a shelter in the state of Oklahoma. In efforts to promote awareness of domestic violence and support victims, we hope the Oklahoma community joins Governor Fallin in wearing purple on Oct. 3."

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=12817
