Public Statements
Moore, State of Oklahoma Receive Grant Money for Disaster Recovery
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Aug. 30, 2013
Location: Washington, DC

U.S. Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Shaun Donovan today announced nearly $37 million in disaster recovery aid to the City of Moore, Oklahoma and to the State of Oklahoma to help local communities recover from a devastating spate of storms, including a powerful tornado that struck Moore on May 20th. These grants are provided through HUD's Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program to support long-term disaster recovery efforts in areas with the greatest extent of "unmet need.'
The City of Moore will receive $26.3 million to supplement other forms of public and private disaster aid following May's powerful EF5 tornado with its winds exceeding 200 miles per hour. In addition, the State of Oklahoma will receive $10.6 million to support local recovery efforts following these powerful storms that occurred from May 18th through June 2nd.
"These powerful tornadoes laid waste to a number of Oklahoma communities, destroying homes, businesses and critical infrastructure beyond the limits of private insurance and other forms of public assistance," said Donovan. "HUD is continuing to work closely with state and local partners to help them meet these remaining needs and promote locally driven recovery strategies."
Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin added, "The May storms cost the lives of dozens of Oklahomans and over $1 billion in property damage. We are steadily rebuilding, but many families are still struggling to get back on their feet. The disaster relief grants provided by HUD -- along with continued work from state and local governments and non-profits -- will make a big difference in the lives of those affected by this year's tornadoes. They will be particularly helpful as we work to provide assistance to low income Oklahomans, many of whom are uninsured."
Rep. Tom Cole said, "Today's HUD announcement of additional relief funding is one that brings hope to thousands of Oklahomans whose homes and businesses were destroyed by the horrific tornadoes in May. I am pleased by the generous grant provided by HUD to help our state and my hometown of Moore restore lost homes and businesses and repair broken infrastructure. Because of the committed work of Secretary Shaun Donovan and numerous groups and individuals across the country, disaster recovery in Oklahoma continues to look better each day."

Source:
