Public Statements
Governor Fallin Invites Oklahomans to Septemberfest on Saturday, Sept. 7
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Aug. 23, 2013
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Fall is just around the corner and with it comes one of the state's most exciting events: Septemberfest! Hosted by Governor Mary Fallin and First Gentleman Wade Christensen, the 17th annual Septemberfest will be held on Saturday, September 7 from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. at the Oklahoma Governor's Mansion and Oklahoma History Center.
Septemberfest is a celebration of the culture and history that make Oklahoma unique. This year's event will feature arts and crafts, the Oklahoma City Thunder Girls, a chalk artist, sports activities, inflatables, carriage rides, steer roping, live animals, and more. This year's attractions will also feature two live entertainment stages featuring performers like Kyle Dillingham and Oklahoma's Youth Ambassador, Mikayla Jo. Tours of the Oklahoma Governor's Mansion will be offered throughout the day.
"Each year, Septemberfest showcases Oklahoma's rich culture. This year's event will be no exception, with a wide variety of attractions for people of all ages. Wade and I hope Oklahomans will join our family at this year's Septemberfest as we continue this wonderful tradition," said Governor Fallin.
Septemberfest also features free admission to the Oklahoma History Center, located across N.E. 23rd Street, where this year the past will come to life with learning stations, hands-on activities, demonstrations, storytelling, and live historians.
"One of the best things about Septemberfest is the entire family can spend the day enjoying the event because there is no cost to attend. Perhaps that is why Septemberfest has continued to be a family favorite over the last 17 years," said Septemberfest Chairman Jim Hasenbeck. "We are grateful to our many sponsors and volunteers that keep this a free, family-friendly event for all Oklahomans." Presenting sponsors for this year's Septemberfest are Devon Energy, Pelco Structural, and Hobby Lobby.
The Governor's Mansion is located at 820 N.E. 23rd Street in Oklahoma City. Parking is available at the Oklahoma City County Health Department just east of the History Center or at the State Capitol. Visitors can enter the grounds through the west gate on Philips Avenue or from 23rd Street, which will be closed the day of the event to ensure safe crossing to and from the History Center. Guests are welcome to bring a lunch or purchase food from a variety of vendors. Admission to Septemberfest is free.
Septemberfest was started in 1997 by Friends of the Mansion, a non-profit organization whose mission is to restore and preserve the Oklahoma Governor's Mansion. The mission of Septemberfest is to provide a statewide festival that is an interactive experience for Oklahoma families that celebrates the state's past, present, and future. For more information about Septemberfest, please contact Friends of the Mansion at (405) 557-0198.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=12496
