Public Statements
Gov. Fallin to Address Legislators from Across the United States
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: April 26, 2013
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin will speak to hundreds of state legislators from across the country on May 3 at the American Legislative Exchange Council's (ALEC) Spring Task Force Summit. The two day summit will be held this year at the Cox Convention Center in Oklahoma City.
Fallin, who was named a "Legislator of the Year" by ALEC while serving as a state representative, will discuss this year's legislative session and highlight the success of pro-growth policies in Oklahoma.
"In Oklahoma, we are working to reduce taxes, limit the size and scope of government, and provide a reasonable regulatory environment for businesses to operate," Fallin said. "By focusing on these policies, Oklahoma lawmakers have helped contribute to remarkable economic growth and job creation, as well as one of the lowest unemployment rates in the nation. I'm proud to be able to share these successes with legislators from across the country and to highlight the great work being done in our state."
ALEC is America's largest nonpartisan, voluntary membership organization, comprised of nearly one-third of the country's state legislators. The organization provides the opportunity for citizen groups, business leaders and state lawmakers to share experiences and develop state-based, pro-growth model policies. The model policies, which are based on academic research, existing state policy and proven business practices, are aimed at making government more efficient and effective. All model policies can be found at alec.org.
The Spring Task Force Summit serves as an educational opportunity to bring legislators together to exchange ideas and learn about the latest public policy trends and research. Legislators have the opportunity to attend workshops on a variety of topics, including college preparedness and American energy opportunities. On the final day of the conference, attendees will be able to pay tribute to the victims of the Oklahoma City bombing by visiting the memorial and museum.

Source:
