Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Applauds Development of 'One-Stop Shop' Portal for Aging and Disability Resources
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Oct. 24, 2016
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

A "one-stop shop" web portal is being developed to serve Oklahomans who are aging or who have a disability.
Funding for the new informational web portal has been approved by the Oklahoma Health and Human Services (HHS) Cabinet Committee, Deliver Interoperable Solution Components Utilizing Shared Services (DISCUSS).
The portal will be a "one-stop shop" to provide individuals and families with information about available community, government resources and services, including Medicaid services. Individuals, state agency personnel, community groups, and other support organizations will use the portal to help identify and access local solutions for individuals who are aging or have a disability. The web portal will also serve to improve service coordination and referrals across state agencies.
Seeking sustainable and coordinated long-term solutions, the web portal has been a priority of Governor Mary Fallin and a Blue Ribbon Panel she established to create a comprehensive plan for individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities.
"We would like to work towards a system that empowers and supports families of individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities, as well as our aging population, so they can thrive at home and in their community." Fallin said. "I applaud the efforts of the HHS cabinet agencies that serve individuals with disabilities and aging adults for working together to establish common goals and share resources in order to better serve Oklahomans."
A citizen one-stop shop web portal was identified during a recent HHS Strategic Planning Summit as a high priority goal for the state. The aging and disability web portal will be an important milestone in the development of a broader citizen's portal that will provide Oklahomans with a convenient way to conduct business and receive information about multiple state services.

Source:
