Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Signs Compacts with Kaw Nation
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 11, 2013
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

At a Capitol ceremony today, Governor Mary Fallin and Kaw Nation Chairman Guy Munroe signed compacts concerning tobacco taxes and burn bans.
"We recognize and appreciate the unique cultural and economic contributions of the tribes to our state. My administration is committed to working with tribal government in a productive manner for the benefit of all Oklahomans," Fallin said. "The signing of these compacts will provide both the state and Kaw Nation with new revenue that will enhance the availability and quality of government services for all Oklahomans, especially the tribal and non-tribal members in north central Oklahoma which the Kaw Nation already serves. I appreciate Chairman Munroe and the Kaw Nation for working with state officials on the signing of these compacts."
"The Kaw Nation is very pleased to have concluded negotiations with Governor Fallin related to burn Bans and tobacco sales," said Kaw Nation Chairman Guy Munroe. "The Kaw Nation appreciates the effort and understanding that Governor Fallin and her staff have brought to these negotiations. These compacts provide certainty to the Kaw Nation and provide a foundation for a continuing strong relationship between the Kaw Nation and the state for the benefit of our members and the members of our local community."
The Kaw Nation's tobacco compact was set to expire on June 30, 2013. This is the first tobacco expiring tobacco compact that the Fallin administration has renegotiated. The agreement signed today sets the terms of taxation and on the sale of tobacco products on tribal land. The burn ban compact, an idea brought to the state by the Kaw Nation officials, establishes an intergovernmental agreement on the issuance and execution of burn bans between the Kaw Nation and the state.
"In recent years, we've seen the devastating toll that wildfires have had in Oklahoma," Fallin said. "I appreciate the Kaw Nation for working with the state on an innovative burn ban compact that will help prevent and control wildfires in our state."

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=11151
