Public Statements
Gov. Fallin: It's Not Too Late to Fight Hunger in Oklahoma
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Oct. 10, 2016
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

To help fight hunger this holiday season, Governor Mary Fallin today encouraged Oklahomans to join her seventh annual Feeding Oklahoma Drive during the month of October. Oklahoma is consistently one of the hungriest states in the nation.
"There's still time to participate in my Feeding Oklahoma Drive," said Fallin. "The drive doesn't end until October 31, so you can still host a food drive or make a donation to help us meet our goal of providing 2 million meals for our hungry Oklahoma neighbors."
The month-long food drive benefits the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma, the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma, and their partner agencies across the state. Food donations raised will stay in the local area to help residents struggling with hunger. The Feeding Oklahoma Drive comes at an important time, as the need for food assistance during the winter increases dramatically.
To participate in the drive, visit feedingoklahoma.org or email feedingoklahoma@regionalfoodbank.org. All donations will stay in local communities across the state.
Non-perishable food items can also be donated at all BancFirst locations, Oklahoma City metro area Bob Moore dealerships, select AT&T locations, the Community Food Bank and the Regional Food Bank. Most-needed items include canned meat, canned vegetables, canned fruits, canned tuna, peanut butter, and rice and beans.
Monetary donations can be made online at feedingoklahoma.org. Every dollar donated will provide five meals for the one in six Oklahomans who have inconsistent access to food.
Last fiscal year, the Regional Food Bank and Community Food Bank distributed more than 73.1 million pounds of food and products through a network of more than 1,700 charitable feeding programs and schools across Oklahoma.
About the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma
The Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma is the state's largest private, domestic hunger-relief organization and a member of Feeding America's network of Food Banks. The nonprofit provides enough food to feed more than 126,000 hungry Oklahomans each week through a network of more than 1,300 schools and charitable feeding programs in 53 central and western Oklahoma counties. Since its inception in 1980, the Regional Food Bank has distributed more than 644 million pounds of food to feed Oklahoma's hungry. For more information, visit http://www.regionalfoodbank.org; find us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/regionalfoodbank or follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/rfbo.
About the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma
Founded in 1981, the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma is one of the largest, private hunger-relief organizations in Oklahoma. It distributes donated items to 450 Partner Programs in 24 counties of eastern Oklahoma. These programs include emergency food pantries, soup kitchens, emergency shelters, after-school programs, shelters and veteran and senior citizen centers. In addition, the Food Bank helps raise public awareness about hunger and the role of food banking in alleviating hunger. For more information, visit okfoodbank.org.

Source: https://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=26124
