Public Statements
Governor Fallin, Verizon Officials Announce Company Bringing 500 New Jobs to Tulsa Facility
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 18, 2013
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin joined with officials from Verizon in Tulsa today to announce that the company is adding up to 500 new jobs at its North Lakewood facility in Tulsa. The jobs will be finance and accounting positions. The company currently employs more than 900 at the Tulsa facility.
"Today's announcement is great news for Tulsa and northeastern Oklahoma. These positions represent the kind of high-quality, good paying jobs we are working to bring to the state," Fallin said. "We appreciate Verizon's investment in Oklahoma and are excited about the 500 new jobs coming to Tulsa. Today's announcement is another great example that our pro-growth, pro-business policies are working and are making Oklahoma an even better place to do business."
Verizon serves local, long distance, wireless and data customers in Oklahoma and has 50 retail stores and authorized agents throughout the state. The company has nearly 1,200 employees statewide and has an annual payroll of approximately $85.3 million in Oklahoma.
Verizon officials said the decision to create a financial services hub by adding up to 500 new positions in Tulsa comes after an extensive review of numerous locations across the nation. Many factors were considered as part of the company's search, including the quality and availability of financial services talent, quality of life considerations, the cost of living and more. At the end of the evaluation process, Tulsa emerged as an ideal location.
"Verizon has a long-standing relationship with the city of Tulsa and the state of Oklahoma. With a significant presence in Tulsa, we know from first-hand experience that Oklahoma has a business-friendly environment that encourages investment,'' said Michelle Robinson, Verizon vice president of state government affairs. "Selecting Tulsa as a new financial services hub for Verizon allows us to take advantage of the financial services talent throughout Oklahoma. We look forward to extending our commitment to the Tulsa metropolitan area and the great of state of Oklahoma for future growth."

Source:
