Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Issues Reminders Regarding New "Open Carry" Law
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Oct. 31, 2012
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today reminded citizens who plan to take advantage of Oklahoma's "Open Carry" law to study the law and remain in compliance. Under the new law, which goes into effect tomorrow, November 1, citizens with a handgun license issued by the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation (OSBI) will now be able to carry both concealed handguns and openly displayed hand guns. Previously, license holders were only able to carry concealed weapons.
"Oklahoma will soon become one of 44 states that allow some kind of "open carry,'" Fallin said. "I believe the law is consistent with the spirit of the Second Amendment and that similar laws in other states have shown that open carry can be implemented safely and responsibly. However, it is important that citizens, especially those that plan to openly carry firearms, understand and follow the law.
"I am reminding all Oklahomans that the law allows for open carry of firearms only for those with handgun licenses," said Fallin. "Gun owners with concealed carry permits will now be allowed to carry their guns openly. Anyone without such a permit who wishes to take advantage of the open carry law must apply for and receive a license through the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation."
Those carrying firearms, either openly or concealed, must have both their handgun license and a valid government ID on their person at all times.
"It's also important to remember that any privately owned business may prohibit open carry or concealed carry on their property. These prohibitions must be respected, in addition to the prohibitions on open carry at schools, universities and career technology centers, prisons, in bars, at sporting events, or on government property. Finally, I'm asking all Oklahomans to remember that, in the event they are stopped by a law enforcement officer, a person carrying a weapon must immediately notify the officer that they are armed."

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=9587
