Public Statements
Gov. Fallin to Lead Oklahoma Delegation on Economic Development Trip to Europe
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Oct. 9, 2012
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin will lead a delegation of business and civic leaders from northeastern Oklahoma on an economic development trip to Europe from October 15 -- October 19. The trip, organized by the Tulsa Metro Chamber, will include meetings with senior executives at companies with employment or operations in Oklahoma. Officials from the Tulsa Metro Chamber and the Oklahoma Department of Commerce will also attend.
The trip will provide an opportunity for the governor and business leaders to encourage expansion and retention of jobs and investment from those foreign-based companies operating in Oklahoma. The companies with which the delegation will meet represent key industries in Oklahoma including the aerospace, energy and manufacturing industries. In 2011, Oklahoma exports totaled $6.2 billion. Oklahoma's exports increased 41 percent from 2009 to 2011, marking the third-consecutive year of significant export growth.
"There's great potential for growth in Oklahoma from the foreign-based businesses already located here. This trip will allow us to strengthen and build upon existing relationships that will ultimately help us attract more jobs and investment to Oklahoma," Fallin said. "I'm excited to share the "Oklahoma Story' with an international audience and leading this delegation is part of my administration's effort to cultivate a superior business climate that creates economic growth and prosperity for Oklahoma."
Tulsa Metro Chamber officials stressed the need to be economically competitive at the global level.
"The competition for jobs is more intense than ever before, and the Tulsa region and Oklahoma must forge business relationships and lasting partnerships that position us as a worldwide force in the area of economic development," said Becky Frank, 2012 chair of the Tulsa Metro Chamber and chairman and CEO of Schnake Turnbo Frank | PR. "The Governor's Trade Mission is an essential component of the Chamber's regional economic development plan, Tulsa's Future, and our effort to grow jobs in northeast Oklahoma."

Source:
