Public Statements
Governor Fallin Encourages Oklahomans to Wear Purple to Support Domestic Violence Victims
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Oct. 2, 2012
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin, the Oklahoma Coalition Against Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault (OCADVSA), Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA), Domestic Violence Intervention Services (DVIS) and Verizon Wireless Oklahoma are encouraging Oklahomans to wear purple Thursday, October 4th to show support for victims of domestic violence and to raise awareness of this rapidly-growing crime.
"Domestic abuse is a tragedy that we will work as a community to overcome," Fallin said. "I applaud OCADVSA, YWCA, DVIS and Verizon Wireless Oklahoma for raising awareness of this issue within our state. I encourage all Oklahomans to show their support for the victims of domestic violence by wearing purple on Thursday, October 4."
Wear Purple Day in Oklahoma will take place on Thursday, October 4 and is one of the public awareness events planned in October for Domestic Violence Awareness Month (DVAM). The color purple was chosen as the symbol of the Domestic Violence awareness movement. Across the country, families and friends of victims have adorned purple clothing or ribbons to remember and honor loved ones who have lost their lives as a result of domestic violence.
"Domestic violence is a growing problem that needs increased awareness and support for victims. Verizon shares the year-round commitment of Governor Mary Fallin, the YWCA, OCADVSA and DVIS to help make a difference in the lives of victims in Oklahoma and put an end to this epidemic," said Dean Taylor, president of Verizon Wireless in Oklahoma. "As a technology company connecting people with their friends and family, we can help those who, many times, are silent victims."
For more information on Domestic Violence Awareness Month activities or to seek assistance please visit www.ocadvsa.org or call 1-800-522-7233.
About Verizon Wireless
Verizon Wireless operates the nation's largest 4G LTE network and largest, most reliable 3G network. The company serves 94.2 million retail customers, including 88.8 million retail postpaid customers. Headquartered in Basking Ridge, N.J., with 78,000 employees nationwide, Verizon Wireless is a joint venture of Verizon Communications (NYSE, NASDAQ: VZ) and Vodafone (LSE, NASDAQ: VOD). For more information, visit www.verizonwireless.com. To preview and request broadcast-quality video footage and high-resolution stills of Verizon Wireless operations, log on to the Verizon Wireless Multimedia Library at www.verizonwireless.com/multimedia.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=9269
