Public Statements
Gov. Fallin to Host National Energy Leaders for Southern States Energy Board Meeting
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Sept. 21, 2012
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin will host key policy makers and energy industry leaders from across the nation in Oklahoma City for the 52nd annual meeting of the Southern States Energy Board (SSEB). Governor Fallin serves as chairman of the SSEB. The annual meeting, which runs from Sept. 23-25, will bring together experts in diverse disciplines offering policy and technology solutions. The theme of the annual meeting is "Toward Energy Independence."
"The SSEB is a key leader in the effort to promote the traditional energy resources that are needed and utilized by Oklahoma and other states every day," Fallin said. "To ensure our energy security and to create jobs and grow the economy, we must expand domestic energy production and become less reliant on foreign sources of energy."
Governor Fallin will deliver the chair's message at 8:30 a.m. Monday. The event is being held at Cox Convention Center Hotel in Oklahoma City. The governor also will preside over the SSEB's business meeting Monday afternoon.
The SSEB meeting will include presenters from around the country talking about the energy revolution the nation is experiencing. State officials will discuss the impact of energy on their economies and the policy considerations. Opinion leaders in the industry will share their expertise on issues such as clean development of traditional energy sources and advanced technologies for non-conventional oil and gas production. Utility experts will discuss what is needed to modernize the electric grid and ensure that there is a reliable infrastructure for electricity delivery.
Congressman James Lankford of Oklahoma will provide a luncheon keynote address on Monday. He will share his perspective on how this country must take advantage of the surge in domestic energy supply and not let it become a "missed opportunity."




















Source:
