Public Statements
Governor Mary Fallin Asks All Oklahomans to Be Proactive and Protect Against West Nile Virus
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Aug. 16, 2012
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin is joining with state and local public health officials to raise awareness of West Nile virus and the steps Oklahomans should take to protect themselves from the mosquito-borne illness.
"West Nile virus is a serious disease that can be life-altering or even fatal," said Fallin. "Many of our fellow Oklahomans are now hospitalized with West Nile virus. Even though we are early into the season, at least 61 cases and three deaths have been reported in Oklahoma. The best way to prevent West Nile virus is to avoid mosquito bites."
Fallin urged Oklahomans to "fight the bite" by taking personal precautions to reduce the risk of mosquito bites, including using insect repellent when going outdoors, installing or repairing screens on windows and doors, and emptying standing water from items outside the home like buckets, cans, flower pots, and tires so mosquitoes have no place to breed. Bird baths and outdoor pet water bowls should be emptied and refilled daily and leaves and debris should be cleaned from gutters to ensure they are not clogged.
"This disease has hit Oklahomans hard this year and unfortunately, those who seem to be most at risk are older citizens. If you know persons who might be at particular risk, such as parents or grandparents over age 50, please check with them to make certain they are taking precautions," Fallin emphasized. "In addition, anyone spending significant time outdoors must also make certain to use insect repellent and carry it with them for reapplication if necessary. Oklahomans are or will soon be gearing up for night-time outdoor activities like high school football games, athletic practices, lakeside camping, gardening and evening jogs. Farmers and those who work outside are particularly susceptible to the disease. Everyone in these circumstances must be sure to take proper precautions."
Fallin urged those who believe they have contracted West Nile to seek immediate medical attention.
"Symptoms appear within 3 to 15 days after exposure and generally appear flu-like, with head-aches, muscle weakness, fever and nausea all being common. Anyone who suspects themselves of having West Nile virus should immediately contact a doctor."
West Nile virus is a seasonal epidemic that begins in late summer and continues into the fall. Case activity spikes every three to four years depending on conditions that encourage a higher number of infected mosquitoes. Healthy, active adults who are 50 and older have the highest risk of illness, including neuroinvasive disease, which causes inflammation of the brain and spinal cord. The age range of cases reported among Oklahomans this year is from 12 to 90 years old. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports 32 states have West Nile cases.
For more information on West Nile virus, visit the Oklahoma State Department of Health's website at www.health.ok.gov.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=8688
