Public Statements
Oklahoma Selected for New Asco Inc. Aerospace Manufacturing Site
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: July 9, 2012
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Today Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin and Secretary Dave Lopez of the Oklahoma Department of Commerce, announced that Belgium-based Asco Incorporated will be opening a new U.S. production facility in Stillwater, Oklahoma.
Asco is a technology specialist and world-class provider of supply chain integration in design, development, precision machining, processing, and certified assembly of complex high strength metallic aircraft components. Asco specializes in lift devices, mechanical assemblies and major functional components for the aerospace industry.
"Oklahoma was the best location for our facility, said Christian Boas, CEO Asco Group. " The state is centrally located in North America and has an existing aerospace industry which is thriving. Oklahoma has a highly skilled workforce which specializes in our industry and the state has offered us assistance in training our new workforce."
The new Stillwater plant will represent the latest in technology and lean manufacturing practices. The state of the art facility will house machining, heat and surface treatment, and assembly operations for complex machined parts made of titanium, steel and aluminum. With this new comprehensive manufacturing unit in North America, Asco will be prepared to meet the needs of clients and ramp up new and legacy programs.
"I am thrilled to welcome ASCO to the Oklahoma community," Governor Mary Fallin of Oklahoma said. "Oklahoma has one of the strongest aerospace sectors in the U.S., and we are quickly becoming an international destination for the industry. Today's announcement is one more indication that our commitment to pro-business policies is helping to attract jobs and businesses to the state. Oklahoma is proud to host ASCO and we look forward to a long and successful partnership with the company and its employees."
With the support of both a fully equipped American manufacturing unit and a design center in the United States, Asco will strengthen its position as a preferred supplier to its customers.
"We will work closely with Asco to ensure its transition into the Oklahoma market is smooth," said Dave Lopez, Secretary of Commerce for the Oklahoma Department of Commerce. "Asco will be an excellent addition to our aerospace community."
"Asco will bring high-quality, highly skilled jobs to the area and add to our vibrant aerospace industry, " said Lisa Navrkal, President & CEO of the Stillwater Chamber of Commerce. "We're excited to have another foreign company joining our business community."
The Stillwater facility capital investment is expected to be approximately $60 million and 250 employees by 2014. Phase Two is expected to bring an additional approximately $30 million to $40 million in capital investment and an additional 350 jobs in 2015.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=8187
