Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Says Oklahoma Lakes Make Great Stop for Memorial Day
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 24, 2012
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

As Oklahomans gear up for Memorial Day, Governor Mary Fallin says the state's lakes are great places to enjoy the holiday weekend. Like thousands of other Oklahomans, Governor Fallin and her family plan to enjoy time at the lake this weekend.
"Going to the lake for the Memorial Day holiday is a tradition for many Oklahomans. Picnics, watermelon, homemade ice cream and fun in the sun all mark the beginning of summer," Fallin said. "I want to encourage Oklahomans to have fun and enjoy themselves at state parks and lakes but remember to be safe and observe the proper rules and guidelines for boating and lake safety."
Last year, Oklahoma's summer season at the lakes was marred by outbreaks of toxic blue-green algae. In response, the governor signed into law today (Thursday, May 24) Senate Bill 259, which establishes a state policy for response to toxic blue-green algae concentrations in recreational bodies of water. The law goes into effect immediately.
"Senate Bill 259 establishes an effective response plan that will keep Oklahomans updated on the conditions of our state's lakes. This will help families better plan their summer activities and continue to enjoy all the recreational activities state lakes offer," Fallin said.
The legislation focuses on creating a public education campaign to inform citizens about the dangers of toxic blue-green algae. Starting this weekend, the Oklahoma Department of Tourism and Recreation will distribute printed materials to state park users and lake managers will begin placing informational signs at major lake access points.
Additionally, SB 259 requires the Tourism Department to develop and maintain a Web site that allows the public to check water quality at state lakes. The bill also directs the state Department of Health to educate health care providers on the effects and symptoms of exposure to toxic blue-green algae; utilizes the World Health Organization guidelines for moderate probability of adverse health effects; and sets the threshold for issuing an advisory at 100,000 cells per milliliter for cell count and 20 micrograms per liter for microcystin toxin levels.

Source:
