Public Statements
Governor Fallin Signs "Open Carry' Legislation into Law
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 15, 2012
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today signed into law Senate Bill 1733, a measure that allows Oklahoma citizens to openly carry firearms. The bill permits those who are licensed, or already have been licensed, to carry a firearm under the Oklahoma Self Defense Act to openly carry a weapon or conceal it. It also allows property owners to openly carry a firearm on their property without a concealed carry permit for the purpose of self defense.
To receive a license under the Oklahoma Self Defense Act, applicants must take a firearms safety and training course and submit to a background check by the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation. Those convicted of felonies and certain misdemeanors may not receive a handgun license.
With Governor Fallin's signature on SB 1733, Oklahoma becomes the 25th state with either "permissive open carry" laws (no permit required) or "licensed open carry" (permit required). Oklahoma now joins Utah, North Dakota, Minnesota, Iowa, Indiana, Tennessee, Georgia, Mississippi, New Jersey, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Hawaii and Massachusetts as a "licensed open carry" state.
"As a strong supporter of the Second Amendment and a gun owner myself, I'm happy to sign this bill into law and grant law-abiding citizens the ability to openly carry firearms," Fallin said. "Senate Bill 1733 sends a strong message that Oklahoma values the rights of its citizens to defend themselves, their family and their property. It does so in a responsible way, by requiring those citizens who choose to "open carry' to undergo both firearms training and a background check."
Businesses may continue to prohibit firearms to be carried on their premises. SB 1733 prohibits carrying firearms on properties owned or leased by the city, state or federal government, at corrections facilities, in schools or college campuses, bars or other businesses in certain instances where alcohol is consumed and at sports arenas during sporting events.
The bill was sponsored by Senator Anthony Sykes and Representative Jeff Hickman.
"I want to thank Senator Sykes and Representative Hickman, as well as the entire Legislature, for their commitment to protecting the Second Amendment rights of Oklahomans," Fallin said.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=7425
