Public Statements
Governor Fallin Signs Bill to Help Veterans Translate Military Experience into Academic Credits
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 8, 2012
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Fallin today signed into law SB 1863, a bill that will help veterans translate their military experience and skills into academic credits and credit for workforce training.
"We owe our gratitude to the men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces for their service and sacrifice. The men and women in our military, as well as all of our veterans, possess some of the most unique skill sets in the world," Fallin said. "The Post-Military Service Occupation, Education and Credentialing Act will give veterans credit for the experience they gained in service of the country and provide them the help they deserve to find jobs and re-enter the workforce once their service is complete."
SB 1863 would allow Oklahoma colleges, university and technology centers to provide academic credit to a military veteran, who was honorably discharged in the previous three years, for any applicable education, training and experience received through military duty that pertains to his or her area of study. Governing boards must adopt policies for military academic credit by January 1, 2013, and courses must meet the standards of the American Council on Education or equivalent standards.
Secretary of Veterans Affairs Rita Aragon praised the bill as a way to help support veterans returning from active duty overseas.
"Our military service men and women deserve our support in honor of their service to our nation," Aragon said. "This program will allow veterans to transform their unique military skills and training into academic credit and real-world certification."
The Post-Military Service Occupation, Education and Credentialing Act was sponsored by retired Army Lt. Colonel Sen. Steve Russell and Rep. Ann Coody.
"I want to thank Senator Russell and Representative Coody, the bill's sponsors, as well as the entire Legislature for their commitment to helping our nation's military veterans," Fallin said.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=7345
