Public Statements
Oklahoma City Listed Among Top Destination Cities for Millennials
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Aug. 19, 2016
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

- Governor Mary Fallin today applauded Oklahoma City for being listed as a top place for millennials to live.
According to data collected by realtor.com, Oklahoma City is the sixth-top destination for millennials.
"This is great news for our workforce," said Fallin. "City leaders across the nation are vying to attract these young adults to boost their local economy."
Studies have shown that millennials, typically defined as between 20 and 35 years old, are generally attracted to cities with good job prospects and low unemployment rates.
Among the top 10 cities found to be attracting millennials, Oklahoma City had the second-lowest unemployment rate at 3.9 percent rate during the study period and the lowest median home price of $219,000, according to realtor.com, the official website of the National Association of REALTORS®.
The website said its findings were based on Census Bureau migration data collected from 2009 to 2013 that tracked people's moves in and out of metropolitan areas, the number of cross-metro moving requests recorded on moving.com and a cross-metro search of traffic on realtor.com.
Studies have shown that millennials, typically defined as between 20 and 35 years old, boosts a local economy.
The realtor.com article states that more and more young, educated people torn between the opportunities and excitement of city life and the affordability and warmth of a small town seem to be finding Oklahoma City to be the perfect compromise.
It states that WalletHub declared Oklahoma City the seventh-best city to start a career, taking into account factors such as availability of entry-level jobs, median starting salary, economic mobility and workforce diversity.
And having an NBA team also helps in Oklahoma City's appeal.
"Oh," the article concludes, " and there's the Thunder, too."

Source: https://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=24442
