Public Statements
Google Announces Additional Investment in Oklahoma
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: April 4, 2012
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin and Secretary of Commerce Dave Lopez joined Google officials today at a news conference at the Oklahoma State Capitol to unveil Google's plan to expand its data center operation at the MidAmerica Industrial Park near Pryor in Mayes County. The new facility will be constructed next to the original data center which was dedicated in September 2011 and will double production capacity and add several employee amenities.
"We welcome the news today of Google's plans to continue investing in Oklahoma," commented Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin. "Google's decision to increase the size of their data center in Mayes County highlights the attractiveness of our state as a place to invest and do business. As a global company recognized for creating innovative online tools that help businesses and individuals succeed, Google has found a technical workforce with a strong work ethic in Oklahoma, one equal to the task of operating their data center in Pryor. Moreover, Google's substantial investment, one of the largest in our state's history at more than $700 million, represents a major step in further diversifying our state's economy and ensuring Oklahoma plays a large role in the ever-emerging tech industry."
The Google data center in Mayes County currently employs more than 100 workers and houses computer systems and associated components that support services such as Google Search, Gmail, Google Maps, and new products including Google+. Coming just six months after the grand opening, the new building will not only bring Google's investment to more than $700 million, but will also result in the creation of up to 50 additional jobs in Mayes County.

"We're thrilled to have Google, a proud U.S. company and one of the leading innovators in the world, renew its commitment to the state of Oklahoma," Oklahoma Secretary of Commerce Dave Lopez said. "We're grateful to all of the Oklahoma partners who are helping accommodate Google's growth in our great state."
Google's new building will eventually house servers and provide additional capacity for operations. It will also include a cafe equipped with both indoor and outdoor seating areas where breakfast, lunch and dinner will be served for Google's round-the-clock workforce. In addition to a full-featured gym complete with shower facilities, the building will also provide office space and meeting areas.
"We are committed to strengthening our investment in Mayes County," Google Data Center Operations Manager Mike Wooten said. "In addition to expanding our operational footprint, our new facilities will enable us to offer services to our employees that will improve their day-to-day work experience and contribute to their health and well-being. We have an outstanding workforce in Pryor, and we are so appreciative of the exceptional reception we have received from the local community and the state of Oklahoma. We are glad to be in Oklahoma."
Google is supporting educational initiatives in science, technology, engineering and mathematics as well as many other projects in Mayes County through their community grants program. Google awards grants to nonprofits to promote technology literacy and innovation, renewable energy innovation, access to high-speed Internet and new economy entrepreneurship.
Google was recently recognized at the top of Fortune Magazine's list of "100 Best Companies to Work For" in 2012. In addition, the data center also received ISO 14001 and 18001 certification, which are standards for environmental management and workforce safety. Google is the first major Internet services company to gain external certification for their high environmental and workforce safety standards at all of their U.S. data centers.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=6825
