Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Signs Criminal Justice Reform Bill; Disappointed More Wasn't Done This Session
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: June 6, 2017
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today signed the remaining criminal justice reform bill that was the result of recommendations from her Oklahoma Justice Reform Task Force, saying it was disappointing other proposed measures that would have had more of a direct impact on Oklahoma's over-capacity prison population stalled in the House of Representatives.
Those measures addressed the governor's criminal justice reform task force report that said without reform, Oklahoma is on pace to add 7,218 inmates over the next 10 years, That would require three new prisons and cost the state an additional $1.9 billion in capital expenditures and operating costs.
"One of the bills, which was held up this session, was House Bill 2281. It included important sentencing changes to low-level property crimes, and would have had a particularly important impact on our female prison population," said Fallin. "Without jeopardizing public safety, with these bills, we could have implemented smart, data-driven solutions to safely and prudently fix our criminal justice system."
To continue her earlier criminal justice reform efforts and to address the high number of nonviolent offenders in Oklahoma's prisons, Fallin last year established the task force, which developed data-driven policy recommendations to improve public safety, control corrections spending and improve recidivism rates for consideration during this year's legislative session, which adjourned May 26.
The task force recommended 12 bills. Three received legislative approval.
"Violent offenders, sex offenders, and offenders convicted of 85 percent crimes are excluded from any sentencing reforms," Fallin said. "These reforms are targeted at nonviolent offenders, many of whom suffer from addiction and mental health issues. We simply have to start focusing on treatment and reintegrating these offenders, which research has shown will result in lower crime rates and lower rates of recidivism."

Source:
