Public Statements
Governor Fallin Announces Appointment of Joy Hofmeister to the State Board of Education
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 13, 2012
Location: Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

Governor Mary Fallin today announced the appointment of Joy Hofmeister to the Oklahoma State Board of Education. She will serve on an interim basis pending Senate confirmation. Hofmeister is replacing Philip Lakin, Jr., who resigned. She will serve the remainder of Lakin's term through April of 2015 as a member from Congressional District 1.
"Joy has spent her entire adult life working in the field of education," Fallin said. "She is a teacher with hands-on classroom experience, an executive with private sector experience, and a researcher with a passion for finding ways to improve our schools and boost student performance. Her experience, dedication and passion for reform will serve her well on the State Board of Education."
Hofmeister is a former public school teacher who currently serves as the CEO of Kumon of South Tulsa, a local franchise of the international firm that provides math and reading enrichment to children. She serves on the board of directors for the Jenks Public Schools Foundation, is participating in the Jenks Select Committee for Study of School Finance, and has previously worked on the Math Textbook Adoption Committee, also for Jenks Public Schools. Hofmeister has significant experience working with Special Education teams and students on an Individual Education Plan (IEP); and has also participated in the Trends in International Math and Science Study (TIMSS) research testing.
"I'm thrilled to be part of a community and team that is dedicated to improving the quality of our schools and giving Oklahoma students the tools they need to succeed," Hofmeister said. "Nothing is as important to the future of this state as ensuring our children maximize their potential through a quality education that prepares them to be globally competitive."

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=5685
