Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Orders Capitol Lights Be Turned Blue, Flags Flown at Half-Staff in Wake of Dallas Attack
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: July 8, 2016
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today ordered the lights on the state Capitol dome and at the gates of the Governor's Mansion be turned to blue to honor police officers after five Dallas police officers were killed and seven others were wounded in a sniper attack Thursday night.
"This is a difficult time for our nation, with a number of officer-involved shootings drawing scrutiny around the country, but there is nothing to justify an attack on our police officers like the one we saw in Dallas," said Fallin. "The men and women who put their lives on the line to protect our society every day deserve our respect and admiration. They are the ones we count on, day in and day out, to keep us safe from the people who would do us harm.
"My heart goes out to the officers who were killed or injured in the senseless shooting that disrupted a gathering of concerned citizens Thursday night in Dallas."
The lights on the Capitol dome will remain blue through early Wednesday. The governor also today signed an executive order directing all flags on state property to be flown at half-staff until Wednesday morning in honor of the police officers killed and wounded Thursday night. The orders will apply for five days, one for each of the five officers killed in Dallas.
Police officers also were shot today in Missouri and Georgia.
The Dallas attack occurred during a peaceful demonstration over the deaths of black men shot by police this week in Minnesota and Louisiana.
"I pray that there will be no further violence as authorities attempt to sort out what happened in Baton Rouge, La.; St. Paul, Minn.; and now in Dallas," Fallin said. "We must restore Americans' confidence that they will be safe and secure in their homes or on the streets of their communities.
"In the meantime, I join the people in those communities in mourning their losses. They remain in my thoughts and prayers."

Source: https://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=23281
