Public Statements
Governor Mary Fallin, Secretary Aragon, Comment on Veterans Day
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Nov. 10, 2011
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today thanked veterans and active duty military personnel for their service, and asked all Oklahomans to set aside time on Veterans Day to honor and pray for our troops.
"We owe our veterans and our active duty military men and women a debt we can never repay," Fallin said. "Their courage and sacrifice have allowed America to serve as the beacon of freedom and hope that it is today."
"This November 11, I would ask all our citizens to join me in thanking our veterans for everything they have done for this country and for the people of Oklahoma. Please also say a prayer for the many men and women who are overseas continuing to fight for freedom and democracy."
Oklahoma Secretary of Veterans Affairs Rita Aragon thanked military personnel and veterans for their unique contributions to Oklahoma.
"The quality of life we experience in Oklahoma is dramatically enhanced and amplified by the contributions of our military community," Aragon said. "It is an honor to serve them and act as a voice for their needs in Governor Fallin's administration, and it's a privilege to join Oklahomans this Veterans Day in thanking them for their service."
Report Details Economic Impact of Oklahoma's Military Installations
The governor also commented on a Department of Commerce report detailing the significant economic impact Oklahoma's five military installations have on the economy.
"Oklahomans have a profound respect for the service and sacrifice of our military men and women, but we also realize and appreciate the significant economic impact of our five military installations," Fallin said. "These installations are economic engines that provide good-paying jobs for thousands of people around the state and have helped bring millions of dollars in private-sector investment and research to Oklahoma."
Among the highlights of the report:
* More than 69,100 military personnel, federal civilian personnel and contractors were employed at Oklahoma's military installations in FY 2010.
* These jobs, and the operations at the installations, supported an additional 64,700 jobs in Oklahoma's economy for a total employment impact of more than 133,800 jobs in the state.
* Impacts on Oklahoma's Gross Domestic Product (GDP), which is value-added economic activity, totaled more than $9.6 billion in FY 2010, which was more than 7 percent of the size of the state's entire economy.
* Military installations in Oklahoma paid average wages of $43,675 in FY 2010, which was $5,438 higher than Oklahoma's average wage of $38,237.
* The jobs impacted by the military installations (direct, indirect and induced jobs) paid average wages of $41,742, which was $3,505 higher than Oklahoma's average wage of $38,237.
* The military installations in Oklahoma had a total wage and salary payroll of more than $3 billion in FY 2010. This created an additional $2.6 billion in wage and salary payroll in the state for a total impact of $5.6 billion.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=4968
