Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Encourages Oklahomans to Support Victims of Domestic Violence by Wearing Purple Oct. 6
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Oct. 4, 2011
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin, the Oklahoma Coalition Against Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault (OCADVSA) and Verizon Wireless Oklahoma are encouraging Oklahomans to wear purple this Thursday, October 6th to show support for victims and to raise awareness of domestic violence.
"Domestic violence has wide-ranging effects in our state on families, children and most importantly the victims," Fallin said. "I applaud the efforts of the Oklahoma Coalition Against Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault, as well as Verizon Wireless Oklahoma, for their work supporting victims and raising awareness. I encourage all Oklahomans to show their support for the victims of domestic violence by wearing purple on Thursday, October 6."
Wear Purple Day in Oklahoma is Thursday, October 6 and is one of the public awareness events planned in October by Verizon Wireless Oklahoma and OCADVSA for Domestic Violence Awareness Month. The color purple was chosen as the symbol of the Domestic Violence Movement. Across the country, families and friends of victims have adopted purple clothing or ribbons to remember and honor loved ones who have lost their lives as a result of domestic violence.
"Our support of Domestic Violence Awareness Month, in partnership with OCADVSA, is a part of Verizon's year-round commitment to raising awareness of domestic violence, while also drawing attention to the resources available so we can help eliminate this problem," Said Steve Smith, president for Verizon Wireless Oklahoma. "This is an important issue to Verizon. As a technology company connecting people with their friends and family, we have a duty to help those who, many times, are silent victims."
For more information on Domestic Violence Awareness Month activities or to seek assistance please visit www.ocadvsa.org or call 1-800-522-7233.

Source:
