Public Statements
Governor Fallin on Monday to Appear as Panelist in National Education Summit
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Sept. 23, 2011
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin on Monday will serve as a panelist during NBC's Education Nation summit in New York City. Governor Fallin and a handful of other governors were selected to participate in a panel titled, "The State of Education: The Governor's Perspective."
The panel, hosted by NBC News' Brian Williams, will focus on education and economic competitiveness. Other participating governors include: Gov. Lincoln Chafee (RI); Gov. Nathan Deal (GA); Gov. Bill Haslam (TN); Gov. John Hickenlooper (CO); Gov. Paul LePage (ME); Gov. Jack Markell (DE); Gov. Bob McDonnell (VA); Gov. Sean Parnell (AK); and Gov. Scott Walker (WI).
"It's great that Oklahoma is being recognized for our efforts to improve education and I'm excited to represent our state at this event," Fallin said. "My top priority is creating a business environment in Oklahoma that promotes job creation and economic growth. Nothing is more essential to accomplishing that goal than ensuring we have a highly skilled, educated workforce. I look forward to sharing Oklahoma's legislative reforms to improve student achievement and promote workforce development."
NBC News' says Education Nation is an initiative to engage the country in a solutions-focused conversation about the state of education in America. While some portions of the Education Nation summit will be covered by NBC television, all the events can be seen online on the Education Nation Web site: www.educationnation.com
Additionally, state Superintendent of Public Instruction Janet Barresi will participate in the summit as a panelist in a session Monday titled, "Stepping Up: The Power of a Parent Advocate." The session will focus on parents' roles as advocates for a variety of changes in education from calling for reforming state laws to overhauling failing schools to amending programs at individual schools.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=4305
