Public Statements
Governor Fallin Joins Other Governors in Releasing Medicaid Reform Principles
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: June 13, 2011
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today joined 28 other GOP governors in announcing seven guiding principles for reforming Medicaid.
The principles will serve as a framework as governors continue working with Congress as it considers how to reform Medicaid.
"Given the flexibility to craft their own solutions, states can meet the health care challenges of their citizens better than a one-size-fits-all plan handed down from Washington," Fallin said. "These principles will serve as a guide as we work with the federal government to improve the delivery of Medicaid."
The seven principles are:
1. States and territories are best able to make decisions about the design of their healthcare systems based on the respective needs, culture and values of each state.
2. States and territories should also have the opportunity to innovate by using flexible, accountable financing mechanisms that are transparent and that hold states accountable for efficiency and quality healthcare. Such mechanisms may include a block grant, a capped allotment outside of a waiver, or other accountable and transparent financing approaches.
3. Medicaid should be focused on quality, value-based and patient-centered programs that work in concert to improve the health of our states' citizens and drive value over volume, quality over quantity, at the same time containing costs.
4. States and territories must be able to streamline and simplify the eligibility process to ensure coverage for those most in need, and states must be able to enforce reasonable cost sharing for those able to pay.
5. States and territories can provide Medicaid recipients a choice in their healthcare coverage plans, just as many have in the private market, if they are able to leverage the existing insurance marketplace through innovative support mechanisms.
6. Territories must be ensured full integration into the federal healthcare system so they can provide healthcare coverage to those in need with the flexibility afforded to the states.
7. States must have greater flexibility in eligibility, financing and service delivery in order to provide long-term services and support that keep pace with the people Medicaid serves. New federal requirements threaten to stifle state innovation and investment. In addition, since dual eligibles now constitute 39 percent of Medicaid spending, Medicare policies that shift costs to the states must be reversed and the innovative power of states should be rewarded by a shared-savings program that allows full flexibility to target and deliver services, which are cost-effective for both state and federal taxpayers.

Source: http://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=2782
