Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Says Oklahoma Benefiting from "American Ninja Warrior" Filming at State Capitol
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: June 8, 2016
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Oklahoma is receiving a great deal of attention from news stories on last month's filming of part of the "American Ninja Warrior" television show at the state Capitol. The episodes are scheduled to air June 20 and Aug. 1.
Since the show announced in February that Oklahoma City was chosen as a host city for the season finals, more than 260 media stories have been produced, reaching an audience of almost 200 million people and generating more than 1.2 billion page views. The total dollar value of the media attention is approximately $4.5 million.
"The excitement regarding "American Ninja Warrior' has brought attention to Oklahoma to many people across the state and across the country," said Governor Mary Fallin. "The stories about the show and it being filmed in front of our state Capitol are bringing a great deal of positive press to our state that we otherwise wouldn't have been able to accomplish through advertising dollars."
The show is an obstacle course competition that is entering its eighth season on NBC. Rebroadcasts may be viewed on the Esquire Network. As part of its format, different cities each season serve as hosts for "city finals." Episodes of the show last season averaged more than 7 million viewers; it was the second-highest rated summer series on NBC last year.
For the episodes set in Oklahoma City, the state will receive nearly 7 million viewership impressions, plus additional impressions for all show promos leading up to the event.
"People from across the country will tune in and see sites and attractions in Oklahoma City," Fallin said. "The tourism value of nearly 7 million impressions will greatly benefit the tourism industry and promote pride in Oklahomans."
For more information, contact Tava Maloy Sofsky, director of the Oklahoma Film + Music Office, at (405) 230-8441 or at Tava.Sofsky@TravelOK.com.

Source: https://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=22599
