Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Announces Survey on Health Care Needs of Oklahoma Veterans
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: June 6, 2017
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin today announced a survey of health care needs among Oklahoma veterans. The "Take 10 Survey," which will be conducted by the Oklahoma Veterans Pilot Program, is an effort to identify the most pressing health care needs among veterans, as well as obtaining additional general information that will assist in creating a new system of health care for Oklahoma veterans.
"I am especially pleased to announce this detailed survey effort, supported by our veterans' organizations, business and health care leaders, education professionals, and members of the Oklahoma state Legislature, on the anniversary of D-Day," said Fallin. "This day is a reminder of how much our men and women in uniform have sacrificed over the years. This is why we want to build a health care model that improves access to services, and creates a more cost-effective and efficient system of care for our veterans. The participation of all Oklahoma veterans is critical to these efforts."
The Oklahoma Veterans Pilot Program asks all veterans, military retirees, active Guard and reservists, and active-duty military to go to the pilot program website and take 10 minutes to fill out the "Take 10 Survey." The website is www.okvetshealth.com.
"We encourage all Oklahoma veterans to visit our website (www.okvetshealth.com) and take 10 minutes to fill out the survey," said Myles Deering, executive director of the Oklahoma Department of Veterans Affairs.
"This is a rare opportunity for members of our service organizations to play a significant role in shaping veterans' health care for years to come," said Pete Peterson, chairman of the Oklahoma Veterans Pilot Program's Victor Company and the Oklahoma Veterans Council.
The survey will be available and active for six weeks, from June 6 to August 1. The University of Central Oklahoma (UCO) will then analyze the data, and it will be used by the Joint Task Force of the Oklahoma Veterans Pilot Program to finalize a comprehensive transitional system of care designed to deliver accessible quality health care to veterans statewide. This system will be recommended in November to the governor, state legislative leadership, and members of the Oklahoma congressional delegation.
"We are excited to be a partner in this effort to serve our veterans by managing the survey activity and analyzing the data collected on behalf of our Oklahoma veterans," said Mark Kinders, vice president of public affairs at UCO.
"We hope the data collected will further our program efforts to better serve those who served with honor," said Pete Reed, a former director of the Oklahoma Department of Veterans Affairs and coordinator of the Oklahoma Veterans Pilot Program.

Source: https://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=33158
