Public Statements
Tulsa World - Leaving on a High Note
News Article
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Dec. 30, 2010
Location: Unknown

By Randy Krehbiel
Gov. Brad Henry leaves office next month with an unusual and perhaps unique distinction: the Shawnee Democrat is more popular now than when he took office eight years ago.
The most recent Oklahoma Poll, taken in October, put Henry's job approval rating at 62 percent -- down from an all-time high of 83 percent in early 2007 - but still above the 58 percent of January 2003.
"I don't know why I am popular or why I have maintained that popularity in the face of some challenging situations and difficult positions that I have taken," Henry said. "I think - and what I hope - is that people see me not as a partisan."
Observers seem to agree Henry's consistently high approval ratings reflect his penchant for avoiding partisan squabbles - or, some maintain, squabbles of any kind.
Yet Henry has taken positions at odds with the Legislature and public opinion. His vetoes led to a record number of state questions, most of them introduced by frustrated legislators. His refusal to give in on some budget issues sometimes stretched the budget-making process into the final hours of the legislative session.
And Henry endorsed then-candidate Barack Obama for president despite Obama's poor showing in the state primary and widespread opposition to the former Illinois senator.
"Even if they disagree with my position," said Henry, "I think people believe that I am doing what I am doing because I believe it is the best thing for our state."
Historically, Oklahoma's governorship has taken a toll on those who've held the office. Battles with the Legislature and the controversy that goes with being the state's chief executive have soured many an administration.
Only five Oklahoma governors, and none since David Boren in 1978, have gone on to further elected office.
Henry's predecessor, Republican Frank Keating, soared to national prominence after the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, but left office eight years later with an approval rating of 48 percent.
Keating's predecessor, Democrat David Walters, was at 35 percent when he left office.
Some Henry detractors, especially in his own party, complain that he didn't do enough to help other Democrats or the party itself. Henry said it was not his job to build the Democratic Party.
"I always tell people when they want my endorsement for some office that endorsements carry very little weight," Henry said. "And a lot of time the endorsee picks up the endorser's enemies, but not necessarily their friends.
"I think Oklahomans look at the person," Henry said. "Hopefully, they appreciate what I've done. There is no reason that they would necessarily translate that ... to other Democrats. Other Democrats are going to have to prove themselves."
Pat McFerron, perhaps the state's leading Republican strategist, said Henry may have done more for Democrats than they realize.
The Republican landslide of 2010, McFerron said, would probably have occurred in 2006 had Henry not been at the top of the ticket.
"I think the takeaway is not that his popularity didn't translate into gains for other Democrats, but that despite a Republican environment and not always taking popular positions, he was able to keep his high ratings," McFerron said.
McFerron said Henry "did a great job of projecting the image of putting Oklahoma first. ... He tended not to govern as a partisan."

Source: http://www.state.ok.us/governor/display_article.php?article_id=1476&article_type=1
