Public Statements
Happy New Year!
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Dec. 27, 2010
Location: Unknown

Each New Year brings hope and optimism for the future. In Oklahoma, we have good reason to look ahead with high expectations. Oklahoma has weathered the economic storm better than many states, and is poised for strong growth in the coming years.
At the State Capitol, a new wave of state leaders will take on the challenges before us. Seven new statewide elected officials will be inaugurated on January 10, and many new legislators have already taken office.
Many indicators point to a recovering economy in Oklahoma and across the country. In fact, our two largest cities consistently rank as among the best in nation for doing business, and companies are relocating to points all across our state.
Our hopes for future success are grounded in the hard work of the last several years. In Oklahoma City, Tulsa and many other cities and towns around our state, citizens have chosen to invest in their communities and their schools. Those investments are beginning to yield great dividends.
In the State Capitol, we have balanced the state's budget without raising taxes. We have made significant advancements in education, transportation and healthcare, laying a solid foundation for future growth.
Most of all, we have shown that Democrats and Republicans can work together, setting aside partisan differences and petty squabbles, to move Oklahoma forward. Our greatest achievements are those built out of cooperation and a sense of public service.
As Oklahoma prepares for one of the biggest leadership changes in years, it is my sincere hope that the same spirit of bipartisanship and cooperation continues to thrive in halls of the State Capitol.
Oklahoma has always been a place of optimism. The pioneers of the Land Run came to Oklahoma Territory with little more than a sense of hope and a willingness to work hard to build a better life.
That spirit still lives throughout Oklahoma. Oklahomans work hard and have faith that each new day will be better than the last. This New Year, we have every reason to look to the future of our state with pride, full of the knowledge that our best days lie ahead.
If you have questions or comments, please write me at the Office of the Governor, Room 212, Oklahoma City OK 73105 or visit the "Contact the Governor" section of my website, www.governor.ok.gov.

Source: http://www.state.ok.us/governor/display_article.php?article_id=1472&article_type=0
