Public Statements
Fallin Supports American Made Energy
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: July 30, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Congresswoman Mary Fallin today opposed costly new taxes on America's oil and gas producers that would kill Oklahoma jobs and raise energy prices for consumers in the state and across the country. "We must not use the terrible and ongoing tragedy in the Gulf as an excuse to enact the same failed taxes and regulations on our nation's energy producers," Fallin said. "I am concerned several provisions in H.R. 3534 will harm and even drive many of America's oil and gas producers out of business, simultaneously killing jobs and making us more dependent on foreign sources of energy."
"American-made energy is the key to ensuring America's energy independence, but we cannot reduce our reliance on foreign oil if this legislation becomes law. This bill would impose a new tax on all existing and new federal on and off shore oil and gas leases that would cost our domestic producers over $22 billion. This tax would surely give our foreign competitors a distinct advantage over American companies, stifle American job growth and increase the costs of energy for families, small business, farmers and everyone in between," Fallin said.
"For Oklahoma, this legislation would jeopardize the one in seven jobs directly supported by the oil and natural gas industry in our state. As the nation's 3rd largest natural gas producer and 5th largest crude oil producer, we should encourage continued production of Oklahoma's abundant resources rather than tax and regulate them out of business. Oklahoma alone produces 61 million barrels of oil in our state's 80,000 active wells that we would otherwise have to import.
"The last thing families and small businesses need is a tax hike on energy costs that will stifle economic growth and increase our dependence on foreign energy sources. In the short-term, we must assist in the Gulf's recovery from this tragedy by holding those responsible accountable, cleaning up the mess and investigating the cause. In the long-term, I will continue to support a comprehensive, all-of-the-above energy strategy that includes our abundant natural gas and fossil fuel resources as well as alternatives like wind, solar, geothermal and nuclear technology. I believe this is the way forward that will simultaneously reduce energy costs, decrease our reliance on foreign oil and create good jobs."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=517
