Public Statements
Oklahoma Delegation Applauds Supreme Court's Decision to Uphold Constitutional Rights of Gun Owners in McDonald v. Chicago
Statement
By: John Sullivan Frank Lucas Dan Boren Mary Fallin Tom Cole
Date: June 28, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

The Oklahoma Congressional delegation today reacted to the Unite States Supreme Court's decision in McDonald v. Chicago. The decision, decided by a vote of 5 to 4, upheld every Americans' right to bear arms by stating that the 2nd Amendment applies to state and local laws as well as federal laws. The case revolved around Chicago's handgun law, one of the most restrictive gun laws in the country. In a similar Supreme Court case in 2008, District of Columbia v. Heller, the court overturned the District of Columbia's extremely restrictive handgun laws for violating the 2nd Amendment.
Representative Dan Boren (OK-02)
"I applaud the Supreme Court's decision as a law abiding gun-owner, an avid sportsmen, and a member of the NRA's National Board of Directors. I strongly believe that the individual's right to gun ownership, granted by the Second Amendment, extends to all levels of government lawmaking and regulation. I was honored to join hundreds of my colleagues in signing an amicus brief urging the Court to rule on the side of the Constitution."
Representative Tom Cole (OK-04)
"The Constitution is crystal clear that citizens have the right to bear arms. This decision affirms that no government, at any level, has the authority to deny the rights of Americans to own guns. Today's ruling further reinforces the importance of appointing Supreme Court justices who will respect the fundamental rights plainly set forth in our Constitution."
Representative Mary Fallin (OK-05)
"This ruling is a triumph for the Second Amendment and reaffirms the right of every American to keep and bear arms. As a life-long supporter of the Second Amendment, I am dedicated to Oklahoma's long-standing tradition of gun-ownership. To deny this right to any law-abiding citizen is to strip Americans of one of the most fundamental freedoms intended by our Founders."
Representative Frank Lucas (OK-03)
"The United States Constitution could not be more clear when it states, "the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.' As a life-long supporter of the 2nd Amendment, I truly believe this constitutional right should apply in every corner of the country. I applaud the Supreme Court's decision in McDonalds v. Chicago to reaffirm every American citizen's constitutional right to bear arms and I hope the Supreme Court will continue down the path of ensuring strict adherence to the constitutional rights granted to every American citizen."
Representative John Sullivan (OK-01)
"Today's U.S. Supreme Court ruling in the case of McDonald vs. City of Chicago is a victory for the U.S. Constitution and for every law abiding American citizen who believes in the fundamental right to keep and bear arms. As an ardent supporter of 2nd amendment rights, I applaud the U.S. Supreme Court's decision and firmly agree that the Constitution prohibits the government from denying citizens of any state the right to bear arms. Many Oklahomans choose to own a firearm for a variety of reasons, including for sport, hunting, and protection from criminals who have access to firearms illegally. Criminals will always find a way to circumvent any gun control law passed, and it is not only wrong, but unconstitutional, to leave law abiding citizens unarmed and without the means to protect themselves and their families."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=508
