Public Statements
Fallin Votes to Protect and Defend America, Improve the Quality of Life for Armed Services
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 20, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

The House Armed Services Committee tonight accepted four amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act of 2011 offered by Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) to improve the quality of care and services for the military, their families and veterans. "Nothing is more important than protecting our service men and women when they are in harm's way," Fallin said.
"To defend and protect America, we need the best-trained, best-equipped military in the world," Fallin said. "I am pleased this year's defense authorization bill continues our strong support for our armed forces and provides critical funding for our troops overseas. For the brave men and women who have served our nation, this bill also enhances the benefits and services available to them and their families."
While she strongly supports the critical funding provided to troops and families, as well as a provision protecting TRICARE from the recently-passed government takeover of health care, Fallin expressed concern the bill did not go far enough to prevent known-terrorists and Guantanamo Bay detainees from being transferred or released. "Sending known-terrorists into our communities or back to the battlefield makes our nation and world less safe. I will continue to oppose the use of any federal funding to transfer known terrorists from Guantanamo Bay to the United States," Fallin said. Click here to read Fallin's oped opposing the transfer of Guantanamo detainees to Oklahoma.
"Even though there was some disagreement over portions of the bill, it is important to support this legislation and provide our nation's armed forces the resources they need for success," Fallin said. "As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am proud to represent Oklahoma's five military installations and am dedicated to ensuring our military has the resources necessary to keep America's families, communities and uniformed men and women safe," Fallin said.
Fallin Amendments
The Committee accepted four amendments offered by Fallin to improve the quality and availability of services to uniformed men and women and their families. "Easily accessible, effective services will simultaneously improve the quality of life for our military and significantly reduce long-term costs across the board," Fallin said of her amendments.
Fallin's first amendment, which would enforce the 2008 law requiring cognitive pre- and post-combat testing for Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), would help detect and diagnose these increasingly common afflictions. Click here for text of this amendment.
Two amendments related to the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of tinnitus (ringing of the ears) were also accepted. Tinnitus is the number one service-related injury for veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. "While we can't always keep our troops out of harm's way, we can minimize their risks," Fallin said. Click here for text of Fallin's amendment to study tinnitus treatment and prevention. Click here for the text of Fallin's amendment to ensure pre-and post deployment tinnitus assessment.
Fallin also offered an amendment to assess the quality and effectiveness of education programs for military spouses to ensure they provide the greatest benefit possible. "Military families are the backbone of our armed forces and provide the support and encouragement for our service members to effectively train, fight and win," said Fallin. Click here for the text of this amendment.
"I am deeply grateful to the men and women who have dedicated their lives to keeping us safe. As recent failed attacks on our homeland remind us, we must remain vigilant, proactive and forward thinking when it comes to defending our homeland."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=492
