Public Statements
Op-Ed: ObamaCare Begging To Be Repealed
Op-Ed
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 17, 2010
Location: Unknown

The vote may have happened, but the debate over the gigantic federal takeover of our health care system goes on. I have made my position clear -- we should repeal this bill and replace it with sensible reforms. President Obama promised the American people his health care bill would reduce health care costs and be good for America. But let's look at the facts:
The bill was supposed to cut health care costs. Yet within days after its passage, several major companies issued new financial reports that showed their employee health insurance costs would go up. AT&T projected a billion dollars in new costs, Caterpillar at least $100 million.
As a result, those and other companies will not be able to hire new workers -- or they will be forced to reduce the very health insurance benefits Obamacare was supposed to assure. So much for the president's promise that if we liked our current health care plans we may keep them.
Medtronic, a major manufacturer of medical devices, said new taxes included in the bill on the things they make will force them to lay off workers. They are also likely to cut back future research and development. Obamacare may well have cancelled development and production of life-saving medical devices you could need some day.
Remember how Obamacare was going to reduce costs? Massachusetts, the state with an existing plan most similar to the one contained in the Obamacare bill, has the highest health insurance rates in the country. They rose 40 percent between 2003 and 2008. Tim Cahill, the Democrat who is the state treasurer of Massachusetts, says Obamacare will bankrupt the country.
Remember then-candidate Obama's 2008 campaign pledge to never raise taxes by "a single dime" on ordinary Americans? Ordinary Americans who go to a tanning salon will begin paying a new ten percent tax on June 1, courtesy of the Obamacare bill.
And Obama's tax on medical device manufacturers will surely make its way to you and me in the form of higher prices for things like wheel chairs, pace makers, hearing aids or insulin pumps.
The new Medicaid mandates in the bill will force every state to expand their Medicaid rolls. In Oklahoma, it is projected that our state budget will face at least $500 million in new costs from this mandate by 2020. That's the same state budget that is already overdrawn.
It's going to get worse as more and more provisions in this bill come on line -- unless we do something to stop it. I recently joined in co-sponsoring HR 4910, which would repeal the bill and replace it with low-cost, real world reforms like reigning in frivolous lawsuits, assuring coverage for pre-existing conditions and opening insurance markets to real competition.
I also called on Oklahoma's attorney general to join at least 19 of his peers in filing suit to challenge the constitutionality of the bill's mandate that everyone buy health insurance as decreed from Washington or be fined. But instead of standing up and defending our state from dangerous mandates on individuals and on our state budget, our attorney general chose to sit this one out, accept the status quo and swallow the worst piece of legislation in a generation.
The simple truth is that this misguided piece of legislation represents the largest single federal intrusion into the American economy in history. It will explode the deficit, raise costs and reduce the quality of care.
Oklahomans are upset and worried, as they should be. I've spoken with many of them in recent weeks, and while they appreciate the fact that our entire federal delegation was united in opposition to Obamacare. But they are frustrated so few in Washington are listening, even some of their own state officials are oblivious to the will of the people.
I will continue to push House leadership to take up our common-sense alternative to Obamacare. The worst thing we can do now is loose our resolve. This is a battle that is far from over.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=31&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,31&itemid=472
