Public Statements
Oklahoma Delegation Reacts to CMS Analysis That Health Care Bill Will Mean Higher Premiums, Rationed Care
Statement
By: Frank Lucas Mary Fallin Tom Cole John Sullivan Jim Inhofe
Date: April 23, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Members of the Oklahoma Delegation today reacted to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) analysis that the recently passed health care legislation will result in higher premiums, lower reimbursement rates, and will force many Americans from their current health care plan breaking President Obama's promise of "if you like it, you can keep it.'
U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe
"This report from President Obama's own Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) confirms what those of us against the government takeover of health care feared. As a result of the passage of the Democrats socialized medicine measure, health care costs are expected to increase faster than they otherwise would have. This will have a negative impact on Oklahomans, especially the elderly and those living in rural portions of our state. The Democrat leadership in Congress rushed this through without regard for this type of information, and now Americans are faced with tax increases, premium increases, cost increases and an overall reduction in the quality of their care."
U.S. Rep. Tom Cole
"This report validates all of Oklahomans' worst fears about ObamaCare. The president's own analysts have now verified that concerns about cost hikes, Medicare cuts, and doctor shortages aren't just slogans -- they're the new reality now that government-controlled health care is the law of the land. We knew from the start that claims like 'if you like your health care, you can keep it' were false, and now CMS has confirmed that 14 million people will likely lose their employer-provided coverage, not to mention all the seniors who will lose coverage when Medicare providers drop out of the program. It's a shame that President Obama and Speaker Pelosi didn't listen to the American people, who knew all along that this plan was a disaster."

Source:
