Public Statements
Op-Ed: Fallin: What It Means To Remember
Op-Ed
By: Mary Fallin
Date: April 19, 2010
Location: Unknown

We will pause for 168 seconds at 9:02 Monday morning. For each second that goes by, the lives and memories of those we lost will linger in our minds. We will never forget the loss, the devastation, the heroism and the courage that resulted from the events that transpired 15 years ago Monday.
Sadly, this attack would not be the last attack on our homeland. When Al Qaeda operatives hijacked American airplanes and brought down the World Trade Centers, we cringed at the all too familiar site of crumbled concrete and the sound of sirens blaring.
We all remember what came to be known as "the Oklahoma Standard," a response that ranged from our police, fire, medical and military personnel to thousands of volunteers who stepped forward to do any job that was needed. For weeks Oklahoma became one enormous family, and that feeling carried over in the months and years that followed as we maintained a support system for all those most directly affected by the bombing. It was a time of caring and compassion that rightly earned the admiration of our fellow Americans.
In the years since the bombing we have not only built a fitting memorial, we have also revitalized our community. What could have been a terrible setback became instead a continuing effort to work together for the common good.
Out of the destruction arose a united front working to prevent future attacks on our homeland. Five years after the bombing, we opened the Oklahoma City National Memorial Institute to remember the lives lost and lessons learned from the events of that fateful day in April. The Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism is fulfilling these missions as a partner of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security for training our nation's 850,000 law enforcement leaders. In memory of the 168 victims who died in the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, these institutions have worked together to secure our homeland and ensure we do everything in our power to prevent future attacks.
Unity is, after all, our greatest strength. And sometimes, in bitter debates and backroom deals in Washington, it's all too easy to forget that when we come together as Americans, we accomplish great things. Together, we erected an eternal monument, standing guard and preserving the memories and lessons of April 19, 1995. We nursed the gaping wounds of our city, communities and neighbors. We rebuilt offices, homes, infrastructure and a day-care center. In spite of the worst kind of adversity, we re-emerged stronger than ever.
As we remember the tragedy and those lost, let us also embrace the true resilience of the Oklahoma spirit that has shown itself time and time again in the face of adversity. Yes, we face difficult times now at home and abroad, but we must remember that in the face of hardship and disaster Americans are able to set aside the relatively minor differences that spark our daily disagreements and grasp firmly to the common bonds that unite us and have seen us through.
One of Oklahoma's greatest strengths is her people. As we remember the loved ones lost on April 19, 1995, let us look forward as our fellow Oklahomans continue to live up to the Oklahoma Standard that set our state apart.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=31&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,31&itemid=470
