Public Statements
Op-Ed: Obama Policies Bad For Economy
Op-Ed
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 22, 2010
Location: Unknown

Last time we discussed the runaway spending being promoted by the current administration in Washington and how it is burdening future generations with enormous debt. Today we turn to the large number of tax increases hidden in the President's budget, all of which threaten to slow the economic recovery and place an even greater burden on hard working Americans.
The Obama budget contains more than $350 billion in new taxes on business at a time when many businesses are struggling. Worst of all, some of those tax increases directly target the energy industry, which will have a disproportionate impact on Oklahoma.
Five billion in new taxes would be imposed on oil and gas produced from the Gulf of Mexico. Billions more would be siphoned from the industry with the repeal of existing tax breaks that help oil and gas producers find and extract more resources.
As most Oklahomans know, looking for oil and gas is an expensive and risky proposition. Those tax breaks were wisely designed to help defer the huge costs of dry wells. Remove them, as the President wants to do, and many producers will simply cut back on drilling, further reducing domestic production and increasing our dependence on foreign oil.
It was ironic that those new taxes on oil and gas rolled out just as Oklahoma's gross production tax revenues were slowly increasing, helping fill some of the budget gap our state has experienced during the recession. This gap was in part caused by a significant drop off in oil and gas revenue.
It's as if the President, seeing a goose finally laying some golden eggs, has decided to strangle it. The Obama tax increases also include higher taxes on so-called "wealthy" families who earn more than $250,000. Those higher taxes would include increased rates when the Bush tax cuts expire at the end of this year, along with higher rates on capital gains and lower itemized deductions.
Unfortunately, a lot of those so-called wealthy people are small business owners, farmers, ranchers and professionals who file their taxes as individuals. They often hire and pay others. Higher taxes will reduce their ability to do that, further killing jobs and the recovery.
Some liberals like to complain that the so-called rich need to pay more taxes. According to the Internal Revenue Service, in 2007 those in the upper one percent of earners paid 40.4 percent of federal income taxes. The top 25 percent of earners pay more than two thirds of all taxes.
Take more from them and you also prevent the doctor from hiring a new nurse, or the rancher from adding to his herd.
The Obama tax increases are apparently designed to punish the energy sector and productive people who create jobs, invest money and often run small businesses -- the biggest job creators in our economy. Those are precisely the wrong policies at the wrong time, and I will oppose them.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=31&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,31&itemid=451
