Public Statements
Congresswoman Mary Fallin Is A 'No' Vote On Government Takeover Of Health Care
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 21, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Congresswoman Mary Fallin Is A 'no' Vote On Government Takeover Of Health Care
Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) said today she will vote a resounding "No" on the government takeover of the nation's health care system, which Speaker Pelosi and President Obama hope to pass though the House tonight.
"I am voting "No' because this is the wrong bill for our nation. Oklahomans and Americans want no part of it. Oklahomans' priorities right now are their jobs, their families and their businesses, not a government takeover of their health care," said Fallin. "The thousands of people gathered outside the Capitol this weekend have made their opposition crystal clear."
Fallin said she was especially concerned by the unfunded mandates on states. "States are facing hard times and being forced to make painful cuts and difficult decisions about the delivery of services to our citizens. By passing this bill, Speaker Pelosi will force Oklahoma to pay $500 million in unfunded Medicaid mandates by 2020 at a time when our state is dealing with record-high budget deficits. Oklahomans should not have to subsidize a bill they oppose at the expense of our own state programs.
"All year long I have worked on common-sense, lasting solutions to increase access to quality health care for future generations of our children and grandchildren. The legislation the House could vote on tonight is chalk full of back-room deals, job-killing taxes, unconstitutional individual mandates and dangerous levels of deficit spending. All of which will make us less free as individuals, states and as a nation.
"The question we have to ask ourselves is, "will our children and nation be better off if we pass this bill?' The answer is no. Let's go back to the drawing board, scrap this intrusive bill and work on lasting reforms that will help families and small businesses as they try to recover from the worst economic recession in a generation."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=460
