Public Statements
Health Care Reform
Floor Speech
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 19, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Ms. FALLIN. Mr. Speaker, I have had the opportunity to visit with Oklahomans all across our State and to talk about what really concerns them; and what I hear from my Oklahomans is they are concerned about their families, and they are concerned about their Nation, and they are concerned about their jobs and their children's future and how their children's future will even look, especially with the debates we are having here in Washington, D.C. They are concerned about their jobs and the economy and making rent payments, house payments, car payments, and paying for prescription drugs. They are concerned about their children going to college and about their education.
I have also had an opportunity to speak to our Oklahoma businesses and ask them, What do you think about what we are doing here in Washington? And they tell me time and time again that they are concerned about the big government intrusion into business, and they want government to stay out of their way and let them create jobs and let them invest and create opportunities and be entrepreneurs; yet what they hear from Washington is we are talking about more rules and regulations and more government takeover of industries and more taxes and higher taxes and the government expansion of programs like this health care bill. They are sitting on the sidelines and they are not creating those jobs and opportunities for my Oklahoma families so they can feel stable and secure in their lives.
Mr. Speaker, this health care bill that we are debating this weekend will change the course of our Nation. It is going to be a massive expansion of the Federal Government, a massive expansion, taking over our freedoms, our ability to make our own decisions about our health care. It is a massive expansion into one-sixth of our Nation's economy in the health care industry. I want my Oklahomans to know that I will stand firmly against voting for the Pelosi-Obama health care government takeover that we are going to be voting on this weekend, and I will not vote for it.
This vote will be one of the most far-reaching, significant pieces of major social policy legislation in our lifetime and will definitely affect the future of all of our children. It will change the course of future generations of our children. Already our Nation is facing huge deficits and large amounts of debt, out-of-control spending by Congress, and that is hurting our economy and killing jobs and even threatening the stability of our Nation and our businesses and our families.
As we now know, many States are facing also hard times from budget deficits, and they are having to cut services and making really tough, painful spending decisions about the delivery of services to their citizens. States are also having a hard time paying for growing Medicaid costs. And now this health care bill, if it passes, will pass on down more unfunded Medicaid costs upon our States and create even bigger, nanny state entitlement programs, all at a time when Medicaid reimbursements are so low that doctors are dropping both Medicaid and having a hard time--it is hard to even find doctors who will see Medicaid or Medicare patients, especially in our rural areas. In fact, I read an article this week that said some pharmacies are not accepting new Medicaid patients because of the low reimbursement rate.
So the question is: Will our children's future and the American citizen's future be better if we pass this health care bill? And the question will be: Will our citizens be able to choose their own doctor or will their doctor be deciding whether to chose them, or will there even be a doctor for them to see?
The U.S. already has a shortage of doctors. We just heard the previous speaker talk about how 46 percent of the primary care physicians say they may drop out of the medical profession if this bill passes. From my State of Oklahoma, it is estimated that this legislation will impose over $500 million of unfunded Medicaid expansion mandates on our State.
Mr. Speaker, I ask our colleagues to reject this bill. Let's work on creating jobs and opportunities. Let's work on a lasting solution for health care reform.
END

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
