Public Statements
Fallin, Oklahoma Delegation Honor Oklahoma National Guard's Agri-Business Development Team
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Feb. 26, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) and her colleagues in Oklahoma's House delegation introduced H.Res.1110, a resolution to honor the Oklahoma National Guard's Agricultural Development Teams and commend members of the 45th Agri-Business Development Team for their efforts to modernize agriculture and sustainable farming practices in Afghanistan. The resolution also recognizes their dedication and their service to our nation.
"I am incredibly proud of the job the Oklahoma National Guard is doing in Afghanistan," Fallin said. "It is a true testament to the skills and efforts of our men and women in uniform to provide such an important advisory role to the Afghan people. The Guard's partnership with Oklahoma State University demonstrates the assets the state of Oklahoma can provide to ongoing operations in the Middle East."
In December 2009, the Oklahoma National Guard deployed a 64-member Agricultural Development Team (ADT) to eastern Afghanistan. The ADT, which is currently stationed in Wizah, is working closely with the Provincial Director of Agriculture and Afghan farmers and ranchers to modernize agriculture and sustainable farming practices. In August, the Oklahoma National Guard will deploy a second ADT to replace the first team's effort in the region.
"With their diligence and expertise, members of the 45th Agri-Business Development Team have made an invaluable contribution to our mission overseas," said Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04). "By using their skills to bring stability to Afghanistan, these Oklahomans contribute tremendously to our security here at home. I join all Oklahomans in thanking them for their courage and commitment."
Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) said, "Oklahoma has historically been a leader in the agriculture industry, and that remains true today through the hard work of the Agri-Business Development Team of the Oklahoma National Guard and their efforts to strengthen agriculture development in Afghanistan. I am proud to join my fellow colleagues from Oklahoma to honor their dedication and their invaluable contribution to the people of Afghanistan."
Congressman John Sullivan (OK-01) said, "I am proud to join my colleagues in the Oklahoma delegation in honoring the 45th Agri-Business Development Team of the Oklahoma National Guard. Our state has a proud agricultural history, and I am confident that the knowledge and expertise of our National Guard members will improve the health and lives of the Afghan people. I commend the hard work of the 45th ADT, wish them a successful mission and look forward to their safe return home."
"The 45th Agri-Business Development Team's work is critical to improving the lives of the citizens of Afghanistan," Congressman Dan Boren (OK-02) said. "The team's work will provide the Afghanis with the tools necessary to establishing a sustainable means to provide for themselves and their families long after military operations have been completed. These Oklahomans bring honor to Oklahoma's National Guard and I am pleased to join my colleagues in recognizing their effort."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=448
