Public Statements
Fallin Statement On Health Care Summit
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Feb. 25, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Following a televised health care summit where Republican and Democrat members of Congress and President Obama offered their plans for reform, Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) released the following statement:
"Today's health care summit in Washington amounted to a six-hour, commercial-free sales pitch of the president's health care bill, which still contains big tax increases, Medicare cuts, job-killing mandates and high premiums that would destroy our free market health care system. The American people have already rejected this proposal, which is why Congress should work together on a clean slate to lower health care costs.
"On Monday, President Obama released an 11-page outline of his health care reform proposal that did not have enough detail for the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to make an accurate estimate on its cost or impact. Without an accurate CBO analysis and without CBO at the summit, today felt like playing a basketball game without a referee to call the fouls.
"I am disappointed the summit still focused on the same burdensome mandates, tax increases, cuts to Medicare, expanded government and sweetheart deals my constituents told me they oppose. Even his own director of health care reform in the White House admits this proposal is based on the Senate-passed health care bill, which would cost $871 billion. The president's insistence on the very policies Americans have rejected demonstrates he still isn't listening to the American people.

"I am especially concerned any unfunded mandates on states in the final health care bill will wreak havoc on state programs. Oklahoma's state revenues have fallen 26 percent below projections, forcing 10 percent cuts in programs across the state. Additional unfunded federal mandates would surely break the bank. It was estimated unfunded mandates in the House-passed health care bill would cost Oklahoma $128 million.
"Today should have been used to regain the trust of the American people and begin a clean slate for health care reform with the reassurance the current House and Senate bills would not be rammed through either chamber using the reconciliation process. Instead, we witnessed more of the same. Americans want Congress to lower health care costs and increase access to high quality care, which is why I will keep working towards common-sense reforms like reducing waste, enhancing choice and enacting real medical malpractice reform to curb junk lawsuits."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=446
