Public Statements
Op-Ed: Debt Out Of Control
Op-Ed
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Feb. 22, 2010
Location: Unknown

Our national security is a top priority for me and all Americans.
Just as important, however, is our nation's economic security. Here is the frightening truth about our national debt: Between 1789, when the Constitution was ratified, and 2008, our federal government ran up a total national debt of $5.8 trillion.
Budget projections show the Obama Administration will add $4.4 trillion in new debt in just three years. As a result, our nation's total debt holding is expected to reach $13 trillion.
That means that this administration is expected to run up more debt than the United States accumulated in the first 219 years of our history, through the Civil War, the Great Depression, World War II and the Cold War.
That is both astonishing and unsustainable, but it gets even scarier when you bring the numbers down to individual level. Our nation's accumulated debt already amounts to $40,000 per person and in 2010 alone, this administration will add another $5,000 in new debt for every man, woman and child in America.
Next year everyone in the country will pay $800 in interest alone on the debt. Between 2009 and 2020, our debt will rise by $130,000 per household.
Sadly, the administration does not seem to be taking this ballooning debt very seriously. In his budget for the coming fiscal year, the president made a small gesture by offering to freeze about 15 percent of non-defense discretionary federal spending for three years.
The problem is the president's freeze would lock at record high spending amounts. That's like going on a diet by eating 6,000 calories per day.
If we can't get serious about reining in the deficit now, we will pass on to our children and grandchildren. Worst of all, it threatens our nation in other ways, well beyond the red ink we are accumulating on the national ledger.
We are borrowing one of every three dollars we spend, most of which is financed by foreign governments, especially China. They buy government securities, and those funds are used for ever-increasing federal spending.
Do we really want China, or some of the less-than-friendly oil rich nations in the Middle East, controlling a big part of our national purse strings? As one leading expert recently said, "We've reached a point now where there's an intimate link between our solvency and our national security."
The fact is we cannot spend our way out of this recession as some in Washington advocate. Every time Washington proposes more deficit spending, tax increases or huge expansions of the federal government, our nation's economic security becomes more vulnerable.
My votes in Congress will continue to be against out-of-control spending and for common-sense protection of our families and small businesses.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=31&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,31&itemid=444
