Public Statements
Op-Ed: Brown Victory Also A Win For U.S. Business
Op-Ed
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Feb. 22, 2010
Location: Unknown

The stunning victory of Republican Scott Brown in the Massachusetts Senate election has been rightly labeled a game-changer in Washington. One of the most liberal states in the nation just chose a fiscal conservative to speak for them on issues like jobs, health care and national security.
After a year of big-spending initiatives that were meant to create jobs, Americans saw exactly the opposite happen. Three million jobs have been lost, state and national unemployment rates hit record highs and the economy has stalled because of record deficit spending, huge federal debt and misguided policies being discussed in Washington. It's past time to let the private sector do what it does best -- create jobs and innovate --- without more burdensome federal mandates and taxes.
A case in point: I have spoken to several small business owners in Oklahoma who could hire new employees and expand their businesses right now but have chosen to hold off because just the threat of higher taxes and new mandates in the proposed energy tax (know as cap and trade) and government run health care bills could put them out of business.
States are clearly paying the price for what goes on in Washington. Speaker Pelosi's government takeover of health care has threatened small businesses with increased federal taxes and mandates. President Obama's proposed tax on energy consumption has threatened Oklahoma's energy industry, which employs one in seven Oklahoma workers, and made it more difficult for producers to innovate.
Until Scott Brown's victory, American's felt concerns over jobs and the economy had fallen on deaf ears in the White House. When I saw 3,000 Oklahomans attend my town hall meeting in August, their opposition to record-high spending, concern about increased taxes and fear about a proposed government takeover of health care were louder than ever.
During his State of the Union Speech, Obama finally pledged to address their concerns, but his proposals were too little, too late. There was a clear gap between his rhetoric and the reality families and small businesses face every day. It is ironic that the President talked about his plans to strengthen the economy with new tax credits and relief for families and businesses when his agenda of increased taxes and new mandates have contributed to record unemployment.
It is also difficult to believe the president's three year spending freeze on a portion of discretionary spending will help rein in the deficit. The programs he has proposed to cut have seen funding increases greater than 65 percent since he's taken office, so his freeze will simply hold spending at record high levels. Obama himself admitted during his campaign that while spending freezes sound good in theory, they do not actually work in practices. Oklahomans know the way to stimulate an economy with low taxes, reduced spending and a balanced budget.
That is why I supported a budget for Fiscal Year 2010 that would have decreased the national debt by more than $6 trillion. It also included a $1.2 trillion in tax relief over the next five years, an extension of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, a permanent AMT repeal and a two-year suspension of the capital gains tax.
In recent years states like California, New York and Michigan have implemented liberal big-government and high-tax policies that have left their economies devastated. People in those states are already voting with their feet. They are showing increased out-migration because these big government policies have created more problems, not solutions.
Oklahoma can be a safe haven for workers, employers and the jobs they bring if we pursue policies that encourage growth and market-based solutions -- the same kind of policies that I have been fighting for in Washington.
That's what voters in Massachusetts chose when they voted for Scott Brown and it is what many other states will choose this November.
This year in Washington, I will continue fighting fiscal discipline and free-market solutions that ensure prosperity of Oklahoman families and small businesses for generations to come.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=31&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,31&itemid=443
