Public Statements
Oklahoma Delegation To Speaker Pelosi: Our State Can't Afford Your Health Care Bill
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 22, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) today led Oklahoma's House Delegation in urging Speaker Pelosi to exclude any unfunded federal mandates from the final health care bill. In a letter to the Speaker, the House Delegation said the unfunded Medicaid mandates in the House-passed bill would have a crippling effect on the state of Oklahoma. "As a delegation, we are deeply concerned this mandate would force drastic funding cuts for valuable state programs and significantly deteriorate the choice and quality of Oklahomans' health care programs," they wrote.
The House-passed health care bill, opposed by the Oklahoma's entire House delegation, contained provisions that would expand Medicaid eligibility to 133 percent of the federal poverty line. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimated the cost of this expansion to be $26 billion, which would amount to a $128 million annual expense for the state of Oklahoma.
"The state of Oklahoma simply cannot afford to pay for the cost of this bill," said Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05), who noted that state revenue had fallen 31 percent below projections in December and statewide programs had been cut ten percent. "I want Speaker Pelosi to know this unfunded mandate will surely break the bank in our state and reduce the quality and availability of programs in Oklahoma. States should have the freedom to pursue the programs that work best for them."
Fallin said she was also concerned the unfunded mandates would stifle the growth of Insure Oklahoma, a partnership program specifically designed to provide affordable health care coverage for Oklahoma's families and small businesses who can't afford quality coverage. Some 20 insurance providers offer about 400 products to enrolees. "These are the types of affordable health care choices Oklahoman taxpayers support," said Fallin. "It's not fair to ask them to finance backroom deals exempting other states while the quality of our own program suffers."

Source:
