Public Statements
2017 Fiscal Year Budget Agreement Reached
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 24, 2016
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin, Senate President Pro Tempore Brian Bingman and House Speaker Jeffrey W. Hickman today reached a 2017 fiscal year budget agreement that maintains common education funding at current levels, averts closures of hospitals and nursing homes and closes $969.3 million of the $1.3 billion budget gap policymakers faced this legislative session.
If passed by the Legislature, the agreement would set FY 2017 appropriation levels at $6.78 billion, which is $360.7 million, or 5 percent, less than FY 2016 appropriations prior to the midyear revenue failure and $67.8 million, or 1 percent, less than FY 2016 appropriations as adjusted by the midyear revenue failure.
The $1.3 billion budget hole was the largest in state history. Facing that gap, public schools braced for state aid reductions of up to 20 percent and the Oklahoma Health Care Authority had prepared to initiate provider rate cuts of up to 25 percent, which would have caused some hospitals and nursing homes statewide to close or dramatically reduce services.
"Thankfully, those worst-case scenarios can be averted by passing this budget," said Governor Mary Fallin. "This agreement closes a sizeable portion of a monumental budget hole and prevents the dire, unacceptable outcomes so many Oklahomans have feared may happen this session. There are still reductions in this budget, and it requires more hard votes to pass, but it is certainly a workable budget even amid a major energy sector downturn that is creating difficulties all across Oklahoma. We worked hard to protect key core services - common education, health and human services, corrections, mental health services and the Oklahoma Health Care Authority -- while keeping our eight-year transportation infrastructure plan intact."
By freeing up revenues through tax reform, structural budget changes and cuts elsewhere in government, current funding levels for the State Department of Education are maintained and an additional $83.8 million is appropriated to the Oklahoma Health Care Authority, which will result in negligible provider rate reductions of 3 percent or less that should not cause closures of facilities or reductions of services.

Source:
