Public Statements
Op-Ed: Administration Response To Terrorist Threat Weak
Op-Ed
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 10, 2010
Location: Unknown

The holiday attempt by a terrorist to detonate explosives on a Detroit-bound airliner reminded us all once again of two sad facts. First, threats from terrorism continue. And second, the Obama administration does not seem to be taking this threat as seriously as he should for an executive branch charged with protecting our nation.
First the President said the bomber was an "isolated extremist." When evidence surfaced that he was in fact part of an al-Qaeda plot, the President's cabinet secretary for homeland security assured us that "the system worked."
No it didn't. The man was permitted to board a flight with no luggage, having paid for a ticket with cash. His own father had contacted American intelligence to warn that he was potentially dangerous. The system clearly failed.
Next, the Department of Justice handed the terrorist over to a federal court, where he was immediately given a lawyer. That made it much less likely that he would share any information he might have had about further planned attacks.
As we watched this debacle unfold, it was also revealed that a number of terrorism suspects previously held at Guantanamo Bay had returned to active terrorism in Yemen and other countries. The Obama administration's response was to free more terrorists and continue with their misguided plans to close Guantanamo, although thankfully releases to Yemen have now been halted.
The Obama Department of Justice is also forging ahead with its dangerous plan to try the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks in a New York City federal court, instead of before a military tribunal where acts of war against the United States should be tried. At best we can expect a circus trial, with the terrorist claiming all the rights of an American citizen; at worst, a second terrorist attack in an effort to free this mass murderer.
But never fear! The Obama administration is moving ahead to put others on trial. Tragically, the others are Navy SEALs who risked their lives to capture a known terrorist who helped massacre four civilian American contractors in Iraq in 2004. This is a man who murdered four Americans, mutilated their bodies, set them on fire and hung them from a bridge.
It seems the terrorist wound up with a small bruise after his capture and claimed he had been somehow mistreated. So three SEALs, members of one of our most elite and valiant special operations units, are being charged with hurting the poor dear.
What are we to make of an administration that turns terrorists loose, bungles vital airline security and then puts our own defenders on trial?
The simple truth is that the Detroit airline bomber was subdued by citizens who took matters into their own hands after they had been put at risk by the very agencies assigned to protect them. It's a good thing they weren't SEALs ... they might be on trial right now for mussing the terrorist's hair.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=31&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,31&itemid=436
