Public Statements
Op-Ed: Terrorist Trial Will Be A Major Blunder
Op-Ed
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Dec. 7, 2009
Location: Unknown

The decision to try Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and his murderous gang in federal court in New York is flawed and dangerous for many reasons, but the worst effects may not be known for years. This decision provides yet another world stage for Al Qaeda and its theatrics and forces New York and our nation to relive the terrors of 9/11.
Furthermore, bringing wartime combatants to the center of the world stage for a high profile trial and offering them the same constitutional rights and protections provided to American citizens jeopardizes national security and is frankly an affront to the rights and privileges so many Americans have given their lives to protect and preserve.
Just as damaging as this new precedent is the trauma inflicted on the families of the nearly 3,000 Americans massacred on 9/11 who will be subjected to all the pain and heartache of that day once again.
I've seen this trauma first hand. In 1995 we all remember when Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols unleashed their terror bomb on our neighbors, killing 268. The three trials that followed -- two in Denver federal courts and a third in a local court in southeastern Oklahoma -- were agonizing for the thousands who still grieved.
Those trials were necessary, since McVeigh and Nichols could not have been handed justice in a military tribunal, as Mohammed and his cronies could, and should. We were fortunate that our trials were not held at the Oklahoma City federal courthouse, which still bore scars from bomb shrapnel.
But even in Denver, where many Oklahomans attended the trials, they had to listen to wrenching testimony and view horrific images once again. Mothers had to relive the murders of their children. Spouses were required to tell how their husbands or wives left for work that morning, only to die in rubble. Many of those who attended said it was as bad -- in some cases worse than -- the day itself.
These are not wounds that heal in three, or five, or even a dozen years. All that is to come -- and we all know that what is to come may well include another attack on New York, a hostage taking by terrorists hoping to free Mohammed, yet another mass murder -- could have been avoided.
After World War II we tried the worst war crimes masterminds far away, at Nuremburg. Mohammed and his gang could have been handled in the same manner. Yes, it still would have hurt to relive the past, but a military tribunal trial in Guantanamo would at least have been somewhat remote, and much less dangerous.
America is about to expend tens of millions on a misguided, hazardous and hurtful exercise in self flagellation. They should have asked the still-wounded people of Oklahoma City if all this was necessary. We could have told them through our tears.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=31&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,31&itemid=425
