Public Statements
Fallin Supports Fair Medicare Reimbursement, Not More Deficit Spending
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Nov. 19, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

As the national debt hit a record-high $12 trillion this week, Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) today voted against yet another massive spending bill financed by more deficit spending. Fallin said H.R. 3961, the Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act, will not solve the challenges facing the nation's doctors providing invaluable care to millions of seniors.
"We need to be sure doctors are adequately reimbursed for the Medicare services they provide," said Fallin. "This bill does not actually fix the flawed payment system that has short-changed doctors, affected choices for seniors and drained the Medicare system. It is the height of irresponsible spending and further exacerbates our sky-rocketing deficit, adding almost a quarter of a trillion more debt without any idea of how to pay for it."
"Fair reimbursements for physicians will ensure that Medicare beneficiaries have access to the health care they need. But borrowing from our children's future to pay doctors today without solving the underlying problem is a reckless endeavor I cannot support," said Fallin, who joined her colleagues in supporting reasonable Medicare reimbursement rates for doctors that would be paid for through programmatic reform including tort reform. "It's our responsibility to protect our senior citizens and the doctors who care for them by stopping the 21 percent payment cut physicians face next year and the roughly 5 percent cuts projected each year thereafter."
Fallin sent a letter to physicians throughout Oklahoma and the Oklahoma State Medical Association discussing how the flawed provisions of H.R. 3961 would still subject physicians to the same reimbursement rate cuts they face now. While she opposed this bill, Fallin reiterated her dedication to quality care for seniors and said she stands ready to work with the Majority party in Congress on a true, permanent solution. "I am dedicated to protecting seniors' access to care and our physicians' ability to serve the community."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=423
