Public Statements
Op-Ed: Voting Against Nancy Pelosi
Op-Ed
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Nov. 9, 2009
Location: Unknown

I support the kind of health care reform that will lower costs and increase accessibility to quality, affordable care. Unfortunately, what Speaker Pelosi rammed through the House today does nothing to curb rising costs. Instead, her bill seizes control of the health care industry and puts it in the hands of the federal government, introduces job killing taxes on individuals and small businesses, and accelerates deficit spending and the accumulation of national debt.
Late Saturday night, I voted against Speaker Pelosi's massive federal takeover of health care because I do not believe it is the right prescription for Oklahomans. After millions of Americans voiced their opposition to a federal takeover of our health care system, including thousands of Oklahomans who attended my town hall meetings and contacted my office, Speaker Pelosi crafted a 1,990-page bill behind closed-doors to do just that. This is the worst piece of legislation I have ever seen in all my years in public service.
Here are some hard facts about the Pelosicare bill:
It establishes more than 1,000 new programs, offices, bureaucracies and other new agencies. It would take a gang of lawyers working overtime weeks just to read the thing, and even then its obscure technical language would be almost impossible to grasp.
The bill will cost $1.055 trillion and contains over $500 billion in harmful Medicare cuts and an estimated $744 billion in new taxes. These include taxes on medical devices and equipment, an eight percent tax on businesses that do not provide health coverage, a 2.5 percent tax on individuals who do not have coverage and massive new taxes on the "wealthy" which would also apply to tens of thousands of small businesses. If you fail to get the health insurance plan Washington decrees as acceptable, you would be assessed a fine by the IRS, and if you failed to pay it they could come and take you to jail.


Source:
