Public Statements
Fallin Offers Small Business Solutions As Unemployment Hits Record 10.2 Percent
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Nov. 7, 2009
Location: Washington, D.C.

Following the U.S. Department of Labor's report that unemployment in the U.S. rose to 10.2 percent, with 190,000 Americans losing their jobs in October, Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) offered legislation to assist the nation's female small business owners. H.R. 1838, the Women's Business Centers Improvement Act, which Fallin authored and introduced in May, would provide women with increased opportunities to create, enhance and expand their businesses.
"While this Administration has pursued massive spending programs that have exploded our national deficit and driven our nation's unemployment rate to its highest level since April of 1983, I am working on legislation that would help create American jobs and drive our economy forward. I believe H.R. 1838 is a step in the right direction to helping Americans get back on their feet and strengthening our ailing small business sector," Fallin said.
Fallin said small businesses, which create 7 of every 10 new jobs in the U.S., will steer our nation out of this recession and drive us towards renewed economic prosperity. She added that 2.1 million women-owned small businesses contribute $3 trillion to the economy and employs 23 million people. "Speaker Pelosi's health care bill would crush these businesses with $700 billion in new taxes."
"Small businesses, individuals, and families have been devastated by the reality of a 26-year high unemployment rate," Fallin said. "I support reforms that lower the cost of health care so our families and small businesses can afford access to quality care, which includes increasing the portability of health insurance; reducing medical malpractice abuse; creating insurance pools for small businesses; and eliminating preexisting condition exclusions."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=411
