Public Statements
Health Care For Women In America
Floor Speech
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Nov. 2, 2009
Location: Washington, D.C.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Ms. FALLIN. I thank the gentlelady from Tennessee.
You are exactly right. I have heard from a lot of my State senators, representatives, and agencies in Oklahoma that if we pass a massive new Federal Government bureaucrat health care bill that has unfunded mandates, which this bill does, that those costs will be passed on down to the States, and there is only one way that you pay for those extra services and costs, and that would have to be through tax increases or cutting spending.
A lot of States are experiencing budget shortfalls. In my State of Oklahoma, we have cut back services in our State. So, if we have more unfunded mandates upon our State government, whether it is through the expansion of Medicaid or whether it is through the $500 billion that is being proposed to cut seniors' and Medicare services or the taxes on medical devices or some of the services that will be eliminated, those costs get passed on down, and, ultimately, it will be the States that will be picking up those costs.
I appreciate what Congresswoman Foxx said about taking away the freedom of choice and liberties and our Nation. Many people I have talked to are concerned about where is our Nation going. We seem to be looking more like a European nation where we have huge democracies and so much debt being piled on our children and grandchildren. Frankly, people are worried about the future and about our security, our economic security and national security, especially at a time when we are experiencing a recession and people are concerned about keeping their jobs, supporting their families, and making house payments. They are very concerned.
I know some of the people I have been talking to, a lot of small business owners are very concerned about the proposed taxes that will be put onto the small businesses. We have actually had some congressional hearings with small business owners, and they have talked about how tough it is to get access to capital, to get
loans, and how they have had to cut back employees and how revenues have dropped off. They tell us in congressional hearings if we pass another tax, as is being proposed, and it would affect small businesses, they will have to lay people off. And then if we have some type of government mandate to provide health insurance because that small business owner can't afford to provide that insurance to their small business employees, then they say they might just have to lay off people to provide for that insurance. Or if they had to pay that new tax, they will have to cut off some products or future plans to expand their businesses or drop the coverage they have and move toward the government plan, because they will pay the 8 percent tax. Getting back to your point as to eliminating some of our options in the private sector, if people start dropping the private sector insurance plans because they are seeing a shift to the government plans, then we will have less options.
As I have visited people in Oklahoma, they have asked me several questions. They want to know is this health care reform bill that Speaker Pelosi and HARRY REID in the Senate are proposing, is it going to lower costs. I can't say that it is going to lower cost. We are talking about almost a trillion dollars, debt and deficit. They were asking if their children will have more costs, more debt, more deficit piled on them, and I have to say I think the answer is yes.
They are asking will this health care reform proposal offer them more choices or will it take away some of their say and being able to choose what kind of health insurance they want for their family. My analysis is that it is going to take away choices for those families.
They are asking if it will make health insurance more affordable. Well, a lot of the estimates we are seeing, when you pile on over $800 billion in new taxes, when you have mandates, when you have unfunded mandates, when you are rationing some of the care, it is not going to make health care more affordable.
And then they are asking if the Federal Government is going to be more involved in decisionmaking for their health care choices. And according to this bill, it looks like there will be a Federal bureaucrat basically between the patient and the doctor.
They want to know if this bill will lead to rationing of care. We have seen what has happened when other nations have implemented some type of government-run health care. It does lead to rationing of care. There are people who have died waiting to receive treatment. In Canada and Europe, it is well documented.
So all of those questions that are being asked of me by my constituents, I can't prove to them that it will lower cost, that it will not increase the deficit, and that it will give us more choices. It appears to me that this is going exactly the opposite.
I think what we have to tell the American people, there are lots of other health care pieces of legislation that we have been working on that would provide choice, that would lower costs, that would work on issues like portability, where you could keep your health insurance if you changed jobs, that would eliminate preexisting conditions so you don't lose coverage, which would have medical malpractice reform which is estimated to save health insurance costs, which would allow us to be able to pool together and lower our costs for small businesses. There is some great language that would allow work on preventive care and more education, those types of things.
There are just all kinds of problems in this legislation that I think the American people are very concerned about, especially since we have been debating behind closed doors on this.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
