Public Statements
Tax Increases On Small Businesses Bad Prescription For Health Care Reform
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Oct. 22, 2009
Location: Washington, D.C.

Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) today said Democrats are foolishly targeting small businesses during the worst economic recession in a generation to finance a federal takeover of health care. Fallin joined Republican colleagues to speak on behalf of the 70,000 small businesses in Oklahoma who would be saddled with $800 billion in tax increases if the Democrats' proposal passes.
"In Oklahoma, as in the rest of the United States, small businesses are the bread and butter of our economy. Over 97 percent of Oklahoma's businesses are small businesses, who employ over six hundred thousand of our workers and provide over 50 percent of our state's jobs," Fallin said. "During these trying economic times, Democrats want to pay for their federal takeover of health care with a surtax on approximately half of them." To pay for their $1 trillion public health option, two Senate bills and one House bill making their way through Congress would impose a surtax on more than half of small business owners, according to the IRS.
"It seems some Washington lawmakers have lost sight of why we are tackling this challenge in the first place, which is to lower health care costs that have shut so many Americans out of access to quality and affordable health care," Fallin said.
"We have already lost 7 million jobs since this recession began, and crushing health care costs have only made matters worse for employers. Penalizing small businesses, especially during a time of high unemployment, will make job loss worse."
"Small businesses don't need the government to take control of their health care benefits. And they certainly don't need over $800 billion in new taxes and new federal mandates either. Democrats need to go back to the drawing board and work with Republicans on real health care reform that will not harm our nation's hard working small businesses."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=402
