Public Statements
Pelosi Is Playing Political Games With National Defense
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Oct. 8, 2009
Location: Washington, D.C.

After voting against the conference report to H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2010, which passed the House by a vote of 281 to 146, Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) released the following statement:
"A lot of hard work went into crafting the Fiscal Year 2010 NDAA bill, which would provide a 3.4 percent increase in pay for active duty personnel, authorize funding for our troops currently in Afghanistan and Iraq, prevent the detainees at Guantanamo Bay from being transferred to the United States without a plan from the President and authorize the programs that provide vital support to military families, veterans and troops. I was proud to support this bill when it passed the House Armed Services committee, of which I am a member, on June 17, 2009 and the floor of the House, it on June 25, 2009.
"However today, Speaker Pelosi chose to play political games with this critical legislation by attaching completely unrelated hate crimes provisions to this bill that would expand the definition of federal hate crimes to include sexual orientation. I disdain racism, sexism and bigotry but worry these provisions are so broad that they would subject legitimate religious beliefs to criminal punishment. For example, sermons given by pastors, preachers, rabbis or imams could be used to implicate them in federal crimes. This is a total affront to our religious freedoms and protections under the First Amendment of the Constitution.
"Adequate funding for our national defense, men and women in uniform, their families and veterans is of paramount importance. It is an honor to represent Oklahoma's fine military installations and I am dedicated to providing them with the resources they need to be successful. However, the addition of divisive, politically charged policy initiatives to such important legislation is a total affront to our service men and women and all of the resources that have been expended to keep Americans safe at home and abroad.
"Today's political debacle speaks volumes about just how out of touch Speaker Pelosi and the Obama Administration are with the needs and values of the American people. To use such an important piece of legislation as a political vehicle flies in the face of our greatest responsibility as elected officials, which is keeping our constituents safe at home and abroad."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=397
