Public Statements
Gov. Fallin Vetoes Unconstitutional Anti-Abortion Bill
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 20, 2016
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Governor Mary Fallin, who has a long history of championing and signing pro-life and pro-family legislation, today vetoed a measure that would have banned abortion in the state because the bill was vague and would not withstand a criminal constitutional legal challenge.
Fallin is the most pro-life governor in the nation. She has signed 18 bills supporting pro-life values and protecting the health and lives of mothers and their unborn children.
Senate Bill 1552 would have made it a felony for physicians to perform abortions. It also contained a provision to revoke their medical licenses unless the abortion was necessary to save the life of the mother.
"The bill is so ambiguous and so vague that doctors cannot be certain what medical circumstances would be considered "necessary to preserve the life of the mother,'" Fallin said.
"The absence of any definition, analysis or medical standard renders this exception vague, indefinite and vulnerable to subjective interpretation and application," she wrote in her veto message.
"While I consistently have and continue to support a re-examination of the United States Supreme Court's decision in Roe v. Wade, this legislation cannot accomplish that re-examination," Fallin wrote. "In fact, the most direct path to a re-examination of the United States Supreme Court's ruling in Roe v. Wade is the appointment of a conservative, pro-life justice to the United States Supreme Court."
Americans United for Life earlier this year named Oklahoma as the most pro-life state. Oklahoma was one of three states honored by the group for making significant pro-life progress; Oklahoma was selected for enacting legislation found in both the Infants' Protection Project and Women's Protection Project. For example, in 2015, Oklahoma, through legislation signed by Fallin, enhanced the potential penalties for violations of its abortion laws and enacted protections for minors considering abortions.

Source: https://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=21841
