Public Statements
Fallin Bill Increases American Energy Production And Creates Jobs
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Sept. 25, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

As the national debate on energy reform continues, Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) introduced the "Federal Exploration and Production Reform Act," a bill that would break down one of the barriers to domestic energy production. The bill would require the Bureau of Land Management to process exploration applications within 30 days and applications for production within 120 days, substantially reducing the federal backlog of long awaited permits.
"I have talked to energy companies in Oklahoma who have waited up to 2 years for a drilling permit from the Bureau of Land Management, which is a huge disincentive for our domestic producers. My legislation would significantly shorten that delay and eliminate much of the bureaucratic red tape that has stifled domestic energy production," Fallin said.
"Reducing our dependence on foreign energy is critical to national security and environmental sustainability. Unfortunately, the Cap and Trade bill passed by House Democrats amounts to nothing more than a $600 billion tax on energy consumption. Instead of encouraging an all-of-the-above domestic energy strategy - which includes oil and gas, wind, solar, nuclear and biofuels - the Cap and Trade bill imposes burdensome restrictions that will destroy gas and oil related jobs in Oklahoma and does nothing to reduce our dependence on foreign energy.
Fallin said the "Federal Exploration and Production Reform Act" is a step in the right direction towards a comprehensive national energy plan. "I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this legislation, which simultaneously increases domestic production, reduces dependence on foreign oil and creates American jobs."
The text of H.R. 3616, "Federal Exploration and Production Reform Act," can be found here.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=393
