Public Statements
President's Address To Students Raises Concerns For Fallin
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Sept. 3, 2009
Location: Washington D.C.


President's Address To Students Raises Concerns For Fallin
Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) today took issue with President Obama's plans for a September 8 nationwide television address to America's school children. “Regardless of the president's stated intentions, I find it suspicious he has decided to inject himself into the daily curriculum of the nation's classrooms on the same day Congress returns from its August work period and the day before a Joint Address to that same body” Fallin said.
Fallin said the politically charged environment, which she had witnessed throughout the month of August while home in Oklahoma, makes the timing of this address especially inopportune. “If we saw nothing else over the month of August, we saw Americans are nervous and angry about the direction this administration is leading this country. Taking this unprecedented step at this particular moment does nothing to bolster the confidence of the American people in the president. In fact, I think it further erodes that confidence.”
In August, the Obama Administration sent a letter to school principals across the country announcing the president's 15-20 minute address to students. The letter also included extensive menus of suggested lesson plans to accompany the address. Activities included reading, “notable quotes excerpted from President Obama's speeches on education” and answering questions like, “What do you think the president wants us to do?”
“Parents of the Fifth District are calling my office concerned and they have every right to be,” said Fallin after the administration developed and disseminated its own curriculum for the address. “President Obama needs to stay out of the classroom and focus on the very real concerns facing the American people.”

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=384
