Public Statements
Highway Reauthorization Bill Must Be A Priority
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Aug. 26, 2009
Location: McAlester, OK


Highway Reauthorization Bill Must Be A Priority
Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) today joined Senator Jim Inhofe, Representative Dan Boren (OK-02), Oklahoma Transportation Secretary Gary Ridley and the Transportation Revenues Used Strictly for Transportation (TRUST) coalition to discuss the importance of replenishing the Federal Highway Trust Fund and Oklahoma's current and future infrastructure needs. Fallin said the reauthorization of the Federal Highway Reauthorization Bill must be a top priority for Congress.
“Quality transportation infrastructure - roads and bridges - are critical to economic development. Our aging infrastructure is not only a major safety hazard but a barrier to commerce and economic growth,” said Fallin, a member of House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “Since 85 percent of our state's highway funding comes from federal sources, it is alarming to think the Federal Highway Trust Fund is broke.”
The House passed a $7 billion dollar Highway Trust Fund fix the week before it recessed for August. This fix will only keep the trust fund solvent through the August recess. “Congress must get serious about addressing this problem when we return in September. We must find a permanent fix to the fund's current insolvency without raising the gasoline tax.”
While Oklahoma received $465 million in Stimulus funding for transportation investment, the state still faces a $12 billion backlog of needed infrastructure projects. “What was promised to be a transportation and infrastructure bill to put Americans back to work while simultaneously repairing our crumbling infrastructure amounted to only 5 percent of the Stimulus bill's total spending,” Fallin said of the $787 billion Stimulus bill passed earlier this year. “This was a huge missed opportunity for state and national infrastructure improvements.”
“I support a Highway Reauthorization bill that guarantees the solvency of the Trust Fund and provides Oklahoma the flexibility to determine how best to use these dollars to address its transportation priorities. I will also work hard to ensure Oklahoma receives a fair return on its Trust Fund contributions.”
Historically, federal fuel taxes provided adequate funding for the surface transportation programs funded by the Trust Fund. The Fund's current insolvency is due to declined gasoline tax revenue resulting from more fuel efficient cars and vehicles, a decline in driving nationwide and a recession.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=348
