Public Statements
At Congressional Field Hearing, Fallin Evaluates National Energy Policy In Oklahoma
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Aug. 25, 2009
Location: Tulsa, OK


At Congressional Field Hearing, Fallin Evaluates National Energy Policy In Oklahoma
Convening a Congressional field hearing to examine how changes in national energy policy would affect Oklahoma's energy industry, Congresswoman Mary Fallin (R-OK) said today federal energy policy must foster Oklahoma's long tradition as a leading energy producer. Joined by Chairman of the Small Business Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversight, Jason Altmire (D-PA), and Representative John Sullivan (R-OK), Fallin also examined how a national energy tax, referred to as “Cap and Trade,” would devastate the state's small businesses and oil and gas industries.
“Energy is the lifeblood of our economy and small businesses are the backbone of this nation,” said Fallin. “Our current dependence on foreign sources for energy is threatening our national and economic security. We need a comprehensive, all of the above energy policy that encourages all forms of American energy production and innovation.”
“Unfortunately, the Cap and Trade legislation proposed by Speaker Pelosi would cost Oklahoma jobs and raise taxes on energy companies and small businesses, while dramatically reducing our tax revenue. During the worst economic recession America has seen in decades, Speaker Pelosi continues to advocate for a $600 billion energy tax that would raise gasoline prices by 58 percent and utility rates by 30 to 50 percent."
In June, the House passed H.R. 2454, the “American Clean Energy and Security Act” or “cap-and-trade” by a narrow 219 – 212 vote. H.R. 2454 would increase taxes on every domestic energy producer—a tax which will inevitably be passed on to consumers. “This tax would erode job growth in the U.S. manufacturing sector and put American companies at a significant disadvantage with countries like India and China,” said Fallin.
Today's witness panel, representing energy-related producers and small businesses across the state, agreed the proposed Cap and Trade bill would harm both the national and state economy without reducing our dependence on foreign oil. “Cap and trade will cripple America as we struggle to compete in the world market. Tax increases...will make American companies pay some of the highest taxes in the world,” said David House, President of Jireh Resources, a small start-up exploration and production company located in Tulsa.
Eight percent of America's natural gas reserves are located in Oklahoma and eight of the 50 greatest energy fields in America are located in Oklahoma. “Oklahoma possesses plentiful oil and natural gas reserves, as well as tremendous renewable energy potential and is ready to address our nation's 21st Century energy needs. The only thing Cap and Trade legislation possesses is the ability to destroy 1.1 million American jobs.”

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=347
