Public Statements
Fallin Talks to the Experts; Discusses Health Reform With Oklahoma County Medical Society
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Aug. 22, 2009
Location: Washington, D.C.


Fallin Talks to the Experts; Discusses Health Reform With Oklahoma County Medical Society
Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) today joined members of the Oklahoma County Medical Society and addressed their priorities for health care reform. Fallin, who supports market-based measures to reduce excessive health care costs, said the Democrat's proposal would wedge bureaucrats between doctors and patients without doing anything to provide quality, affordable health care choices for Americans.
“The Democrat's 1,000 page bill that nationalizes our health care system is a far cry from the concerns Oklahoma's medical professionals expressed today. We must ensure any reforms to our health care system enhance their ability to provide the highest quality of care to your patients without the burdens of bureaucratic red tape or inadequate Medicare reimbursement rates. The Democratic proposals to regulate health benefit options and cut Medicare reimbursements will do exactly the opposite.”
Fallin told members passing health care reform and ensuring Americans have access to quality and affordable care that best fits their medical needs is a top priority. Health care costs increases outpace inflation and tripled over the last decade. “I do not believe, however, that nationalizing health care and wedging bureaucrats between patients and doctors will be good for either the health of our citizens or our national economy.”
“I support health care reform that allows individuals to purchase affordable health insurance on their own; includes meaningful medical malpractice reform; ensures individuals with preexisting conditions have access to quality, affordable healthcare; empowers Americans to purchase the coverage that works for them; expands choice; promotes healthier lifestyles; and reins in out of control costs that drive up the price of care for everyone.”

Source:
