Public Statements
Fallin Honored For Consistent Support Of Pro-Growth Policies
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Aug. 19, 2009
Location: Washington, D.C.


Fallin Honored For Consistent Support Of Pro-Growth Policies
Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) was honored today at the Edmond Chamber of Commerce monthly luncheon, receiving both a special proclamation from the city and accepting the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Spirit of Enterprise Award in recognition of her support for pro-growth policies in the second session of the 110th Congress. Fallin received the proclamation in recognition of her efforts as a Member of Congress on behalf of the city.
“I am committed to supporting legislation that stimulates economic growth, inspires innovation and enhances our nation's competitiveness,” said Fallin. “Strong businesses are the foundation of a productive economy. I am honored to receive this award and will continue to promote pro-growth policies that enhance business initiatives in Oklahoma and around the country.”
The Spirit of Enterprise Award was presented to Members of Congress who demonstrated a consistent commitment to key business issues on recorded floor votes. Members of Congress who supported the Chamber's position on at least 70 percent of their key votes were eligible to receive the award. Last year, Fallin earned a 94 percent rating and has maintained a 90 percent overall rating with the organization.
“Last year in particular, Congress had to make some tough choices, and Representative Fallin clearly demonstrated her commitment to the economy and keeping America competitive in an ever-changing global market,” said Thomas J. Donahue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. “The Chamber is proud to present Representative Fallin with the Spirit of Enterprise Award on behalf of businesses large and small.”
Key votes considered by the Chamber included the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, ensuring the solvency of the Highway Trust Fund, and the College Opportunity and Affordability Act.
“This Congress' ambitious agenda, which includes massive reforms in the health care, energy and transportation sectors, must work with the needs and priorities of American businesses, not against them. Partisan agendas and special interests must take a back seat to our businesses' ability to compete and innovate on a global scale,” said Fallin.
The U.S. Chamber is the world's largest business federation, representing more than 3 million businesses of every size, sector and region.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=341
