Public Statements
Fallin Opposes Any Federal Takeover Of Nation's Health Care
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Aug. 19, 2009
Location: Washington, D.C.


Fallin Opposes Any Federal Takeover Of Nation's Health Care
Joining physicians and residents of the Tulsa County Medical Society (TCMS), Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) today called the national debate on health care reform one of the most important conversations Congress will have with Americans. Fallin told TCMS members the current proposal before the House, which would make paralyzing cuts in Medicare reimbursements and wedge federal bureaucrats between patients and doctors, was a government takeover of healthcare disguised as reform.
“I will not support any attempt to nationalize our nation's health care system. That is not the kind of reform Oklahomans sent me to Washington to enact,” Fallin said. “The Democrat's 1,000-page proposal would create a federal health board charged with deciding how doctors treat their patients. Doctors, not federal bureaucrats, know how to best care for their patients.”
“Unfortunately, excessive medical costs and litigation have created barriers to quality, affordable access to health insurance for many Americans. That is why I support reforms that would reduce excessive medical costs, rein in medical litigation abuse, extend tax credits to individual purchasers of coverage, enhance coverage portability and incentivize wellness and prevention. All while protecting the sanctity of the doctor-patient relationship. In Oklahoma we have made great strides with the Insure Oklahoma program, a public-private partnership that has made quality health care a reality for thousands of Oklahomans.”
Fallin said proposed Medicare cuts to the program would be detrimental to the ability of physicians to care for seniors. The program currently reimburses providers 20 percent less than private insurers and is projected to be bankrupt by 2017. “The cure for an ailing, insolvent program isn't the creation of another one,” Fallin said.
“This debate is a big deal. This is 17 percent of the economy. Doctor must have the ability to provide the best health care in the world to their patients without federal interference,” Fallin told participants. “I am working hard on behalf of Oklahoma to address these concerns and make sure to enact the right reform, not just any reform.”

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=346
