Public Statements
Fallin: Obama Administration Fails To Meet Deadline On Guantanamo For Closure
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: July 21, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, expressed her continued opposition to the Obama Administration's proposal to close Guantanamo. Her remarks came in response to the Administration's missed deadline to release details about its plan to close the facility. In January, the President set July 21 as his deadline for releasing the specifics of this plan.
"I remain opposed to closing Guantanamo because it is not in the best interest of Americans, nor is bringing suspected terrorists into the United States. It will do nothing to make our nation safer. The Obama Administration continues to gamble with our national security and has yet to outline a sensible course of action to fulfill its own Executive Order.
"Oklahomans and the American people at large do not want the security of their towns and neighborhoods jeopardized by the presence of suspected terrorists in their communities. The New York Times reported that one in seven released detainees are now engaged in terrorist or militant operations. For this reason, I introduced H.R. 701 to prohibit using federal funds to transfer detainees to any facility in Oklahoma, or construct a facility for that purpose in Oklahoma.
"This unacceptable delay is especially concerning because the Obama Administration will leave Congress little time, if any, to evaluate the details of this plan before closing the facility. This is yet another example of the failed fly-by-night policy changes that undermine government transparency. Americans deserve better from their leaders in Washington."
On January 22, 2009, President Barack Obama issued an Executive Order to close the Guantanamo detention facility by January 22, 2010. The Executive Order required that any detainees remaining at the facility beyond this time would be transferred to another country for continued detention, transferred to a U.S. detention facility, or released. The Administration had given itself 180 days to formulate a plan to execute this order and has now missed its own deadline.
In Oklahoma, Ft. Sill and the Bureau of Prisons' Federal Transfer Center in Oklahoma City have been discussed as possible transfer locations for Guantanamo detainees.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=322
