Public Statements
Fallin Calls On President To Remove Abortion Mandates From Healthcare Reform Platform
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: July 14, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) joined pro-life colleagues today in opposing provisions in the Obama Administration's healthcare plan that could dramatically expand the number of taxpayer funded abortions as well as lead to government mandates on private insurers to cover abortion. The Administration's current plan for healthcare reform includes requirements that individuals possess coverage that meet "minimum benefits standards." Unless explicitly prohibited by law, abortion would most likely be considered a "minimum benefit," forcing taxpayers to foot the bill, employers to extend coverage for this procedure and doctors to carry it out.
Fallin expressed deep concern that the President's healthcare plan would dramatically increase the number of abortions, violate the consciences of millions of taxpayers and override state level provisions affecting abortion.
"I call on President Obama to clarify the intent of this legislation and to let this Congress and the American people know whether his healthcare plan intends to use taxpayer dollars to fund abortions," said Fallin. "If the President does not plan on increasing government funds or mandates for abortion, then he should have no problem spelling that out in his healthcare plan.
"If, however, this plan seeks to actually redefine abortion on demand as "healthcare," then I will join the ranks of millions of prolife men and women in expressing my outrage.
"Taxpayer dollars should not be used to fund a practice that many Americans find fundamentally immoral. If the President is serious about building support for his proposals, he should make it clear that his healthcare plan is focused on improving the lives and good health of our citizens, not on funding abortions. He can do that immediately, by making the practice of abortion exempt from any minimum benefits standard."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=318
