Public Statements
Fallin Statement on Speaker Pelosi's Proposed Healthcare Plan
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: July 14, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) released the following statement today on Speaker Pelosi's proposed healthcare reform legislation:
"Passing health care reform and ensuring Americans have access to quality and affordable care that best fits their medical needs should be a priority for every lawmaker. I do not believe, however, that nationalizing health care and wedging bureaucrats between patients and doctors will be good for either the health of our citizens or our national economy.
"Unfortunately, that is exactly what Speaker Pelosi's plan would do. The proposal she unveiled earlier today represents nothing less than a federal takeover of the healthcare industry financed by massive new tax increases.
"The results of this huge expansion of government will not only be costly, they will be counterproductive to the long term goal of delivering quality, affordable health insurance.
"President Obama promised Americans that if they liked their current health coverage they would be able to keep it, but this bill will erode the private insurance market and force millions of Americans from their current benefit plans onto a government run plan. That plan would not only be expensive - costing Americans over a trillion dollars - it would likely lead to a rationing of medical treatments and a deteriorating quality of care.
"Furthermore, this bill does nothing to control medical costs or rein in federal spending. At a time when the national unemployment has hit a high of 9.5 percent and the nation's deficit is exploding, we cannot afford to neglect the skyrocketing prices of medical insurance. These insurance costs place a crushing burden on both our families and our businesses, creating hardship and reducing our competitiveness in a global economy.
"I believe there are fiscally responsible, market-driven solutions to our nation's healthcare crisis that will ensure affordable access while emphasizing high quality care. Congress should pursue these solutions and reject the worn out, big government, big spending and big taxing proposals that have failed us so many times in the past."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=319
