Public Statements
From The Enid News And Eagle: Fallin Says She Favors A Free Market Health Care System
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: July 2, 2009
Location: Unknown

Fifth District U.S. Rep. Mary Fallin favors a free market-type health care system that allows freedom of patient and physician choice.
Fallin made the comments during a tour of St. Mary's Regional Medical Center Tuesday. Fallin, a Republican candidate for governor, said she wants to maintain the latest technology, avoid cuts and lower health care costs.
A total 18 percent of Okla-homa residents are uninsured — 46 percent nationally — and Fallin said it is a priority to get people medical coverage. However, there also are those who choose not to be covered, she said.
"I'm interested in proposals that transfer our medical delivery system, that lowers cost, maintains quality and the doctor-patient choice," she said.
Fallin also likes a plan that allows health care to follow people if they change jobs, rather than losing health care while between jobs. It could be paid for by allowing people to deduct the cost of the insurance from their taxes, rather than placing the burden on business.
She also favors allowing small groups to pool together to purchase health plans and also risk pools for uninsured. Oklahoma has that plan and she would encourage more people to take advantage of it.
She is concerned about the plan put forth by President Barack Obama because the change he proposes are believed by many to create a Canadian-style health system. Fallin said the Canadians cut back on health care to keep costs down. She said Obama would mandate all employers provide insurance or pay a tax that could be used to provide insurance. Those who cannot afford health insurance could become part of the federal government health plan, according to the president's proposals.
"That would create less of a free-market competition so private insurance companies would shrink," she said.
Fallin is working with U.S. Sen. Tom Coburn, R-Okla., who is a physician and has put forth his own health plan.
"There is no doubt we need to have this discussion, but we need to keep the best health system in the world," she said.
Fallin toured hospitals in Altus and Lawton Monday and will tour others around the state the rest of the week, before going to Grand Lake for the holiday weekend for more politics.
As governor, she would make changes in Oklahomans health habits. It is unacceptable for Oklahoma to be ranked so high in poor health habits, she said. Those poor habits affect the quality of life.
"Government changes through leadership, you demonstrate through what you do," she said.
Fallin also is concerned about the amount of drug abuse in Oklahoma. The state has done a good job of reducing the number of methamphetamine labs in the state, but she is concerned it still is the state with the highest incarceration rate for women and no way to address the drug addictions of a high percentage of the state's inmates, both male and female.
She proposes a program that will address early offenders, drug courts and other programs that will intervene while the offenders are just getting started in their bad habits.
To maintain and improve the state's economy she would maximize the states natural resources. Oklahoma has an abundance of energy, she said, including oil, gas, wind and biofuel resources.
"Natural gas is clean energy so we can protect the environment," she said.
Fallin also attended a fundraiser in Enid Tuesday evening.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=311
