Public Statements
After All-Night Debate, Fallin Votes To Approve Defense Authorization Bill Extending Production Of The F-22 Raptor
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: June 18, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) today said she was encouraged by Wednesday's early-morning action by the House Armed Services Committee approving this year's Defense Authorization Bill and, should the bill be signed into law, saving the embattled F-22 Raptor fighter aircraft.
"The vote to continue production of the F-22 was 31-30, and I was proud to vote in favor of saving this vital aircraft," Fallin said.
The Obama administration had sought to end production of the F-22, which will replace the aging F-16 fighter aircraft. Fallin has spoken out in the past in favor of development of both the F-22 and F-35 aircraft, which play distinctive roles in the nation's defense.
"This week's vote will assure the addition of an extra twelve F-22s in Fiscal Year 2011," she said. "It is vital that we continue production of this important weapons system. With North Korea testing missiles and with turmoil in Iran, this is not the time to make dangerous cuts in defense."
Fallin also offered two amendments during the committee markup. The first amendment mandated that all service medals be made and manufactured in the United States. Fallin showed the committee examples of service medals made overseas, all of which were deficient in quality.
"Manufacturing our service medals overseas amounts to not only an outsourcing of jobs, but an outsourcing of patriotism as well," said Fallin. "It's important that we make these medals here in the U.S."
The second amendment offered by Fallin dealt with sexual assault in the military and required that all victims be given the right of either "restricted" or "non-restricted" reporting when disclosing an incident of assault. Restricted reporting allows a victim to report an incident in order to receive medical and psychological treatment and counseling without triggering a legal investigation. Unrestricted reporting requires an investigation to be conducted.
"There are some instances when the victim of a sexual assault or rape may be ready to ask for medical and psychological help, but unwilling to involve herself or himself in a criminal investigation," said Fallin. "This amendment will ensure they are given that option."
Both of Fallin's amendments were adopted.
The defense bill ultimately received the support of the entire committee, despite a series of disagreements over spending priorities and national security. Fallin said she was disappointed in the majority's decision to slash funding for the missile defense shield. She supported an amendment to restore funding that was eventually defeated. She also supported and spoke in favor of an amendment to prohibit the transfer of Guantanamo detainees to the United States (click here for video). That amendment was ultimately defeated as well.
Fallin released the following statement after the successful markup of the overall bill:
"This year's defense authorization bill provides critical funding for our troops in Afghanistan and Iraq, our veterans and our military families. Additionally, I am extremely pleased with the 3.4% increase in pay for active duty personnel, a figure greater than the increase requested by the President. While I was unhappy with some aspects of the legislation, including the cuts in missile defense spending and the rejection of an amendment designed to prevent the transfer of Gitmo detainees to U.S. soil, I was ultimately compelled to place these reservations aside to support the big picture.' In this case, that includes funding our men and women in the field and authorizing the programs that provide vital support to military families, vets and troops."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=307
