Public Statements
World Net Daily: Fallin: We'll be less safe without Gitmo
News Article
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 22, 2009
Location: Unknown

A member of Congress is challenging President Obama's promise that he'll close down the Guantanamo Bay detention facility where more than 200 terror suspects are being held because she says that's not the way to make America safer.
U.S. Rep. Mary Fallin, R-Okla., said, "The question we have to ask ourselves is what the president is proposing on Guantanamo  is closing it in the best interests of America and does it make America safer?
"I think the answer to that is no," she said.
Fallin spoke with Greg Corombos of Radio America/WND. The audio of the exchange is embedded here.
Obama today re-emphasized his intention to shut down the prison even though he has yet to specify what will happen to the inmates there: Would they be released and where would that happen?
Obama has said no one who is a threat to the U.S. would be freed to be in a position to carry out that threat, but then where would they be held?
Obama's message was sharply critical of the Bush administration.
Fallin, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, said even the New York Times has reported that one in seven detainees already released has returned "to commit terror attacks."
And she noted significant opposition in the U.S. Senate to Obama's plan.
"There are various groups that are very concerned if we do close Guantanamo  [there is] the potential for individuals undertaking attacks on us."
WND reported earlier when Kyndra Rotunda, a former prosecutor in the Office of Military Commissions at Guantanamo, noted Obama reversed himself by reinstituting military commissions for putting the detainees on trial.
"The Obama administration has gone back, looked at the rules, probably looked at some of the evidence against detainess, I would guess, and has basically decided that what the Bush administration was doing with these military commissions was the right way to go," she said.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=295
