Public Statements
Edmond Life and Leisure Op-Ed: Properly Funding Our Highways
Op-Ed
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 20, 2009
Location: Unknown

Properly Funding Our Highways
If you are reading Edmond Life and Leisure then there's a decent chance you take the interstate into Oklahoma City on your morning commute. If that's the case, you may have wondered during your drive in, in between sips of coffee, how these roads are funded and what the federal government does to help maintain them.
The answer is that a plan of funding and development is detailed every few years in the reauthorization of the federal highway program. The committee that designs that reauthorization program in the House of Representatives is the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, of which I am a member. We are expecting to reauthorize this program sometime in 2009.
During this process it is my goal to address two problems. The first involves developing a sustainable source of income when it comes to our highways. Our current system revolves around the Federal Highway Trust Fund, which is financed by the federal motor fuel taxes we all pay every time we fill up our tanks. We pay 18.3 cents in taxes per gallon of gasoline (21 cents per gallon on diesel) that go into the fund, which is then sent back to the states to help build or repair roads and bridges.
Unfortunately, this trust fund is going broke.
Rising gas prices last year combined with a damaging recession that forced many Americans to cut back on their driving, leading to less fuel consumption and less tax revenue. Congress added money in 2008 to make up the difference, but we can't do that every year.
For 2009, it is expected that the fund will receive about $36 billion in revenues. Given recent spending levels, that means we may be about $10 billion short.
Various proposals have been floated to make up the difference, including raising federal fuel taxes or taxing drivers on the basis of how many miles they travel. Both of these proposals are fatally flawed. Driving up fuel taxes, and thus fuel costs, could devastate our economy during an already trying time and would hurt poor families and seniors the most. A mileage tax, on the other hand, would be grossly unfair to Oklahoma, where drivers often travel large distances to get to work.
Besides the overall funding shortfall, the committee has a second problem to deal with: addressing the unfairness of a system where some states, like Oklahoma, have historically put significantly more into the fund than they get back. For many years Oklahoma was what we call a "donor state," meaning that for every dollar our drivers pay in taxes, we got less than a dollar back.
Between 1956 and 2005, Oklahoma averaged 82.3 cents on the dollar. In recent years that has improved, but the donor state problem is one that must be addressed in the reauthorization process.
I have joined with members from other donor states, and I believe we have found ways to address the inequities of a funding system that creates winners and losers.
One proposal we have discussed is to simply leave the federal motor fuel tax revenues with the states where they are collected, assuring every state of a 100 percent rate of return.
We would also like to remove some of the excess regulatory barriers to the prompt completion of road and bridge projects. It can take far too long to satisfy various environmental regulations that impede these projects, delaying construction and increasing costs.
Even with the flawed system in place today, there is some good news for Oklahoma: our Oklahoma Department of Transportation is doing an outstanding job of moving federal road dollars into actual construction. ODOT was recently recognized as the most efficient state highway agency in the nation in deploying federal stimulus funds to begin work on long-delayed projects within our state.
The highway reauthorization discussions will begin soon in the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. I will be there, working to assure that Oklahoma receives a fair share and that the Highway Trust Fund does the job it is supposed to do.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=292
