Public Statements
The Impact of Cap-and-Trade on Manufacturers Using Coal-Generated Energy
Floor Speech
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 19, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

The Impact of Cap-and-Trade on Manufacturers Using Coal-Generated Energy -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Ms. FALLIN. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Congressman Latta for leading this special hour tonight on a very important topic to our Nation.
When I go back to my home State of Oklahoma almost every weekend, I hear a couple of things from my constituents back home. First of all, they are very concerned about our economy. They want to know that they will be able to keep their jobs, be able to have a salary, make their house payment, pay their bills, take care of their families; and they want to know their taxes are going to be kept low. They want us here in Washington, D.C., to be a part of the solution, not a part of the problem.
The second thing I hear back home in Oklahoma is that people talk a lot about expenses and about the cost of living going up and how concerned they are with all the spending that is going on here in Washington, D.C., about the costs to their families and the costs to their businesses.
Many of them say to me, Please don't let our gas prices go up like they did last summer to $4 a gallon. We can't afford that anymore for either our families or even our businesses. They say, Please don't let my utility costs go up. We're hearing with cap-and-trade, cap-and-tax, that our utility costs could go up by 30 percent and I'm on a fixed number or I'm a lower income person, and I can't take a 30 percent increase in my utility costs.
They say things like, please don't let my businesses have more operating costs. Or please don't raise my gasoline prices because I won't be able to take my kids to school as freely as I had been able to.
And so as we begin and have this debate about cap-and-trade, controlling carbon emissions and about what we call the ``cap-and-tax,'' I feel that the Democrat national energy tax would harm all these things that people are concerned about. Experts estimate that cap-and-trade, cap-and-tax, as I said, would raise utilities costs and would raise costs on families to an estimated cost increase of around $3,100 per family. A recent report by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers says the new energy tax would also cost the United States 3.2 million jobs at a time when we already have a high unemployment rate throughout our Nation. And this means that the future of manufacturing, the future of jobs in our Nation, would be at stake, and especially at a time when we cannot afford, as a Nation, to make the wrong policy decision that could further hurt our national economy.
A strong manufacturing base is very vital to our economy and our security as a Nation depends on our having a strong manufacturing base and a strong economy. Many of us believe that we have are losing ground to other foreign countries when it comes to competing for products, production and also for market share.
I saw a recent report by the Industrial Energy Consumers of America, and they said that from 2000 to 2008, imports were up 29 percent, and manufacturing employment fell 22 percent, a loss of 3.8 million high-paying jobs. And they said of great concern is that manufacturing investment in the United States, as a percent of gross domestic product, has been on the decline since the late 1990s.
Two-thirds of our world's pollution comes from other countries who won't be under a cap-and-trade type piece of legislation, two-thirds of the pollution in our world. But yet here in the United States we are talking about a plan that would affect our business sector because of the climate control legislation. Now we all want to do all that we can to keep our air clean, our land clean and our water clean. That is a very important goal for all of us. But not at the cost of risking our national security or even our national economy.
We know that the Democrat solution is an energy tax. And we know it won't work. The United States might cap and tax its carbon emissions, but countries like China and India would never agree to restrictions that are so economically destructive. And the result would be, for the United States, more outsourcing of good jobs to other countries at the worst possible time when, as I said, unemployment is at 9 percent.
Cap-and-trade is nothing more than a national energy tax. And its effects would be far reaching to businesses, consumers and even more so to rural America. Rural areas will be hit hardest by energy taxes. Americans in rural areas must travel further for routine errands, in fact, about 25 percent more miles than urban households, according to a recent Federal highway data study.
Higher gasoline prices may not be the end of the world if you are taking a subway in a major metropolitan city like here in Washington, D.C., but higher gasoline prices are a big deal in small towns like I grew up in, like Tecumseh, Oklahoma, especially when you have to commute long distances to work. The numbers back that up. Rural households spend 58 percent more of fuel than urban residents as a percentage of their income.
And then you look at another important industry in rural America, and that is agriculture. And agriculture is a bull's eye industry for energy tax because it is energy intensive. Whether it is the fuel for a tractor or fertilizer for the crops or delivery of food to a local grocery store, agriculture uses a great deal of energy production. Small businesses and American jobs are also a target of the cap-and-trade, cap-and-tax system. A recent report from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers and other business groups states that President Obama's budget proposal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions would result in a net loss of jobs in our economy of 3.2 million and would shrink our household purchasing power by $2,100. And while protecting our environment is a worthwhile effort, and we are all for that, I cannot support legislation that does nothing but levy taxes on small business, on rural America, on families and on those who are on limited resources and raises just higher energy taxes.
If you want a real solution to climate change, then we should focus on incentives. We should focus on innovation, research and letting the free-market system work. And yes, Republicans do have a plan that would support energy production and also support clean energy, an all-of-the-above energy plan. We support production of clean natural gas, wind power, solar power, nuclear power as well as the traditional fossil fuels. We, as Republicans, have our eye on the future, and we know that the United States doesn't have an unlimited reserve of fossil fuels, and we understand we need to pursue other energy sources, energy diversity. But Republicans also understand that we can't get this overnight by pursuing a series of damaging tax increases.
And Congressman Latta, I will yield back my time for further discussion on this issue.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Ms. FALLIN. I appreciate your comments.
We're already seeing some of the effects in our oil and gas energy sector in the State of Oklahoma of job losses already just by talking about the cap-and-trade piece of legislation. And you were mentioning a few moments ago about the pollution of other countries and how if we have cap and trade here and we try to control our emissions--which we should, we should have reasonable policy on that--how China and India and some of those other growing economies will still keep polluting. In fact, a statistic that I saw said two-thirds of the world's population comes from countries other than the United States. So while we may put some heavy restrictions that could cost jobs and investment in the United States, these other countries will take those market shares from us and continue polluting.
I was interested in your comments by Secretary Geithner who said we have an overproduction of our oil, which that is an unusual comment when our Nation is so dependent upon foreign energy. I think many of us in this body believe that our country is at risk in our national security and economic security by buying almost 70 percent--65, 70 percent of our energy supplies from other foreign countries while spending around $700 billion buying that foreign energy. Just think what that $700 billion--if we produced our own energy--what that would do in our Nation as it relates to jobs and investment in our marketplace here in the United States.
But yet we continue to send that money to foreign countries buying their energy versus encouraging innovation, free enterprise here in United States of all kinds of energy sources.
And I just truly believe we have the knowledge, we have the capacity and the intellect in the United States to develop these alternative means of fuel and to reduce our carbon emissions. Look at natural gas. There is a proposal here in Congress to encourage more investment in C&G cars, more infrastructure investment in natural gas. And I hope that we continue to push those kinds of policies rather than massive tax increases and standards that will actually hurt our national economy and hurt our jobs.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Ms. FALLIN. I thank the Congressman. I have one thing I just wanted to add. President Obama has talked about how the United States can achieve a new long-term subsidization of green jobs like similar to what Spain has done, and I have a report from the Institute For Energy Research, which talks about other countries.
And what has happened is they have spent billions of dollars of taxpayer resources to subsidize renewable energy programs and to add more greening within their societies. And as they passed some carbon tax-type legislation, it was showing that, according to their results, compared to what the United States could expect, that the U.S. can expect 2.2 jobs destroyed for every one renewable job that is financed by government-based bond, what has happened in Spain. Only one of 10 jobs actually creating a green investment would be permanent. They'd be temporary jobs.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
