Public Statements
Fallin Slams ACLU for Exploitation of Detainee Photos
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 13, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) today participated in a forum investigating the consequences surrounding the potential release of photos revealing detainee abuse in Iraq and Afghanistan. The photos may be released in response to a Freedom of Information Act request from the American Civil Liberties Union. Although the Justice Department had initially signaled it would hand over the photos without contesting the request, an unnamed administration spokesman said today the White House now opposes their release.
The forum was attended by other members of Congress and included testimony from the following expert witnesses:
Tom Korologos: Former Ambassador to Belgium and expert in outreach to Muslim and Arab communities

Mark Pfeifle: Former Deputy National Security Advisor

David Rehbein: Commander of the American Legion
Following the forum, Fallin released the following statement:
"The ACLU is currently pursuing an agenda that serves no other purpose than to give aid and comfort to our enemies. Releasing these pictures will help no one except the leaders of groups like Al Qaeda, who will gain a powerful new recruiting tool and a new source of anti-American hate.
"No one is condoning prisoner abuse. In fact, the Pentagon is taking appropriate steps to punish the very small number of troops who might have participated in such misconduct and to ensure no further instances occur. We can pursue justice, however, without releasing images that will surely be used as a weapon against the United States.
"It is mindboggling that the ACLU could be so indifferent to the success of the two wars we are currently fighting, our national security and our diplomatic efforts, particularly in the Middle East. The warped vision of the constitutional process championed by their liberal army of lawyers and lobbyists does not represent the best interests of this nation, nor do their views represent those of mainstream Americans. The testimony of our expert witnesses today, all of whom oppose the release of these photographs, has strengthened my belief that the ACLU is pursuing an agenda that will make Americans less safe."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=290
