Public Statements
Fallin Takes Part in GOP Energy Summit
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 6, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) joined several House Republicans and leading energy industry experts this morning at a summit examining the affects of a national energy tax on the American economy. The summit was the first in a series of planned events hosted by the American Energy Solutions Group, an organization of House Republicans pushing for a more comprehensive, economically sound national energy policy.
Today's summit focused largely on Democrat leaders' controversial "cap and trade" - Republicans labeled it "cap and tax" - plan designed to control carbon emissions. Cap and trade policies would raise taxes on American energy companies and other businesses by over $640 billion, a cost that experts agree will be passed onto consumers in the form of higher prices. The latest version of this plan is currently contained in the Waxman-Markey climate legislation now being considered in the House Committee on Energy and the Environment.
Congresswoman Fallin, a longstanding critic of cap and trade, argued it would hurt the economy, spur more job loss and generally raise the cost of living for American families.
During the question and answer portion of the summit, expert witness Randy Foutch, a Tulsa businessman and CEO of Laredo Petroleum, Inc., argued that raising taxes and fees on American energy corporations would hurt the economy "at the worst possible time" and "dramatically reduce" the number of jobs both in Oklahoma and elsewhere.
Fallin asked Foutch whether or not such a plan would help reduce America's dependence on foreign oil. Foutch said it would not, and that he believed the damage to the United State's domestic energy industry would actually lead to an increase in reliance on foreign energy sources. "There's almost no chance we won't see a greater amount of foreign crude," said Foutch.
After the hearing, Fallin said the witnesses affirmed her conviction that a new energy tax would do little to protect the environment and would severely weaken the economy.
"The policy currently promoted by the administration and Democrat leaders in the House is ill-conceived and could prove incredible damaging, especially to energy-rich states like Oklahoma," said Fallin. "We've heard before and heard again today their plan would raise energy and utility costs by $3100 a year for the average family, a cost that would fall most heavily on seniors and low income households. Cap and trade would cost us as many as seven million jobs here in the United States. It would hurt American manufacturers and the American energy industry and put both at a competitive disadvantage with companies operating overseas. And it would do all of this without significantly helping our environment or lessening our dependence on foreign energy sources, the original justification for levying these new taxes."
"I believe we need to protect the environment, reduce carbon emissions, diversify our fuel sources and promote alternative energy production," Fallin added. "Today we heard from several expert witnesses with ideas on how to do so without crippling the American economy. Moving forward, it is these ideas we must embrace over the costly cap and trade proposal being put forward by Washington Democrats."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=285
