Public Statements
Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009
Floor Speech
By: Mary Fallin
Date: April 28, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009 -- (House of Representatives - April 28, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Ms. FALLIN. Thank you to the gentleman from Iowa. I appreciate your hosting this hour tonight for us to discuss a very important issue to our Nation and a very important issue to this Congress and this body. And I appreciate the words that have been spoken so eloquently by my colleagues here tonight.
Mr. Speaker, I want to address a couple of things in this piece of legislation that should give us pause as we look at the intent of this legislation, this bill.
First of all, it would federalize a number of crimes that have traditionally been left to the States. Assault is a local crime. So is homicide. But under this bill, the Department of Justice would be allowed and encouraged to jump into these cases when they met certain criteria as a hate crime. The Federal Government does not have unlimited resources or even manpower; so do we really want the prosecutors, who should be dealing with things like terrorists or mobsters, dealing with and debating what a street corner thug may or may not have said or may or may not have thought when it comes to a mugging? Local law enforcement and local prosecutors, local courts do an outstanding job of handling such cases, and Congress should let them do their jobs.
But, second, this bill is also a clear violation of the equal protection clause of the 14th amendment. It creates a special class of victims. It says one victim is more important than another victim, and in doing so, it relegates every other victim to a position of second class. Assault is assault, murder is murder, and they are all hate crimes, in my opinion. But this bill elevates some victims and downgrades others. And this is every bit as unconstitutional as even a poll tax might be for this Nation.
And, third, this bill opens the door to the regulation of speech. And this really bothers me. One of our very basic foundations of our Nation, one of our very basic ideals of our Nation that we hold so dear is the freedom of speech, liberty and justice for all. I have to say I do find hate speech very abhorrent. It is childish. It is hurtful. It is wrong. But yet this piece of legislation, when you make hate speech a special precursor to a criminal act, you're only one step away from making speech itself an offense. And then who decides what comment will qualify for the hate speech?
When you look at some other countries like Canada and Great Britain who started out with hate crime laws like this and then they added hate speech as a separate offense and then what we find in those countries is now that Columnists in those countries must avoid certain subjects. Columnists must worry whether a caricature may become a crime.
And even more troubling is perhaps the way this legislation like this also threatens religion and freedom of religion. Should a Christian minister or a rabbi or an imam have to worry about what their message is maybe if it deals with something like sexuality and that might be considered to be hate speech? If so, that would be an unprecedented violation of the first amendment rights and a direct below to the religious liberty in this country.
This legislation may be well intentioned, but it also puts this country on a very dangerous path. And more importantly, the Constitution, as well as a sense of very basic fairness, prohibits the elevation of one class of citizens above another.
All victims deserve justice. All victims deserve equal justice, and it should be equally rendered. But this bill is the wrong answer, and I want to urge my colleagues to reject this legislation.
To the gentleman of Iowa, I appreciate you, once again, for allowing us the time to discuss a very important issue with our Nation and to express our opinions.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
