Public Statements
Fallin Says Napolitano "Out of Touch"
By: Mary Fallin
Date: April 23, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Says Napolitano "Out of Touch"
Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) today said Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano is "out of touch with mainstream America" if she believes that returning war veterans and people who believe in the Second Amendment pose a terrorism threat to the nation.
"Like most Oklahomans I was amazed at her statements and actions this week," Fallin said. "First she approved a report that implied members of the armed forces returning from combat would follow in the footsteps of Timothy McVeigh. Then she insulted our friends in Canada by falsely claiming the 9/11 terrorists came from there. Is this really a person that should be speaking on behalf of our nation?"
Napolitano approved release of a report last week implying that a variety of groups, including veterans, pro life activists, and supporters of gun rights, could be potential anti-government terrorists. She also said Wednesday that the 9/11 terrorists entered the country from Canada, when in fact they came from overseas.
"To suggest those who have served in combat, oppose abortion or support the right to keep and bear arms are threats to the nation is insulting and shows just how out of touch Secretary Napolitano is with mainstream America," Fallin said. "If supporters of the Second Amendment are dangerous then so were Ben Franklin, George Washington, Alexander Hamilton and James Madison. They helped write it back in 1787."
Fallin said she was pleased to see Oklahoma legislators and veterans led by state Sen. Steve Russell lambast the Homeland Security report that warned about "right-wing extremism."
"Using the logic set out in this report, a huge majority of Oklahomans could be considered potential terrorists," she said. "This is nonsense. Conservatives are no more responsible for the acts of people like Timothy McVeigh than liberals are for the Unabomber."
Fallin said she is also concerned the Department of Justice apparently co-signed the Homeland Security report, indicating that Attorney General Eric Holder shares Napolitano's views.
"We know by now the Obama administration is probably the most liberal ever," she said. "Those of us in Congress who share the conservative values of most Oklahomans will continue resisting efforts like these."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=280
