Public Statements
Prepared Remarks of House Republican Leaders at a Press Conference
Press Conference
By: Mary Fallin
Date: April 22, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


PREPARED REMARKS OF HOUSE REPUBLICAN LEADERS AT A PRESS CONFERENCE
PARTICIPANTS: HOUSE MINORITY LEADER JOHN BOEHNER (R-OH); REP. ERIC CANTOR (R-VA); REP. MIKE PENCE (R-IN); REP. CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS (R-WA); REP. MARY FALLIN (R-OK)
Copyright ©2009 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Carina Nyberg at cnyberg@fednews.com or call 1-202-216-2706.
REP. FALLIN: Good morning, I'm Mary Fallin from Oklahoma.
I'm very fortunate to come from a state that has tremendous energy production. And in my state, my oil and gas, my energy producers in Oklahoma are very concerned about the Obama Administration's proposals on energy. We want to step forth today as Republicans and tell the President we are willing to work with him on reducing our dependence on foreign energy and helping to find alternative forms of energy. But the way he is proposing it, with increasing taxes on oil and gas and production and exploration will devastate the energy industry especially in Oklahoma.
We've already seen a 39% reduction in gross production taxes in our state, which is a $2 billion drop out of a $7 billion budget. We're already seeing job loss. We're already seeing companies, and I'll give you one specific example of a company in Tulsa who said that they last year drilled 36 wells and this year they plan on drilling zero. No production, because they are waiting to see what Congress is going do with Cap and Trade and with the proposed tax increases-- energy taxes on the energy industry. It is estimated that the proposed tax increases in President Obama's budget will increase taxes on energy by $30 billion and cost up to 7 million jobs at a time when our economy is in a downturn and a time when people are concerned about keeping their jobs and paying their bills. And the portion of the population that would be affected by these energy tax increases will be our poor and our elderly and those who have to spend a larger portion of their income on paying for energy costs.
Whether it is higher utility costs or higher gasoline costs, it's estimated these new energy taxes, what we call Cap and Tax--Cap and Trade, could cost the average family $3,000 a year in increase costs. And once again, at a time when our economy is down, when people are struggling to pay their bills, stay in their homes, and keep their jobs is not a good time be enacting policies that will hurt energy production.

Source: http://www.fnsg.com/transcript.htm?id=20090422t0545&nquery=&query=fallin&from=
