Public Statements
Fallin: Don't Let Gitmo Terrorist Free in U.S
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 19, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin: Don't Let Gitmo Terrorists Free in U.S.
Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) today said she is "astonished" at comments by Attorney General Eric Holder that some terrorism suspects held at the Guantanamo Bay detention center could be released to roam free in the United States.
"The Attorney General of the United States is supposed to be the nation's chief law enforcement officer, charged with protecting the people," Fallin said. "If he can't recognize the threat posed by suspected terrorists at Gitmo, who exactly is he willing to protect us from?"
Among the terrorists at Guantanamo Bay is Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the architect of the 9/11 attacks. In an unclassified legal brief, he was quoted as saying, "…killing you and fighting you and terrorizing you, responding back to your attacks, are all considered to be … a duty in our religion."
Yet in a media interview on Wednesday, Holder was quoted as saying that the Obama administration has not yet determined what do to with Gitmo terrorism suspects, but that "there are a variety of options that we have and among them is the possibility that we would release them into this country."
Fallin said that even those Gitmo suspects who will not be charged could pose a hazard, noting that several of those already freed from Guantanamo in the past had returned to terrorism, including one who is now the top al Qaeda leader in South Yemen.
"I was simply astonished at these comments. It is foolish to release dangerous terrorists and irresponsible to even suggest that they could be brought to the United States and allowed to walk our streets," she said. Fallin previously filed legislation to prohibit Gitmo suspects from being housed in Oklahoma specifically, and also cosponsored legislation prohibiting their transfer anywhere inside the United States.

"First they say they want to close Gitmo with no plan for where to put these people," she said. "Now the Attorney General is hinting he may dump them right here in the U.S. I suspect even many of the Democrats in Congress will have something to say about that nutty scheme."
Fallin also said she was also concerned with the administration's announcement that Gitmo detainees would no longer be referred to as "enemy combatants."
"One wonders if they are afraid of hurting their feelings," she said. "Let's remember who these people are. Among them are five who have openly confessed to being part of the plot behind the 9/11 attacks. They are proud of being mass murderers. Others have been captured in raids on terrorist cells or carrying weapons on battlefields in Iraq or Afghanistan. They clearly consider Americans to be ‘enemies.' Why can't the Attorney General of the United States wrap his mind around the same concept?"

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=252
