Public Statements
Year of the Military Family
Floor Speech
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 11, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


Year of the Military Family -- (House of Representatives - March 11, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Ms. FALLIN. I am here today to support this resolution also, and to support the naming of 2009 as the Year of the Military Family. For years now, we have been sending our sons and our daughters overseas to fight terror and also fight for our freedom. Our military men and women have sacrificed, missing birthdays, anniversaries, holidays, and endured many hardships, and we are honored on this floor in this Chamber to frequently pay tribute to those men and women.
Too often, however, we forget the families, the loved ones behind our military men and women--our mothers, our fathers, our children, our siblings, husbands and wives of our troops. Their sacrifice is also worthy of our greatest respect. These are the unsung heroes of the War on Terror, the loved ones who watch our troops go into battle, and are ready to greet them when they arrive back home.
We now have 1.8 million family members of active duty military personnel, and just over 1 million family members of reservists. Of every two soldiers who are deployed, one leaves behind a wife or a husband who will wait for months, and sometimes even years, before they see their spouse again.
Nearly 2 million children have fathers or mothers who are in the military, and these children, undoubtedly, feel great pride in having a mother or father serve their country, but they also feel a great burden of growing up with one parent who often is far from home and missing those important times.
Without the support and sacrifice of these brave men, women, and their children, our Armed Services could not function, so much so that it is just safe to say thank you to our military families for their service and for protecting our country and for making the tremendous sacrifices with their families.
So, Mr. Speaker, for all these reasons, I would like to join my colleagues in also congratulating the 2009 members of the military families, and to say that this is your year. 2009 is the Year of the Military Family. So let us join in and respect those families and honor them today in this Chamber.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
