Public Statements
Fallin Opposes Job Killing Union Bill
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 10, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Opposes Job Killing Union Bill
Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) released the following statement today in opposition to the so-called "Employee Free Choice Act," a bill which eliminates workers' rights to cast a vote to join a union in secret. A new study conducted by Dr. Anne Layne-Farrar on behalf of the Alliance to Save Main Street Jobs recently concluded that new rules under the bill could lead to a one-percentage point increase in unemployment.
"Secret ballots are a pillar of American democracy and all free and fair elections. They allow voters to make a private choice without fear of coercion or retribution. The American people use secret ballots when electing their members of Congress. The members of this Congress, in turn, use secret ballots when electing the leaders of both parties. We do this because it is the best, most fair way to hold an election.
"Workers deserve this same right. The ‘Employee Free Choice Act,' however, would take that right away and give union bosses free reign to bully and harass their employees into supporting their cause.
"Not only is this dangerous and fundamentally unfair, it would also have disastrous economic consequences. As Dr. Layne-Farrar's study demonstrates, allowing union bosses the leeway to coerce and cajole their employees into union membership could lead to a dramatic uptick in unemployment.
"Throughout my career in public service, I've tried to give our workers and businesses a fair playing field. As Lieutenant Governor, I fought for ‘right to work' reforms that helped attract business to Oklahoma and create new jobs. In Congress, I will continue to support policies that are fair to our workers and good for our economy. The ‘Employee Free Choice' bill is the antithesis of that: undemocratic, unfair and bad for business."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=246
