Public Statements
Fallin Addresses Sexual Assault in the Military
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 5, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Addresses Sexual Assault in the Military
Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) today served on the Women in the Military Panel on Sexual Harassment/Assault Response and Prevention (SHARP). The panel explored sexual assault in the military and ways to improve the support networks available to women soldiers. Fallin was joined on the panel by Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), Sergeant First Class Michael Howorth, Colonel Chuck Pede and Ms. Carolyn Collins, the Army's Program Manager of SHARP.
During the discussion Fallin expressed her support for the current sexual assault programs in the military and noted that, just as Congress has a duty to provide our troops with equipment, medical care and traditional benefits, it also has a duty to ensure a military environment where troops are safe from unwanted sexual advances and where victims of sexual assault are comfortable reporting the crime. The military itself has been a leader in instituting programs to improve its response to sexual assault incidents and increase prevention; however, as members of the panel discussed, continued improvement is necessary.
Fallin outlined three main areas where the military could improve its sexual assault programs.
First, Fallin argued for the presence of more senior women in the military who would be available in war environments to counsel younger women about sexual assault. "Having role models in place is an immediate, non-official support network that can make a real difference."
Second, Fallin pointed to a GAO report showing that sexual harassment and assault goes greatly underreported, suggesting that many soldiers are intimidated or otherwise dissuaded from reporting an incident. Fallin stated that "ostracism, harassment and persecution are unacceptable responses to reports of sex crimes both in and out of the military."
Third, Fallin argued for a greater degree of support and training for military programs designed to prevent incidents of sexual assault. Specifically, the panel discussed the "I AM Strong" initiative, a long-range program to improve military culture and respond appropriately to sexual assault. The program trains soldiers to recognize and respond to sexual assault incidents and understand when to intervene.
Mary joins others on the SHARP panel The panel also discussed the Judge Advocate General Corps' plans to add 15 sexual assault prosecutors with background and expertise in dealing with these issues. They will continue to be responsible for training other prosecutors in how to effectively handle those cases.
"With over 200,000 women now serving in the armed services, it is more important than ever to address their needs and offer them our full support. Preventing and treating sexual assault is important to the health and wellbeing of our women veterans, important to the morale of all our soldiers and, ultimately, important to our national security" said Fallin.
Fallin is the Co-Chairwoman of the Congressional Caucus on Women's Issues and a member of the House Armed Services Personnel Subcommittee.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=242
