Public Statements
Boren, Fallin Introduce Farm Truck Bill
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 4, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


Boren, Fallin Introduce Farm Truck Bill
U.S. Congressman Dan Boren and U.S. Congresswoman Mary Fallin have re-introduced federal legislation that would make it easier for Oklahoma's agricultural producers to transport goods across state lines. H.R. 1220 would adjust the federal definition of commercial motor vehicles to include only those that weigh more than 26,000 pounds.
"At a time when our nation faces unprecedented economic downturn, our government should be enacting sound policies that help ease the flow of commerce. This bill removes bureaucratic red tape for Oklahoma's, and our nation's, agricultural producers and allows them to operate more efficiently without government interference," Boren said. "Oklahoma borders six other states and we must do everything possible to make sure producers can bring goods to market without unnecessary burden."
"Agriculture remains a cornerstone of Oklahoma's economy," said Fallin. "This bill will eliminate overbearing government regulations and allow our farmers to do business in a more efficient manner. I'd like to thank Congressman Boren for working with me on a piece of legislation that will reduce costs for our agricultural producers and improve their competitiveness in the marketplace."
Current Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations give states discretion in deciding whether vehicles under 26,001 pounds are considered commercial vehicles within their own borders, but hold those traveling from one state to another to a much more prohibitive federal standard of 10,001 pounds. H.R. 1220 would change the definition of a commercial motor vehicle to include only those that exceed 26,000 pounds, making it consistent with most states' laws. The bill maintains current safety standards for vehicles of any weight that transport 16 or more passengers or hazardous materials.
"I've heard from producers across my district and the state that have faced fines from these regulations that never should have applied to them in the first place.
This bill protects safety on our roads while lifting these burdens on farmers and ranchers," Boren said.
Classification as a commercial motor vehicle subjects farmers and ranchers to regulations that were never intended to apply to them. It requires them to hold a commercial driver's license, log their hours of service and register their vehicle with the U.S. Department of Transportation.
"The Oklahoma Farm Bureau commends Congressman Boren and Congresswoman Fallin for introducing HR 1220. Farmers, ranchers and others who engage in interstate commerce throughout this nation need the ability to conduct their business in a fair and efficient manner. We believe that HR 1220 will provide much needed uniformity between state and federal law which will allow for agricultural commodities to be transported more freely across state lines," Mike Spradling, OFB President.
H.R. 1220 awaits action before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=241
