Public Statements
Fallin Statement on Presidential Address
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Feb. 24, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Statement on Presidential Address
Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) tonight issued the following statement on President Obama's remarks to the joint session of Congress:
"Americans are understandably worried about the state of the economy and the continuing impact it has on families and businesses. I applaud the President for focusing his address on this subject and for turning his attention, at last, to the country's unsustainable deficit. I am concerned, however, with the "solutions" this president and his administration continue to offer, mainly a reduction in military spending and an increase in taxes on small businesses. This would weaken our military in a time of war and stifle growth during a period already defined by economic hardship.
"All of this comes as House Democrats reveal their gigantic, $400 billion omnibus spending bill. While the President calls for fiscal restraint, House Democrats are unrolling legislation with over a thousand earmarks, including funding for red snappers in Florida, astronomy in Hawaii and "Pleasure Beach Water Taxis" in Connecticut.
"If President Obama believes, as I do, that our current level of deficit spending is unsustainable and threatens the security of future generations, then he should call for fiscal restraint now, not tomorrow, and certainly not by 2013, as he has this week. This is why I'm joining other House Republicans in urging the President to call for an immediate spending freeze as a first step in addressing the mushrooming deficit. I would also urge him to veto this huge new spending bill and send a clear message to members of his party who seem determined to run wild with the budget.
"Where President Obama's proposals make fiscal sense, improve the lives of our citizens and do not endanger our national security or the safety of our military personnel, I will be his strongest supporter. But I cannot support tax increases and more unnecessary government spending in a recession.
"Despite our current hardships, I am confident in our future. Our nation is resilient and we are a strong people. We will work through this recession as we have worked through others. We can work through it faster, however, where we embrace the principles of fiscal responsibility, individual responsibility, limited government and hard work. It is these principles that I will continue to work for, and these principles on which, moving forward, I hope to find common ground with lawmakers in both parties."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=235
