Public Statements
Fallin Joins House GOP in Meeting With Obama, Pushes Tax Cuts
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 27, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Joins House GOP in Meeting With Obama, Pushes Tax Cuts
Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) joined other House Republicans today in meeting with President Barack Obama to discuss economic recovery legislation. Fallin and her colleagues continued to push the president to focus his plan on tax cuts rather than government spending and urged him to cut the total cost of his proposal.
"Our message today was simple," said Fallin. "We believe tax cuts provide the best route to economic recovery and that the federal government cannot borrow and spend its way out of a recession. That's what we told the president, and those are the ideas we hope he will incorporate in his economic stimulus plan."
Fallin has been a strong supporter of the Republican Study Committee's (RSC) economic recovery plan focusing on tax cuts and credits, an alternative to President Obama's legislation. The RSC plan cuts every personal income tax bracket by 5%, reduces corporate taxes from 35% to 25% and introduces a host of tax credits to encourage investment while reigning in federal spending by 1%. Fallin serves as the RSC's Communications Chairman.

"I appreciate President Obama's willingness to meet with House Republicans and hear our proposals," said Fallin. "Unfortunately, his plan currently relies on a massive new influx of federal spending, some of it permanent, as well as some temporary tax relief. I believe this plan will provide little economic stimulus, move us towards big government expansion and do so at an enormous cost to future generations. Rather than heap debt on our children and grandchildren with more spending, I have consistently advocated permanent tax cuts and credits for families and businesses. It is my sincere hope that President Obama significantly increases the tax relief in his stimulus plan while reducing government spending and the overall cost of the bill."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/obamameeting.shtml
