Public Statements
Fallin Joins RSC in Unveiling New Stimulus Plan
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 14, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) joined Chairman Tom Price and other members of the Republican Study Committee (RSC) today, unveiling a new economic stimulus plan centering on tax cuts for families and businesses. Fallin said the plan would put money directly into the hands of working families and would do more to stimulate the economy than proposals relying on government spending. The bill is titled, "The Economic Recovery and Middle-Class Tax Relief Act of 2009."
"Our plan will provide immediate and responsible stimulus to the American economy without burying future generations under a mountain of debt," said Fallin. "By providing tax relief for families, increasing incentives for business growth and investment and by limiting wasteful federal spending, the RSC plan provides the most effective boost to our economy the federal government can offer."
The bill includes a 5% across the board reduction in federal income taxes, boosts the child tax credit from $1000 to $5000, increases tax deductions for higher education and freezes the capital gains tax. To encourage business growth and investment, it cuts U.S. corporate tax rates (currently the second highest in the world) from 35% to 25% and includes incentives for research and development and capital improvements. The RSC plan also includes an immediate 1% cut in federal expenditures.
"Economic growth needs to come from the ground up, starting with middle class consumers and businesses," said Fallin. "The best way to encourage that growth is to leave more money in the pockets of the American people. We believe, and history has shown, that tax cuts provide the most effective stimulus."
Fallin said she was happy President-elect Obama was focusing on the economy and had promised to listen to conservative ideas. Now, she said, she hopes he'll follow through.
"We've presented a workable plan based on tax cuts and fiscally responsible policies. It is my hope that the President-elect and his advisors seriously consider these proposals, rather than relying on the old formula of massive government spending," said Fallin.
A fact sheet on the "Economic Recovery and Middle-Class Tax Relief Act of 2009" is available here.
The RSC is dedicated to advancing a conservative economic and social agenda and is made up of over 100 House Republicans. Congresswoman Fallin currently serves as their Communications Chairman.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=212
