Public Statements
Edmond Life and Leisure - A New Year with Old Tensions in the Middle East
Op-Ed
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 13, 2009
Location: Edmond, OK


A New Year With Old Tensions in the Middle East, by Rep Fallin

The new year arrived with more bloodshed in the Middle East. It's often hard for Americans to sort out the warring factions there, but in the case of Israel's defense against continuous mortar and rocket attacks from Gaza, the situation is clear. Israel is defending itself against terrorism.
A little history might help clarify the issues.
Israel occupied the Gaza Strip at the end of the 1967 Six Day War, which began when Arab countries attacked Israel. After many years, Israel agreed, in the 1994 Oslo Accords, to turn over most governing authority in Gaza to the Palestinian Authority. Israel also withdrew most of the settlers who had made homes in Gaza after 1967.
Unfortunately, the militant terrorist organization Hamas later overthrew the PA and effectively took over Gaza. They almost immediately began launching mortar and rocket attacks into Israel.
Imagine if 20 or 30 explosive rockets and mortar bombs were falling in Bethany every day, launched from a hostile War Acres. Gaza is that close to Israeli communities. Of course Israel has a right to defend its citizens from terrorism.
The Israelis did just that in late December, launching selective air strikes and later ground attacks designed to remove Hamas leaders and terror cells. It is clear that Israeli forces are being as careful as they can in efforts to minimize destruction and civilian casualties.
Sadly, this situation merely brings more misery to the people of Gaza. They have been used and abused for years by bad leadership. Israel has routinely subsidized food and medical care for Gaza's citizens, regardless of their allegiances, because the corrupt and inefficient governing bodies that have ruled that region were unable to provide for their own people.
There have been demonstrations against Israel in some cities, including here in Oklahoma. In one case a demonstrator waved a sign bearing a Nazi swastika joined with the Star of David. That's both unfortunate and misguided.
The question is, where were these demonstrators while Hamas was bombarding Israeli neighborhoods and families with rockets and mortar shells for years?
I have had the opportunity to travel to Israel and meet with both Israeli and Palestinian leaders. I know there are Palestinians who desperately want peace and it pains me to see them endure hardships. But the reality is that Israel has been under almost constant assault for 60 years. Hamas has publicly stated its intent to murder everyone in Israel and exterminate the Israeli nation. Israel has every right to defend itself, and like the vast majority of Americans, I support the Israeli people in their fight against terrorism.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/edmondllisrael.shtml
