Public Statements
Fallin Asks Bush to Withhold TARP Funds from Big Three Automakers
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Dec. 16, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) joined other conservative lawmakers today in asking President Bush to reject the use of Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) funds to bailout the Big Three auto manufacturers. In a letter submitted this morning, they argued that TARP was "intended to provide stability to the nation's lending system - not to provide a taxpayer funded capital infusion to favored businesses."
Fallin also released the following statement on the proposed use of TARP funds for an auto industry bailout:
"I feel for the workers, retirees and businesses affected by this crisis, and I fully understand the broad consequences of the financial woes currently afflicting the American auto industry. The impact of a struggling Big Three will not be isolated to Detroit. It will be felt throughout the nation, including in Oklahoma. Still, we cannot simply write billion dollar checks to every industry facing financial challenges. There are many businesses, both large and small, in Oklahoma and throughout the nation, which are feeling the effects of the economic downturn and making adjustments. Bailing out the auto industry would not only be unfair to those businesses and industries that do not receive taxpayer money, it would also be tantamount to rewarding bad business practices.
"No one wants the Big Three or any other American businesses to fail. But in the case of Detroit automakers, we are dealing with business models that are unsustainable. The solution is not a cash handout; it is a managed bankruptcy in which the federal government plays a support and oversight role. We can move forward and save these businesses, but not without sacrifice, and not by throwing taxpayer money at companies that refuse to make the changes they so desperately need. If the federal government wants to support those individuals affected by a struggling Big Three, they should work for long term security and sustainability, not a short term band aid."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=30&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,30&itemid=180
