Public Statements
Tecumseh Countywide News - Fallin Comes Bearing Gift: $325,000 For Shawnee Airport Terminal
News Article
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Dec. 5, 2008
Location: Shawnee, OK


Tecumseh Countywide News - Fallin Comes Bearing Gift: $325,000 For Shawnee Airport Terminal
Congresswoman Mary Fallin came home to Pottawatomie County yesterday (Wednesday) to deliver a $325,000 check to the City of Shawnee and talk to Tecumseh school officials about federal impact aid.
Fallin, who grew up in Tecumseh, was in Shawnee Wednesday to make the check presentation to city and airport authority officials. The money is a federal economic development grant for the creation of a new terminal at Shawnee Regional Airport. It will be matched with $250,000 from the Oklahoma Aeronautics Board and $75,000 from the city.
The new terminal is part of an overall plan to upgrade the airport, a pet project of former Mayor Chuck Mills. Fallin said in a telephone interview Tuesday that she first started working on the grant on behalf of Vanguard Industries, but because of timing issues, those efforts were redirected to the airport.
"This will modernize the airport and terminal," Fallin said. "It's important to the entire county, especially companies like Vanguard and Exxon Mobil. It will be more modern, safer and more attractive. And it will go a long way to help attract new business and retain the businesses that are there. It will help move Pottawatomie County and Shawnee forward."
Fallin has long a strong interest in aviation issues. As Oklahoma's lieutenant governor, that was a primary emphasis. She began the Oklahoma Aerospace Summit, which draws about 12,000 participants to Oklahoma City each spring.
She continued her work in that area when she went to Congress in 2007, requesting and winning a seat on the House transportation committee and aviation subcommittee.
The Shawnee project is right up her alley, since as lieutenant governor she focused on both aviation and business development. "When industries are looking to locate, they usually ask what type of airport facilities are available," she said. "It's fun to be able to bring this home."
While in her home county, Fallin also planned to meet with Tecumseh Superintendent Tom Wilsie and board member David Qualls to discuss federal impact aid. Fallin said Qualls contacted her about the issue, concerned that while the school system is 40 percent Native American, it may not be receiving all the impact aid money it is entitled to.
Federal impact aid is designed to help school systems recover some of the funding lost because of large amounts of tribal trust land, which are not on the tax rolls. Because a school system's bonding capacity is calculated on its property tax base, the federal funds are intended to help make up for the loss of taxes from tribal trust lands.
Fallin toured Tecumseh school facilities during her visit. "We'll end up at the middle school," she said, "that is, the old high school." Tecumseh High School was located at the site of the current middle school when Fallin was a student there.

Source: http://www.countywidenews.com/articles/2008/12/05/news/03fallin%20visit.txt
