Public Statements
Congresswoman Fallin Statement Following Election Day Results
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Nov. 5, 2008
Location: Unknown


Congresswoman Mary Fallin released the following statement following her reelection to the U.S. House of Representatives:
"I am extremely proud to serve the people of the Fifth District of Oklahoma in the U.S. Congress, and I am equally thrilled with the results of my campaign. I offer my sincere thanks to the people of Oklahoma, my colleagues who spoke or acted on my behalf and our volunteers and staff members who worked so hard for my reelection. I would also like to extend thanks to my opponent, Mr. Steve Perry, who ran a respectful and dignified campaign.
"Throughout the course of this election season and during my time in Congress, the people of Oklahoma have been telling me the same things. They want a government that is responsible with their money, that spends taxpayer dollars sparingly and does not excuse waste or corruption. They want economic policies that encourage job growth, higher wages and security. They want a real energy policy that plans for the future while accommodating our present needs, by producing more American energy and steering us away from foreign oil. Finally, they want a government and a nation that represents the best America has to offer: the traditional values of family, freedom and faith. During my second term in Congress, I will continue to be a guardian of those values.
"Looking at the national election results, it is clear the American people want change. Where that change means a more responsible, more productive federal government, I intend to find common ground with the Democrat majority and our new President. However, where Democrat leaders interpret their victory as a mandate for higher taxes, bigger government and an assault on traditional values, I will remain steadfast in my opposition. There are many changes that the federal government should pursue, and many ways we should change the federal government. I will never oppose "change" on the basis of partisan gamesmanship. The mandate for change, however, is not the equivalent of a mandate for a narrow and radical leftist agenda. Democrat leaders now face a crucial choice: will they govern responsibly to pursue common sense reforms and work with members of both parties to move this country in the right direction? Or will they pursue an agenda that reflects the narrow interests of liberal pressure groups and radicals? I will do everything in my power to help them should they pursue the former road, and everything in my power to oppose them should they choose the latter. One way or another, I intend to stick up for the values that make Oklahoma great."

Source: http://www.maryfallin.org/news/view_article.cfm?ID=68
