Public Statements
Press Conference With House Minority Leader John Boehner; Rep. Joe Barton; Rep. Mary Fallin; Rep. Fred Upton; Rep. Tom Price; Rep. Rob Bishop
Press Conference
By: Rob Bishop John Boehner Tom Price Fred Upton Joe Barton Mary Fallin
Date: Sept. 25, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

Press Conference With House Minority Leader John Boehner; Rep. Joe Barton; Rep. Mary Fallin; Rep. Fred Upton; Rep. Tom Price; Rep. Rob Bishop - Energy Legislation
Copyright ©2009 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Carina Nyberg at cnyberg@fednews.com or call 1-202-216-2706.
REP. BOEHNER: We have several more members who are going to join us.
For months, House Republicans and the American people fought in D.C. and across the country for lower energy prices. And I think most of you know that 140 of our members spent part of their August recess back here in the nation's capital continuing to demand that the Democrats bring up an "all of the above" energy strategy.
And you know, it wasn't a single point that we were trying to make. It wasn't just about drilling. It really was about doing all of the above. And I think the majority found out that they couldn't defy the will of the American people and therefore we got the ban on offshore drilling and the ban on oil shale exploration lifted, first time in 25 years that the Congress has lifted these bans to open up these areas.
It's unfortunate that Senator Reid now is talking about bringing back the ban on oil-shale drilling in the Intermountain West and adding it to -- attempting to add it to the CR. I don't think the votes are in the House to continue these bans, either of them. That's why they weren't in the CR. And Senator Reid shouldn't cause problems with the CR by trying to bring back the ban on oil-shale drilling.
But remember, we want a comprehensive plan. And frankly, we don't think we should leave here until we do the rest of the above. And I do think that setting up the trust fund to take the lease payments and the royalty payments -- putting them in a trust fund to help speed up the development of renewables is something that is very important to the overall plan to move us toward more energy security. It's not been done, but we think it can be done. We think there's a majority in the House willing to do that.
When it comes to the issue of more nuclear energy, nothing been done there either. And if we're serious about doing all of the above, we need to finish what we started. It's a great step forward and I want to encourage my colleagues to keep up the fight and congratulate them for a job well done.
And with that, I think we'll go to Mr. Barton.
REP. BARTON: Thank you, John.
For the first time in 24 years that I've been in the Congress, if the continuing resolution passes the Senate and is signed by the president in the form that it passed the House yesterday, there will be no congressional moratorium anywhere in the outer continental shelf of the United States of America.
I can remember, as a young junior congressman, having the annual debate in the Appropriations Committee on the moratorium off the coast of California and then that began to extend to Florida and the Atlantic Coast. And finally, it got to the point where we could not drill anywhere in the OCS except off of the western Gulf of Mexico of Texas, Louisiana, Alabama and Mississippi.
So on October the 1st, if this bill becomes law -- and I think it will -- it is a significant dawning of a new energy era for America.
And just to tell it like it is, this would not have happened if it hadn't have been for Republican leadership in the House of Representatives, if it hadn't have been for the John Boehners and the Roy Blunts, if it hadn't have been for the Tom Prices, who -- and who led the fight on the floor during August, when most of the Congress was home with their families.
It is a significant step. It is a real step. It is, in my opinion, the most significant accomplishment of this Congress until we do something later this week or next week on the financial situation.
But it is just that. It is just a step. It's a first step. I think we need to follow up by asking President Bush this year to reopen the five-year leasing plan, to put the eastern Gulf of Mexico in play as quickly as possible. I think we need to, if we can't get it done in this Congress, early in the next Congress pass a permanent reform program for OCS leasing and onshore leasing. I think we need to have the same debate on ANWR that we've had on the OCS and put that $10 (billion) to $11 billion of energy production into play as soon as possible. And I think we need to follow up on John Shadegg's idea of doing legal reform so that you don't have these preemptive lawsuits automatically filed any time there's a lease sale.
But having said that, this is a significant victory. It is real. Hopefully it will be permanent. And it will, if it is permanent, result in more energy that's made in America and used in America, lower energy prices for every American.
So I'm very, very pleased with this, and it is the primary reason that I voted for the continuing resolution yesterday.
So I'd now like to introduce Congresswoman Mary Fallin of Oklahoma, who's had a significant leadership role in making this happen.
REP. FALLIN: Thank you.
Families and businesses and financial markets are sitting on pins and needles this week and all of last week, wondering what their financial security would be in the future. But just think what our economy would have looked like today if we had been producing the resources of America and been producing American-made energy for America. But instead we have been transferring $700 billion of the United States' wealth to other foreign countries to buy their energy. Now that $700 billion, if it had been spent here in America instead of in other foreign countries buying their energy, could have been used to create jobs and opportunities and investments and revenues back into our local economies. And I know that because in my state, in Oklahoma, where we have an abundance of oil and gas and wind production and refineries, our economy is actually doing a little bit better than the rest of the nation.
We have a lower unemployment rate than the rest of the nation. We actually have excess revenues going into our state budgets, and we're taking that revenue money, and we're putting it towards roads and bridges and health care and education and things that are important to the people of the state of Oklahoma.
Now, the energy industry can't solve our financial woes as a nation, but it certainly could have helped in some of the financial crisises (sic) that we've been facing. And with this lifting of the ban on the Outer Continental Shelf, on the oil shale, we will be able to produce the energy here in America that can help with the economy. It's not going to solve the problems, but it certainly will help create some of the jobs and opportunities back here.
Now, we believe that we have to have an all-of-the-above energy approach. Our job is not done in lifting this ban. The job has to be completed. And that means passing the American Energy Act. It means doing all forms of energy, whether it's wind, solar, nuclear, biodiesel fuels, clean coal technology, drilling for oil and gas; whether it's ANWR or the oil shale, the Outer Continental Shelf, looking at all forms of new technology, conservation. Those are the types of policies we need to be pursuing in Congress to help bring energy independence to our nation but to also help with our economy. And I call upon Speaker Pelosi during these final days to allow us to have a vote on the American Energy Act, so that we can finish the job that has been started this week.
And I also want to mention I am very concerned because I read an article in one of our newspapers where is said a liberal House Democrat member vowed yesterday to get a new offshore drilling moratorium enacted to protect our beautiful coastline, where it'd be inappropriate to set up drilling. And that's why it's essential that we not let this debate stop, because there still are those who want to put a ban back on drilling in our nation, and that would be bad for America.
REP. UPTON: I'm Fred Upton from Michigan. A couple things that I'd like to say:
I was among the 150 or so Republicans that spoke to an empty House chamber, at least empty to the cameras and to the lights. But there were -- probably about 250 or 300 different constituents from all over America were there. And I asked the question, "How many of you think Congress is doing a good job? Raise your hand." Not one. My brother and sister weren't there. (Laughter.) Not one hand went up, and that's because we've not done our job on lots of fronts.
And by not allowing a bipartisan substitute or Republican amendments to try and improve a package, whether it be energy or even on the CR, is not the right way to go.
When Joe Barton was chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, we brought a bill up in 2005, and I want to say there were 40 to 50 amendments that were allowed on the House floor, and some of them, frankly, were against more energy supply. And thank God we defeated some of those amendments.
One amendment was offered by my colleague Ms. Solis from California. She actually took away incentives to expand refinery capacity. And it got 185 votes, but thank goodness we had about 230 that voted against it and it was therefore not adopted.
Well, guess what. Two weeks ago, when the hurricanes came through and refineries were shut down -- some of them still are -- gas prices spiked in my district by almost 40 cents overnight.
They were back above 4.20 in lots of different places in my district. And it was because the refineries were shut down.
People get it. It's called supply and demand. If you don't have the supply, and the demand stays stable or goes up, only one thing happens to that price. It goes up.
They get that we need offshore drilling. We have it now. Frankly our country has more strong environmental regulations so that it is safe. There's a reason why we haven't had a spill in some 40 years, because we get it here. We don't want spills and we want drilling. And we can have it both.
Last year, on oil shale, gas was 2.30 a gallon in my district in July of '07. Today, it's 3.85. I can tell you that when that ban on oil shale was adopted, by six votes, we've got the votes to reverse that. You only need to change three, and that's one of the reasons why it was included as part of the CR. There was no ban that was continuing to be extended on oil shale.
To reverse that, to take some idea that comes back from the Senate and reverse what we did earlier yesterday, as part of the CR, that would instead reimpose that oil shale ban, would be a giant mistake. And the prices will go, guess where, up. We cannot allow that to happen.
Tom Price, who was a leader during the many days that we were out, on the House floor, from Georgia.
REP. PRICE: Thank you, Fred.
Thank you all. My name's Tom Price. I represent the 6th District of Georgia. And at 11:23 a.m. on Friday, August 1st, the speaker of the House decided she was going to send everybody home on a five-week, paid vacation. And we said no. We said no.
The most important issue for the American people, on that day, was the price of gas and the price of gasoline and fuel. And what started as a spontaneous activity, a bold response to heavy-handed tactics by the speaker, captured the imagination of the American people. And I believe it did so, because finally the American people looked to Washington and recognized that there were people standing up on their behalf.
The speaker turned the mikes off, turned the cameras off. She turned the lights down low. And as has been mentioned, you notice, the number of members that's been coming back rises every time somebody says the number of folks that are coming back. But it was nearly 140 folks, nearly 140 folks. And they came from all different districts across this nation and from the entire spectrum of the Republican Conference.
Thanks to the support of millions of Americans, millions of Americans, a huge victory has occurred now on behalf of the American people. The Democrats have allowed the offshore moratorium to expire or will if it's adopted by the Senate. And this is good. But it's important to appreciate that this is an act of omission.
This is not a coherent energy strategy or energy plan, which is what the American energy act is. We continue to support an all-of- the-above strategy, something that makes certain that we incentivize conservation, something that makes certain that we have the renewable fuel, the fuel for the 21st century, to maintain American preeminence in the world but in the short term, in the near term to make certain that American energy supply for Americans is increased.
I'm proud to stand with my colleagues here, who have been champions in that endeavor, to make certain that we represent our constituents, our constituents as aggressively and actively as possible.
One of the individuals that was intimately involved in our speak- in, in the month of August, Rob Bishop from the State of Utah.
REP. BISHOP: Thank you, Tom.
There is a Broadway song that reads, in part, there's a fine, fine line between reality and pretend. For most of the summer and the spring, the Democratic Party has been living in the world of pretend, pretending there was no energy crisis, pretending there was no supply problem and pretending, what the speaker indeed said, that an increase in prices at the pump would help them force Americans to live the kind of lifestyle they thought we ought.
Well, fortunately with Republicans complaining significantly over this summer, there has been a stunning victory for grassroots activists. And that is, reality has finally hit this Congress this week.
The reality is, even the Democrat Party will now admit, there is a supply problem, and that the effort to try and force a lifestyle change has brought an unusual and excessive amount of pain and suffering especially to those who are most vulnerable to these kinds of increases and to the reality that we have to do something different.
The ability, and I come from one of those oil shale states, where there is a bipartisan support for lifting the oil shale ban. We realize that the State of Utah, with oil shale, can be part, a small part but a part, of the national solution. But we also realize in my state, we have roads that need to be built and education that needs to be funded. And this is a way of solving our state problems at the same time. And that is why we are insisting on doing this.
Some, some leader once said, if you want to really help Big Oil, do nothing at all, because over 80 percent of the natural gas leases and over 60 percent of the new oil drillings are done by small companies, entrepreneurial companies.
In Utah, it's Red Leaf, has 20 employees and 100 contractors. They're finishing up their tests and ready to start a process that uses almost no water and can be run on the natural gas it produces, to produce a sweet crude that will be useful to trying to solve this problem.
Those are the kinds of people who need to be empowered by removing this ban and making sure that Harry Reid and the Democrats in the Senate, neither this week with the continuing resolution nor next January, when we come back into session, once again stop those entrepreneurs from succeeding and stopping Americans who have the ability within themselves, to solve our problems, from having, from having the chance to succeed and to move forward.
It's important. It's essential. And as we've all said, oil shale, which is critical to my state, is only one of the things that we need to do to solve the overall energy crisis in this country. And what we need to do starting in January, if not sooner, is actually starting on the rest of this project and the rest of this package to make sure that everything, everything is finally passed to help the American people.
With that, Leader Boehner and any questions you might have.
Q Mr. Boehner, on energy, you guys have been very unified. On the potential bailout package, you've been very fractured.
Speaker Pelosi just told us, please, be assured: We will have a package that speaks to this issue; we will act and we will act deliberately.
Can you talk -- tell us where you feel your conference stands right now on the financial bailout package and what sort of votes you --
REP. BOEHNER: Well, the speaker and I have worked together to try to craft a bipartisan plan that will attract sufficient votes to pass in the House. I think both of us realize that America faces a very critical moment and that Congress must act, and we must act now.
And while there have been a lot of good suggestions from both sides of the aisle, there -- concern remains over the plan as presented by the secretary of the Treasury. And so there have been ideas kicked around and discussed about how that might be modified, but there are no decisions yet.
Q Mr. Boehner, Speaker Pelosi also just said she intends to bring a stimulus package to the floor, probably tomorrow. And she said that while it's separate from -- a separate track from the negotiations on the financial bailout, that it would be hard for the White House or Republicans to support a bailout and then not support things like infrastructure and other things, like unemployment insurance, given that the unemployment insurance -- the unemployment rate's skyrocketing. I'm wondering: Would you support something like that?
REP. BOEHNER: I think the best economic stimulus we can pass would be the American Energy Act. If we were truly to do all of the above, we believe it would create almost a million new jobs in America, begin the process of bringing back some of that $700 billion a year that we send overseas; we would lower gas prices and lower energy prices, home heating prices. I don't know anything that would be better for our economy and better for the American people than doing all of the above.
Now we've done some of the above, with the lifting of this ban, assuming that it gets signed into law this week. But that would be the best step that we could take.
Q Would you consider some of things that she's talking about -- infrastructure, et cetera?
REP. BOEHNER: I just don't think that the majority is very serious about this. You know, we've been hearing about this stimulus plan now for three or four months, and then to bring it up on the last day, as we're going out of town, or somewhere near the last day, as we're going out of town, is -- sends a message to me they're not really serious about -- it's politics as usual.
Chuck?
Q Mr. Boehner, back to the financial bailout. How much of a difference have John McCain's actions and words in the past 48 hours or so made within your caucus?
REP. BOEHNER: Well, I think that John McCain's call to suspend the campaign and come back here and Barack Obama's agreement will in fact help speed up the process. It clearly lays more urgency on the Congress to act. We know we have to act. We need all hands on deck to get it done.
STAFF: Last question.
Q Is he going to pick -- is he going to help you pick up any votes that the president couldn't?
REP. BOEHNER: (Nobody knows ?).
Q (Inaudible) --
REP. BOEHNER: We don't know what the plan is. So --
STAFF: Thank you.
REP. BOEHNER: Rich?
Q Question on -- you pushed, obviously, for a Rangel investigation. How confident are you that the committee -- Ethics Committee -- has resources and how long should it take to resolve -- deal with it?
REP. BOEHNER: You never want to give the Ethics Committee a deadline, but I am satisfied that they are proceeding and they are proceeding in a manner that will get to the bottom of it.
Thanks.
Q Thank you.
REP. BARTON: My staff's going to hand out a handout that has the revenues available from the leasing program in the OCS if you want it, there.

Source: http://www.fednews.com/transcripta.htm?id=20080925t1402&query=Tom|Price
