Public Statements
Fallin Applauds Expiration of Deep Sea Drilling Ban
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Sept. 25, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

After months of fighting the production of any new oil and gas in the United States, Speaker Pelosi and the House Democrats are now signaling their intention to let the ban on deep sea drilling and oil shale production expire next week. Congresswoman Mary Fallin joined Republican leadership today in calling the latest development a "victory for the American people", but cautioned that Democrat leaders may use other means to block drilling.
"The American people overwhelming support investing in our energy resources, and allowing this ban to expire is an important first step," said Fallin. "With that said, it won't do any good if Democrats put the ban back in place next month or next year. If Speaker Pelosi and the other Democrat leaders are serious about producing more American energy and weaning the U.S. off foreign oil, they should state their permanent opposition to renewing this energy ban and their support of oil shale development and deep sea drilling."
The Outer Continent Shelf is estimated to include over 8.5 billion barrels of oil and 29.3 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Shale reserves are even more massive, containing up to 2 trillion barrels of oil.
"The economic potential of these resources is enormous," said Fallin. "Americans send 700 billion dollars overseas each year to buy oil, sometimes to regimes that are openly anti-American. Lifting this ban will channel a larger portion of that money towards American energy. Not only will that keep money out the the pockets of hostile dictators, it will help to drive down gas prices while creating new American jobs."
Fallin went on to say that this was only the first component of a comprehensive energy plan. "House Republicans support an 'all of the above ' energy strategy," she said. "We have laid out that strategy in the American Energy Act, a bill that would produce more fossil fuels, support investment in alternative energies and encourage conservation. Lifting this ban gives us 'some of the above.' Now it is up to Speaker Pelosi to give us the rest, by signaling her intent to never renew this ban, and to bring the American Energy Act to a vote."

Source: http://www.maryfallin.org/news/view_article.cfm?ID=58
