Public Statements
Fallin Rejects Pelosi 'No Energy' Bill
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Sept. 16, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) today dismissed Speaker Pelosi's new energy plan, brought to the floor last night after Congress had adjourned, as political gamesmanship. She called for Speaker Nancy Pelosi to put the bill aside and instead work with pro-energy Democrats and Republicans on a realistic plan to address the nation's energy needs, rather than force a hasty vote on recently crafted legislation.
Fallin has frequently called on Pelosi and the other Democrat Leaders to hold a vote on the American Energy Act, a Republican bill which increases production of American oil and natural gas, funds research and development of alternative energies and encourages conservation. The Democrat alternative, which Fallin opposes, would restrict drilling and exploration for over 80% of the oil and gas reserves on the Outer Continental Shelf, includes no provisions for drilling in Alaska, would create no new nuclear power, and would do nothering to build new oil refineries.
Fallin released the following statement:
"Today's bill represents more of the same from a Democrat leadership that is not serious about energy policy. Rather than allow deliberation over an issue as serious as our energy security, Democrats chose to drop their new bill in the middle of the night with practically no time to debate or amend it. Rather than working together to produce a bipartisan energy bill to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil and lower gas prices, Pelosi has rolled out a new scheme, developed in secret, that even members of her own party say will not produce enough energy for America."
"The Pelosi Plan stands in stark contrast to the American Energy Act, a comprehensive bill introduced months ago that would increase our production of energy, including alternative energies like wind and nuclear power, while encouraging conservation. All we ask for is for Speaker Pelosi to hold a vote on this legislation and give us a chance to do our jobs. So far, she has chosen partisan stunts and gamesmanship over the serious task of governing."

Source: http://www.maryfallin.org/news/view_article.cfm?ID=53
