Public Statements
Fallin Criticizes Pelosi's Energy ‘Gimmick'
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Sept. 8, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Criticizes Pelosi's Energy ‘Gimmick'

Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) took aim today at a new bill unveiled by Speaker Nancy Pelosi that would increase taxes without producing new energy in the near future. Fallin again pushed Speaker Pelosi to hold a vote on the American Energy Act, comprehensive legislation that would expand deep sea drilling, encourage conservation and invest in alternative energies like wind power, nuclear power and biofuels. Fallin labeled Pelosi's bill "more of the same" while calling on Congressional Democrats to stop blocking legislation that would increase the United States' supply of usable energy. Congress has only three more weeks to pass an energy bill before it goes back into recess.
"What we saw today from Speaker Pelosi was another gimmick," said Fallin. "I'm tired of gimmicks and so are the American people. We don't need new taxes or new government regulations. The American people need a farsighted energy bill that addresses our immediate and future needs, weans us off foreign oil and helps to drive down energy prices. The American Energy Act is that bill, and Democrats in the House continue to block a simple up or down vote."
The American Energy Act would not only invest in alternative energies, it would also open large reserves of oil and national gas on the Outer Continental Shelf to exploration and drilling. Pelosi's bill, on the other hand, would continue to block development of almost all of these vast American energy reserves and prevent a meaningful increase in American oil and gas production for the foreseeable future.
Fallin said that members of Congress were "faced with a clear choice: either to vote on a bill that moves us towards energy independence and a sustainable energy future, or to continue to obstruct progress. Unfortunately, Speaker Pelosi and many Congressional Democrats have chosen the latter."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/energygimmick.shtml
