Public Statements
MSNBC - Transcript
Interview
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Sept. 3, 2008
Location: Unknown

MR. ALLEN: We have with us Representative Mary Fallin of Oklahoma, who -- do you want to dance?
REP. FALLIN: Oh, yeah. Great music today.
MR. ALLEN: One reason we wanted to talk to you, though, is because you have actually met Governor Palin. You've worked with her on energy issues. Tell us something. I was struck on the floor yesterday how few people -- governors, senators -- have actually met her and worked with her. What is she really like that we don't know?
REP. FALLIN: I think America, once they become informed about her, get to know her, they will fall in love with her like I did a month ago when I had the opportunity to meet her, to talk personally, to learn about her.
A lot of people don't know her. I didn't know her before I had the opportunity to spend the evening with her. But she is very articulate. She is well-informed. She is a passionate woman who believes in her country and her state. She's a devoted wife, a good mother, and she's just a great woman of quality and character.
MR. ALLEN: Do you feel that she has been treated fairly by the media, by the Democrats, in the way she's been -- the way her experience has been questioned?
REP. FALLIN: I think that a man probably wouldn't be asked some of the questions she's been asked and probably wouldn't be treated the way she's been treated. It's been interesting to watch the different groups of women who have basically been attacking her or supporting her.
Here women have been wanting to get a woman up to the top in the vice president position, or even as president, and yet she's being attacked by some women. And I think we need to be fair and look at her experience, what she will do for our nation, and leave her family side, her personal side, behind.
MR. ALLEN: Thanks very much. I'm sorry, we have to cut it short because we're having trouble hearing. But it will certainly be an exciting night here tonight.
REP. FALLIN: It will be.

Source: http://www.msnbc.msn.com
