Public Statements
Fallin Joins House Members in Energy "Revolt"
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Aug. 1, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Joins House Members in Energy "Revolt"

In defiance of Speaker Nancy Pelosi's decision to adjourn the House of Representatives and begin August recess, Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) joined other Republicans in remaining on the floor to deliver remarks on energy policy. Members spoke in the dark, without microphones and without C-SPAN cameras to call on Speaker Pelosi and Democrat leaders to keep Congress in session until it had passed comprehensive energy legislation.
"It is unacceptable that Democrat leaders have sent this Congress on a vacation at a time when many Americans can barely afford to drive to work," said Fallin, after delivering remarks on the floor. "We are here to serve our constituents, and the best way for us to do that is to immediately pass comprehensive energy reform."
Fallin and other House members called on Pelosi to hold a vote on the American Energy Act, a bill that would increase the supply of American-made energy, improve conservation and efficiency, and promote renewable and alternative energy technologies.
"It is undemocratic and, frankly, irresponsible for Speaker Pelosi to block a vote on energy legislation that she knows will pass with a bipartisan majority," said Fallin. "The American people are demanding action from this Congress, and all Democrat leaders can say is ‘no.' ‘No' to a bill that would produce more American oil and gas, ‘no' to legislation that encourages conservation and ‘no' to more alternative energies."
"I think I speak for the majority of Americans when I say that ‘no' is not an appropriate response to an energy crisis. With my constituents struggling with rising gas prices and the rising cost of living, I will continue to push Speaker Pelosi and other obstructionists until we get the right answer: ‘yes.'"

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/energyrevolt.shtml
