Public Statements
Providing for Consideration of H.R. 6515, Drill Responsibly in Leased Lands Act of 2008
By: Mary Fallin
Date: July 17, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 6515, DRILL RESPONSIBLY IN LEASED LANDS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 17, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Ms. FALLIN. Mr. Speaker, you know, the only way to produce more energy for America is to produce more energy. It's not taxing the energy. It's not releasing more reserve from the Strategic Reserve. If we released what is being proposed today from the Strategic Reserve, it would be a 3-day supply. But yet when President Bush earlier announced that he was going to lift the offshore ban on drilling, the price of a barrel of oil dropped $9, and the markets responded.
The way you change the energy and the cost to America is to introduce more energy to the marketplace. And one of the ways we can do that is to make it easier for oil and gas companies to be able to drill.
I have introduced a piece of legislation, H.R. 6379, the Federal Exploration and Production Reform Act, that would allow oil companies and gas companies to be able to get their permits processed in a timely manner from the Bureau of Land Management and would help us be able to put that production online in immediate form. Right now, it takes an average of 213 days to get a permit processed through the Bureau of Land Management. That's not acceptable. They even have a huge backlog of permits.
And we've heard all the debate here today that over 65 percent or so of our energy comes from foreign countries. We have over $700 billion of our money going to other countries, many who are hostile to America. We're making those countries rich by buying their energy.
I am convinced that we can produce our own energy here in America, whatever form it might be, whether it's oil, gas, clean coal technology. There's wind, solar, nuclear, biofuels. All those things are possible. I know they're possible because America's a great Nation. We have smart people. We have innovation. We have creativity. We can do whatever we want to do if we put our heads to it, if we put our minds to it, and allow it to happen.
But this Congress has stopped it from happening. We've had lawsuits, we've had rules and regulations, we've had bureaucratic red tape that has tied up the industry from making the innovations, producing the energy that would fuel our Nation, and we can no longer afford to do that. The American people are suffering. Businesses are suffering, and now it's time for this Nation to generate our own energy.
Let's get rid of the Federal bureaucratic red tape, the time delays. Let's put Americans to work. Let's quit transferring our wealth to other foreign countries and risking our national security and our economic security.
We can invest that money here in America. We can generate revenue that could go to transportation, education, health care, go to our infrastructure in our Nation. Let's put Americans to work. Let's invest here and let's produce energy.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.Thomas.gov
