Public Statements
Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail Designation Act--Continued
By: Mary Fallin
Date: July 10, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


WASHINGTON-ROCHAMBEAU REVOLUTIONARY ROUTE NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL DESIGNATION ACT--Continued -- (House of Representatives - July 10, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Ms. FALLIN. Madam Speaker, America has slammed into an energy wall in the past 18 months, with gas prices escalating 70 percent since the beginning of the 110th Congress when the current Democratic leadership took control. Americans are now paying over $4 and change for a gallon of gasoline. This dire situation affects not only drivers, but ripples through all commerce of the United States, from the cost of food, to building materials, to tourism, to jobs, to health care, and in short, our economic security. Increased supply from our own American resources is one tool that we have in our tool box to help us get out of this mess.
This is a bipartisan solution, as demonstrated by Speaker Pelosi's recent request to President Bush to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to help funnel more product to American refineries, and thus more gas to local gas stations.
While this is a small step in a positive direction, the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives has only compounded the problem of American energy supplies. The current leadership has scheduled and passed over a dozen bills from the Committee on Natural Resources alone restricting or potentially restricting energy development on the public lands of the United States. We also expect a package of over 60 more bills from the Senate before we adjourn, most of which will impact energy exploration and development on public lands.
The Democratic leadership of the House of Representatives has also failed to lift the congressional moratoria on the development of oil and natural gas resources from the Outer Continental Shelf. It has blocked access to over 1 million acres of uranium-rich lands in the southwestern United States, fuel which could be harnessed to produce clean, air-friendly nuclear energy. It has locked up oil shale and stopped energy transmission corridors across public lands. It has even tried to stop wind energy.

Source:
