Public Statements
Fallin Takes Lead in Energy Debate, Introduces Bill to Speed Production of American Energy
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: June 26, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Takes Lead in Energy Debate, Introduces Bill to Speed Production of American Energy

Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) introduced legislation today that would speed up the production of American energy by dramatically reducing the federal backlog on permits for drilling and exploration. The "Federal Exploration and Production Reform Act of 2008" would require the Bureau of Land Management to process applications for exploration within 30 days and applications for production within 120 days.
Fallin introduced the bill on the heels of a debate over the Democrat-sponsored, so-called, "use it or lose it bill." She called the Democrat proposal "misguided and misinformed" and touted her bill as an alternative that would go farther to increase American energy production and fight rising gas prices.
"When energy companies lease federal land, some wait up to two years to get a permit to drill," said Fallin. "My legislation shortens that delay and eliminates bureaucratic obstacles to energy production. With gas moving towards $5 a gallon, the last thing we need is federal red tape blocking the way towards energy independence."
"Compare that to the Democrat proposal on the floor today, which would take leases for exploration away from energy companies. It's no wonder that a bill like this, a politically motivated excuse to avoid real energy reform, can't come close to passing. It simply makes no sense for this Congress to gripe about an energy shortfall one minute, and to raise barriers to production the next.
"The bill I introduced today, unlike the "use it or lose it" ploy, is not a gimmick. This is a real solution to a real problem that is hindering our ability to produce American energy. It is my hope that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will embrace this legislation and work towards a sustainable energy future powered by American made energy."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/energyleg.shtml
