Public Statements
Responsible Federal Oil and Gas Lease Act
By: Mary Fallin
Date: June 26, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


RESPONSIBLE FEDERAL OIL AND GAS LEASE ACT -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Ms. FALLIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in unhesitant opposition to this misguided and uninformed legislation. I hope today's debate will allow the American people to see this legislation for what it is, and that is, a sham, a shallow attempt of the majority to hide that they lack any solutions for the American energy crisis facing our Nation.
Let me start by just stating one simple fact: 97 percent of our Federal offshore areas and 94 percent of our Federal onshore areas are not leased. Now, let me just say that one more time. Ninety-seven percent of our Federal offshore areas and 94 percent of our Federal onshore areas are not even leased.
The Democrat leadership has done everything it could for the last several decades to stop the leasing in 97 percent of offshore areas and 94 percent of onshore areas since they think America's energy needs can be supplied by just 3 percent of offshore areas and 6 percent of the onshore areas. It is no wonder that America is facing an energy crisis.
Let's talk about the legislative process, too, that brings this issue to the floor today. We are debating legislation that hasn't had a hearing, it hasn't had a mark-up, no committee report, it hasn't even been opened up for an amendment, and no Member of this House but for its author has had more than 5 hours to consider this bill. The Rules Committee even had to pass a special rule to allow this bill to come to the floor today, a rule that effectively waives all points of order against the bill, including PAYGO and earmark bans.
The bill will also cost the American people not only additional energy domestic production, but reduces revenues to the Federal Government. Yes, America, in one fell swoop, Congress will increase energy costs for American consumers and steal from the pocketbooks of American taxpayers. Is this a way to go into Independence Day and to celebrate the birth of our country?
The legislation before us is based on the premise that American oil companies are sitting on resources that they should be developing. The majority will make claims that millions of acres are not being produced. However, the reality is that every leased acre is undergoing some form of exploration, is in the process of getting permits, facing a legal challenge, or in development. They are all going through those processes for every acre.
The supporters of this misguided legislation are not offering any solutions to these challenges. There is no proposal to speed up development by reducing the waiting times for permits, limiting public challenges of leases and applications for the permits to drill, or reducing the frivolous lawsuits. In fact, last year, the Natural Resources Committee was fighting against, and I quote the chairman, ``rapid oil and gas development that has taken place on our Nation's public lands in recent years,'' and focused on an agenda to slow, again quoting the chairman, ``the rampant, nearly unfettered energy development on Federal lands.''
Last year, oil companies were developing too fast. Today, Congress is attempting to punish any company that can't squeeze a 10-year exploration and permitting process into a time frame that suits the majority. We simply can't have it both ways.
One additional fact: Most of the majority leadership, including the chairman of the Natural Resources Committee, voted in 1992 to give oil companies more time to drill on onshore leases. That was done at a time when the industry actually had a higher percentage of leases in non-producing status. The majority didn't seem to mind and didn't seem to be interested in complaining about stockpiling then.
To the contrary, there was a bipartisan recognition that companies needed longer terms on their onshore leases to get more production. But these days, as production rates are higher, these same Members think that companies are stockpiling.
We have had a number of experts in this area come forward and present expertise on this issue. I would reference a letter from the Department of Interior which highlights the lengthy, complicated, and often unsuccessful process a company must undergo to develop oil and gas on Federal lands and waters.
In addition, I would like to submit for the Record a letter from the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, America's scientific experts on exploring for oil and gas. And their letter states, ``Policies that increase exploration costs, decrease the available time to properly evaluate leases, and restrict access to Federal lands and the Outer Continental Shelf do not provide the American people with short-term relief from high prices and undermine the goal of increasing stable long-term supplies.'' That policy to restrict development and reduce exploration is exactly what this legislation before us will do.
What America must realize is that the true source of most non-producing acres in America is the U.S. Congress, which restricts access to almost 600 million acres of the Outer Continental Shelf. We could produce more oil from opening up 2,000 acres in ANWR than would likely be produced from all the onshore acres currently leased but not producing today, especially when you understand that much of the onshore resources are natural gas and not crude oil. If we were to open but a fraction of these acres held up by the congressional majority, we could reduce our dependence on foreign oil and create jobs right here in America. However, the majority has decided time and time again that we should limit our access to our onshore and offshore domestic resources.
The American public is up in arms against the frivolous restrictions which Congress has placed on domestic energy production. People recognize the simple fact that opening up more Federal lands and waters could lead to lower gasoline prices and they're calling on us to lead America in this direction. Congress should open up this debate and this process today and allow each side to present their very best proposals. And that's what this debate is about today.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.Thomas.gov
