Public Statements
Fallin Asks Congress to Increase Energy Supply as Families and Businesses Struggle with Rising Costs
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: June 25, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Asks Congress to Increase Energy Supply as Families and Businesses Struggle with Rising Costs

U.S. Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) repeated her calls today for Congress to legislate on the production of new domestic energy. At a press conference with several other House Republicans, Fallin asked Congress to pursue additional energy exploration in order to fight rising gasoline prices and wean the United States off foreign oil. She also emphasized the economic costs of inaction, citing rising unemployment and the continued strain on business and family budgets.
Fallin released the following statement:
"Rising energy costs in Oklahoma are placing a very real and very visible strain on the budgets of families, schools, communities and businesses. Families are cutting their budgets any way they can while they struggle with the rising price of everything from food to utilities. Colleges are slashing their work weeks and some facilities are now buying gasoline in bulk, fearing that future prices will be even worse tomorrow than they are today. It is not an overstatement to call the present situation a ‘crisis.'
"The Democrat majority is increasingly calling to mind the Roman Emperor Nero, who fiddled while his city burned. While recent polling shows a clear majority in favor of increasing American energy production, Democrats in Congress continue to block any legislation that would allow the U.S. to utilize its known reserves.
"The costs of inaction are clear. While families continue to struggle, businesses will be forced to layoff workers, reduce salaries and cut benefits in an effort to offset the rising cost of doing business. With that in mind, I will continue to push my Democrat colleagues in the House to end their obstructionism and bring real energy legislation to the floor for a vote."
Fallin has cosponsored the following three bills in an attempt to increase domestic production of energy:
Ø HR6107: Opens limited portions of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas production. Opening ANWR to energy production would yield a million barrels of oil a day. The bill also directs revenue from rents, bonus bids and royalties towards the research and development of alternative energies.
Ø HR6108: Ends the moratorium on deep sea drilling. The Outer Continental Shelf is estimated to possess 8.5 billion barrels of oil and 29.3 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.
Ø HR 6138: Repeals bans on limitations to oil shale development. U.S. total oil shale resources are estimated at 2 trillion barrels.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/625gas.shtml
