Public Statements
Rep. Mary Fallin Pledges to Work to Find Solutions to the Healthcare Crisis Facing Small Businesses
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: June 16, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

Rep. Mary Fallin Pledges to Work to Find Solutions to the Healthcare Crisis Facing Small Businesses

Rep. Mary Fallin showed her commitment to addressing the healthcare needs of the small business community by signing the National Federation of Independent Business' (NFIB) Solutions Start Here SM petition. In doing so, Fallin pledged to work with the next president and Congress to enact meaningful reforms to address this healthcare crisis.
"Small businesses are the backbone of the American economy and healthcare is their No. 1 issue, yet finding and providing affordable health insurance has become an overwhelming obstacle for many small business owners," said NFIB President and CEO Todd Stottlemyer. "The support of policymakers like Representative Fallin is critical as we work to find solutions to this healthcare crisis that work for small business owners and employees."
Small businesses are disproportionately burdened by healthcare costs. Of the 47 million Americans without health insurance, more than 28 million are small business owners, employees and their dependents. Under current law they generally do not enjoy the same tax treatment, coverage or pooling options as large businesses and corporations; on average, they pay 18 percent more for the same healthcare benefits. On top of this, over the last eight years, insurance premiums have increased an alarming 129 percent.
By signing this petition, Fallin is standing with NFIB and the small business community to work toward meaningful healthcare reform that starts with:
* Quality, affordable health coverage with options for small business owners, employees and their families;
* Choice in insurers, doctors and hospitals;
* The peace of mind that if people leave their job, they won't lose their health coverage;
* A clear understanding of how much people are paying for healthcare and what level of quality they are getting; and
* Confidence that medical records are private, safe and secure.
The petition reflects the goals of the Solutions Start Here campaign, which serves as the small business platform for healthcare reform. It is the largest and most aggressive campaign in the 65-year history of NFIB. As part of the effort, NFIB is hosting a series of "Fix-it Forums" across the country to engage small business people in a dialogue about the challenges they face on the frontlines of this healthcare crisis.
Additionally, NFIB has communicated with the presidential candidates about this issue, as well as moderated a series of healthcare reform forums that bring together health policy leaders and economists to debate the most crucial elements of health reform. The campaign is also supported by a print and radio advertising campaign.
"Small business owners and employees are shouldering an overwhelming and disproportionate burden of a broken healthcare system," continued Stottlemyer. "The needs of America's small businesses must be included in healthcare reform, because when it's fixed for small business it's fixed for America."
For more information please visit www.FixedForAmerica.com.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/nfib.shtml
