Public Statements
Fallin Cosponsors Bills to Increase Energy Production
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 23, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Cosponsors Bills to Increase Energy Production

U.S. Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) announced today her support and cosponsorship of three bills that would dramatically increase American energy production. Taken together, the legislation would open portions of both the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) and the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) to oil and gas production as well as repeal limitations on the development of American oil shale.
Fallin released the following statement:
"With gasoline approaching $4 a gallon, this Congress can no longer afford inaction. American families need a bold, far reaching energy policy addressing rising gasoline prices and our dependence on foreign oil.
"These three bills are the first step in that new policy. Ending these needless restrictions on our energy production can produce millions of barrels of oil each day. Experts tell us we have enough oil right here in the U.S. to power 60 million cars for 60 years and enough natural gas to heat 60 million homes for 120 years.
"Dramatically and proactively increasing our energy supply will boost our national security by lessening our unhealthy addiction to foreign oil. It will strengthen our economy by fighting rising gasoline prices and creating thousands of new jobs. Finally, it will help to ensure our long term energy security by providing a huge new source of funding for the research into and production of alternative energies."
The following provides a brief description of each bill cosponsored by Fallin:
Ø HR6107: Opens limited portions of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas production. Opening ANWR to energy production would yield a million barrels of oil a day. The bill also directs revenue from rents, bonus bids and royalties towards the research and development of alternative energies.
Ø HR6108: Ends the moratorium on deep sea drilling. The Outer Continental Shelf is estimated to possess 8.5 billion barrels of oil and 29.3 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.
Ø HR 6138: Repeals bans on limitations to oil shale development. U.S. total oil shale resources are estimated at 2 trillion barrels.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/energybills.shtml
