Public Statements
Fallin Joins House Republicans in Unveiling "American Families Agenda"
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: May 14, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Joins House Republicans in Unveiling "American Families Agenda"

Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05) joined other House Republicans today in unveiling the American Families Agenda: Assuring American Dreams. The agenda includes five principles: Assuring Economic Security for America's Families, Assuring Health Care and Retirement Security for America's Families, Protecting America's Kids, Assuring Education Access for America's Families and Securing the Homeland. The agenda also includes legislation sponsored by Fallin that strengthens the Women's Business Center program.
Fallin released the following statement:
"I'm proud to have helped shape this agenda. Whether it's dealing with rising gas prices, covering the cost of healthcare or keeping our communities safe, Americans are demanding action. The commonsense solutions we unveiled today are exactly what Oklahomans have been asking for, and I look forward to bringing this agenda back to my district."
"At the heart of our plan lies a belief in the family as the basic building block of our society. When government works for these families, our society prospers.
"The 21st century has brought us a new world, a new economy and a host of new challenges for American families. A majority of children now have two working parents. More than half of all mothers with young children are going to work outside the home. With the U.S. fighting two wars abroad, our military men and women are often away from their families for long periods of time.
"The American Families Agenda offers new solutions to these new challenges. House Republicans are proposing serious and immediate reforms to our tax code, our healthcare system and our public schools. We are proposing increased levels of assistance to our troops, our veterans and their families, a winning strategy in the War on Terror and a plan to fight rising gas prices while lessening our dependence on foreign oil. Finally, we are ensuring that government acts always as an ally, not an enemy, to American families. I look forward to working with my colleagues to aggressively push this pro-family agenda."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/americanfamilies.shtml
