Public Statements
Congress Must Address Congestion, by Rep. Mary Fallin
Op-Ed
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 13, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Congress Must Address Congestion, by Rep. Mary Fallin

As a former State Representative and Lieutenant Governor of Oklahoma, I saw firsthand one of the great challenges to our nation's transportation systems: congestion. The slow crawls on the Broadway Extension, I-40 and I-35 into Oklahoma City are time consuming, frustrating and expensive obstacles to commuters as well as barriers to our state and regional commerce.
As a U.S. Congresswoman and member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, it has been readily apparent that congestion is a growing national problem. In fact, the rapidly growing number of travelers and commuters is quickly becoming a nationwide crisis for our roads and airlines.
In the last quarter century, the annual rush hour delay for each commuter has grown from 16 hours to around 50. The total annual delay for American commuters is well over 3.5 billion hours per year. In our skies, the number of domestic airline travelers is expected to grow from 750 million to 1 billion in the next 10 years, a development that will only add time to the airline delays we see now.
Those numbers reflect more than mere inconvenience. Bottlenecks in our transportation systems mean commerce suffers. They mean that American families waste billions of gallons of gas each year in traffic jams. They hurt our environment by piling cars in one area while they pour exhaust smoke into the air. Finally, they overload our transportation systems and make them less safe.
State and local lawmakers need to renew their commitment to developing world class, 21st century transportation systems. This will require major, across the board upgrades for road, rail and air travel.
Upgrading our transportation systems will rely more on smart spending than more spending. We don't need federal tax hikes to develop our roads and upgrade our airlines. Instead, we need to develop a system of funding that is more scientific, more efficient and more accountable than the one currently in place. Dollars should be awarded on a cost-benefit basis, not on a political one. The drastic reduction of unnecessary pork barrel spending is a good first step.
Besides an overall reduction in pork, granting states more power to set their own priorities and make their own decisions will encourage better investments. Policy makers in Oklahoma should be calling the shots where our infrastructure is involved, not Washington bureaucrats.
In the coming year, lawmakers at every level of our government should come together to demonstrate a real commitment to the modernization of our transportation systems. For America to be prosperous, mobile and energy efficient, we can no longer ignore the strain placed on our infrastructure by increased congestion.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/congestion.shtml
