Public Statements
Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act of 2007
Floor Speech
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 5, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

PAUL WELLSTONE MENTAL HEALTH AND ADDICTION EQUITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Ms. FALLIN. Mr. Speaker, I'm here today to speak in opposition of H.R. 1424. This bill, although well intended, comes with a long series of unintended consequences. And while I fully support the bipartisan efforts to bring parity between mental health and medical benefits and employer-sponsored health care plans, I cannot support this bill as it is currently written. In fact, in my mind, this legislation will diminish care for patients, will increase costs, will restrict access to care, will restrict access to specific hospitals and doctors, along with hurting the financial investments made personally by doctors and specialty hospitals.
Oklahoma has one of the highest concentrations of specialty hospitals in the Nation, and I've had the opportunity to visit a large percentage of them. These specialty hospitals offer very good quality care with physicians who are trained specifically in areas of expertise to deliver to their patients.
These facilities offer specialties anywhere from hip and bone replacement to gynecology, to cardiology, to heart hospitals, spine hospitals, and they do provide some of the best medical care possible in the whole Nation. In fact, some of our hospitals have grown by leaps and bounds because they have people coming from all over the Nation, and they've even been rated as some of the top hospitals in the Nation.
By interfering with the ability of physicians to refer their patients to specialty hospitals, this bill will throw up a legal barrier to good medical treatment. I personally believe that competition is good in a marketplace. It improves the delivery of services. It improves the quality of services and delivery of care. It also offers greater transparency of pricing. We talk a lot in this Congress about patients knowing the price of medical care. It also offers greater transparency in the quality of care, the outcomes of the care so patients can make better choices about their treatment and become more informed about their treatment.

Source:
