Public Statements
Fallin Op-Ed: Econ Growth Package a Good First Step
Op-Ed
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Feb. 23, 2008
Location: Unknown


Fallin Op-Ed: Econ Growth Package a Good First Step

In a rare moment of bipartisanship and civic cooperation, congressional leaders and President Bush recently came together to pass a bill addressing the immediate needs of working Americans. While imperfect, I am happy to report the economic growth package signed into law is a good first step toward jump-starting our lagging economy.
The package revolves around a series of tax rebates for working-class Americans, ranging from $300 to $1,200. These rebates are intended to provide immediate relief to our families, our seniors and our disabled veterans. At a time when Oklahomans are suffering under skyrocketing health care costs, rising gasoline prices and the aftermath of a costly ice storm, that relief is welcome.
The rebates also will provide a temporary boost to the economy by encouraging spending. By cutting checks to working-class families, many of whom live paycheck to paycheck, we are getting money to the people most likely to spend it quickly. That spending will spur economic growth, create jobs and produce higher salaries.
The economic growth package also allows small businesses to write off purchases made on capital improvements. Encouraging investment in our businesses will grow our economy and increase jobs.
With that said, the growth package is only a short-term fix. The long-term challenge is to work toward policies that will create sustainable growth and investment. The first step toward safeguarding our economy should be a simple promise not to pursue a tax hike. Dramatically raising taxes, as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has proposed, would yank the country in the wrong direction, decrease consumer spending and drive families further into debt. To place the country on steadier economic footing, lawmakers should provide the kind of tax relief that strengthens confidence in the American economy. They can begin by permanently abolishing the marriage penalty and the death tax and abandoning plans to dramatically reduce child tax credits.
Besides keeping taxes low, Congress needs to quickly get a handle on out-of-control spending. It can start by pursuing earmark reform and ensuring that all earmarks in legislation are subject to strict scrutiny.
Currently, almost 200 Republicans have signed a petition that would allow earmarks to be identified and subject to debate on the House floor. The lack of support from Democratic leaders is conspicuously absent. Restoring accountability to the spending process is the first step on the long road toward fiscal responsibility. Republicans and Democrats should take that step together.
The long-term health of our economy hinges on the actions we take now. The economic growth plan is a good start. Now we must turn our attention as a nation to the serious task of reining in federal spending, moving toward a balanced budget and doing so without raising taxes.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/opedecongrowth.shtml
