Public Statements
Fallin Reacts to State of the Union
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 28, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Reacts to State of the Union
Oklahoma Congresswoman Mary Fallin issued the following statement following President Bush's last State of the Union Address:
"The President touched on many key issues tonight, offering ideas and displaying a willingness to work with Congress on areas ranging from the economy to immigration to healthcare.
"I was most pleased to see that tonight's State of the Union Address put the economy front and center. There is no issue more important during these uncertain times.
"Families in Oklahoma are currently dealing with rising gasoline and healthcare prices, a home mortgage crisis, an expensive storm recovery and the threat of a possible recession. It's time for Congress to act.
"The growth package outlined by President Bush tonight encourages business investment while providing immediate relief for working families in the form of tax rebates. Congress should give our lagging economy a much needed shot in the arm by sending it to the President's desk as soon as possible.
"The President was also correct to focus on the long term threats that our economy faces. Billions of dollars in reckless spending on wasteful programs and government bureaucracy jeopardize our economic security and leave our children and grandchildren with a mountain of debt. Similarly, the threat of massive tax increases discourages consumer spending, investment and job growth. Congress should act now to radically curb spending on wasteful earmarks and abandon plans for the kind of massive tax hike that Washington big spenders have been hoping for.
"Ultimately, high taxes and high spending hurt the economy and hurt our families. The good news is, the American people possess the skills and strength to keep our economy moving in the right direction. If we invest in our future and make the right choices now, the United States will continue to be the engine that powers the global economy. "

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/soutu2.shtml
