Public Statements
Fallin Calls for Alzheimer's Task Force
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Dec. 19, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Calls for Alzheimer's Task Force

U.S. Rep. Mary Fallin, R-OK, in a letter to FCC Chairman Kevin Martin, urged the creation of an interstate system of tracking and locating missing seniors with Alzheimer's disease or dementia. Fallin asked Chairmen Martin to convene a task force charged with designing that system and advising on how best to quickly locate missing seniors who have crossed state lines or wandered far from their home communities.
With the large number of Americans afflicted by dementia and the aging of the Baby Boomer generation, missing seniors represent a significant and growing problem for families and law enforcement agents. The National Institute of Health reports 3.1 million seniors over 71 years old suffer from some form of dementia, and 2.4 million of those have Alzheimer's. According to the Alzheimer's Association, almost 60% will wander from their homes or care facilities at some point.
Currently, efforts to locate missing Alzheimer's patients and seniors with dementia are hampered by a lack of communication at the federal and interstate levels of law enforcement. Fallin's letter called for greater interstate cooperation and a federal system that will help to quickly locate missing seniors in extraordinary and life threatening circumstances, particularly those who have crossed state lines.
Fallin said her decision to get involved with missing Alzheimer's patients was motivated by the story of Betty Ledgerwood, a 77 year old Oklahoma grandmother who wandered from her home and drove a family car from Oklahoma to Missouri. Ledgerwood was found several days later, having passed away from exposure to the weather a short distance from her car.
"If a federal system was in place," said Fallin, "law enforcement agents in surrounding states could have been working more closely with law enforcement in Oklahoma to find Betty Ledgerwood. Instead of a patchwork of local search parties, a real interstate alert would have gone out."
"My goal is to work with Chairman Martin to help create a system that can quickly and efficiently find missing seniors in life threatening circumstances so that they and their families can avoid this type of tragedy."

Source: http://www.Thomas.gov
