Public Statements
Oklahoma Delegation Responds to Ice Storm
Letter
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Dec. 11, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Oklahoma Delegation Responds to Ice Storm

In response to the recent devastating ice storms, Congresswoman Fallin joined the other members of the Oklahoma delegation in sending the following letter to President Bush. The letter thanks the president for his rapid approval of federal assistance for victims of the ongoing ice storm in Oklahoma. All 77 counties across Oklahoma have been declared a disaster area and over 630,000 homes and businesses in the state are without power. Congresswoman Fallin remains committed to helping Oklahomans and their families through this difficult time and insuring they get the care and assistance they need.
December 11, 2007
The Honorable George W. Bush
President of the United States
The White House

Dear President Bush:
We are writing to thank you for your swift approval of the State of Oklahoma's emergency declaration request for all 77 counties across our state as a result of the severe winter storm that began on December 8, 2007 and continues. Your leadership in approving emergency assistance (Categories A and B), including limited direct federal assistance, will undoubtedly go a long way towards helping affected communities rebound as the recovery effort moves forward.
In response to the recent severe freezing rain, ice and snowstorms, and possible flooding across the entire state, your approval of Federal assistance is providing Oklahoma cities, towns and counties financial assistance to help cover the cost of debris removal and emergency protective measures such as overtime for firefighters and police officers as well as road clearing, sanding and salting costs. Additionally, the emergency declaration is also providing generators, bottled water, cots, blankets and meals ready to eat which Oklahoma requested of the federal government.

As of this writing, the storm has already claimed the lives of 16 individuals and left over 600,000 Oklahoman's without power. Due to the large number of residents affected and the dangerous conditions that remain on the ground, it will be a long road to recovery ahead. We encourage you to diligently monitor the situation as damage estimates continue to become evident.
Again, thank you for your leadership. The Oklahoma Congressional delegation stands ready to work with you to ensure that Oklahoma's families and businesses continue to have the resources they need to recover from this disaster.
Sincerely,
John Sullivan, Member of Congress
Frank Lucas, Member of Congress
Mary Fallin, Member of Congress
Tom Cole, Member of Congress
Dan Boren, Member of Congress
Jim Inhofe, United States Senator
Tom Coburn, United States Senator

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/icestorm.shtml
