Public Statements
Mcgee Creek Project Pipeline and Associated Facilities Conveyance Act
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Dec. 4, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


McGEE CREEK PROJECT PIPELINE AND ASSOCIATED FACILITIES CONVEYANCE ACT -- (House of Representatives - December 04, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Ms. FALLIN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to begin today by thanking Chairman Rahall of the Natural Resources Committee and Ranking Member Don Young, as well as the Water and Power Subcommittee Chairwoman Napolitano and Ranking Member Cathy McMorris Rodgers for their continued support of this legislation. Finally, I would like the thank Congressman Dan Boren from Oklahoma for his hard work and assistance on this piece of legislation, too.
In short, H.R. 2085 is a straightforward land transfer, a prepaid bill that is supported by all parties involved. The McGee Creek Project Pipeline and Associated Facilities and Conveyance Act would formally and legally transfer ownership of 23.8 acres of land surrounding McGee Creek Reservoir, as well as facilities like water pipelines, storage space and a pumping plant.
Ownership of these facilities would be transferred from the Federal Bureau of Reclamation to the McGee Creek Authority. This bill does not transfer ownership of either the reservoir or the dam itself. In addition, the costs of the lands, the buildings and the facilities to be transferred have already been paid by the McGee Creek Authority to the Bureau of Reclamation.
This title transfer protects the financial interests of the Federal Government by reducing administrative burdens on reclamation, including periodic facility reviews and the processing of paperwork that consumes significant staff time. It will also ensure that the long-term responsibility for the operation, the maintenance, management and the regulation, as well as the liability for the transferred land and facilities, will rest with the Authority.
Again, this bill is supported by both the Federal Bureau of Reclamation and the locally run McGee Creek Authority, as well as the Oklahoma City residents. In 2006, the Authority and the Bureau of Reclamation signed a memorandum encouraging congressional authorization of a title transfer. H.R. 2085 would formalize that agreement than make it Federal policy.
Mr. Speaker, thank you for your consideration. I now ask my colleagues for their support of H.R. 2085.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.thomas.gov
