Public Statements
Mary Fallin Op-Ed: Religious Expression Under Siege
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Oct. 17, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Mary Fallin Op-Ed: Religious Expression Under Siege

The Pledge of Allegiance, which declares that we are "One nation, under God," has withstood criticism and court challenges. "In God we trust" remains on our American currency, despite efforts to have it removed.
Most Americans are proud of their faith, and I believe the majority of the citizens I represent in Congress feel as I do concerning a recent controversy over a request from an Ohio Eagle Scout on behalf of his beloved Grandfather.
Constituents often ask their Congressmen to fly flags over the Capitol building, and present them with official, pre-printed certificates.
Ohio Rep. Mike Turner flew a flag at the request of 17-year-old Andrew Larochelle, who planned it as a gift for his 81-year-old grandfather.
The young man also asked for the accompanying certificate to read:"This flag was flown in honor of Marcel Larochelle, my grandfather, for his dedication and love of God, Country and family."
Rule eight of the rules for flags and certificates states: "Personalized dedications are permitted, but limited to three (300) characters. Please keep in mind, political and/or religious expressions are not permitted on the flag certificate."
"God" was removed from the Larochelle request for a personal dedication. According to the Architect, "religious expression" has no place accompanying the American Flags. His decision to remove God from the message was upheld by Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi.
It is my opinion this is an act of religious censorship, and 130 of my fellow Congressman agreed. All of us signed on a letter to Speaker Pelosi calling for a review of the policy which simply amounts to, among many things, an insult of our Founding Fathers.
During June of 1778, in concern for his sons, John Adams wrote his wife, Abigail to "let them revere nothing but Religion, Morality, and Liberty."
In 2007, concerning an act of a grandson grateful for a grandfather dedicated to God and country, we should be revering this young man - not censoring him.
The fact this incident even occurred makes me wonder: Is the liberal left completely out of touch with America?

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/god.shtml
