Public Statements
The Oklahoman - Free Speech has Real Consequences
Op-Ed
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Sept. 28, 2007
Location: Unknown


The Oklahoman - Free Speech has Real Consequences
By Rep. Mary Fallin
In recent weeks, there has been a lot of talk about the various uses and abuses of "free speech." Two events in particular have sparked a great amount of controversy.
The first was the running of a MoveOn.org ad in the pages of The New York Times. The ad questioned the patriotism and honesty of Gen. David Petraeus, our top commander in Iraq. Disturbingly, The New York Times admitted that it gave MoveOn a deeply discounted rate to run the attack ad, which sparked outrage from members of both political parties.
The second event was Monday's forum at Columbia University hosting Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, president of Iran. Ahmadinejad is a Holocaust denier who has repeatedly called for the destruction of the state of Israel. He presides over a government that acts in defiance of the United Nations, is guilty of abhorrent human rights violations and is a known state sponsor of terrorism. For more than an hour, he was allowed to spew his hateful and ignorant line of thinking to Columbia University students and anyone with basic cable.
Both of these events were an embarrassment to all parties involved. MoveOn has sullied its reputation and that of its many members by resorting to assassinating the character of a decorated general. The New York Times further discredited itself as an unbiased news source by publishing an ad that, by its own admission, does not meet its standards of decency and fairness. Finally, Columbia University's image as a place of truth and learning has been tarnished for its role in giving a violent madman a megaphone from which to distribute his propaganda.
The defenders of the MoveOn ad and the Columbia event cite "free speech" as a blanket justification for virtually any type of political statement or event. The First Amendment, they say, guarantees Americans the freedom to express any opinion, to support any political position or leader and to hear any argument they choose without interference.
They are correct. The First Amendment prohibits the federal government from censoring MoveOn's ad, from controlling the content of the Times, or from vetting Columbia University's list of speakers. So it should.
That argument, however, is a distraction from the real matter at hand. Americans aren't calling for government censorship of newspapers or government control of universities. They are simply asking, as I am, that organizations in the media and institutions of higher learning use their free speech responsibly.
The inevitable backlash that MoveOn, the Times and Columbia University will surely face — in the form of widespread criticism, angry letters, and possibly a reduced influence — has little to do with the First Amendment. Rather, it represents the reality that free speech has real consequences, and that irresponsible speech can damage those who give voice to it. Instead of seeing this as a sign of oppression and intolerance, we should see it for what it really is: a sign of a healthy and educated democracy.
Fallin, R-Oklahoma City, represents the 5th congressional district.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/opedspeechwhy.shtml
