Public Statements
Fallin Statement Following the Testimony of General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Sept. 10, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Statement Following the Testimony of General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker
Congresswoman Mary Fallin (R-OK) issued the following statement this afternoon:
"In their testimony today, General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker delivered an authoritative and unbiased account of the situation on the ground in Iraq. Their message was clear: the coalition between American and Iraqi forces has made progress, disrupted Al Qaeda and reduced sectarian violence. In addition, Iraqi forces are shouldering more of the load while standing and fighting to provide security in their own communities.
"Having recently visited Iraq, I witnessed progress firsthand, and this report confirms what I saw and heard. The tribal leaders and local citizens are working together with the American and Iraqi military forces to reject Al Qaeda and other extremists groups. It appears to me the surge strategy in Iraq is slowly paying off.
"All Americans want to see our men and women in uniform come home. But as General Petraeus testified today, a rapid drawdown of American troops in Iraq would undermine our recent military gains there and have devastating consequences. In addition, it would strengthen the hands of both Al Qaeda and Iran and seriously undermine American interests in the region and security at home. Finally, it would doom the Iraqi government to failure and open the door to possible ethnic cleansing and genocide.
The recent military successes in Iraq and the obvious and terrible consequences of a rapid withdrawal all lead me to believe that supporting General Petraeus' current strategy in Iraq is the best course of action. U.S. and coalition forces should continue to build on our recent victories in places like Anbar province and begin the slow withdrawal of U.S. forces on a timeline determined by our generals, not Washington politicians.

Source:
