Public Statements
Fallin Adds Accountability Measure to FAA Reauthorization Act
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: June 28, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Adds Accountability Measure to FAA Reauthorization Act
U.S. Rep Mary Fallin, R- Oklahoma, took an active role in shaping the 2007 FAA Reauthorization Act, which was supported today by a bipartisan majority of Members on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Fallin attached a provision to the bill requiring the FAA to issue a report assessing the quality of training programs for air-traffic controllers.

The legislation, which will now be sent to the House floor for a vote, reauthorizes the Federal Aviation Administration for the next four years. It also lays the groundwork for the establishment of "Next Generation" satellite based air traffic control systems. These systems will help American air traffic control professionals deal with the rapidly increasing number of air passengers and ensure that the United States continues to have the safest aviation system in the world.

In addition to helping the FAA monitor congestion in the skies, the Next Generation systems may also fundamentally change how air traffic controllers are trained. Currently, many of the nation's air traffic controllers receive high quality training at the Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center in Oklahoma City.

Fallin's addition to the bill mandates that the FAA does a review of the current training systems and an analysis of the competencies required to meet the needs of the Next Generation system. The language will ensure the FAA is held accountable for the quality and efficiency of that training, and that alternatives to facilities like Mike Monroney are not considered unless they meet the same high standards.

"The need for the FAA to upgrade their air traffic control technology is clear," said Fallin. "Ultimately, however, it is the men and women operating these Next Generation systems that will ensure our safety. The provisions I added to this bill help to do that, by holding the FAA accountable for the quality and efficiency of the training that our air-traffic controllers receive."

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/faa.shtml
