Public Statements
Fallin Passes Legislation to Improve Women's Business Centers
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: June 18, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin Passes Legislation to Improve Women's Business Centers
U.S. Rep. Mary Fallin, R-Oklahoma, successfully passed legislation in the House of Representatives today. The bill, the first piece of legislation that Fallin has introduced and passed in the House, would restore accountability and efficiency to Women's Business Centers receiving federal grants.
Fallin's bill, the SBA Women's Business Programs Act of 2007, passed on a voice vote in the House of Representatives with overwhelming bipartisan support. It must now pass in the U.S. Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.
Fallin said, "I am extremely excited that the House showed such strong, bipartisan support for this legislation. This bill will strengthen the Women's Business Centers program by making them more efficient and accountable. That's a goal that all Members of Congress can support. Ultimately, it will make sure that more women receive the assistance and advice that they need to get their foot in the door of the business community."
Women's Business Centers (WBC's) were developed in 1997 to give underprivileged women a leg-up into the business world by offering them business and entrepreneurial advice and training that they would otherwise not have access to. The Small Business Administration (SBA) currently awards grants to WBC's with the understanding that they are to be run by non-profit organizations in conjunction with institutions of higher learning and eventually become financially self-sustaining.
Under the current system, failing or unviable WBC's can be sustained on a semi-permanent basis by federal grant money. These programs are weak links that have failed to become financially self-sustaining.
Because they are competing with start-up WBC's for the same money, they are sapping the strength of the entire program by draining money from potentially viable centers.
The legislation introduced by Fallin sets new benchmarks for accountability and ensures that centers receiving funds are meeting performance requirements. It also shifts more funding towards high-need communities with a large proportion of socially and economically disadvantaged women.
The legislation, numbered H.R. 2397, was originally introduced by Fallin in the Small Business Committee.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/firstbill2.shtml
