Public Statements
Department Of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2008
Floor Speech
By: Mary Fallin
Date: June 13, 2007
Location: Washington, DC

DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Ms. FALLIN. Mr. Chairman, this amendment would reduce the executive salary in the Office of Secretary and Executive Management account to the FY 2007 level, representing a $138,000 reduction from the $4.588 million to $4.45 million. The current bill's funding level represents a 3 percent increase over 2007 FY budget enacted.
There has been at least $105.5 billion in new Federal spending over 5 years authorized by the House Democrat leadership this year. The current Federal debt is $8.8 trillion, roughly $29,000 for every U.S. citizen, and growing by over $1 billion a day. Entitlement spending, Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security is out of control, and within a generation will either force significant cutbacks in services and benefits, or we are going to have to have massive tax increases.
Mr. Chairman, the Congressional Budget Office and Government Accountability Office has been warning Congress that the growth in direct spending, i.e., spending that is on autopilot, and the outside annual spending process are occurring at an unsustainable rate due to well-known demographic trends and other factors. Discretionary spending has also grown exponentially and must be brought under control.
This amendment will be the first step of many necessary steps enforcing fiscal discipline and sanity upon the Federal Government and out-of-control Federal deficit spending. We must restore fiscal discipline and find both commonsense and innovative ways to do more with less. The Federal budget must not grow faster than American families have the ability to pay for it.
Mr. Chairman, I have to say that in my State, my citizens are very concerned about spending in Washington. I have heard a lot of talk this year about the elections and what occurred during the elections, and that voters gave us a mandate for change here in Congress, that they didn't want business as usual. People have told me that Congress spends too much, and we have to remember that the money that we spend here is not our money; it's the taxpayers' money.
And the taxpayers' pocketbooks are stretched these days. The price of gasoline has been skyrocketing, the price of health care, the price of prescription drugs. Families are just squeezed these days. And I believe it is time that we have this discussion about controlling our spending.
Mr. Chairman, I don't have a problem with slowing down this process. I think the American people want us to slow down the spending process. They want us to look at balancing our budget. They want us to prioritize here in Congress what's important, what's a spending priority. They want us to reduce the deficit.
They want to know where the money is going. They appreciate us fine-tuning our appropriation bill. And it seems reasonable to me that we have this discussion. That is why I support this amendment.
There is a 13 percent increase in spending in this appropriation bill, and that's huge. When you have $1 billion here and $1 billion there, that all adds up, and we still have many other appropriation bills to consider. And frankly, no one in my district has called me to say, you know what? The government doesn't spend enough. I want you to spend more. They want us to look for government waste. They want us to control spending.
And while we are increasing spending in this Congress, we have yet to even look at other issues that we need to discuss, the rising costs of entitlements, Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security.
Mr. Chairman, last night I heard the majority leader talk about securing America and the funding of homeland security and how important this piece of legislation is. I appreciate his comments, and I agree with that; it is important that we secure America. I don't believe that anyone on my side of the aisle objects to funding homeland security. The objections that we have been talking about over the last 24 hours are about spending. It is about the process of determining how the earmarks are processed and projects are processed.
I want to remind this House that the President and a Republican Congress led the effort to fund homeland security and to protect our Nation. We support homeland security. But I would also like to suggest that securing America also means the financial security of America, the financial security of our Nation. And financial security comes through transparency, openness and open discussion on this House floor of spending and spending priorities, and allowing Members to participate and to vote on those priorities in the light of day.
This process of voting on a level of funding for homeland security, then having a conference report and then having one person in Congress and their staff decide on the add-ons, the earmarks we're spending, to me just doesn't pass the openness test and the transparency test.
The Acting CHAIRMAN. The time of the gentlewoman from Oklahoma (Ms. Fallin) has expired.
(By unanimous consent, Ms. Fallin was allowed to proceed for 2 additional minutes.)
Ms. FALLIN. When I was a kid, we used to have a game we played called ``King of the Hill.'' And that would be when one person would get on this hill and we would fight off others who would come and try to take control.
This process reminds me of the game ``King of the Hill'', where one person is trying to play that. I just don't believe, Mr. Chairman, that that is the right thing to do.
This is our opportunity in Congress to show that we mean business in controlling our spending, we mean business in reducing our deficit, we mean business in transparency and openness of earmarks. And we can't lose this opportunity, we can't take a step back.
Mr. Chairman, I would just like to request that our appropriations chairman, who is a very capable and able man, delay consideration of this bill until we have proper transparency in the earmark process. It is a choice that the majority can make now, starting with this first appropriation bill. The majority is in control. And also, the appropriations chairman could come to the floor to this debate and assure this body and the Members that we will be able to see the individual earmarks and vote on them on this floor.
This process will not allow us to do that the way it is now. And what better way to start off the appropriations process than to start with this bill, with transparency on the earmarks, transparency of funding?
Let's fix it now, Mr. Chairman.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
