Public Statements
Four Oklahoma Communities Named to List of Nation's Top Micropolitans
Statement
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 30, 2016
Location: Oklahoma City, OK

Site Selection magazine recently ranked Durant as No. 13 in its listing of the Top 100 Micropolitans. Three other Oklahoma cities -- Enid, Bartlesville and Miami -- also made the list.
According to the article, a micropolitan is defined by the Office of Management and Budget in the White House as one or more adjacent counties that have at least one urban core area of at least 10,000 population but less than 50,000. It also must have an adjacent territory that has a high degree of social and economic integration with the core as measured by commuting ties.
In addition to ranking Durant at No. 13, the magazine listed Enid at No. 39; Bartlesville ts No. 73 (tie); and Miami also at No. 73 (tie). Those communities had 13 successful economic development projects in 2015.
"Oklahoma continues to attract economic development projects in both urban and rural areas," said Governor Mary Fallin. "The addition of hundreds of jobs to cities like Durant, Enid, Bartlesville and Miami are significant and highlight the fact that every part of the state has something to offer to prospective businesses. I commend the Oklahoma Department of Commerce and the local economic development organizations for their efforts to see these projects through to success."
Projects in Durant are expected to add more than 675 jobs and will see an estimated $274 million in direct investment in the region. In total, the 13 projects from Durant, Enid, Bartlesville and Miami will result in more than an estimated 975 jobs for the state.
"We are continuing to diversify our state's economy with projects in manufacturing, distribution, information and financial services, as well as other industries," said Commerce and Tourism Secretary Deby Snodgrass. "The business development team works hard to maximize economic development opportunities, working hand-in-hand with communities to bring successful projects to our state."

Source: https://www.ok.gov/triton/modules/newsroom/newsroom_article.php?id=223&article_id=19744
