Public Statements
Editorial: Fallin: Little Work being done on deficit, immigration issues, By Jeff Hall
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: April 16, 2007
Location: Midwest City, OK


Editorial: Fallin: Little Work being done on deficit, immigration issues, By Jeff Hall
Just because she goes to work at the nation's capitol instead of the state's, Fifth District Congresswoman Mary Fallin is still concerned about the same pocketbook issues.
"I've already noticed that some of the Washington politicians have forgotten where the (tax) money comes from," Fallin said Wednesday in a speech to Midwest City Chamber of Commerce members.
"Every day in Oklahoma, every day in America, people have to make spending decisions ... I think some of them in Washington thinks the money we have to spend is unlimited, but it's not."
Fallin, who spent two terms in Oklahoma's State House and three terms as the state's lieutenant governor, told chamber members she wished Congress had to operate under the same constitutional restriction as the state Legislature, which is banned from spending more than it takes in during a budget year.
Like her fellow Oklahoman Tom Coburn in the U.S. Senate, Fallin said she believes there are plenty of ways to cut back on federal spending while maintaining tax cuts passed four years ago. She noted there are 340 separate government programs targeted at economic development and 72 water programs.
"Surely there are ways we can consolidate a few of them to do the same work and save some money," she said.
But the new Democratic majority in the House is more attuned to spending and eliminating those tax cuts, Fallin said.
"Rather than cutting spending and reducing our deficit and getting things back under control, our leadership, our Speaker, Speaker (Nancy) Pelosi and the Democratic leadership, passed the biggest tax increase in history (by eliminating the tax cuts)," she said.
"I'm hoping we can work toward policies that balance the budget (and) I'd like to see the president have line item veto power."
Although illegal immigration was a hot topic during the 2006 Congressional races, Fallin said there's been little discussion about an issue she campaigned on.
"We have not had one bill on the floor that deals with illegal immigration," she said.
Not only are the nation's borders too easy to cross illegally, legal immigrants find too many hurdles toward entering the nation and businesses face extra burdens in determining who is and who isn't a legal resident, she said.
"Everybody knows the immigration system is broken," Fallin said.
But action will be taken, she promised.
"We will begin this discussion in Washington, D.C.," Fallin said.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/mwcity.shtml
