Public Statements
Boren, Fallin Introduce Bill to Ease Restrictions on Farm Trucks
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 30, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Boren, Fallin Introduce Bill to Ease Restrictions on Farm Trucks
U.S. Congressman Dan Boren and U.S. Congresswoman Mary Fallin have introduced federal legislation that would make it easier for Oklahoma's agricultural producers to transport goods across state lines. H.R. 1757 would adjust the federal definition of commercial motor vehicles to include only those that weigh more than 26,000 pounds.
"Oklahoma borders six other states and our farmers often need to cross those state lines," Boren said. "I am hearing from farmers across my district who are already facing fines from these regulations that were never meant to apply to them in the first place. This bill protects the safety of our roads while lifting this burden on our farmers and ranchers."
Current Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations give states discretion in deciding whether vehicles under 26,001 pounds are considered commercial vehicles within their own borders, but hold those traveling from one state to another to a much more prohibitive federal standard of 10,001 pounds. H.R. 1757 would change the definition of a commercial motor vehicle to include only those that exceed 26,000 pounds, making it consistent with most states' laws. The bill maintains current safety standards for vehicles of any weight that transport 16 or more passengers or hazardous materials.
"I am proud to be cosponsoring a bill that removes bureaucratic red tape for our farmers and allows them to operate efficiently and without government interference," Fallin said. "I'd like to thank Congressman Boren for working hard on a piece of legislation that will help farmers in Oklahoma and all across the country."
Classification as a commercial motor vehicle subjects farmers and ranchers to regulations that were never intended to apply to them. It requires them to hold a commercial driver's license, log their hours of service and register their vehicle with the U.S. Department of Transportation.
"The Oklahoma Farm Bureau commends Congressman Boren and Congresswoman Fallin for introducing H.R. 1757," Oklahoma Farm Bureau President Steve Kouplen said. "Farmers, ranchers and others who engage in interstate commerce throughout this nation need the ability to conduct their business in a fair and efficient manner. We believe that H.R. 1757 will provide much needed uniformity between state and federal law which will allow for agricultural commodities to be transported more freely across state lines."
H.R. 1757 awaits action before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/ok05_fallin/borenfarm.shtml0
