Public Statements
Fallin-Cole Introduce Bill to Pave Way for Texoma Development and Settle Arcadia Dispute
Press Release
By: Mary Fallin
Date: March 13, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Fallin-Cole Introduce Bill to Pave Way for Texoma Development and Settle Arcadia Dispute
U.S. Congresswoman Mary Fallin (R-Oklahoma City) and Congressman Tom Cole (R-Moore) today introduced legislation that would transfer ownership of 227 acres of shoreline on Lake Texoma from the federal government to the state of Oklahoma. This property transfer will eliminate one of the final obstacles to a long anticipated private development including residential neighborhoods, a resort hotel and a golf course.
"As Lt. Governor and Chairman of the Tourism Commission, I spent many years working to build a first class resort and tourism destination that will bring in private investment and create new jobs for southern Oklahoma," Congresswoman Fallin said. "This bill is one of the last pieces in the puzzle. I am extremely excited that Congressman Cole and I are finally seeing our work on the Lake Texoma project nearing fruition."
"This is an important step towards significant economic development in the Lake Texoma area," Congressman Cole said. "And it's something that both Congresswoman Fallin and I have worked very hard to help bring about. I am eager to do whatever I can to help move this legislation forward and to help make this economic development a reality."
The legislation introduced by Cole and Fallin would also clear up a longstanding debt dispute over Lake Arcadia between the city of Edmond and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, freeing up over $11 million dollars for the city.
Congresswoman Mary Fallin is the U.S. Representative for the Fifth District of Oklahoma, which includes most of Oklahoma City and all of Pottawatomie and Seminole counties. Congressman Tom Cole is the U.S. Representative for the Fourth District of Oklahoma which includes Marshall County and Lake Texoma.

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/ok05_fallin/morenews/texoma.shtml
