Public Statements
Fallin Reacts To PResident's State of The Union Address
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 23, 2007
Location: Washington, DC

Fallin reacts to President's State of the Union Address
Rep. Mary Fallin (R-OK) released the following statement in response to President Bush's State of the Union address:
"President Bush outlined an aggressive agenda for 2007, tackling some of our most pressing domestic issues--energy, health care, fiscal responsibility and immigration reform. While our country is at a very pivotal time in the War on Terror, it is encouraging that the President has not lost sight of these very important issues our county is facing here at home. I look forward to working with my fellow members of Congress in a bipartisan fashion to examine the President's proposals.
Finding alternative energy sources is vital to our way of life as well as our national and economic security. The President has pledged to continue his push to decrease our dependence on foreign oil by increasing research and development of alternative fuels. Oklahoma has long been a leader in energy production and we will continue to lead the way in the development of alternative energy sources like wind power and switchgrass production. I look forward to working with the President and congressional leaders to encourage the discovery of alternative energy sources.
I am encouraged to hear the President push for better health care for all Americans. While the specifics are yet to be revealed, his plan to expand health insurance coverage is a good first step towards beginning the discussion on making health care more affordable. I am confident that members of both parties can work together towards this goal.
I am heartened that the President addressed runaway spending, earmark reform and balancing the budget. I remain committed to the core principle of fiscal responsibility and it will remain one of my top priorities in Congress.
I am also glad that the President chose to address immigration reform.
Oklahomans have spoken out against the current immigration system that leaves our borders unprotected and encourages disrespect for our laws. It is crucial that we tighten border security and increase funding for our border patrol. At the same time, we must always remember that we are a nation of immigrants and welcome those who arrive in the United States legally. It will take the President and leaders in Congress working together to streamline the process by which immigrants can enter the country lawfully and become productive members of society.
As we focus efforts to strengthen our country, we are constantly reminded of the new nation Iraq is trying to build amid the War on Terror. I am glad the President chose to address the war in Iraq, particularly the need for the Iraqi government to shoulder a greater amount of responsibility, both militarily and politically. I will work with leaders in Congress to ensure that Iraqis live up to their end of the bargain, and that American troops come home as soon as possible."
http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/pr_070123.shtml

Source: https://admin.votesmart.org/loadCandidateSpeechDetail.do?candidateSpeechId=260119
