Public Statements
Rep. Fallin Asks Congress To Move Towards Energy Independence
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 18, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Rep. Fallin asks Congress to move towards energy independence
Oklahoma Congresswoman Mary Fallin addressed the full floor of the House of Representatives today, encouraging her colleagues to oppose legislation that would undermine Oklahoma's oil and gas industries and move the nation further away from energy independence. Fallin instead proposed a two-part solution, acknowledging the role that both traditional and alternative energy forms can play in our future.
Fallin said, "The answer to America's energy crisis lies in expanding our oil and gas production in the short term, while investing in renewable energy sources in the long term."
The legislation backed today by Congressional Democrats would raise taxes on oil and gas companies in the United States, which would ultimately discourage domestic energy companies from further exploration. Fallin argued that this tax increase comes at a time when the U.S. most needs to increase production of its own energy resources. To not do so, said Fallin, would represent "both a national security threat and an economic threat to the nation."
A decrease in domestic energy supplies would increase American dependency on foreign oil and translate to a loss in jobs, particularly in Oklahoma, where the oil industry is so predominant.
Fallin went on to point out that "over 63% of our energy supplies come from foreign sources" many of them in hostile or unstable regions, and that America spends over 300 billion dollars a year on energy imports. Creating disincentives for energy production at home, Fallin argued, would only increase our reliance on foreign energy.
For that reason, Fallin labeled the bill, "a serious disappointment to those of us who care about the goal of energy independence and the development of renewable energy sources."
http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/pr_070118.shtml
