Public Statements
The Democratic Agenda
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 12, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA -- (House of Representatives - January 12, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Ms. FALLIN. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate that very kind introduction. It is a pleasure to be here with you today.
As a newly elected Member of Congress, I am very humbled by the opportunity to be able to serve in this esteemed body and to represent the people of Oklahoma. I have had the great opportunity to serve as a member of the Oklahoma legislature and, as the gentlewoman mentioned, as the lieutenant governor of Oklahoma for the past 12 years until I took this position. I have had the opportunity to work in a bipartisan manner with both sides of the aisle. In fact, when I was in the legislature and as lieutenant governor, there were many times that my Democrat colleagues helped me on various piece of legislation, even served as the author of some of the reform efforts that I led in our State. And I believe that many of those that ran for office this year ran on a platform of coming to Washington, coming to Congress and solving problems and making things happen and working on issues that we could find consensus on and doing good things for the people of America. And we also campaigned on platforms of transparency and openness and letting the people of our States' voices be heard here in Washington, D.C.
I have to tell you that I think this past week, in the very short time that I have been a Member of this body, that we have missed some real opportunities here in Congress, and that is to let all the Members' voices be heard, all the voices of the people that we each represent, and to let the many talents and the knowledge and the expertise and life experiences that are shared among this body be allowed to participate in the process.
I have to be honest that after having the opportunity to be sworn in this past week and also participating in a historic moment of seeing our first woman speaker selected and elected as the leader of this body, I have been disappointed. I have been disappointed that many of our Republican Members have been excluded. Well, I guess you could say all of them have been excluded from many of the processes of this House and their voices were not heard.
