Public Statements
Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 10, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 10, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Ms. FALLIN. Mr. Speaker, it is a great pleasure to be here today.
Mr. Speaker, over the past 12 years, I have had the opportunity to serve as Oklahoma's Lieutenant Governor and, more importantly, Oklahoma's official small business advocate. I spent years traveling throughout our State visiting with our small business owners and their employees, and they are truly the economic engine of many of our communities in our State.
In our State, 97 percent of Oklahoma's businesses have 100 or fewer employees and are small businesses, and employers in our State employ over 600,000 workers that are small business workers, which means that 50 percent of our jobs are related to small business.
Mr. Speaker, my concern is that a 41 percent increase in the minimum wage places a real burden on our small businesses. It is a burden that could mean layoffs. It is a burden that could mean bankruptcy for others.
The Federal Government cannot force small businesses to shoulder that burden alone. If the government is to raise our current minimum wage, it must pursue a balanced plan that will provide serious tax relief and regulatory relief to those who will be hit hardest by a minimum wage increase.
A plan without balance will not lift up the American workers. It will actually drag down small business. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that increasing the minimum wage to $7.25 an hour will cost small businesses somewhere between $5 billion to $7 billion nationwide. And when small businesses fail, minimum wage earners will suffer. The Hoover Institute estimates that fully 1.5 million small business workers nationwide may lose their jobs if an unbalanced minimum wage hike is passed.
So it is clear to me that a minimum wage increase plan without a plan to offset the burden placed upon small business will be harmful to our economy, and this Congress must not sabotage the machine which powers our economy and gives life to so many of our communities, which is small business. We must help our Nation's workers in a responsible fashion and avoid a plan which I believe is well-intentioned but could be devastating to employers and employees alike.
It is for this reason that I strongly encourage my colleagues to reject anything short of a balanced plan to raise the minimum wage unless one has a plan that offsets the burden placed upon small business and has serious and appropriate tax and regulatory relief.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
