Public Statements
Rep. Fallin Gets Committee Assignments, Tackles Big Issues
By: Mary Fallin
Date: Jan. 10, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Rep. Fallin gets committee assignments, tackles big issues
Oklahoma Congresswoman Mary Fallin received her committee assignments today and began her first term by diving into several big issues. Fallin was assigned to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure as well as the Small Business Committee, both of which deal with issues essential to Oklahoma's economy and way of life.
"I am extremely pleased with my committee assignments," Fallin said today. "As Lieutenant Governor, working with small business was one of my number one priorities. I look forward to continuing to work for Oklahoma's small businesses on a federal level."
Reacting to her assignment on Transportation and Infrastructure, Fallin said, "We in Oklahoma stand at the crossroads of the Mid-West. The maintenance of our roads, rail lines and transportation infrastructure is essential to this state and the entire region. This committee also gives me the opportunity to continue to focus my attention on aviation and aerospace."
Fallin Urges Congress to Protect Small Business
Rep. Fallin spoke today on the floor of the House of Representatives to encourage lawmakers to reject any consideration of a minimum wage increase without appropriate provisions to offset the cost to small business.
Small businesses make up over 97% of all businesses in Oklahoma and employ more than half of the state's workforce. The House is currently considering increasing the minimum wage from $5.15 to $7.25, an increase which would cost a staggering five to seven billion dollars to small businesses nationwide.
Fallin, who was one of Oklahoma's leading advocates for small business during her 12 years as Lieutenant Governor, rejected consideration of any wage increase that would force small business to cover the whole cost.
"We cannot force small businesses to shoulder that burden alone," Fallin told Congress. "We must pursue a balanced plan that would provide serious and appropriate tax and regulatory reform" along with any wage increase.
A minimum wage hike without tax and regulatory relief for small businesses could be disastrous for employees and employers alike. As Fallin said today, "When small businesses fail, minimum wage earners suffer." According to the Hoover Institute, over 1.5 million minimum wage earners may lose their jobs if small business is forced to shoulder the burden of a wage hike along.
Fallin Fights Destruction of Human Embryos
Rep. Fallin, while wholeheartedly supporting adult and amniotic stem cell research, took the lead today in shedding light on the moral pitfalls of embryonic stem cell research, a process which involves either the destruction of human embryos or human cloning. As Fallin and her cosigners on a letter to other members wrote, "To date, embryonic stem cell research has not resulted in a single successful human treatment for disease." Supporters of this type of research do not have one example of a human being who has benefited from this treatment.
Fallin talks National Security with Reporter Dan Rather
Rep. Fallin joined Dan Rather and three other congresswomen last night to discuss the new Congress and the ongoing war on terror. Fallin, who Rather described as a "trailblazer," emphasized the need to find a bipartisan solution to the war on terror. "We need to work together to secure the safety of our nation," Fallin told Rather.
http://fallin.house.gov/list/press/ok05_fallin/pr_070110.shtml
