Public Statements
Edmond Life and Leisure - Responders, Neighbors Again Handle Crisis Well
Op-Ed
By: Mary Fallin
Location: Unknown

By Congresswoman Mary Fallin
Published by Edmond Life and Leisure
Last week's storms were a terrible blow to many Oklahoma communities, especially in southern Oklahoma County, northern Cleveland County and parts of Pottawatomie and Seminole Counties. On the day after the storm I toured the damaged areas, and I was once again impressed by the strength and resiliency of Oklahomans, and by our swift and skillful response.
As Lieutenant Governor and now as a member of Congress, I have responded to many disasters, from ice storms to grass fires to the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing. In every case I have been immensely impressed by the skills and valor of our first responders.
Oklahoma has a well-seasoned emergency response system that begins with local fire, police and emergency response agencies that runs through city and county emergency operations centers to the state level.
Our Oklahoma Department of Emergency Management maintains a constantly staffed command center in the State Capitol complex, and within minutes of the storms they were at work assembling and disseminating information and coordinating the work of other agencies and non-profit relief organizations.
Federal agencies like FEMA play a vital role as well, and to see the level of cooperation in operation is to understand that we handle crisis, I believe, better than any state in the nation.
For example, Seminole's airport was hard hit by a tornado. Within 24 hours our Oklahoma Aeronautics Commission had experts on-site, assessing damage and working to secure funding to make repairs.
Governor Henry helped put those wheels in motion with a timely emergency declaration. Once disaster aid is approved by the federal government, home and business owners who may have lacked adequate insurance coverage will be eligible for a wide range of help to begin the rebuilding process.
While our official response is a great example of government at all levels doing the right thing by working together, it is always the personal, neighbor-to-neighbor assistance that reminds me what a wonderful state ours is.
From shelters set up overnight to individuals stepping up to open their homes and businesses to those displaced by the storms, we showed once again why there is such a thing as an "Oklahoma Standard."
Of course Oklahomans also stepped up through private non-profit organizations like the Red Cross and the Salvation Army, along with our local churches. They are always there, opening their wallets, hands and hearts.
We all hate to see neighbors go through another disaster, but we can take comfort that once again Oklahomans were helping Oklahomans. And that's why Oklahoma's greatest asset is its people.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=31&parentid=28&sectiontree=28,31&itemid=485
