Public Statements
Issue Position: Health Care
Issue Position
By: Mary Fallin
Location: Unknown


Issue Position: Health Care
Our health care system in the United States is in crisis, and it affects every one of us. The rising cost of healthcare represents a serious threat to our economy and the well-being of our nation. I believe we must work to change this broken system using free-market solutions.
It is vital that Congress pass legislation to protect medical professionals from frivolous lawsuits that drive up the cost of malpractice insurance. Meaningful lawsuit reform is the only way to bring stability to the liability insurance market, reduce malpractice insurance costs, reduce the cost of healthcare and ultimately make health insurance more affordable to all American consumers.
I also support the advancement of association health plans (AHPs), which would bring much-needed diversity into the health care market. AHPs are a valuable tool for small businesses, affording them the bargaining power normally reserved for large corporations. This leverage would allow small business owners to purchase quality healthcare for workers and their families at an affordable cost.
Additionally, Congress must work to make healthcare more accessible to all Americans. We can begin by offering individuals the option to purchase their own insurance and then take a tax deduction for their medical care.
While these moves are important, alone they are not enough to stop today's skyrocketing prices. The biggest problem is the federal government itself which imposes so much regulation on the healthcare industry that your doctor must pay someone to spend nearly as much time filling out federal paperwork as he or she spends with you in the examination room. There are more pages of regulation dedicated to micro-managing healthcare than there are pages in the IRS code - no wonder our healthcare costs have continued to rise!
By dismantling the federal bureaucracy which over-burdens our current healthcare system, and by recognizing the false promises of regulation-loving special interest groups, we can finally get medical costs under control for American families and businesses.
Finally, as citizens, we must do a better job of promoting wellness and disease prevention through education and community programs. We can each do our part to reduce the expense of health care by eating right, kicking bad habits, and living a healthy life style.

Source: http://fallin.house.gov/issue_healthcare.shtml
