Public Statements
State of the State
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Jan. 12, 2016
Location: Pierre, SD

Thank you. It's good to have you back in Pierre. Before I begin today, we have three new legislators who have joined us since last year. I'd ask Sen. Bill Shorma of Dakota Dunes, Sen. Scott Fiegen of Dell Rapids, and Rep. Wayne Steinhauer of Hartford to stand so we can welcome them.
I'd like to begin today by talking about education funding. A year ago, I created the Blue Ribbon Task Force on Teachers and Students to look into the important issues of education funding and teacher pay. This task force included educators, legislators, members of my administration, and members of the public.
The task force undertook an extensive process of seeking public input. Task force members organized or attended dozens of meetings and sought feedback from thousands of South Dakotans. They heard an overwhelming message: the public believes we need to be bold and act to address teacher salaries, this year.
Following that public input, the task force held five day-long, public meetings to consider data, discuss policy options, and ultimately to make recommendations. I want to thank the task force members for their very thorough work. The final report makes thoughtful recommendations & is an excellent overview of this topic.
The key to student achievement is an effective teacher. We all know that. It is the #1 factor that we can control. Despite that, we all know that SD's teacher salaries are lowest in the nation and have been for decades.
This problem has come to the forefront now because, more and more, we are hearing from school administrators that the teaching workforce is getting smaller. Schools are getting fewer applicants for each position. Some teaching disciplines, like math and science, are even more limited. And in remote geographic areas, some schools struggle to attract any applicants at all.
The data supports this anecdotal evidence. The task force report includes projections from the Dept. of Ed. which show that over the next five years, SD will have only one new teacher for each position that comes open.
One teacher per opening may not sound like a shortage, but for most districts it is. The new teachers coming into the profession will not align with the disciplines where there are openings. There won't be enough new teachers in hard-to-fill disciplines. Rural or remote districts will still struggle to hire. And the quality of education suffers when schools cannot be selective and have to hire from a very constricted pool of applicants. That's why the task force found that "the incoming pipeline of teachers will not meet the projected needs of districts" over the next five years.
We need to increase the supply of new teachers entering the field, and we need more current teachers to stay in the field. Now, I know that other areas of the workforce are seeing similar trends. These shortages are caused by many demographic and economic factors. Salaries are not the only cause of this problem. But we cannot fix this problem unless we increase salaries.
We all know that, although SD is last in teacher salaries, we are not last in spending per student. Depending on the source, we usually rank around 40th. The task force considered several possible explanations for this. For example, some were surprised to learn that our spending on administrators, both in terms of salaries and number of administrators, is comparable to national averages and lower than some other states in our region.
Ultimately, the task force found that SD's spending per student is due to the rural nature of our state. We actually spend more, per student, on facilities and maintenance than the national average. We also have more teachers per student than the national average.
Significantly though, we spend less per student than all of our surrounding states. The states that are most like us --North Dakota, Montana, and Nebraska -- spend more per student than we do, have more teachers per student than we do, and pay higher salaries than we do.
The bad news is: that gap is getting worse. We compete with our surrounding states for teachers, and we are falling further behind them. Ten years ago, SD's average teacher salary was about $2000 behind North Dakota. We were 51st and they were 49th. Montana was 47th and Nebraska was 42nd.
Today, we are still closest to North Dakota among our surrounding states. But the gap is not $2000. It is $8000. We still rank 51st. North Dakota moved from 49th to 36th. Montana moved from 47th to 28th. Nebraska moved from 42nd to 32nd.
And even when you adjust for cost of living, SD falls behind our surrounding states. We are closest to North Dakota, but nearly $6000 behind. After adjusting for cost of living, SD is nearly $10,000 behind Minnesota.
If SD wants to maintain high student achievement, we need a new generation of high quality teachers. We are not going to get them unless we become more competitive with surrounding states. And when you delve into the numbers, you reach the conclusion that the only way to become more competitive is to increase our state's average teacher salary. We need to add more money into the system. Much like other problems we have confronted together, SD faces a deteriorating situation if we don't take action.
To address this need, I am proposing a one half cent increase in the state sales tax. This plan will bring about competitive teacher pay, a transparent and fair funding formula, and a more efficient education system. This plan is based upon the Blue Ribbon report and will achieve its goals.
The one half cent will generate $40 million in new revenue beyond our needs, however. I propose that this excess be dedicated to property tax relief.
The centerpiece of the Blue Ribbon report is a revised school funding formula based upon the real input costs of education, rather than on a per-student dollar amount. This new formula will calculate funding based on a target average teacher salary and a target student-to-teacher ratio.
SD's average teacher salary is just over $40,000. I am recommending that we set a target average of $48,500. That is our goal. At that level, SD would be competitive with our surrounding states. And we would no longer be 51st in the nation.
As I mentioned, the new formula will also be based on a target student-to-teacher ratio. To be clear, this is not a measurement of class size. It is the ratio of students to all instructional staff, including regular classroom teachers and others such as special education teachers.
To replace the current small school factor, a sliding scale will be used to calculate each school district's target ratio. Districts with 600 students or more will be calculated based on a ratio of 15 students per teacher, or 15-to-1. Those with 200 students or less will be based on a ratio of 12.5-to-1. Those between 200 and 600 are on a sliding scale.
Let's look at examples. Consider a school district with 175 students. That is less than 200, so this district's state aid is based on a target ratio of 12.5-to-1. If you divide 175 students by 12.5, that results in a target of 14 teachers. We have a target average salary of $48,500 so you multiply the target number of teachers -- 14 -- by the target salary. The formula adds extra to cover benefits and overhead costs to calculate this district's total need.
For a district of 600 students, the calculation works in exactly the same way, but it is based on a ratio of 15-to-1. If you divide 600 students by 15, the result is 40, so this district needs funding for 40 teachers. That number is multiplied by the target salary of $48,500, and extra is again added for benefits and overhead.
This formula will drive a more informed discussion of education funding. Rather than base funding on an arbitrary per student allocation, the debate each year will be based on the appropriate target for the average teacher salary.
This is more transparent for both legislators and citizens and will allow for a better discussion each budget cycle. When you go home, as legislators, you will be able to demonstrate that school districts are receiving adequate state dollars to reach the target salary.
It is important for school districts to understand what this new formula means, and what it does not mean.
This year, we will be setting a state target of $48,500 for the average teacher salary. That is approximately $8500 more than the current statewide average. This does not mean that every teacher will receive $48,500, or that every teacher will receive a raise of $8500. It also does not mean that every district will achieve that target average or that level of raise.
Here is what the state is offering to school districts: We will give you enough money so that, if your staff meets your target ratio, you will have enough money to pay your teachers the target average.
But each district will decide exactly how to use the new funding, because the state is not mandating that schools achieve their target student-to-teacher ratio. Some schools may choose to exceed their ratios and to have more staff than the ratio funds. That will mean that those schools will spread their new money among more people, give smaller raises, and fail to reach the target average.
But although it is not a mandate, this new formula is creating an expectation. From the STATE level, we should all expect that the new funding we send to districts will be used to increase teacher salaries. It may take time for districts to adjust, and we may not achieve the entire $8500 increase in our state average in the first year. But we should expect significant movement toward that goal, and I will propose specific reporting & accountability measures to allow us to monitor progress for each district.
At the local level, these state targets will also set expectations. Teachers & parents will expect their schools to achieve significant increases in salaries. This transparent formula will lead to more informed conversations among school leaders, teachers, parents, and taxpayers about local spending and staffing decisions. It will lead to greater accountability at the local level for decisions that impact teacher salaries.
And if the state is going to expect districts to reach these targets, we need to give school leaders more tools to achieve greater efficiency. One important way we do this is through the Statewide Center for e-Learning at Northern State University. This center offers high quality courses at no cost to the school -- the state pays for it. These offerings are particularly important for districts who struggle to recruit teachers in high-need disciplines. I am proposing that we expand the offerings at the e-Learning Center so that we can make these high-quality teachers available to more districts.
I also propose that we dedicate funds to incentivize the sharing of services across districts. The state has already done this successfully in some areas. For example, the state already negotiates the cost of internet bandwidth centrally and provides it to schools at no cost. The state also provides a student information system to schools at no cost. Providing these services have a cost to the state general fund, but they save schools more than they cost the state. In every case, it is voluntary for schools to participate. But we have found that the vast majority of schools will take advantage of these efficient means to save money.
We can expand this approach to even more areas -- from purchasing, to payroll, to software licensing. We can even incentivize districts to share staff. And by helping districts save money on these administrative costs, we make it that much easier for them to put more dollars into instructional staff.
The introduction of new money into school funding also creates an opportunity to fix longstanding problems with the formula. New money means that fixing these problems is not a "zero sum game."
For example, we can move to greater equity among districts. Our current system adds state dollars to school district property taxes. We send more state dollars to districts which have low property values, and we send less state money to districts with high property values. In this way we provide a uniform level of funding whether a district has low property values or high. But some school district revenue sources, such as the wind farm tax,
The gross receipts tax on utilities, the bank franchise tax, and the revenue from traffic fines, are ignored in this equalization effort. This creates unfair "windfalls" for certain districts. The task force recommended that we move toward greater equity in this area, and my proposal would treat these other revenue sources just as property tax values are treated, over a five-year phase-in period.
I am also proposing that the state reinstate caps on school reserve funds. A reserve is a prudent management tool, but as the state introduces new funds into the system, we should expect that these dollars will be used to increase teacher salaries -- not held in reserves for future years. If a district exceeds the cap, state aid will be offset on a dollar-for-dollar basis. This would take effect in three years, so schools have time to adjust.
And I will be proposing changes to respond to the dramatic growth of capital outlay in recent years. Capital outlay is a separate mill levy that schools assess to pay for building construction and maintenance. Over the past 12 years, while the per-student allocation has increased 25%, school revenues for capital outlay have increased by 117%. My plan will restrict annual growth to slow that trend. I am also proposing to make permanent the current law, which had been set to expire in 2018, that allows school districts to shift some of these funds to general operations. School boards should be able to decide where to spend their dollars, and this will allow a portion of these funds to be used for teacher salaries or for other costs.
Finally, I support recommendations of the task force to improve our ability to recruit and retain teachers. We will institute reciprocity with other states, so that teachers coming to SD can avoid unnecessary barriers to entering the classroom. A mentoring program will help new teachers find their way to success, so that fewer new teachers leave the profession in their first years. And we will restore funding to reward the outstanding teachers who achieve National Board Certification. This is an important way to recognize our best teachers and to encourage more teachers to pursue this rigorous process.
We all want what is best for our children. We want to provide them with a quality education. And we know that requires a strong workforce of great teachers. This is the year. This is the year to get out of last place. This is the year to act. Let's join together this year to strengthen our schools and keep our promise to the next generation.
S.D. Retirement System
Another important area where we must continue to look ahead is the SD Retirement System. I am very proud -- and we should all be very proud -- that SDRS is consistently among the best-funded retirement systems in the nation. We hold ourselves to a very high standard. SDRS targets 100% funding while using among the most conservative measurements of liabilities of any public pension plan.
Other states have taken an opposite approach, which is why nationwide, the average statewide retirement plan is only 75% funded. Compare that to the SD Retirement System, which, as of June 30, was 104% funded. While other states have failed to consistently make the contributions their actuaries recommend, SD doesn't fail.
The success of our system has been made possible by the effective and conservative management of the Retirement System Board of Trustees, the outstanding performance of the SD Investment Council, and the cooperation and support of all stakeholders.
Even with these successes, the Board of Trustees is taking a proactive step to improve the sustainability of the plan for the next generation of public employees. At its December board meeting, the Board unanimously approved a new retirement design for new public employees who begin work after June 30, 2017. The new design accommodates longer life expectancies, adds variable hybrid benefits, and eliminates inequitable subsidies. Those who fall under the new design will not be subsidizing members of the current design -- both plans will be self-sustaining.
This change will not affect current employees -- not now, and not when current employees retire.
This change will not affect those who are already retired. And this change will not require additional contributions from employees.
The Board's unanimous recommendation is subject to legislative approval, so you will be hearing more about this proposal in the coming weeks. I strongly urge your approval. Unlike other states, SD is not waiting for a crisis to tackle this issue. Our state would strengthen this system now -- when our pension is over 100% funded -- so that our state pension plan will be well-funded through any future challenges.
Medicaid
Last month in the budget address, I spoke to you about the state's continuing conversations with federal officials about Medicaid. Since that time, federal officials have continued to work on the issues surrounding reimbursement to the state for services provided to Indian Health Service enrollees. I just received a detailed letter from the federal Secretary of Health and Human Services in response to our comments on the draft federal policy change, and I believe that by the end of the month we will know if this plan is viable.
Some of you have asked me, "Why would a conservative Republican governor propose a plan to expand Medicaid?" In fact, last month the New York Times ran a front page story discussing Medicaid proposals by conservative governors in SD, Utah and Wyoming and comparing their approach with the U.S. Senators from those states.
If I were in Congress, I would be doing exactly what Sen. Thune, Sen. Rounds, and Congresswoman Noem are doing. The federal healthcare law is about far more than Medicaid expansion, and we are already seeing how it has distorted the market for health insurance and led to higher costs. The law needs to be repealed or significantly changed.
But at the state level, we do not set federal law or policy. It is our responsibility to understand the federal programs as they exist, and to make the best decisions for our state. That is why, although I opposed the federal healthcare reform law, my administration has spent three years discussing possible approaches to expansion with federal officials.
The deal I am proposing makes sense for SD. It is a good deal. This plan will fix the longstanding Indian Health Service reimbursement issue, secure better health care for Native Americans, and cover 50,000 more South Dakotans, at no cost to the state. This change will benefit counties by relieving their indigent care costs, and by reducing the health care costs for jail inmates. It will reduce the charity care expense that hospitals pass on to other patients.
We all know that Native Americans in our state were promised health care by the federal government as a treaty obligation. When the federal government fails to meet that obligation, the cost falls on the state. Consider this story as illustrating the current level of service from IHS.
Gena is a 39-year-old Rosebud Sioux tribal member and a mother of two. When she was 24 she received a kidney transplant due to a genetic disease. Gena's grandmother died of cervical cancer, placing Gena at higher risk for this disease. During Gena's health exam in April 2014 at IHS, some abnormalities were detected. Given her health history, these results should have raised an immediate red flag.
In fact, Gena didn't learn of this abnormal result until eight months later, through a LETTER, not a phone call. She immediately called to get an appointment with an IHS gynecologist, only to be told there wasn't one available. She asked to be referred to an outside specialist, but this was denied because it was not considered a priority 1 "life or limb" case.
Fortunately, in Gena's case, she was able to afford to pay out-of-pocket to see a specialist, and although there was no cancer, she must remain vigilant.
A few of you may know Gena. I know you all know her husband, Senator Troy Heinert. The Heinerts gave me permission to share this story, so you can understand why we need to do something about the situation with IHS.
If this plan is adopted, the new relationship between IHS and healthcare providers will allow Native Americans to get better health care. IHS will be able to use telehealth to provide better primary care. If a Native American is eligible for Medicaid, the state will no longer bear half of the expense for this treaty obligation.
This deal makes sense for SD. Most of SD's tribes have strongly endorsed this plan, & I believe they all will.
But as I've said before, I will not move forward with this plan unless the State Legislature expresses its support through the passage of a state budget that includes the necessary budget authority.
And I won't support the plan if it will cost the state new general funds.
I know that some of you are concerned about the soundness of the cost projections for this plan. Given the experience of some other states, that is a very valid concern and you are right to raise that question. I had the same question myself.
Four years ago, we undertook a survey that indicated that 48,500 South Dakotans would qualify for expansion. Last fall, we conducted a new survey that updated that number to 49,700. For comparison, North Dakota has expanded and only added 19,000. For our projections, I added about 10% to be safe -- 55,000 enrollees.
In the states where projections have been wrong, in part it was because those states didn't expect all those eligible to sign up in the first year. In our projections, we are assuming 100% of them will sign up by the end of the first year.
We have also been conservative in estimating the costs per enrollee. We believe that each enrollee will cost about $6400 per year. We calculated that based on actual costs of low income adults in SD's current Medicaid enrollees, but it is also within $20 of the actual costs incurred by expansion states. To be safe, however, we added 20% to that estimate also and budgeted $7700 per enrollee.
In addition to these safeguards, we are also ignoring that some of the expansion population will be Native American, and therefore eligible for the new IHS reimbursement plan. That would reduce the cost by up to $15 million. We will save some of that $15 million, but our assumptions assume none of it. We are also ignoring the likely positive impact that the new funds will have on the state's economy and our state tax revenues.
Finally, I would support, and I hope you will pass, "trigger" language to require that, if the federal government changes the deal, SD would withdraw from expansion. If a Republican President and Republican Congress are elected in 2016, the federal health care law could be repealed entirely. Regardless, if the federal funding goes away, so should the program. Even in that case, however, I am optimistic that our efforts to fix the longstanding IHS reimbursement issue and improvements to health care for Native Americans would remain and the state would continue to benefit from that solution.
I went through that quickly, and I'm sure you still have questions. Over the past month, I organized four meetings around the state, for legislators, to explain the projections and answer questions. I am hosting another one later this week.
My request of you is that you wait to pass judgment on this proposal until we receive final word from the federal government. Take that time to scrutinize our cost estimates and to ask questions. As I said last month, there are things about Medicaid expansion that bother me also. But we all owe it to the people of SD to give this complex issue careful consideration this year. And if the plan comes together to improve health care for Native Americans, and at the same time expand Medicaid with no costs to the state, I hope you will agree that it makes sense for SD.
Public Safety Improvement Act
Three years ago, I first spoke to you about SD's high imprisonment rate for adult offenders -- higher than any of our six neighboring states. Per capita, we were locking up 75% more men than ND and four times as many women as Minnesota. Continuing on that path would have forced the state to build a new women's prison and a new men's prison within 10 years. Worst of all, our high imprisonment rate wasn't making the public any safer.
Today, because of the Public Safety Improvement Act, the prison population is now below initial projections and we saved millions of dollars last year by avoiding the need for a new women's prison. By avoiding the costs of constructing and operating new prisons, SD should save over $100 million in correctional costs this decade.
Also thanks to criminal justice reforms, the parole success rate increased from 37% of offenders in FY12 to 65% in FY15. Today, parolees can reduce the duration of their parole by a month for each month of parole in which they are 100% compliant. In just one year, over 700,000 days of parole credit were earned. That's nearly 2,000 years of parole credits earned.
In addition, more non-violent offenders are getting the help they need within their own communities. Our reforms added new drug and DUI courts throughout the state -- in fact, we increased the number of drug courts by 5 times. Today, over 500 children have a parent who is enrolled in a drug or DUI court. Instead of going to prison, these parents are getting the help they need, while staying in their own homes and supporting their families.
We have also launched a pilot program for parole with the Sisseton Wahpeton Oyate. Under this program, the tribe supervises enrolled parolees on the reservation for the state, so these parolees can return to their homes. As of last summer, 97% of offenders in the pilot program had not absconded or committed a parole violation.
According to the most recent crime reports from the FBI and our Attorney General, SD's crime rate decreased from 2013 to 2014. Although we can't definitively attribute the reduction in crime to the Public Safety Improvement Act, it's certainly a positive sign.
Experts say that it will take three to five years to see all the results of these reforms. Still, the early data is promising, and I'm hopeful these reforms will save the state money, hold offenders more accountable and make SD an even safer place.
Juvenile Justice Reinvestment Initiative
Last year we also passed a significant reform of our juvenile justice system. The new policies are expected to cut in half the number of youth committed to the Department of Corrections, allowing the state to reinvest in programs and practices that will achieve better outcomes.
The state has been working to prepare for the most significant changes, which became effective January 1st.
The Dept. of Social Services has identified a core set of effective programs to be available in communities.
To date, 12 contracts have been awarded to deliver Functional Family Therapy throughout SD and training for these providers is taking place this month. This program is designed to address adolescent behavior problems, substance abuse and delinquency, and help families support their children in positive ways.
The Unified Judicial System has been working to ensure judges are aware of the statutory changes that impact them, and that probation officers have the tools they need. Probation officers will utilize a guide of graduated consequences to hold youth accountable for their conduct by responding consistently and quickly to violations, and also to incentivize positive behavior.
The Department of Corrections has created a financial incentive program to encourage counties to divert juveniles from detention, and yet allow counties to request funds when the number of detention bed days in a given calendar year exceeds an established baseline.
And, a Native American Focus Group was established to determine how state and tribal governments can partner to better serve youth. The group recently held its third meeting and the Department of Tribal Relations reports they have been receiving positive feedback from tribal leaders.
Just as adult system reforms have helped us avoid building new prisons, the juvenile justice reforms are impacting our juvenile corrections facilities. Over the last few years, the number of juveniles being sent to STAR Academy has been decreasing, and the juvenile justice reforms are expected to reduce those numbers further. We recently closed the STAR Academy's East Campus, at the old Youth Forestry Camp, and consolidated programs at the main campus near Custer. In the coming year, STAR Academy's programs will be downsized to reflect the smaller population being served there.
In the midst of this downsizing, the STAR Academy staff members have continued to do their jobs with commitment and dedication. In some cases, they may be working themselves out of a job. Yet staff members continue to work selflessly by placing the needs of the youth ahead of their own.
Workforce
I have also spoken to you several times before about workforce. SD continues to face a shortage of skilled workers. I hear from many business owners that they are delaying expansions, and even turning work away, because they simply cannot hire enough people.
We have taken many steps to address this issue over the past few years, and we all understand that this is a marathon, not a sprint. It needs constant attention.
We have a low unemployment rate, and a nearly 1-to-1 ratio of job seekers to job openings. This seems ideal, but most of those who are seeking jobs don't have the skills needed to perform the jobs available. We must overcome this misalignment through education.
College Affordability
More than ever before, it's important for young people to continue their education beyond high school. The Board of Regents recently proposed a goal that 65% of SD young people achieve a post-secondary credential of some sort, and I think it is a worthy goal to pursue.
Students need to be able to attend college or tech school and finish in a reasonable time without an unreasonable debt. Two years ago we froze tuition to keep schooling affordable. My proposal this year to freeze tuition again, by using one-time funds to repay debt, will again move us toward tuition affordability.
Our successful state-subsidized dual credit program also pursues this goal. These are the cheapest credits a student will ever take, and they help make college more affordable. Last school year, SD students saved more than $2.5 million by using this program -- averaging more than $1,000 per student in savings. Completing college credits while in high school also helps that student succeed in college, by reducing the course load and the time needed to graduate.
The Build Dakota Scholarship is also making postsecondary education an option for more young people. Just over a year ago, the state announced a partnership with T. Denny Sanford to create a $50 million fund for this full-ride scholarship for those who will work in a high-need technical field in SD. Last fall, nearly 300 students made up the first class of Build Dakota "skilled scholars." Overall enrollment at the technical institutes went up -- and it went up by even more in these high-demand programs. Before we know it, the first Build Dakota scholars will be graduating and entering the workforce in SD.
Department of Labor and Regulation initiatives
Of course, young people need good information in high school to help them choose a career path. The Department of Labor and Regulation recently rolled out a new system which enables people to view employment and wage outcomes, by program, for graduates of our public universities and technical institutes. Students and families can use this tool to make informed decisions on post-secondary programs they are considering. For any degree program, they can find see how many graduates are earning a wage in SD, how much graduates are making on average, and in which industries graduates are employed.
The Department is also overhauling its SDWORKS jobs database. Employers will post openings by the specific skills and competencies required for the job, instead of using job titles and job descriptions. Job seekers will also have a tool to translate their resume into those same skills and competencies. This improvement will ensure there are no missed opportunities in making the match between employers and job seekers.
Employing People with Disabilities
As we face our workforce shortage, there is an untapped labor pool of people who are ready, willing, and completely able to work. The unemployment rate among Americans with disabilities is over twice the unemployment rate of those without a disability. Even though more of those with disabilities are working in SD, there are still too many South Dakotans with disabilities who want a job but can't find one.
My goal is to make SD an "employment first state." This means making employment the first priority and the preferred outcome for our citizens with disabilities. As a part of this employment first effort, we are working to change perceptions through the "Ability for Hire" campaign. The campaign launched in August when the Department of Human Services partnered with the SD Retailers Association to educate employers about the process of finding and hiring people with disabilities.
Native American Education
As we look to our next generation, we must not overlook SD's Native Americans. Last year, I established the Native American Student Achievement Advisory Council to examine the issues impacting the education of Native youth across the state. Our Native American students hold great promise as future leaders in their communities, their tribes, and in our state, but we know that our Native youth continue to underperform.
The council met five times over the course of the year, and the meetings included conversations with students who shared their very personal and powerful stories of struggle, challenge and success. Two important themes that emerged from those conversations were the students' desire for high expectations and the tremendous impact that caring teachers can have on the educational experience.
In December, the council issued its final report and offered several recommendations, including creating a grant program to fund the establishment of up to three pilot schools aimed at improving academic outcomes for Native American students. Council members visited schools in other states, which solidified their vision for an educational experience that incorporates not only academics, but an emphasis on the whole student, including cultural background, and on challenging students while also recognizing their individual interests and skills.
Recognizing the absolutely critical role that teachers play in a student's educational experience, as well as the difficulty of attracting qualified candidates to teach in rural, isolated areas of the state, the council also recommended a program to assist paraprofessionals who already live and work in some of our struggling school districts to become fully certified teachers.
This year I'm recommending we allocate $2.2 million in one-time funds to start these efforts to improve educational outcomes for Native American students. We need to do better.
Better Government Initiative
Every year, I report to you on our "Better Government" initiatives to make state government more efficient, more open, and more accessible. Over the last five years we've made strides in these areas. Let me just give you a few examples.
The Bureau of Finance and Management has revamped the Open SD web portal so the public can more easily access state financial information. The bureau also now posts financial metrics to its website each week. We launched the administrative rules website to help citizens find and follow rule making. We also established the Boards and Commissions Portal, which is the one-stop site for meeting notices, agendas, and information for the more than one hundred state boards and commissions.
We've improved on transparency so much that the US Public Interest Research Group has named SD among the top states for transparency. Since 2011 SD has improved its transparency rating from a D+ to an A-.
My administration has also worked on "red tape repeal" efforts. Over the past five years, we have proposed and you have supported the elimination of over 4,000 sections of obsolete or unnecessary laws and rules, accounting for 450,000 words. This year, state agencies will be introducing still more bills to continue this effort. I know from my time as a legislator that the trend is always to add words to the statute books -- thank you for helping remove needless words as well!
Internal Controls
I will also be asking you to support my efforts to improve state government's internal controls. This has been brought to the forefront by the situation that has unfolded with Mid-Central Coop. As you know, our Secretary of Education terminated Mid-Central's contract to administer the GEAR UP grant after attempts to improve inaccurate and incomplete accounting failed to bring about improvement. At my request the Attorney General and the Auditor General are conducting detailed investigations into that matter.
Like every South Dakotan, I am disappointed and disheartened when I learn about allegations of financial wrongdoing. I am also frustrated at the necessarily slow pace of thorough criminal investigations, and anxious to know the whole story.
When a situation like this arises, it is important to handle it in an open and forthright manner, and that is what I have done. First, we report to law enforcement and request an investigation. Second, we do everything possible to aid in that investigation. Third, we share information with the press and the public as soon as the investigation allows. And finally, we invite audits and reviews to identify areas to improve and we act quickly to implement those recommendations.
Overall, SD has very good internal controls aimed at safeguarding state government assets and providing assurances that state and federal tax dollars are spent correctly. However, we have learned that our processes don't go far enough to oversee entities outside of state government. These grantees or sub-recipients are not part of state government, but may be used by the state to administer federal grants.
The state needs better internal controls to manage these entities that are "arms length" to the state. We must install safeguards that will ensure that federal and state objectives are met, expenditures are documented and appropriate, and potential conflicts of interest are recognized and avoided.
I have asked Lt. Governor Michels to lead an effort to review state government's internal control processes and to recommend changes. In particular, I have asked him focus on situations involving these "arms length" outside entities, such as Mid-Central Coop, where it is more difficult for state government to maintain direct oversight.
Lt. Governor Michels is working closely with the Bureau of Finance and Management and with your Department of Legislative Audit to design internal control reforms to be instituted in every agency that maintains relationships with third parties. Having these controls in place will identify areas where the state can improve and prevent future problems from occurring. I hope to have specific recommendations for your consideration during this legislative session. We can do a better job of providing oversight and transparency in these instances and we will.
State Parks
You know, there are some things about my job that enjoy more than others. I remember feeling that way as a legislator, too. Many exciting things are happening in SD right now, & I'd like to share a few of them with you.
I'm very excited about Good Earth State Park at Blood Run. Three years ago, you approved $2 million to establish our newest state park. The SD Parks and Wildlife Foundation is in the home stretch of a $7.5 million fundraising effort to match public funds. This will pay for land acquisition, trail development and a visitor center with exhibits. Trails have been established, native vegetation restoration is underway, and an entrance road has been constructed. Work on the new visitor center is just now beginning where the Native American history of the park will be told in a spectacular building near a wooded area.
Last summer, seizing an unexpected opportunity, the Parks and Wildlife Foundation acquired the Spring Creek Country Club property bordering the park to the south, adding 200 acres to the park, and increasing the state's holdings by 25%. A portion of this property lies within the Blood Run National Historic Landmark and the preservation of those historic resources will become an important element of the park. My son, Chris, and I canoed to Good Earth State Park this past summer on the Big Sioux River and it is just as beautiful when viewed from the riverside.
I'm also enthusiastic about all the progress underway at Custer State Park. Last year, the 50th Buffalo Roundup attracted a record crowd. Over $3 million of private donations are supplementing the $1.5 million appropriation the legislature made in 2013 and the $500,000 investment from Game, Fish, and Parks. Contractors are making progress on the park's new visitor center which is scheduled to open this spring. The new visitor center will include a theater where visitors can view a film about the park before exploring it themselves.
Following the Buffalo Roundup last fall, work began on the resort improvements you authorized last year. The motel wings on the State Game Lodge are being remodeled, and fifteen old clapboard sided cabins are being replaced with more spacious and modern units. The Legion Lake store and restaurant are being replaced and upgraded, and three additional reunion-style cabins are being added in the park. Infrastructure improvements will follow next spring and renovations in the historic portion of the Game Lodge will begin next year.
It is because of the generosity of many people that we are able to build world class facilities at Good Earth State Park and Custer State Park Visitor Center. Thanks to their generosity, as well as the legislature's continued support, these parks will remain world-class destinations for generations to come.
There is another world-class destination in the Black Hills that I'd like to talk to you about today. Over the last few months, the Spearfish Canyon Foundation has been working with the state Game, Fish, and Parks Department to acquire beautiful property from Homestake Mining Company. Within just a few weeks the Foundation will donate funds to Game, Fish and Parks for the purchase of 72 acres in Spearfish Canyon, including Spearfish Falls. That land, along with two other adjacent state-owned parcels including Roughlock Falls, is the genesis of this opportunity.
My hope is to establish Spearfish Canyon State Park in the northern Black Hills. The proposed state park would contain iconic natural features in the canyon including Roughlock Falls, Spearfish Falls, Spearfish Creek, Little Spearfish Creek, and fishing ponds. Game, Fish and Parks would improve existing camping, hiking, fishing, and sightseeing opportunities and upgrade facilities and roads.
Spearfish Canyon is a special place. Our family has visited many times. I remember being there when Spearfish Falls was restored. Water flow that now feeds the falls had been diverted for 86 years for use in hydro-power generation for the Homestake Mining Company. In 2003, Homestake returned water to the stream and the long-quiet and dry falls were reborn. I remember riding my bike up Spearfish canyon, climbing the never ending hill near Cheyenne crossing into Lead-Deadwood and then experiencing the thrill going down the hill at full speed. Whether on a snowmobile ride in the winter, a hiking trip in the summer, or a day enjoying the beautiful colors of the fall foliage, many people from across the state and nation have fond memories of Spearfish Canyon. The famous architect Frank Lloyd Wright, said this after his visit in 1935:
But how is it that I've heard so little of this miracle and we, toward the Atlantic, have heard so much of the Grand Canyon when this is even more miraculous. My hat is off to South Dakota Treasures.
I am very excited about making Spearfish Canyon more accessible as our newest state park; but we have many steps to go before this vision become a reality. Senator Thune is leading an effort by our congressional delegation to authorize a federal-state land exchange. This isn't a certainty, but we're working on it, and I'm hopeful. This map shows in green the property which the state owns or will acquire with the Spearfish Canyon Foundation. The outline shows the surrounding National Forest land, which we hope to add to it, to comprise the larger Park. The state has been instrumental in the past in improving Spearfish Canyon and I believe this plan will carry on that tradition to preserve and improve this jewel for future generations.
"Dignity" statue at Chamberlain
Another exciting project is figuratively on the horizon today, but will be literally on the horizon this fall. If you're driving east on Interstate 90, and beginning to cross the Missouri River bridge near Chamberlain, you will see something very striking on the eastern horizon. I'm talking about a 50-foot stainless steel statue, called "Dignity," which will be placed on the high bluff near the Lewis and Clark I-90 rest area near Chamberlain.
As a gift to the people of SD, and as a tribute to SD's Native people, Norm and Eunabel McKie of Rapid City commissioned SD Artist Laureate, Dale Lamphere, to design and create this sculpture of a Native American woman receiving a star quilt. This sculpture will be lit at night, and just as Mt. Rushmore and Crazy Horse have become iconic images in the mind of our visitors, I'm sure "Dignity" will become one as well. The statue will be in unveiled in September.
Rail
I'd like to speak for a moment about SD's railroads. Rail may not be as visible as our state parks, but I am very excited by the progress our state has made in developing rail infrastructure. Because South Dakotans consume only a modest share of the grain we produce, our state relies almost entirely on railroads to deliver our grain to out-of-state markets.
In October the U.S. Department of Transportation awarded the RCP&E Railroad a $6 million TIGER grant to upgrade its line near Huron and to install a long siding near Philip. A siding project might seem insignificant until you know the situation. Today, between Ft. Pierre and Rapid City, that 165-mile stretch of rail has no siding long enough for head-to-head trains to pass each other. A train leaving Ft. Pierre forces a train in Rapid City to wait for the Ft. Pierre train to reach Rapid City before the other may start eastward. Construction of the new siding will allow up to 100 more trains per year to run over this section.
This good news follows the state's launch, just over a year ago, of four other rail projects in SD. Two of these projects involved sidings in Huron and Aurora and reconstruction of a portion of the Sioux Valley line in southeastern SD.
A larger project will upgrade the Britton Line in northeast SD. This $11.5 million project will construct the south leg of a "Y" at Jarret Junction and replace 29 miles of light rail with heavy rail, to enable it to handle modern traffic. Dirt work for the "Y" is complete. Final delivery of heavy rail will be in March, and installation will begin in the spring. A $30 million grain terminal in Britton is under construction, prompted by these rail improvements.
Another $35 million rail project was supported in part by the legislature's appropriation of $7.3 million. This is reconstructing the state-owned line, which, between Chamberlain and Presho, has been unusable for many years. Here is a picture of how badly that line has deteriorated over the past decades. Work on the smaller bridges is on schedule with 93% of work complete east of Reliance and the balance to be finished by the end of March. The Missouri River bridge work is substantially complete with minor punch list items remaining. Culvert repairs are 100% complete. 100% of the ties, rail, joint bars, tie plates, anchors and bolts are on hand. Rail, but not ties, is in place from near Reliance to east of Kennebec and installation will resume in the spring. The contractor is installing rail first and then will go back to install ties, and we anticipate an operating railroad by this fall. A $40 million grain and fertilizer terminal, prompted by this rail improvement, will be complete this fall as well.
Sanford Underground Research Facility
I'm also pleased about the Sanford Underground Research Facility at the former Homestake mine. The Deep Underground Neutrino Experiment, and the associated Long Baseline Neutrino Facility, made great progress toward fruition during the past year. The proposed experiment will fire a beam of neutrinos from Fermilab outside Chicago, through the earth, to the Sanford lab. There, this very large experiment will house huge detectors to give scientists information never before collected about neutrinos. Congress has appropriated funding to complete the rehabilitation of the Ross Shaft, to install rock handling equipment, and to make other site preparations for this monumental experiment. We are hopeful that funding for the project will be included in the President's FY17 budget proposal next month. Our state's investment in the facility, and your continued support, has put the lab in an unprecedented position to succeed.
Veterans Home and Korean War Medals
Finally, I'm very excited to report that, tomorrow, residents will move into the new State Veterans Home in Hot Springs. Many of you were here in 2013 to support construction of this new home, and you know it has not been easy. Our first request for federal grant support was denied. Then, even as we overcame that setback, the initial bids for construction were millions of dollars beyond architectural estimates and available funds.
The Lieutenant Governor and SD Department of Veterans Affairs spent many hours considering alternative designs and working with the VA. After months of long meetings, the federal VA agreed to extend the state's grant, giving us time to reduce the cost of the project without additional state funds.
Now, the State Veterans Home is finally finished. It has been completed on time, under budget, and it is debt-free. It is a beautiful building and a fitting tribute to our veterans. A grand opening event is planned for the spring.
For the past two years, the SD Department of Veterans Affairs has been on a mission to contact all veterans in SD. With over 70,000 veterans, this has been a challenging undertaking. This year, the Department is focused on contacting veterans of the Korean War. Over 60 years have passed since the Korean armistice was signed. Wedged between World War II and Vietnam, the Korean War has been referred to as "the Forgotten War."
To thank our heroes and to let them know they are not forgotten, the Republic of Korea is awarding Ambassador of Peace medals to all American veterans who sacrificed for South Korea's freedom.
Hundreds of those medals will be conferred today, here at the Capitol, and across SD.
Joining us today from South Korea is the Honorable Sungchoon Park, the Minister of Patriots and Veterans Affairs, along with his staff. Let's welcome them to SD.
Following today's State of the State address, I invite all of you to join us in the rotunda, where hundreds of SD veterans will receive the "Korean Ambassador for Peace Medal." The ceremony will start promptly at 2:30.
Conclusion
South Dakotans can be very proud of our state. I am proud that, in SD, we have stayed true to our values. We have exercised frugality and good stewardship rather than following the path taken by so many other states.
We remain self-reliant while coming to the aid of our neighbors when they need a hand.
And look where those values have brought us. Our budget is structurally balanced. We have no unfunded liabilities. Standard & Poor's has upgraded our credit rating to AAA. We've made new investments in our roads, rails, schools, and Medicaid providers. We are keeping up our Capitol Building and other state facilities through regular maintenance. We have comprehensively reformed our criminal justice and juvenile corrections systems. Our tax burden is low; our regulations are reasonable; and our stellar business climate is bringing in companies like AGP, Advance Health, SpecSys, Lehigh Defense, and Midwest Fresh Logistics.
We must continue to govern by our values. I remain committed to our values and to making the tough choices to meet the challenges we face. We will join together to meet these challenges and to serve our state. I am proud of what we have accomplished together over the last five years and I am looking forward to the work ahead. I continue to believe that SD's best days are yet to come.

Source: http://www.argusleader.com/story/blogs/danaferguson/2016/01/12/state-state-what-governor-said-full-transcript/78690616/
