Public Statements
Letter to Deborah James, Secretary of the Air Force - Basing the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter at Joe Foss Field in Sioux Falls, South DakotB
Letter
By: John Thune Dennis Daugaard Mike Rounds Kristi Noem
Date: Dec. 8, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

Dear Madam Secretary,
We write today regarding the potential basing of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter at Joe Foss Field in Sioux Falls, South Dakota.
The South Dakota Air National Guard has been one of our nation's premier fighter units since General Joe Foss founded the squadron nearly 70 years ago. The 114th Fighter Wing has demonstrated outstanding mission readiness and a superior record of excellence, making South Dakota an ideal location as the next beddown site of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
The 114th Fighter Wing has been nationally recognized for its accomplishments in flying and combat readiness. Last year it was recognized with the Spaatz Trophy -- denoting the 114th Fighter Wing as the highest rated Air National Guard flying unit -- and this year the Wing was awarded the NGAUS Distinguished Flying Unit plaque and the Air Force Outstanding Unit Award. Its exceptional safety record, critical for conversion to a new weapons system, was validated this year as well, with the Major General John J. Pesch Safety Trophy in addition to a fifth consecutive Governor's Safety Award of Honor.
The 114th Fighter Wing has exceptional, uncongested airspace providing supersonic and low altitude operations able to meet the unique requirements of the F-35 aircraft. Additionally, Joe Foss Field has two runways greater than 8,000 feet with cables, maintenance facilities and ramps to support any size squadron, and a state-of-the-art operations complex. Airmen of the 114th Fighter Wing are highly experienced and trained: 88% of the pilots are "experienced" averaging over 2,100 flying hours and 62% of maintenance personnel hold a 7-level AFSC.
The South Dakota Air National Guard enjoys the unwavering support of the Sioux Falls community and South Dakota citizens. The 114th Fighter Wing has established a standard of excellence among Air National Guard units clearly making Joe Foss Field an ideal location for beddown of F-35 Joint Strike Fighters. Please feel free to contact us at any time if we can be of further assistance.

Source: http://www.thune.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/press-releases?ID=270a4df6-b402-4511-b4e8-0ea8f5e10661
