Public Statements
Driving In Winter Weather
Statement
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Dec. 4, 2015
Location: Unknown

There's nothing like the first snowfall of the year. When I was young, a heavy storm meant no school, and my sisters and I would play cards with Dad, after we did the farm chores.
Snow is nice until you have to drive in it. Though South Dakotans know how to handle snow and cold weather, we still need to prepare ourselves for the hazardous driving conditions winter brings.
Driving in winter weather is a serious matter. Every year during the holiday season, the Highway Patrol sees a spike in traffic accidents and fatalities. Around the Thanksgiving holiday this year, 10 people lost their lives in car crashes and several others were severely injured.
If you will be traveling for Christmas or New Year's, prepare yourself. Before you travel, go to SafeTravelUSA.com/SD, call 511 or download the SDDOT 511 app to check road conditions. Pack a flashlight, blankets, drinking water and a shovel. Make sure your car is ready for the trip by checking your tires and scraping off the ice from all of your windows.
When you're driving, take it slow and allow yourself extra time to reach your destination. It's usually a good idea to leave cruise control off. Conditions can change quickly in the winter and you need to be ready.
Don't crowd the plow. Department of Transportation crews work long hours in the worst conditions, and they do their best to keep our highways clear of ice and snow. When you approach a snow plow, leave at least four car lengths between you and the back of the plow. Never pass a plow on the right. This is the direction plows push the snow.
No matter what season it is, always wear your seatbelt and make sure everyone in your vehicle is buckled up. Nearly two-thirds of those who died in car crashes in South Dakota in the last year were not wearing their seatbelts. Whether you are traveling across the state or just driving a few blocks, buckling up could save your life.
Traveling to spend Christmas with loved ones is well worth it. To keep the holidays from turning tragic, do all that is within your power to arrive safely at your destination. Be safe and have a great holiday season.

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=18622
