Public Statements
Environmental Regs: Finding Some Consolation In State Government
Statement
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Sept. 25, 2015
Location: Unknown

In recent years, the EPA has proposed a number of new rules having potential to affect our daily lives. I know South Dakotans are concerned about some of these pending proposals and I share their concerns.
One prominent proposal imposes new regulations on coal-fired power plants, and will require states to rework their power grids. Another rule broadens a key definition describing bodies of water, to give the federal government authority to regulate small bodies of water on private land. A third rule would create a new standard for ozone. Depending upon the new standard chosen, it may be difficult for any state to comply.
At this point, it is unclear to what extent these regulations will really help the environment. But here is what is clear: if these new rules are implemented, South Dakotans will be left with higher costs.
So what can be done? South Dakota's delegation in Washington, D.C., has been working to roll back some of these proposed regulations through congressional efforts. At the state level, Attorney General Marty Jackley has joined with other states to challenge some of these proposals. We're also doing what we can in state government to keep our own environmental regulations appropriate and reasonable.
The South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) is responsible for implementing and enforcing EPA regulations at the state level. The agency regulates things like air quality, drinking water and waste management. It also protects surface and ground waters of the state. It is this agency's job to issue water permits without depleting water resources. The agency also regulates mining activities, petroleum storage tanks and your community's water and wastewater infrastructure.
Though DENR must assume the burden of implementing EPA regulations in our state, it strives to use whatever flexibility is available to make the federal regulations fit South Dakota. One example is the department's Feedlot Permit Program, which regulates concentrated animal feeding operations in a manner to protect the surface and ground waters in South Dakota. DENR is upholding its mission to protect public health and the environment without placing unnecessary hurdles in front of South Dakotans and those who want to do business here.
DENR has also excelled in open government efforts. Secretary Steve Pirner's initiatives have provided more information online than ever before. For example, DENR's One-Stop Public Notice webpage publishes all of the department's active public notices. Their One-Stop Interactive GIS Maps allow the public to locate and access information about dry draw location notices, spill site files, storage tank files, oil and gas well files, recycling businesses and more. DENR's One-Stop Permitting Guide leads industries through each environmental permitting process administered by South Dakota. The department also recently launched a new website. Check it out at denr.sd.gov.
I know South Dakotans are frustrated with government's increasing tendency to become involved with small details of our daily lives. I know business owners are trying to create jobs, farmers and ranchers are trying to stay in operation, and families are trying to make ends meet. I know it's hard to achieve these things when a government proposes rules without regard for the cost of those rules and the burden of ever-expanding red tape.
Still, I hope South Dakotans here will find some consolation in their state government. Our state agencies are doing what we can to fight burdensome federal regulations and make our own rules as reasonable as possible.

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=18329
