Public Statements
Build Dakota Scholarship Recipients Announced
Press Release
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: July 28, 2015
Location: Pierre, SD

Today the Build Dakota Scholarship Board announced the 296 recipients of the first-ever Build Dakota scholarships.

"I want to congratulate the first recipients of the Build Dakota scholarships," said Gov. Dennis Daugaard. "With this scholarship, they will have the opportunity to enter high-demand fields without incurring debt. The impact of this will be huge, not only for the students receiving the scholarship but for our entire state."

The scholarships cover tuition and fees, books, equipment and other related program expenses for eligible programs within eight high-need industry areas at South Dakota's four technical institutes. Recipients were selected from a total of 1,062 applications.

To view the list of recipients, go to http://builddakotascholarships.com/files/ScholarshipRecipients.pdf.

The Build Dakota Scholarship program was announced in late 2014. The scholarship is funded by a $25 million donation from T. Denny Sanford and $25 million in future funds committed by Gov. Daugaard.

Build Dakota aims to support students entering high-need workforce programs at South Dakota's technical institutes to fill the state's technical career fields with skilled professionals. The $50 million is expected to provide approximately 300 full scholarships annually in each of the first five years, beginning in the fall of 2015. From 2020 on, an endowment will continue to award approximately 50 scholarships per year.

In-state and out-of-state students are eligible to apply. Scholarship applicants must be accepted into their program of interest. Recipients of the scholarship must enroll full-time and complete their educational program on schedule. Scholarship recipients commit to stay in South Dakota to work in their field of study for three years following graduation.

Applications for the 2016-17 school year will open in October 2015. Find more information at www.builddakotascholarships.com.

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=18041
