Public Statements
Gov. Daugaard Names Additional Members To Blue Ribbon Task Force
Press Release
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: June 12, 2015
Location: Pierre, SD

PIERRE, S.D. -- Gov. Dennis Daugaard today announced the appointment of thirteen new members to the Blue Ribbon Task Force.

"I joined with legislators to create the Blue Ribbon Task Force because all South Dakotans want to ensure that we have a school funding system that provides a great education to our young people, based on great teachers," said the Governor. "There was strong interest in participating in this task force, and I thank these appointees for committing their time and thoughtful consideration to this important issue."

The new task force members are:

Dave Davis, Rapid City -- member of the Rapid City Area School District Board of Education
Dr. Becky Guffin, Aberdeen -- superintendent of Aberdeen School District
Vicki Harmdierks, Mitchell -- principal of Gertie Belle Rogers Elementary School
LuAnn Lindskov, Timber Lake -- math and science teacher at Timber Lake High School and 2013 South Dakota Teacher of the Year
Dr. Brian Maher, Sioux Falls -- incoming superintendent of Sioux Falls School District
DeLon Mork, Madison
Steven O'Brien, Watertown -- English teacher at Watertown High School
Erik Person, Burke -- superintendent of Burke School District
Beth Pietila, Yankton
Dr. Michael Rush, Pierre -- incoming executive director of SD Board of Regents
Jim Scull, Rapid City
Eric Stroeder, Mobridge -- member of Mobridge School District Board of Education and incoming president of Associated School Boards of South Dakota
Kevin Tetzlaff, Brookings

These appointees will join the 13 members named earlier this year, to complete the 26-member task force.

The Blue Ribbon Task Force will continue to hold public input meetings throughout the summer. Beginning in July, the entire task force will meet to consider public input, analyze data and discuss ideas for reform. The task force will make recommendations to Gov. Daugaard and to the 2016 State Legislature.

Learn more about the Blue Ribbon Task Force and view the schedule of upcoming meetings at blueribbon.sd.gov.

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=17818
