Public Statements
Custer State Park Visitor Center Receives Lloyd And Beverly Paulson Family Donation
Press Release
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: May 8, 2015
Location: Pierre, SD

Today Gov. Dennis Daugaard announced that the South Dakota Parks and Wildlife Foundation (SDPWF) has been awarded a $1 million gift by the Beverly (Gerhardson) and Lloyd Paulson Family Donor Advised Fund of the Black Hills Area Community Foundation.

The gift provides final funding for the new state-of-the-art visitor center project at Custer State Park.

"I am grateful to Lloyd Paulson and his family for their generosity and commitment to this project. This financial gift will not only dramatically impact our ability to showcase Custer State Park, but memorialize Beverly, who had a special love for the Black Hills," said Gov. Daugaard. "We thank the Paulsons for their gift and the difference they are making in South Dakota."

Lloyd is a retired partner with Scheels All Sports. While working for Scheels, he helped guide the company's regional and national development. Beverly and Lloyd were married 58 years when Beverly passed away in April 2009. After Beverly's passing, Lloyd was recognized as South Dakota Philanthropist of the Year in 2013 by the SD Association of Fundraising Professionals.

Gov. Daugaard and the SDPWF publicly recognized the Paulson family during the South Dakota Game, Fish, and Parks Commission meeting this morning. Lloyd was accompanied by his son Bob Paulson of Rapid City.

"The Paulsons' generosity will help provide a world-class visitor experience at the new visitor center and theater that will inspire visitors to spend more time exploring this premier Black Hills destination," said Larry Ness, president of the SDPWF Board of Directors. "This gift is a testimony to the value of developing public-private partnerships to enhance the recreational opportunities in our state."

Once constructed, the Custer State Park Visitor Center will serve as an informational hub where visitors can go to learn about the history of the park and the wildlife that resides within its boundaries. The new facility will be located east of the Game Lodge at the intersection of Highway 16A and Wildlife Loop Road.

The construction of the facility will be funded by a combination of public and private dollars. In addition to the Paulson family, the Helmsley Charitable Trust and the James and Eloise Elmen Foundation have also each contributed a $1 million donation to the Custer State Park Visitor Center.

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=17641
