Public Statements
Letter to The Honorable Matt Michels - Veto of Senate Bill 100
Letter
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: March 20, 2015
Location: Pierre, SD

Dear Mr. President and Members of the Senate:
I respectfully return to you Senate Bill 100 with my VETO.

Senate Bill 100 is entitled, "An Act to create a leased residential property classification."

South Dakota has three classes of property for purposes of taxation: nonagricultural, agricultural, and owner-occupied. Senate Bill 100 creates a NEW fourth class of property, "leased residential property." This class would include "any real estate or single-family dwelling or structure consisting of two or more family units that are leased or rented."

The only reason property is divided into separate classes is for purposes of taxation, specifically for school district general fund levy purposes. While Senate Bill 100 does not create a different rate of taxation for leased residential properties, the proponents' stated intent is eventually to seek a separate levy for property in this class.

The bill's proponents advance two contradictory reasons for this change. First, they argue that those living in rental properties should enjoy the same property tax relief that homeowners receive. It is easy to sympathize with that argument.

Secondly, proponents claim that tax relief would lead to more development of "affordable" leased residential property. That can only be true, however, if landlords intend to retain the property tax relief as income, rather than pass it along to their renters in the form of lower rents.

These two contradictory arguments reveal the problem with this proposal. There is no way to guarantee that property tax relief for leased residential property landlords will find its way to tenants. This is the reason leased residential property was not included in the property tax relief proposals in 1995, and twenty years later, it is a reason to oppose Senate Bill 100.

Senate Bill 100 is a first step toward a different property tax levy for leased residential property -- a change that will shift the property tax burden onto agricultural, nonagricultural, and owner-occupied property taxpayers, without any guarantee of savings for residents of leased properties. For that reason, I oppose this bill and I ask that you sustain my veto.

Respectfully submitted,


Dennis Daugaard
Governor

cc: The Honorable Dean Wink
The Honorable Shantel Krebs

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=17391
