Public Statements
Gov. Daugaard And Secretary Bergquist Offer Testimony To Senate EPW Committee
Press Release
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Jan. 28, 2015
Location: Pierre, SD

South Dakota Secretary of Transportation Darin Bergquist appeared in front of the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee today to testify on the need for a long-term federal transportation funding bill.

"The federal transportation program must connect the nation, including rural areas like ours," Secretary Bergquist told the committee. "A rural state like South Dakota is far from markets and population centers but our contributions are important to the national economy."

Secretary Bergquist testified on behalf of Gov. Dennis Daugaard, who was unable to attend the hearing. Prior to the meeting, the Governor submitted written testimony to the Senate EPW Committee.

In his written testimony, the Governor said South Dakota needs a federal program with "strong and stable funding that maintains a flexible approach." He recommended that the federal government distribute the vast majority of funds by formula and simplify regulations and program requirements.

The Governor also emphasized that a federal transportation program is particularly crucial for large rural states where there are fewer people to support each mile of federal highway. "We are number three in the country in federal Highway Trust Fund contributions per capita and number two in highway miles per capita," he said.

The Senate EPW Committee hearing was held to evaluate the need for a long-term reauthorization of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21). MAP-21, initially set to expire at the end of September 2014, was temporarily extended by Congress last year to fund the federal transportation program through May 31, 2015.

Along with Secretary Bergquist, Governors Robert Bentley (Alabama) and Peter Shumlin (Vermont) testified to the committee on the importance of a federal transportation program. U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds, a member of the EPW Committee, was also present at the meeting.

To watch Secretary Bergquist's testimony, go to https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U-TIM06FXfA&feature=youtu.be.

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=17216
