Public Statements
State of the State Speech
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Jan. 13, 2015
Location: Unknown

INTRODUCTION
Thank you. It's good to have you back. Before I begin today, I would like to welcome those new to the State Legislature. Would new legislators please stand? Welcome!
I still remember my first time here, 18 years ago. It was a great honor to be elected to the legislature, just as it has been a great honor to serve as lieutenant governor and governor. I know we all appreciate the responsibility we have been given.
It is my duty to open the session by sharing my thoughts on the issues that we face as a state.
ROADS AND BRIDGES
I'd like to begin today by talking to you about South Dakota's roads and bridges. Our roads are, by far, the state's most valuable physical asset, worth more than $14 billion.
In a rural state like South Dakota, good quality roads are our lifeline. They are not just how we get to work, school, or church. They offer more than the means to get corn and soybeans from the field to the grain terminal -- or the means to get tourists to Mount Rushmore and Crazy Horse.
Our entire economy -- our very wellbeing -- depends on road infrastructure. And right now, our roads are underfunded.
From Highway 46 in Beresford to Highway 19 north of Humboldt, and from Highway 73 south of Lemmon to I-90 near Wyoming, our roads need attention. These are just a handful of the many highways that require additional maintenance.
And many of our local roads are in even worse condition.
In all corners of the state, we have road funding needs. State highways, municipal streets, county oil, township gravel, and hundreds of rural bridges are in need of additional maintenance. It's like a structural deficit -- we are taking more out of our roads then we are putting into them.
In South Dakota, we have over 82,000 miles of highways. Counties have the most total miles at around 35,000. Townships have just over 31,000. The state highway system, is just 9.5% of the total, at 7,800 miles. But let's look: Where is the traffic?
As you can see, the state highway system, while only making up 9.5% of the state's total miles, handles more than two-thirds of all traffic -- and that includes 80% of the heavy truck traffic. The counties and municipalities each carry about 14%, followed by township roads.
Many of the roads we currently use were built with no anticipation of the size and weight of the vehicles that utilize them today. Many section line roads were designed to carry vehicles weighing less than 10,000 pounds. Today, trucks weighing 10 times more cross those same gravel thoroughfares.
As we consider road and bridge funding, we must first understand the need. Our goal is a system of roads and bridges that meets the transportation needs of this state in the most efficient manner possible.
Fortunately, we have the ability to calculate the cost of achieving that goal. On state highways, we have a detailed system for collecting data, which is used to comprehensively determine the most financially efficient means for maintaining our roads.
The "Spider Van" pictured here is named for the lasers and cameras mounted to the frame. It is used by the South Dakota DOT as a road assessment tool. This van drives up to 15,000 miles per year to collect detailed information on pavement roughness, rutting, and faulting as well as the depth, width, and extent of cracks. This tool provides objective measurements at each mile of the state highway system and allows the DOT to make well-informed decisions on how and where to spend its limited resources.
The Spider Van is currently undergoing maintenance work out of state, but I have asked DOT to bring it to the State Capitol later on during session so that you can see it for yourself.
We use Spider Van data to classify all state highways as being in "excellent," "good," "fair," or "poor" condition.
As you can see from this chart, the four ratings are important distinctions, which identify the value of proper maintenance at the appropriate time. Stated simply -- it's a lot cheaper to KEEP a road up than to FIX a road up.
The cost to maintain an excellent road is $360 per mile - about 20% of the cost of maintaining a good road. Likewise, maintaining a good road is about half the cost of one in fair condition, which costs almost $2,400 per mile. Poor roads are a little cheaper because some work can be deferred until the road is replaced.
We can use the data we collect from the Spider Van, as well as this information about the different costs of maintaining different pavement surfaces, to calculate the ideal distribution of pavement conditions.
This chart shows the highest return-on-investment pavement distribution. In other words, it shows the optimal, most cost-efficient pavement condition distribution for our state highway system. Not surprisingly, if you recall the previous chart, it is most efficient for most roads to be "excellent" or "good" most of the time.
This distribution also reflects the expected lifespan of a newly constructed highway. In other words, when a new highway is constructed, over the course of its useful life, we can expect it to be in excellent condition for 30% of its life, good condition for 50%, fair for 15% and poor for 5%.
This pavement distribution provides the best bang for our highway fund dollars. These targets are integrated into a series of calculations that help determine the most cost-effective way to undertake maintenance efforts on our state-owned highways.
Looking at the chart, one may ask, why would the most financially efficient pavement distribution include poor roads on 5% of state highway miles?
A small amount of pavement should always be in poor condition because it doesn't make sense to spend unnecessarily to maintain a road that is very close to being reconstructed. If we want balanced annual spending on road projects, it makes sense that we would want to keep this ideal distribution constant from year to year.
Take note of this chart, as I'll reference this cost-efficient pavement distribution again in a few minutes.
These two charts demonstrate that South Dakota is pretty efficient in the way it utilizes its highway funds. The top chart shows South Dakota's preliminary and construction engineering costs are the second lowest in the nine-state region stretching from Montana to Wisconsin -- so you can see that we aren't wasting money on unusually high engineering costs. The bottom chart shows our roadway maintenance costs are very low as well, only North Dakota is better. Overall, South Dakota does an excellent job of keeping highway construction and maintenance costs low.
Here is the point - there is not much room to gain new efficiencies within current spending. If we can't spend our current dollars more efficiently, we need to look at whether our current dollars are enough. Unfortunately, our current funding approach has not kept pace with highway construction costs.
You can see that here. The legislature implemented the current $.22 motor fuel tax in 1999. That was 16 years ago, when I was in the State Senate, and Bill Janklow was governor. Gasoline was around $1 per gallon, so the motor fuel tax at the time represented 22% of the total price per gallon. That per-gallon fee of $.22 was fixed in statute and has been the same for the last 16 years. If the legislature had indexed the gas tax to inflation for construction costs, the fuel tax would be $.45 today -- more than double.
This chart shows that information in another way, and it really brings to the forefront the challenge that local governments face.
In 2003, $1M would buy 7.8 miles of asphalt overlay, 1.5 miles of rural asphalt roadway reconstruction, or 0.4 miles of urban concrete roadway reconstruction. In 2013, just ten years later, that same $1M could build only 4.5 miles of asphalt overlay, 0.8 miles of rural asphalt roadway reconstruction, or 0.2 miles of urban concrete roadway reconstruction.
In short, in 2003 a county could build almost twice as many miles of road than they can today with the same funding. We have all seen wash-boarded gravel, crumbling county oil, and under-maintained section-line roads. It's easy to see why.
Remember now the pie chart I showed you with the ideal distribution of pavement conditions. We saw that the best distribution was to have 80% in good or excellent conditions.
This slide shows the level of spending needed for just the state highway system, beginning in FY 2017, to maintain the most financially efficient distribution of our road surfaces, with 80% in good or excellent condition.
The green portion of each bar, by far the largest portion, is pavement maintenance and improvements. The red bars represent bridge repairs and upgrades. Yellow bars represent expansions -- new overpasses, intersections, and other needed upgrades. The blue bars show required safety upgrades, such as wider shoulders or new turning lanes. The dark line shows our current funding level is not enough.
Beyond the state highway funding shortfall, we also know we are short for local bridges.
This chart shows all our bridges. The first column shows who owns them. Look at the bottom row. We have 5,799 total bridges. As you can see, almost 1200 are structurally deficient. Another 200 are functionally obsolete. This doesn't mean they are in danger of failure -- each bridge is inspected no less than every other year -- but it means the bridges we have, many of which were built in the 1940s and 1950s, are not able to accommodate the size and volume of traffic we have today. The vast majority of these bridges -- about 83% - are located on county roads.
Of these, 1,045 bridges are eligible for replacement, at an average cost of $230,000 each. To replace all of these structures would cost, in total, $240 million. We don't need to replace all of them at once, so spreading out the work over several years is a viable option. Still, we need a mechanism for local units of government to address these deficient structures over time.
So, how do we currently provide funds for all our roads and bridges?
Our funding sources controlled by state and local laws come from a few key areas. The state gets revenues from our $.22 fuel tax, a 3% vehicle excise tax and from a variety of smaller sources.
On the county level, the funding comes from license plate fees, the wheel tax, and local property taxes. The percentage each contributes varies from county to county.
Of course, the federal government is also a significant source of transportation dollars.
Some of it is allocated to counties and municipalities. You can see that federal earmarks -- the red bars -- ended after 2009. We all see the spike created by the yellow bar in 2009. That was the federal stimulus, which allowed us to address many of our short-term road funding needs and to accelerate highway projects. That is why our highways are in better shape today. But that one-time spike does nothing to address our needs long-term, nor does it provide the funding necessary to maintain pavements over time.
Look at the green bars. Formula funding peaked in 2010 and has since been declining.
Most experts believe, and I believe, that federal highway funding will remain flat, or may even decline further in the future. One news source recently called the situation "the slow-motion disappearance of the Highway Trust Fund." This is why more than 30 states have passed transportation funding measures in the last three years.
We cannot address South Dakota's highway funding needs by waiting for the federal government to act.
Our current ongoing funding falls far short of the level needed. Remember -- our goal is to have 80% of our pavements in excellent or good condition at any given time.
Look at this chart. The blue bars are roads in excellent condition. Stacked above are green bars, which represent roads in good condition. We want the top of the green bars above the heavy black line -- the 80% level. If we do nothing, you can see that we will fall below that goal in just a few years, and within nine years, our pavement distribution will be only 47% good or excellent. 25% of our road surfaces will be poor. It will be even more expensive then to keep up our roads, because roads in fair or poor condition are far more expensive to maintain. It will be like a snowball rolling downhill, gaining size and speed.
We cannot allow that to happen. Failing to maintain our roads now would be penny-wise and pound-foolish.
That is why, this session I am introducing a road and bridge funding bill that I believe meets the need at both state and local levels.
Let me pause and say I'm familiar with the interim Highway Needs and Financing Committee's efforts this summer, and I appreciate their work. That committee and the Legislative Research Council did yeoman's work to collect information, to inform the public about transportation funding, to enlist input from many stakeholders, and to offer options for funding. I thank the committee for its hard work, I've read their draft bill, and I've used some elements of it as I crafted my proposal.
Here is how our pavement condition over the next ten years will be improved if my proposal is adopted.
You can see that, even under this proposal, pavement condition will still diminish a little over the next few years. Because of the stimulus, pavements today are a little better than we need them to be. Once things level out, excellent and good road surfaces will be between 70% and 80% - much closer to the most efficient distribution.
Here is what I am proposing. An increase in the vehicle excise tax from 3% to 4% will raise $26 million a year, while taxing still less than surrounding states.
I also propose that we increase the motor fuel tax by $.02 this year, and by an additional $.02 cents each year going forward. A major reason that road funding is insufficient today is because the gas tax does not inflate over time. If we begin to make a small adjustment each year, we can keep up with increasing construction costs and maintain the most efficient pavement condition, without putting future legislatures in a bad position in another ten or fifteen years.
For local entities, a 10% increase in vehicle registration fees will provide additional road funds and also help establish a grant program to address local bridge needs. Part of this increase, combined with new and existing state funds, will provide $15 million per year in local bridge funding. I also propose increasing registration fees for noncommercial trucks to 70% of commercial rates this year, and then to 80% for future years.
The estimated revenue from these changes will generate $39.8 million for the State Highway Fund -- a portion of which will be allocated to local roads -- and $10.7 million for counties, townships, and municipalities. All told, this proposal would provide $50.5 million more for our roads and bridges.
Further, counties and townships have long supported roads with revenue generated from property taxes, and this proposal would allow greater flexibility for counties and townships to generate their own additional funds if proposals win support at the local level.
Finally, in addition to these statutory fixes, the state DOT will provide a mechanism for local government entities to swap all their federal highway funds for state funds -- about $22 million each year. The state DOT will also swap all existing accumulated federal funding -- about $55 million in total -- for state funding.
This state-federal funding swap will place, entirely on the state, the burden of meeting increasingly arduous federal paperwork and regulations. This will give greater flexibility to counties to best meet their needs. The state has offered versions of this swap in the past, and the expansion of this program will save counties money.
In summary, we have 82,000 miles of roadways in South Dakota, many of which are in disrepair. Between local roads and state highways, we could easily spend an additional $150 million a year. As you've also seen, we have nearly 1,400 bridges that are structurally deficient or functionally obsolete -- 1,400 bridges. The replacement cost for these structures is about $240 million.
Federal funding is flat and even declining, and our congressional delegation has told me that holding current levels is the best-case scenario. Our state fuel tax has been flat for 16 years. Construction costs have doubled.
Our state highway system is the state's most valuable physical asset and if we want to maintain it, we must act now. My proposal, which generates about $50 million more this year, will -- in the long-run -- permanently fix the current imbalance between road construction needs and funding.
(pause)
You know, just last week Linda and I welcomed the birth of our fourth grandchild, Greta.
It reminded me of when our first grandchild, Henry was born. Some of you have heard this before. I asked Henry's dad how they planned to distinguish between me and Henry's other grandfather. I thought maybe "grandpa" and "papa." He said, "Well, we are going to call the other grandfather, 'Grandpa Fat.'" "Oh," I said. "What will you call me -- 'Grandpa Thin'?" "No," he replied. "We are going to call you 'Grandpa Cheap.'"
I suppose that's about right, but I would really prefer, "Grandpa Frugal." You know me. No one wants to raise taxes less than I do. But as I've said before, there is a difference between being "frugal" and being "cheap." A cheap person refuses to spend money even when it would be wise to do so. A frugal person is careful with money, but understands that sometimes spending in the short term can pay bigger dividends in the long term.
That is today's situation. Maintaining our roads and bridges is one of the most basic functions of government and it is vital -- for this year and for decades to come. I don't want to leave this problem to future governors, future legislators, and future generations.
As President Ronald Reagan said when he proposed a gas tax increase in 1982: "America can't afford throwaway roads or disposable transit systems. The bridges and highways we fail to repair today will have to be rebuilt tomorrow at many times the cost."
President Reagan was exactly right. Let's fix this problem -- for good -- this year.
RAILROADS
Of course, while South Dakota's highways are a vital component of our transportation infrastructure, our state needs to maintain an efficient rail system. Our roads remain in good condition longer, when we use rail. We all know that trucks can take a toll on our roads. One truck with a legal load causes the same road wear as 9,600 cars. And one unit train can haul as much cargo as 450 trucks.
Our farmers depend on rail to ship grain -- using privately owned rails and those owned by the state. Last year, South Dakota faced a potential grain storage crisis. The causes were many -- unusual snow in switchyards, increased demand for oil by rail, and temporary inefficiencies caused by the sale of the Canadian Pacific line. These problems all limited capacity, when we needed GREATER capacity, to handle record harvests in 2013 and again last fall.
Over the past year, I have focused on improving rail transportation in South Dakota. We engaged with the Canadian Pacific as they proposed sale of their SD line. Members of my administration and I also traveled to Washington to meet with the Secretaries of Agriculture, and Transportation, and members of the Surface Transportation Board, to draw attention to our rail challenges. Thanks in part to our efforts, but especially with the aid of Senator John Thune, our rail carriers have responded and our rail shipping volumes are showing improvement.
We are also acting to improve our rail infrastructure for the long term. We completed a new state rail plan -- it's posted on line if you want to read it. Last month, I announced $56 million in public and private investments in four rail projects in our state. In response, two grain handling facilities worth $40 million each have been announced, one in Kennebec and one in Britton. The state is offering another $4 million in matching grants to encourage additional private investment in rail. Our modest investments are leveraging millions of dollars in private capital, toward building a railroad system that will serve our shippers well for decades to come.
CRIMINAL JUSTICE AND JUVENILE JUSTICE REINVESTMENT INITIATIVES
Transportation infrastructure is one wise use of state dollars. Another wise use is to increase spending by relatively small amounts, to enable much greater long-term savings.
Two years ago, we completed a sweeping study of our state's criminal justice system. Leaders from all branches of government joined key stakeholders to analyze an enormous amount of data and find ways to improve .
That process yielded some big surprises. I knew we had a high imprisonment rate, for example, but I believed that a higher incarceration rate contributed to higher public safety.
Instead, our study showed that:
· Prison admissions in South Dakota were 81 percent nonviolent offenders;
· 4 in 10 inmates were returning to prison within three years of their release; and
· Despite our continued growth in corrections spending, crime rates were falling in SD a rate slower than the national average.
In response, the legislature passed the Public Safety Improvement Act, a landmark bill aimed at improving public safety, holding offenders more accountable, while reducing long-term costs. Now that we're a couple years down the road it's worth pausing to ask, "How is it going?"
Well, just two months ago, the Oversight Council tracking our progress released its annual report. Here are four highlights:
· First, the prison population has remained nearly flat and is slightly below projections. Now, it's early, and this should not be overstated. Still, as we'd hoped, this has helped our state avoid constructing a new $36 million women's facility we had projected to need this year.
· Second: most offenders leave prison as parolees. Last year 60% successfully completed their terms of supervision, up from 45% in FY2013. Thus, more former inmates are moving toward becoming taxpayers, rather than tax burdens.
· Third, offenders sometimes are put on probation, instead of being sent to prison. Last year 550 probationers earned early termination of probation by complying with the rules. These success stories help reduce probation caseloads and allow officers to focus more attention on higher risk probationers.
· Fourth, more specialty courts are up and running. We've launched HOPE Courts in Walworth and Brown counties and we now have more offenders than ever participating in drug courts, DUI courts and evidence-based programs in the community.
These are indications that SD is on the path toward improved public safety at a lower cost. That's good for the taxpayers, it's good public policy, and it's the right direction for this state. I appreciate the leadership of Chief Justice Gilbertson, and the work of the court system, the Department of Corrections, the Department of Social Services, local law enforcement, and private providers for their part in this initial success.
When we began our review of the criminal justice system in 2013, many people believed the work would be incomplete unless we also looked at the state's juvenile justice system. Over the past year, we have brought together key stakeholders to carefully study relevant data and best practices, to consult with stakeholders, and to recommend policy solutions. This year, I hope you will support my proposals to improve our juvenile justice system.
First, a bit of context.
In South Dakota, juvenile commitments to the Department of Corrections have been declining. However, the drop has been much smaller than what other states -- including our neighbors -- have experienced. In fact, the most recent national figures show South Dakota with the second highest juvenile commitment rate in the country. And let me be clear: This high rate is not explained by a higher rate of juvenile violent crime. In fact, South Dakota's juvenile violent crime arrest rate is just ONE-THIRD the national average.
Our juvenile incarceration rate is encouragement to action. Another encouragement is cost.
For most juveniles, commitment to the Department of Corrections means some kind of out-of-home placement. That's an expensive thing. Costs range from $41,000 to $144,000 per year, depending upon the program. At the same time, research tells us that supervising and treating youth in their communities, INSTEAD, is less expensive and more effective for many young people.
That leads to a couple obvious questions:
Are there youth sent to the Department of Corrections who could be better served in our communities? Can we save money and hold youth accountable while keeping more of them in their own homes?
These and other questions motivated me to join with the Chief Justice and legislative leaders to form the Juvenile Justice Reinvestment Initiative last May.
Three principal goals guided the work:
ONE, improve public safety by improving outcomes in juvenile cases; TWO, effectively hold juvenile offenders more accountable; and THREE, reduce costs by investing in proven community-based practices while saving residential facilities for more serious offenders.
The three-branch, bipartisan Work Group met in Pierre seven times between June and November, with many lengthy conference calls in between. Over the summer, members of this group investigated who was being sent to the Department of Corrections and how long they stayed. Here is what they found:
· In 2013, seven of every 10 youth commitments to the Department of Corrections were for misdemeanor offenses, probation violations, and "status offenses" like underage drinking, or truancy.
· Besides status offenses, the crimes that most commonly led to commitment were misdemeanor marijuana possession, misdemeanor simple assault, misdemeanor ingestion of an illegal substance, and misdemeanor petty theft. In fact, there was only one felony offense among the top 10 committing offenses -- burglary in the 3rd degree.
· While fewer youth have been committed over the past few years, they're staying longer. In 2007, juveniles averaged 12 months in out-of-home placement. That had risen to 15.3 months in 2013.
· Similar trends were found in the probation data. Admissions to probation have been falling, with more probationers being low risk, lower level offenders, but average time on probation has risen.
While the work group was churning through mountains of juvenile justice data, staff from my office made progress on a parallel course, traveling across the state to meet with more than 200 stakeholders. The message they heard was overwhelmingly clear: we can do a better job for youth who veer off track in South Dakota.
A few major themes stood out:
· We need to increase our use of diversion programs to prevent troubled youth from going deeper into the juvenile justice system.
· We need more evidence-based programs in our communities so judges will have options other than commitment to the Department of Corrections -- and so that youth can remain in their homes.
· And we need greater support services for youth and their families as they confront the challenges that often lead to a child's entanglement with the juvenile system.
With that feedback in mind, and with the data analysis in hand, the work group made 12 recommendations for reform. I will highlight three of those today.
One calls for the development of an array of effective interventions for youth in our juvenile system across our state, including in our rural areas. These interventions would include programs to address substance abuse, antisocial thinking and behavior, and challenges within the family. The availability of such options will help judges as they perform the difficult task of weighing how best to set youth on a better path. It will also provide court services officers and juvenile corrections agents more tools to manage youth under their supervision. Most importantly, these proven community-based solutions can strengthen families and help keep our communities safe.
A second recommendation focuses on which juveniles are placed in the custody of the Department of Corrections. As I just mentioned, most juveniles committed to the Department were there because of misdemeanor offenses, probation violations and minor status offenses. The work group recommended that only those youth who have committed the most serious offenses and pose a risk to the public be committed to the Department of Corrections.
The third item I'll highlight recommends increased use of court diversion for youth committing lower level offenses. A fiscal incentive could encourage counties to provide diversion opportunities. Diversion has been shown to be more effective than formal court interventions for most youth.
Taken together, the work group recommendations are projected to reduce the Department of Corrections population in residential placement by more than 50 percent within five years. This would save millions of dollars within that system.
Fortunately, I'm not the only South Dakotan who has taken this issue to heart. Many others support taking action to improve juvenile justice. This proposal is supported by the Juvenile Justice Reinvestment Initiative workgroup, and has been endorsed by Chief Justice David Gilbertson, Attorney General Marty Jackley, the association of states' attorneys, the association of sheriffs, the association of county commissioners, the South Dakota Association of Youth Care Providers, the Network Against Family Violence and Sexual Assault, South Dakota Voices for Children, the association of criminal defense lawyers, and the South Dakota Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
As you can see, there are many people who have worked very hard to craft these proposals. Two in particular are in the gallery today. Pennington County Sheriff Kevin Thom was instrumental in developing the Public Safety Improvement Act two years ago, and has become a nationally recognized expert in justice reinvestment initiatives. He also chairs our stakeholder advisory council. Hughes County Sheriff Mike Leidholt served on the juvenile justice work group this year, and as the immediate past president of the National Sheriffs Association, he also made important contributions. Please help me thank them both for their efforts.
As seen in the past, we do great things when we work together. I want to make sure government and our taxpayer dollars are producing the best possible outcomes for the young people of our state -- and I know you do, too.
We have a choice to make. We can continue to place juveniles in expensive residential settings that are less effective in addressing delinquency, or we can invest in more effective treatment, while keeping our youth close to home and connected to their communities.
Please join me in making the right choice, one that improves our juvenile justice system and strengthens our families and communities.
BUILD DAKOTA SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
Another important area upon which we continue to focus is workforce.
For most of the past year, South Dakota has had the second lowest unemployment rate in the nation. We can be proud of that, but it's a double-edged sword. Many business owners struggle to find qualified workers, and this shortage makes it difficult for businesses to expand.
Three years ago, I used my State of the State address to speak to you about workforce. I announced twenty areas in which we were making efforts to address this challenge. But I've also said many times that this is a marathon, not a sprint. Our work in this area requires a persistent focus and a willingness to continue to try new approaches. Last month, I announced another new approach -- an exciting partnership between the state and Denny Sanford toward addressing this need.
The Build Dakota scholarship program will be funded by a $25 million donation from Denny Sanford, which will be matched over five years by state Future Funds.
This program will offer full scholarships to students entering high-need workforce programs at in-state technical institutes, in exchange for a commitment to work in South Dakota for three years. We expect to provide approximately 300 full scholarships annually in each of the first five years, beginning this fall. From 2020 on, an endowment will continue to award approximately 50 scholarships per year.
I first met Denny Sanford years ago because of his generosity to Children's Home Society, and since that time he has made transformational gifts in healthcare, research and education. This is yet another transformational gift that will benefit South Dakota and our young people.
The establishment of this scholarship will mean that each year hundreds of our young people, and young people from other states, will have the opportunity to enter high-demand fields without incurring debt, and that more of them will choose to stay in South Dakota after they graduate. The impact of this will be huge, not only for these students, but also for employers and for our entire state.
WORKFORCE SUMMITS AND LOCAL WORKFORCE GRANTS
We are continuing other efforts to address our workforce needs. Last spring, I worked with local leaders to convene six workforce summits, to inform local leaders about state efforts, learn from them about their needs, and discuss ideas for cooperation. We analyzed the information from these summits, and returned to all six cities to offer a report of our findings.
Following the summits, I made a financial commitment of $1 million in matching funds to help communities address workforce shortages. Last week, I announced 14 grants to match local commitments -- with ideas ranging from providing affordable housing to providing access to career and technical education in remote areas.
CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Toward developing workforce, our career and technical education programs are also important. High school classes in welding, machining, healthcare, construction trades, engineering, biosciences, and more give students hands-on experiences and opportunities to explore potential careers, while earning high school, and possibly college or technical credit at the same time.
Over the last two years, we've worked to increase interest in CTE programs. We've organized and promoted career camps in engineering, information technology, healthcare and skilled trades to expose students to these high-need career fields. But we're looking to do more.
While many of our schools offer good CTE programs, these expensive programs can be difficult to offer and maintain, especially for smaller school districts. So, last year, I announced $8 million in grants for CTE at our K-12 schools.
These grants have helped schools like the Meade County School District expand their manufacturing program and collaborate with Western Dakota Tech to offer a dual credit machining course. Because of success in the first semester, WDT will offer an Engine Construction and Operations dual enrollment course for Sturgis high school students. A local business has agreed to offer those students internships.
In Burke, grant money was used to purchase four mobile CTE classrooms used by students from four school districts for CTE classes in architecture and construction, engineering, biomedical science, and welding. Without collaboration among these districts, sections would have been too small to warrant a teacher for each of the courses.
The Mitchell school district is renovating and expanding their regional career center which will provide students from Hanson, Mount Vernon, Ethan, Sanborn Central and the Mitchell district more opportunities to take CTE classes like welding, blueprint reading or to get certified OSHA training. Aberdeen is building a similar center.
In Yankton, 8 students completed a Certified Nurse Assistant Camp, 22 students completed a manufacturing academy, and 14 students completed an automotive academy. Thirteen of those students were from Wagner, Bon Homme, Irene-Wakonda, and Menno districts.
DUAL CREDIT
Even as we strengthen offerings in high school, we know that, more than ever before, it's important for young people to continue their education beyond K-12. Last year, I proposed and you approved a new low-cost dual credit program to allow high school juniors and seniors to earn university or technical institute credit, for courses that also count toward high school graduation, for only $40 a credit hour.
I'm very pleased that this dual credit program has been enthusiastically accepted by our schools and students. The fall semester of the 2014 school year, students from more than 100 public school districts, 1 tribal school, 8 private schools, along with a few homeschoolers enrolled in dual credit courses. Over 1,000 high school students enrolled in classes from College Algebra, to Composition, to Diesel Engines. And they are doing well -- over 90% of these high school students, enrolled in college and technical institute-level courses, are passing.
As I've said before, dual credit is a win-win-win-win. Students who start college or tech school with some credits already earned are more likely to complete on time, and at less cost. Universities and technical institutes get the opportunity to make themselves known to prospective students, and to help prepare those students for success when they graduate. High schools gain flexibility to offer more opportunities to students, at no cost to the district. And the state gets more young people who are ready to succeed and to live and work here in South Dakota.
RURAL HEALTH CARE
One key focus is healthcare workforce , especially in rural areas. And we are making real progress.
Over the past few years we've expanded rural health care incentive programs and increased the capacity of our health care educational programs. This fall, the expanded medical school class begins. The expansion will be fully implemented by 2018, training 60 more medical students in our state than before the expansion.
We've also funded a program that provides students in medicine, pharmacy, physician assistant, and nurse practitioner programs with four-week experiences in a rural setting, to give them a taste of rural practice. This year, I'm proposing to expand that program to allow up to 30 healthcare students to participate at up to 15 rural sites. I'm also proposing we expand eligibility to include clinical psychology, masters of social work and medical laboratory science students.
We won't see the impact of these programs overnight -- these are long term solutions that require ongoing commitment. The healthcare providers in South Dakota and I are committed to addressing these issues.
EMPLOYING PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
As a final workforce focus, I'm particularly proud that we are making strides in our efforts to offer employment opportunities to persons with disabilities. State agencies are partnering with rehabilitation services and school districts to provide worksites for the Project Skills program, which provides paid work opportunities for students with disabilities. Students get valuable work experience, and businesses get solid workers. We have also eliminated a financial disincentive in one of our Medicaid programs for those with disabilities who want to work. These earlier efforts are achieving good results, as more people with disabilities enter the workforce. For example, 99% of South Dakotans with visual impairments who sought state help in finding competitive employment were successful. That compares to a national rate of 89%.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
All of these workforce efforts are important, because, thanks to South Dakota's business-friendly climate, we continue to enjoy a strong economy that is adding jobs:
· Consumers Supply announced the construction of a new, state-of-the-art facility in North Sioux City. The plant will produce bagged, pelleted, or texturized feeds, and vitamin premixes.
· 3M announced a $57.6 million expansion in Brookings that includes a 44,000 square-foot addition and 60 new jobs at the medical products facility. Also in Brookings, Bel Brands cut the ribbon on a $144 million, 170,000-square-foot state-of-the-art facility. This is the largest industrial capital expenditure in Bel Group's history.
· Ag Growth International announced a new, 120,000 square-foot-Hi Roller production facility in Sioux Falls.
· The Norwegian company, Sapa Extrusions, Inc., recently announced the expansion of its operations in Yankton, and the company will be adding 50 jobs.
· Landsport of Sturgis, which supplies aluminum loading ramps for the trucking industry, announced they would nearly double their manufacturing footprint.
· Award winning technology company Sterling Computers announced that the company is relocating its corporate headquarters from Nebraska to Dakota Dunes.
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
The state has also continued efforts to promote development in the agriculture sector. Using local control as the starting point, our County Site Analysis Program helps counties use data to proactively identify sites suitable for agriculture-related development. The program was developed and implemented by the South Dakota Department of Agriculture, in partnership with the First District Association of Local Governments and Development District III.
The County Site Analysis Program looks at local zoning ordinances, locations of roads, utilities, and other infrastructure, and combines this with local permitting requirements. This information is used to rate property locations on their suitability for manufacturing, commodity processing or livestock-related enterprises. County commissions, planning and zoning boards, and landowners then use this data to make well-informed decisions.
Investments in agriculture are vital to the long-term sustainability of rural communities, but development must be done responsibly. Not every new project is a good fit in every location, so the program helps county commissioners and landowners determine where projects best fit.
Since launch a year ago, 48 counties have requested a site analysis, and we have completed the analysis in 15 of them. In those counties, local leaders use the data in their comprehensive planning efforts; landowners have concrete information outlining options for their land; and agribusinesses learn where their investments will be welcomed.
I am proud of this program and am pleased that the National Association of Development Organizations recently awarded the County Site Analysis Program an "Innovation Award" for its novel approach to rural economic development. I am also very proud that, just last month, a Colorado State University study named South Dakota the #1 agribusiness-friendly state in the nation.
CONSERVATION
Of course, South Dakota values the outdoors for more than just agriculture. We emphasize responsible conservation because we love our hunting, fishing, and recreation.
Two years ago, the Legislature approved the creation of Good Earth State Park in southeast South Dakota. The park has already welcomed new visitors from South Dakota, Iowa, and elsewhere, and work is being done to design and build a new visitors center.
On the other side of the state, bids on the construction of the new Custer State Park Visitor Center will go out this month. Located east of the Game Lodge at the intersection of Highway 16A and the Wildlife Loop Road, this new facility will be situated perfectly to draw in visitors. This $5 million facility would not be possible without the generosity of the Leona Helmsley Foundation and the James and Eloise Elmen Foundation, which together provided $3 million toward the cost.
We are also taking steps to protect our pheasant hunting heritage. In 2013, we were confronted with a worrisome drop in pheasant numbers. Last year, the numbers bounced back with a 76% increase. Even so, the decline in grassland and CRP acres over the last decade poses a significant challenge to maintaining our strong pheasant hunting tradition. That's why I hosted the Pheasant Habitat Summit in December 2013 and appointed a work group to evaluate the hundreds of comments, suggestions and letters that resulted from it.
The work group produced a final report that included a series of practical recommendations, and I have already taken steps to implement them.
One of the primary recommendations was the establishment of the South Dakota Conservation Fund, dedicated to providing financial resources directly to conservation efforts, including pheasant habitat. Tim Kessler, who was a member of the work group, donated $100,000 to launch the fund, and since then others have been stepping forward to contribute. In my budget, I proposed a one-time, $1.5 million appropriation to stimulate matching contributions from the private sector to help improve habitat in South Dakota.
BETTER GOVERNMENT
Every year, I report to you on our "Better Government" initiatives to make government more efficient, more open, and more accessible. I'd like to briefly do that today.
Two years ago, the rules promulgation process for state agencies was public, but if it was online at all, it was difficult to find, so the state launched a single-portal website to help citizens find and follow rulemaking. Just last week, we extended that concept to another area -- executive branch boards and commissions.
This new portal -- boardsandcommissions.sd.gov -- is a one stop site listing board members, meeting notices, agendas, and board packets. Much of this was online before, but it was spread among dozens of different websites and difficult to find. The new portal will make it easier for the public to engage with over 100 boards and commissions.
My administration has also worked on "red tape repealer" efforts. Over the past four years, we have proposed and you have passed the elimination of 3,700 sections of obsolete and unnecessary laws and rules, accounting for 411,000 words. I know from my time as a legislator that much time is often spent adding words to the statute books -- thank you for helping remove some words as well!
This year, 11 departments and my office will be introducing 16 more bills to eliminate an additional 305 sections -- over 26,000 words -- from our laws and rules.
INFANT MORTALITY
I'd also like to update you on our continued efforts to reduce infant mortality. When I was first elected, I was dismayed to learn how many infants were not reaching their first birthday, and that South Dakota's infant mortality rate was higher than in surrounding states.
I asked my wife, Linda, to lead a task force on this important issue. Our first lady worked with doctors, nurses, tribal health care workers, nurse midwives, social workers and Department of Health officials to understand the causes of the problem.
Private donors have partnered with the Department of Health to provide Safe Sleep Kits to low-income families without a safe sleep option. The kit includes a portable crib, crib sheet, sleep sack, informational DVD, children's book and pacifier. So far, 4,630 parents and other caregivers have received these cribs.
A media campaign -- "For Baby's Sake" -- is focused on safe sleep, early signs of pregnancy, the importance of prenatal care, and the importance of immunizations for babies. The Facebook page has reached 496,945 unique visitors. The website receives, on average, nearly 3,000 page views each month and 79% of the visits are new -- meaning it's not the same handful of folks searching the site.
Significant progress has been made. South Dakota's 2013 infant mortality rate was 6.5 deaths per 1,000 live births, which is a significant decrease from 2012's rate of 8.6. I am happy that we're seeing improvements, but I know there's still more work to do. There's no fixing this problem overnight; and I am grateful that Linda will continue to lead our state's efforts to reduce infant mortality in the next four years.
(pause)
NATIONAL GUARD
Since September 11, 2001, each of South Dakota's 22 National Guard communities has experienced a unit mobilization in support of Operations Enduring Freedom, Iraqi Freedom, New Dawn and Noble Eagle.
To date, the South Dakota National Guard has deployed more than 7,200 Soldiers and Airmen in support of the Global War on Terror. Today, for the first time in more than a decade, we are thankful that no Soldiers or Airmen are currently deployed overseas.
Of course, the National Guard also serves an important role here at home, and the Guard stepped up again in 2014. In June, 114 guardsmen provided sandbagging and levee construction support, along the Big Sioux River in Union County. Just days later, 268 soldiers with equipment were activated to support tornado recovery operations in Wessington Springs.
It's not surprising that the South Dakota National Guard continues to be recognized for excellence. The 114th Fighter Wing earned Air Combat Command's first overall "highly effective" grade during a Unit Effectiveness Inspection. The 114th Fighter Wing was also presented the highly-coveted Spaatz Trophy, which is presented annually to the most outstanding flying unit in the nation.
Twelve Army National Guard units received the National Guard Bureau's Superior Unit Award, which is presented only to units that meet very high standards in drill attendance, physical fitness, weapons qualification and maintenance.
The 153rd Engineer Battalion was awarded the Maj. Gen. Milton A. Reckord Trophy, as the most outstanding Army NG battalion in the nation for achieving the highest standards for training and readiness.
And the Forward Support Company, 153rd Engineer Battalion won the Army Award for Maintenance Excellence for distinction in maintenance operations in the small maintenance category.
VETERANS
I described these awards, because it is important that we honor those who serve in uniform and recognize the sacrifices they make for our nation. We must ALSO remember the sacrifices of those who have worn the uniform in the past -- our veterans.
Last year at this time, the South Dakota Department of Veterans Affairs kicked off "Operation Reaching All Veterans". The Department set a goal to reach out to all of South Dakota's veterans with a multi-pronged approach including an outreach booth at the State Capitol during the legislative session, open houses in all 66 counties, and an aggressive phone campaign.
This campaign was a first for the South Dakota Department of Veterans Affairs and a first in the nation. The Department started with a list of over 62,000 veterans. Not all veterans are registered at the state or county level, so media messages in print and electronic formats were distributed and 153 open houses were held throughout the state.
Starting last April our staff and veterans service officers were each given a list of 100 veterans to contact each month.
This effort allowed staff to educate veterans and their families about benefits, programs and services. More importantly it allowed us to listen to concerns and provide key contacts to assist on a local level. Best of all, this effort gave us a chance to say "thank you".
One county veterans service officer, Tom Sparrow of Turner County, contacted over 11,000 veterans. Tom is here today and I'd ask you to join me in thanking him.
Next year, our veterans will have a new home. Thank you again for joining me to provide funding for the new state veterans home, and thank you for your ongoing support of this project. Construction is on time and under budget. Our goal is to open the doors to the new home in January of 2016.
CLOSING
We are able to be here today because of the service of these brave men and women, and we honor their sacrifices by doing what we can to make South Dakota even stronger.
Many of you know that I have focused on our state's bond ratings. Recently, Standard and Poor's upgraded South Dakota's outlook from "neutral" to "positive." In doing this, they recognized our state for "prudent fiscal management and structural budgetary balance." They also noted our state's strong economic growth and pro-business tax climate.
That rating is important because it can save our state money in interest payments. I also value it, though, because through outside scrutiny we can identify ways to improve.
I am very proud of the many steps we have taken to be good stewards of our state. Four years ago, we joined together to eliminate our structural deficit. It took tough choices, but we are stronger today because we balanced our budget.
Likewise, we joined together two years ago to reform our criminal justice system. It took courage to rely on evidence and data rather than instinct, anecdotes, and conventional wisdom. But we are already saving money because of these decisions.
We have joined together to use one-time dollars to pay off debts and strengthen our financial position. We have joined together to become one of the few states in the nation with a fully-funded pension. We have joined together to maintain public buildings and to preserve our outdoors. We have joined together to create jobs through the Building South Dakota bill, and to enact programs to train the workers who will fill those jobs.
And, when our neighbors face disaster -- when they face one of the worst days of their lives -- we have stood with them -- whether it's a tornado in Wessington Springs, a fall blizzard in cattle country, or a massive river flood.
This year, this session, we confront the challenge of transportation funding and the opportunity for reform in our juvenile system. Once again, we can join together to strengthen our state and ensure that our best days are yet to come.
Let's go to work. Thank you.

Source: http://www.argusleader.com/story/news/politics/2015/01/13/text-daugaard-state-of-state-speech/21696955/
