Public Statements
Governor Announces Build Dakota Scholarship Board Appointments
Press Release
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Jan. 6, 2015
Location: Pierre, SD

Gov. Dennis Daugaard has appointed members to the board that will administer the Build Dakota Scholarship Program, which was announced last month.

The seven-member Build Dakota Scholarship Board will include:

Wayne Baumberger -- engineering manager, Caterpillar -- Rapid City;
Greg Carmon -- owner, Midwest Railcar Repair Inc. -- Brandon;
Dana Dykhouse -- CEO, First PREMIER Bank -- Sioux Falls;
Mark Leddy -- CEO, Valley Queen Cheese Factory -- Milbank;
Terry Sabers -- VP of Finance, Muth Electric -- Mitchell;
Deb Shephard -- retired president, Lake Area Technical Institute -- Watertown; and
Diane Vanderwoude -- VP of Academic Affairs, Sanford Health -- Sioux Falls.

"All of these individuals know firsthand about the workforce challenges we're experiencing in South Dakota," said Gov. Daugaard. "With their background and expertise, I'm confident this diverse group of professionals will administer this program well."

The program, funded by T. Denny Sanford and the state of South Dakota, will offer full scholarships for students entering high-need workforce programs at in-state technical institutes. The Build Dakota Scholarship Board will determine the high-need workforce areas and administer the scholarship. The board is expected to hold its first meeting in January.

In December, the Governor committed to match a $25 million donation from T. Denny Sanford with Future Funds to create the program. The $50 million is expected to provide 300 full scholarships annually in each of the first five years, beginning in the fall of 2015. From 2020 on, an endowment will continue to award approximately 50 scholarships per year.

The Build Dakota scholarship will be available to in-state and out-of-state students. Those who are awarded with the scholarship will commit to stay in South Dakota to work in their field of study for three years.

Source:
