Public Statements
Blog: Thanksgiving
Statement
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Nov. 21, 2014
Location: Pierre, SD

A column by Gov. Dennis Daugaard:

Thanksgiving arrives in South Dakota this year fresh on the heels of a year-long celebration of the 125th anniversary of statehood.

As a state, we share our birthday with North Dakota, and leaders of the two states came together for several birthday moments during the year. It's natural enough, then, that I've been reflecting recently on a Thanksgiving thought from Lawrence Welk, the renowned band leader who was born in North Dakota and whose musical career began in the dance halls and ballrooms of the two Dakotas. Of Thanksgiving, Welk said this:

"Over and over I marvel at the blessings of my life: Each year has grown better than the last.''

I have enjoyed Thanksgiving since I was just a young boy. Sure, in those days I spent more time giving thanks for the turkey and mashed potatoes and pumpkin pie than I did thinking about my blessings. Sometimes even then -- although I hadn't heard the Welk quote as a youngster -- it did seem as if each Thanksgiving feast grew better than the last, even when I was sitting at the "kids' table.'' Much as I loved the food, I also anticipated the approaching holiday for the gathering of family and friends.

As I grew older, I began to recognize that family and friends were more than just people with whom to share a meal. They were real blessings in my life, far more significant than the food that was the excuse for our gathering. Don't get me wrong. I still like a good piece of pie. But I appreciate the togetherness of family and the chance to count our shared blessings more and more each year.

In a 2004 Thanksgiving proclamation, former President George W. Bush recognized that Thanksgiving is a time to share good fortune.

"Americans this week will gather food and clothing for neighbors in need,'' he said. "Many young people will give part of their holiday to volunteer at homeless shelters and food pantries. On Thanksgiving, we remember that the true strength of America lies in the hearts and souls of the American people.''

That is so true here in South Dakota. Our people always are willing to volunteer to help others, to step up to serve their country and its citizens in the military, to share the bounty we enjoy.

In that spirit, I wish you and your loved ones a Thanksgiving filled with blessings and good fortune. May we all be able to say, "Each year has grown better than the last.''

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=17001
