Public Statements
Custer State Park Receives Donation For New Visitor Center
Press Release
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Nov. 7, 2014
Location: Pierre, SD

Today Gov. Dennis Daugaard recognized that the South Dakota Parks and Wildlife Foundation (SDPWF) has been awarded a $1 million grant by the James and Eloise Elmen Foundation of Sioux Falls. The grant will support a new world-class visitor center at Custer State Park.

"I am grateful for the James and Eloise Elmen Foundation's generosity and leadership on this project. This financial gift to Custer State Park will not only help build a new visitor center, but memorialize James, who was a lifelong advocate for outdoor education, recreation and preservation," said Gov. Daugaard.

Gov. Daugaard and the SDPWF publicly recognized the Foundation and its representatives -- Eloise and Richard Elmen (wife and son of James) -- during the South Dakota Game, Fish, and Parks Commission meeting this morning.

For the past two decades, the late James Elmen, Eloise and Richard have been lead contributors to priority projects of the SDPWF, a nonprofit supporting organization for the state Department of Game Fish and Parks.

"This wonderful gift will assure the two million annual visitors to Custer State Park will have an increased understanding of the wildlife, history and attractions at one of the finest state parks in the nation," stated Larry Ness, president of the SDPWF Board of Directors. "It will be used for world class interpretative displays that will enhance the visitor experience about the uniqueness of this premier destination."

Ness emphasized that the grant puts the SDPWF in a position to leverage an additional $800,000 in private funds needed to be raised for the project.

The South Dakota Legislature and the Game, Fish, and Parks Department allocated $2 million dollars to the visitor center project in 2013. In addition, the SDPWF committed itself to seek $3 million in private funding.

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=16956
