Public Statements
Blog: Looking Back and Looking Ahead
Statement
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Nov. 6, 2014
Location: Pierre, SD

A column by Gov. Dennis Daugaard:

This past Tuesday, millions of Americans went to the polls and exercised their right to vote. As the election season heats up and the television ads run non-stop, it's easy to become disillusioned by politics or to wish that the election was over. But we should never forget that there are people in many other countries who can only dream about enjoying the privilege that we take for granted.

I am very honored that South Dakotans placed their trust in me to continue to serve as governor for another four years. Elections are opportunities to discuss issues and offer contrasts, and that is an important part of the process. Now that the election is over, however, we can look back and consider all that South Dakota has achieved in the past four years.

Together, we overcame the Great Recession. We returned our budget to structural balance, and we added all the jobs we had lost -- and more. South Dakota is widely recognized as one of the best states in America for business. Today, South Dakota is faced with unemployment so low that our major challenge is expanding and training our workforce to fill all of the jobs that are open.

We came together -- both parties and all three branches of government -- to reform our criminal justice system so that we can improve public safety, hold offenders more accountable and save money. The plan is already paying dividends.

We are preserving our natural resources, by waging a winning battle against the Mountain Pine Beetle in the Black Hills, creating the new Good Earth State Park at Blood Run in Lincoln County, and taking steps to preserve our pheasant hunting heritage.

We are investing in education. We have expanded the Medical School and frozen tuition at the state universities. We have seen new programs, new equipment, and new opportunities at the technical institutes. And at our high schools, we are expanding career and technical programs and offering a state-funded dual credit program that students are using at far greater numbers than we had hoped.

I know there is more to do, and I am looking forward to the next four years. We will make sure that South Dakota has the highways and rail systems to support our growing economy. We will apply the lessons of criminal justice reform to the juvenile justice system. We will continue to strengthen our schools and expand technical education offerings. And of course, we will continue to expand our economy and bring new jobs and new opportunities to our state.

South Dakota's history is one of perseverance. In overcoming obstacles, we don't merely survive -- we prosper and achieve beyond anyone's expectations. It is with that same spirit that I commit to serve you over the next four years.

Source:
