Public Statements
Governor Releases Presentation from SD Council of Economic Advisors Meeting
Press Release
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Oct. 29, 2014
Location: Pierre, SD

Following the Council of Economic Advisors' quarterly meeting, Gov. Dennis Daugaard is making a presentation on the national and state economies available to the public.

The Governor's Council of Economic Advisors met Tuesday, Oct. 28, to review current economic conditions and forecasts. The presentation was given to the Council by Dr. Ralph Brown, USD professor emeritus of economics.

"It just makes sense to put this kind of information online. South Dakotans -- particularly our farmers, ranchers and small business owners -- have an interest in knowing how the economy is doing so they can plan for the future," said Gov. Daugaard. "I know this is a small endeavor, but it's still another step toward openness in state government."

Dr. Brown's presentation can be viewed at bfm.sd.gov.

The Council of Economic Advisors was created in 1991 by Gov. George Mickelson to review the content and methodology used by the Bureau of Finance and Management to forecast economic activity and revenue. The scope of the Council was recently expanded by Gov. Daugaard. The Council now consists of twelve members who review the long-term financial plan and the capital expenditure plan, as well as financial metrics and debt policies.

The availability of Dr. Brown's presentation comes a few months after the Governor made dashboard measurements on state finances and economics viewable on the Bureau's website: bfm.sd.gov/dashboards.

The release of the presentation and posting of metrics are the latest efforts of the Governor's Better Government Initiative to make state government more transparent and accessible. Since taking office, the Governor has also initiated the creation of an administrative rules website and a state expenditure webpage, convened an Open Government Task Force, and opened the Governor's Mansion and Valhalla for tours.

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=16918
