Public Statements
Blog: County Reinvestment Fund
Statement
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Oct. 10, 2014
Location: Pierre, SD

A column by Gov. Dennis Daugaard:
There are many reasons why I love South Dakota. Our state is fiscally responsible. We understand how important it is to balance the budget and be good stewards of taxpayer money.

South Dakota is also a safe state. I recently heard of someone that, for the first time in his life, started locking his car door when he went downtown -- not because he was worried about theft, but because it was zucchini season, and he didn't need any more zucchinis left in his car as a gift.

In 2012, we were faced with a challenge to our safety and financial strength. Our incarceration rate was higher than our neighboring states', and projections showed that this number was only going up. In fact, these projections indicated that South Dakota's prison population would increase 25 percent over the next decade, costing the state $224 million and requiring two new prisons to be built.

Consequently, I joined with the Chief Justice and legislative leaders to ask a group of stakeholders to conduct an extensive review of our public safety system. The criminal justice reform task force found that building the new facilities was an expensive short-term solution to a problem with roots deeply imbedded in South Dakota's law books. The group produced a package of reforms that would not only make our state safer, but save $207 million dollars over the next ten years. As a result, in 2013 the Legislature passed and I signed the Public Safety Improvement Act.

The Public Safety Improvement Act is based in part on state partnerships with local law enforcement and counties. In order for local entities to sustain themselves under the Act, the County Reinvestment Fund was created. The Reinvestment Fund helps reimburse counties for costs associated with the anticipated growth of offenders on probation. For each probationer that exceeds the projected count, the Department of Corrections will grant $1,000 to counties with a jail and $1,200 to counties without access to a jail.

This phase of the law is just taking effect and counties will soon receive their first allocation to help cover expenses.

When we were faced with a problem two years ago, we didn't look the other way or turn to short-term solutions. We chose to address the root of the problem. Thanks to those efforts and the continued efforts at the state and local levels, I'm confident South Dakota will continue to be a safe state with a balanced budget -- and a place where you're much more likely to be the recipient of unwanted zucchini than a victim of a break-in.

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=16846
