Public Statements
Blog: Ellsworth Development Authority Partnerships
Statement
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Oct. 3, 2014
Location: Pierre, SD

A column by Gov. Dennis Daugaard:
Last month I attended the dedication of the South Dakota Ellsworth Development Authority's newly constructed Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant. This plant was the result of a unique partnership among state, local and federal government entities. This state of the art plant will serve the city of Box Elder for the next two decades and provide Ellsworth Air Force Base with the capacity to nearly triple in size.

By partnering together, all parties reaped the benefits of millions of dollars in savings, both in construction and in the ongoing operation of one combined plant instead of separate plants for each partner.

After Ellsworth narrowly escaped closure during the 2005 round of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC), leaders throughout South Dakota began discussing ways to provide additional support for the base. In 2009, I assisted in the formation of the Ellsworth Development Authority, which provides direct support to the base by promoting economic development and facilitating land transfers, toward reducing incompatible land uses within the Accident Potential Zones surrounding the base. The Authority also coordinates with local governments and private entities to promote the health and safety of those living at Ellsworth.

This multi-faceted mission is unique, and in 2012 the Ellsworth Development Authority earned "Defense Community of the Year" honors from the Association of Defense Communities.

For lands adjacent to the base, the Ellsworth Development Authority has been successful in improving compatible uses, through zoning protection, or through purchase of easements. Additionally, the Authority has purchased full ownership of properties from willing sellers located in areas defined as Accident Potential Zones. The result has been fewer residential properties located in unsafe areas and a more compatible environment for the Air Force to conduct its critical national defense mission.

These projects are just a few examples of the activities the Authority has undertaken in recent years. With the Department of Defense continuing to face budgetary issues and a potential new round of BRAC in 2017, the value which the Ellsworth Development Authority has created through partnerships and cost savings is well worth celebrating.

Source:
