Public Statements
Blog: The Workforce Marathon
Statement
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Sept. 5, 2014
Location: Pierre, SD

A column by Gov. Dennis Daugaard:
In South Dakota we have the fourth lowest unemployment rate in the nation. This is a source of pride, but it's also a double-edged sword. Because so few South Dakotans are unemployed, we have a shortage of qualified workers to fill job openings. We lack skilled workers in accounting, engineering, information technology, health care, manufacturing trades and elsewhere.
Business leaders across South Dakota have told me that workforce is the single largest obstacle to our continued economic growth. Some businesses have been unable to expand because of the lack of workers. Others have turned down business.

It is clear that workforce must be addressed if South Dakota is going to remain "open for business." We need strategies to address the skills gap that exists in our state.

This spring I convened six workforce summits across the state. Over 1,000 people attended meetings in Brookings, Watertown, Aberdeen, Mitchell, Sioux Falls and Rapid City. Business, education, government and community leaders attended each meeting to tell us about the unique challenges their communities face.

This week I released a report that resulted from those workforce summits and I travelled again to those six communities to share the findings. The report offers a number of strategies for stakeholders at each level to consider and employ. Here are a few of the key takeaways:

First, job seekers and students must have the information they need about job opportunities in our state, toward enabling them to acquire the kinds of skills which lead to employment.

Second, employers need more and better tools to recruit and retain workers with the right skills.

Third, we need to have a foundation that uses common language and real time data.

There are a number of things we will be doing at the state level as a response to the workforce summits. The state Department of Labor and Regulation will make real time labor supply and demand data available, so students and job-seekers will have an accurate, up-to-date picture of the opportunities available. The Department will also be working to convert the current language of resumes and job titles to skills and competencies in its job services system. We'll also continue our efforts to recruit new people by targeting populations likely to consider moving to South Dakota.

But the state can't do this work alone. All sectors must work together to address workforce challenges. Businesses, educators and community leaders all have a role to play.

I have asked our current Workforce Development Council to stay in touch with community efforts in the future so we can work toward common goals. As communities each create an individual workforce development plan, I'd like to be able to match community funds with state dollars. I am committing $1 million in Future Funds toward this effort.

Filling workforce gaps is not going to be easy, and it's not something that we're going to solve in a short time. It's going to take continued dedication from people of all sectors over a long period of time. As we continue to work together to address our workforce challenges, let's remember that this is a marathon, not a sprint.

Source:
