Public Statements
Blog: Good Times At The South Dakota State Fair
Statement
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Aug. 22, 2014
Location: Pierre, SD

A column by Gov. Dennis Daugaard:
Classes have begun again, football season will soon be underway and South Dakota's favorite end-of-summer event is coming up -- the South Dakota State Fair, held Aug. 28 through Sept. 1 in Huron.

Families have enjoyed good times at the State Fair for generations, and I am looking forward to spending time again at our state's annual celebration of agriculture and community.

The State Fair has a proud history of educating children (and their parents) about how our farmers and ranchers produce food. Whether it's watching a livestock show, getting "up close and personal" with a calf or lamb, sitting in the seat of a new combine or tractor, asking an exhibitor what their chickens eat, or learning Mrs. Olson's secret for growing massive pumpkins, there are a host of opportunities for inspiring and educating young people about the wonders of agriculture.

Of course, the State Fair is located in Huron, but for a few days each year, the fairgrounds become a community unto itself. Be sure to stop at the FFA Animal Nursery and ask a state officer how their year of service is going. Take a walk through the exhibition halls and chat with 4-H'ers about their projects. Visit with the vendors -- there are dozens of families from South Dakota and around the country who come back year after year because they have such a good time. And everyone has a story to share.

This annual celebration wouldn't be complete without the great fair food, exciting carnival rides and unique activities. Enjoy an ALABAMA or BOSTON concert at the grandstand, try your luck in the arm wrestling competition, take your spouse for a twirl in the jitterbug contest, or play a game or two on the midway. No matter your interest, you're bound to have a good time.

I am proud of our State Fair and enjoy the opportunity to experience this one-of-a-kind celebration of agriculture and community. Mark the dates on your calendar and make plans to come out for at least one day. It's worth the trip. I hope to see you there!

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=16601
