Public Statements
Statehood Celebration Event At State Capitol To Feature South Dakota Symphony Orchestra
Press Release
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: July 24, 2014
Location: Pierre, SD

A special event at the State Capitol to celebrate South Dakota's 125th anniversary of statehood will feature a performance by the South Dakota Symphony Orchestra.

"I am pleased the South Dakota Symphony Orchestra will be joining us in celebrating this landmark anniversary for our state," said Gov. Dennis Daugaard. "It will be thrilling for South Dakotans to listen to the orchestra in the rotunda of the Capitol Building on the eve of the date President Harrison signed the proclamation admitting South Dakota to the Union."

While smaller ensembles of the South Dakota Symphony Orchestra have performed in the Capitol's rotunda, this will be the first time a full orchestra of more than fifty members will perform there.

"The South Dakota Symphony Orchestra is truly honored to be a part of this historic event," Delta David Grier, SDSO music director, said. "The opportunity to participate in South Dakota's 125th anniversary by bringing the full orchestra to play in the Capitol is a perfect fulfillment of our core mission. We look forward to being a part of the celebration!"

The event will also include the rededication and lighting ceremony for the newly restored stained glass in the Capitol. The project to restore the historic stained glass skylights that began last year is expected to be completed in September when the final restored panels will return to the Capitol.

The statehood celebration event will take place at 7 p.m. CDT on Saturday, Nov. 1.

The event will be open and free to the public. General admission seating will be available with a ticketed reservation. The details and availability date for reserving seating tickets will be made available in the future. Standing room only will be available on the marble grand staircase and in the balconies above the rotunda floor.

The evening statehood celebration will be the final event in the Capitol that day. A rededication of the newly refurbished First Ladies Inaugural Gown exhibit is scheduled for 10:30 a.m. on the first floor. The unveiling of the three latest statues of former governors by the Trail of Governors is scheduled for 1 p.m. in the rotunda.

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=16468
