Public Statements
Four More Towns Form Statehood Celebration Committees
Press Release
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: July 17, 2014
Location: Pierre, SD

Four more statehood celebration committees will be promoting state and local history with events and activities during South Dakota's 125th birthday year.

New local committees have organized in Madison, Carthage, Rochford and Pierre / Fort Pierre.

"Over thirty communities have organized committees to have a celebration event, promote South Dakota's history and create a lasting legacy project for future generations," said Gov. Dennis Daugaard.

On July 26, Madison will be hosting the first ever Madison All School Reunion and Prairie Music Festival for everyone who has attended or currently attends a Madison area school. Music will be provided from 3pm to 11pm. It will be an all-ages event with many family activities, including rides on a steam-driven train and carousel. Money raised will go to the Madison High School and Arts Department.

The annual Carthage Straw Bale Festival will have a 125th birthday theme, Aug. 2-3. The parade theme will be "Happy 125th, South Dakota" with participants dressing in 1889 style clothing and floats promoting history. The Straw Bale Museum will have the special "Capital Fight: Choosing S.D.'s Capital City" exhibit on display. Also on display will be an 1889 quilt recently donated to Carthage by relatives of the town's 1882 founder, Frank Ward. Carthage will also have a community talent and fun night in the fall with the 125th birthday theme. Carthage residents are also creating a Carthage history book and expanding a flag display at their park.

The Rochford Statehood Celebration Committee is planning Rochford Heritage Day for Aug. 23. The Rochford Community Hall will have displays and artifacts showing the rich history of the town known as "The Friendliest Little Ghost Town in the Black Hills." Many organizations will be sharing their archives in the displays. Local historians will also be on hand to tell stories and answer questions. The evening will feature a Community Spaghetti Dinner. Proceeds will go to repairing the Rochford Community Hall which needs new windows and siding.

Pierre / Fort Pierre will hold their South Dakota 125th Anniversary Amazing History Race on Sept. 13 where teams will collect clues about South Dakota history and destinations as they travel through Pierre and Fort Pierre. The Dakota Heritage Festival is also being held Sept. 12-14 and will feature Miss V, the Gypsy Cowbelle; several cowboy poets and musicians; Western arts and crafts exhibits; and concerts featuring Yvonne Hollenbeck, Bonnie Krogman, Jean Prescott and Kevin Davis. There will also be Cowboy Church on Sunday.

Three volksmarch walking events will take place in Pierre and Ft. Pierre the weekend of Sept. 12-14, each with 5k and 10k routes. Friday's walk includes crossing the Missouri River bridge. On Saturday walkers will visit LaFramboise Island, various historic locations and a 125th Birthday Bash. Sunday's walk includes the Oahe Downstream and Farm Island park areas. Those interested in participating can register for the walks at the Pierre Chamber of Commerce. Registration and park fees apply. Details are included in the Black Hills Volkssport Association events website.

Over the next two weeks, several communities are holding annual festivals with history themes, such as Iroquois, July 18-19; Baltic, July 18-20; Waubay, July 19; Wilmot, July 26-28 and Madison, July 26.

Information about those events and about creating a local committee is available at 125.sd.gov under the "Community Events" and "Celebration Communities" tabs.

Source:
