Public Statements
New Recruitment Program Helps Rural Health Facilities
Press Release
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: July 11, 2012
Location: Pierre, SD

Health facilities in rural areas of South Dakota have gained a new tool to help recruit nurses, pharmacists, physical therapists and other health professionals, Gov. Dennis Daugaard said today.

The Rural Healthcare Facility Recruitment Assistance Program pays a $10,000 incentive to eligible health professionals who complete three-year service commitments in communities up to 10,000 people. The program is part of the Governor's South Dakota Workforce Initiative 2012 legislative package.

It replaces a previous healthcare professional recruitment assistance program, doubling the incentive payment and limiting participation to communities smaller than 10,000 people.

"Health professionals in South Dakota are concentrated in our most populous areas, and it can be a challenge for rural hospitals, clinics and other facilities to recruit them," Gov. Daugaard said. "I'm pleased to offer rural facilities this support to help recruit the medical professionals that are needed."

The $10,000 incentive payment is split between the state and the employing facility, with facilities in smaller communities paying a smaller share. The state covers 75 percent of the total for communities up to 2,500 people and 50 percent for those larger than 2,500 people.

Health professionals eligible to participate in the program include dietitians, nutritionists, nurses, occupational therapists, physical therapists, paramedics, pharmacists, respiratory therapists, certified medical laboratory professionals, and radiologic technologists.

Applications must be submitted by the employing health facility. The application period opened July 1. Application forms and additional information can be found on the South Dakota Department of Health website at ruralhealth.sd.gov

Sustaining essential healthcare services in rural and underserved areas is a priority goal of the Health 2020 initiative in the state Department of Health.

South Dakota Workforce Initiatives (SD WINS) is Gov. Daugaard's 20-point plan to address short- and long-term needs for professional and skilled workers in the state through a collaborative effort of business, education, health, and labor leaders.

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=13216
