Public Statements
South Dakota State of the State Address 2012
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Jan. 11, 2012
Location: Pierre, SD

Following is the text of Gov. Dennis Daugaard's (R) 2012 state of the state address:
Lieutenant Governor Michels, Mr. Speaker, members of the State Senate and State House of Representatives, Chief Justice Gilbertson, Justices of the Supreme Court, other constitutional officers and, most of all, to the people of South Dakota:
Thank you very, very much for allowing me to serve you this past year. It was one year ago -- today -- that I walked into my office for my first workday as Governor, and it has been an honor, every day, to work for this great state.
I am also honored to work with the public servants assembled here today. There is one I would particularly like to mention today. Moments ago, we all heard a familiar voice announce my arrival in this Chamber. We have heard this same voice for over 20 years -- the House Sergeant-at-Arms, Mel Chandler. This will be Mel's last year working for the legislature, and I want to thank him for his years of service to our state. Please join me in recognizing Mel Chandler.
Now, Mel, you still have to work this session.
It is my role to report to you today on the "State of the State," and I'm pleased to say South Dakota's condition is improved since this time last year. South Dakota is moving forward. It is not the best of times, but neither is it the worst of times, and we have reason to be hopeful.
Today, because of tough budget decisions you made, our state is on stronger financial footings. And because of the hard work of the people of South Dakota, our economy is also stronger -- in spite of what has happened on Wall Street or in Washington, DC.
Our unemployment rate is lower, and nonfarm employment numbers are increasing, but we have not yet returned those numbers to pre-recession levels, and there is still great uncertainty. We are recovering, but we haven't fully recovered. That is why, last month, I proposed a conservative budget that departs from freezes and cuts, and returns to formula increases, but still guards against a downturn. My budget spends 99 percent of projected revenue, but leaves money on the bottom line in case we need it.






















Source:
