Public Statements
Business Retention and Expansion
Statement
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Oct. 5, 2011
Location: Unknown

During my campaign for Governor, I often stated that creating jobs and growing South Dakota's economy were top priorities. While many other challenges face state government, I have remained steadfast in my efforts to bring South Dakota out of the recession.
Much attention is paid to our recruitment of out-of-state businesses. However, most new jobs are created by our existing established companies.
Retaining and expanding South Dakota's businesses are the key focuses of our economic development efforts. We need to rely on proven job creators and small business owners who are already here in South Dakota.
The Governor's Office of Economic Development, the Lieutenant Governor, and I have all been active in visiting businesses around South Dakota. Collectively, our goal is to make personal visits to 440 South Dakota businesses across our state. We will continue to learn of their plans and needs. Each one of South Dakota's home-grown job creators has a useful perspective on how to best keep our economy going strong into the future.
Information is good, but only if we use it. Therefore, we're taking feedback we receive from businesses and examining ways the state can help facilitate further job growth in South Dakota.
Among common themes we have heard while traveling the state is the need for a more robust, skilled workforce. I have taken that advice very seriously and will work hard to ensure that our graduates and those who are looking for work are well-trained and ready for good-paying jobs.
South Dakota is a great place to live, work and grow a business. I am determined to keep it that way. By providing for more jobs and increased economic activity in our state, we will have improved tax revenues to pay for those things we care about.
We can grow our way out of this recession, and make South Dakota even stronger.

Source: http://sd.gov/governor/news.aspx
