Public Statements
State Seeks Preliminary Damage Assessment of Flooding
Press Release
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: April 27, 2011
Location: Pierre, SD

Gov. Dennis Daugaard has asked the Federal Emergency Management Agency
for a joint preliminary damage assessment (PDA) to begin determining damages to public
infrastructure from spring flooding.
The assessments will begin Monday, May 2, and tentatively are scheduled to continue through the week. Assessment teams will include representatives of FEMA, the State Office of Emergency Management and local governments. The teams will visit 27 counties that had formally approved disaster declarations as of Wednesday, April 27.
"These assessments are the first step in the process of estimating damages to public infrastructure,'' Gov. Daugaard said. "When we have this preliminary information, we will have a better idea of the extent of damage. We need that information to support a request for a Presidential Disaster
Declaration.'' The assessments gather preliminary estimates of costs incurred by the state, cities, counties, tribes and eligible non-profit private organizations. Damage to roads likely will be a significant part of the total cost from spring flooding.
"Flooding has been widespread and is still worrisome in many areas," Gov. Daugaard said.
"Once the damage assessments are completed, I will quickly request a Presidential Disaster
Declaration." Using the PDA, the Governor determines whether damages are so extensive that state, local and tribal resources are insufficient to respond adequately and that federal assistance is needed. Under federal law, a disaster declaration request must come from a Governor. If a Presidential Disaster Declaration is received, more detailed evaluations are made of the extent of damage at each eligible site. Neither the PDA process nor the Governor's request is a guarantee that federal assistance will be provided. A Presidential Disaster Declaration authorizes FEMA to implement a recovery program that could reimburse the state, cities, counties, tribes and eligible non-profit organizations for up to 75 percent of the eligible costs related to the flooding.
-30-
* A list of counties that have approved disaster declarations: Aurora, Beadle, Brown, Buffalo,
Clark, Codington, Day, Edmunds, Faulk, Grant, Hamlin, Hand, Hughes, Hyde, Jackson, Jerauld,
Kingsbury, Lake, Marshall, Miner, Moody, Perkins, Potter, Roberts, Sanborn, Spink, Sully.

Source: http://sd.gov/governor/docs/20110427_FloodingPDA.pdf
