Public Statements
Promises Made, Promises Kept
Statement
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: March 4, 2011
Location: Pierre, SD

During my campaign for Governor, I stated a number of goals toward which I would work if elected. As I write this, one week remains in the 2011 legislative session, and it is timely to examine progress against those goals.
My number one priority as Governor is to create new jobs. South Dakotans are ready to work, and I have committed a large portion of my legislative agenda to expanding job opportunities. Our economic development funds are proven job creators, responsible for creating thousands of jobs in South Dakota over the past 20 years. I have sponsored several bills that will recapitalize our state's economic development funds by selling state-owned properties or eliminating inefficient programs. I have also asked the Legislature to pass a bill that will make South Dakota very attractive to the aviation industry, an innovation that could have great promise for our state.
Finally, I introduced legislation which has successfully restructured our program to encourage large project developments. As I write this, the large-project legislation has passed.
Beyond job development, I pledged to eliminate our structural deficit without raising taxes. As I said in my campaign, we cannot spend what we do not have. An economic downturn is still the worst time to raise taxes on those who are just getting back on their feet. The process of reducing the size of government has been difficult, but our state, like our families and businesses, must live within its means. I believe most will agree that I have taken this particular campaign promise seriously.
As still a third commitment, I promised to restructure my executive Cabinet. As one element of this, I have elevated Tribal Relations to a full Cabinet position. Early this month, I participated in a ceremony welcoming J.R. LaPlante as the state's first Secretary of Tribal Relations. I hope such an appointment is seen as a demonstration of a real commitment to improved relations with our nine tribal governments. My commitment will not end with the appointment. I am dedicated to ensuring real results through real effort, and I look forward to working with Secretary LaPlante to accomplish great things for all South Dakotans.
The past two months have been busy, and I've been active on fronts beyond those described above. Still, these represent a few areas where I'm proud of our accomplishments, and I look forward to finishing the legislative session. The legislators have worked hard, my staff has
worked hard, and I promise that I will continue to work hard to fulfill my obligations to the
voters of South Dakota.

Source: http://sd.gov/governor/docs/2011-03-04.pdf
