Public Statements
FY2012 Budget/Medicaid
Statement
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Feb. 25, 2011
Location: Pierre, SD

In the remaining days of the legislative session, the budget for the fiscal year beginning July1 remains at the forefront of discussion and debate. The recommended 10 percent reduction to Medicaid providers has been a particular focus in the last week or more.
I am committed to eliminating the structural deficit this year, and that meant making tough choices. The Medicaid reductions were among the most difficult to propose. However, with Medicaid being 22.5 percent of the state budget, it was not possible to balance our budget without making these reductions.
My budget proposal asks everyone to share in the sacrifice. Like families and businesses, state government cannot spend more money than it receives.
Many types of health care providers receive payments for serving Medicaid recipients. The degree to which a health care provider relies upon Medicaid varies greatly. For example, the average nursing home receives 50 percent of its total income from Medicaid. A 10 percent reduction of Medicaid represents 5 percent of its total revenues.
The average hospital receives 10 percent of its revenue from Medicaid. A 10 percent reduction of Medicaid represents a loss of 1 percent of total revenues to an average hospital. Community Support Providers, such as Advance in Brookings, Life Quest in Mitchell, Achieve in Sioux Falls, and Black Hills Workshop in Rapid City receive -- on average -- more than 80 percent of
their revenues from Medicaid. The proposed cut would represent 8 percent of their total revenue.
Psychiatric Residential Treatment Programs for children heavily rely on Medicaid; it is 91 percent of their revenues. The proposed cut would cause them to lose 9.1 percent of their total revenue.
Those most heavily reliant on Medicaid will find it most difficult to adjust to a 10 percent cut to Medicaid rates. Since my budget address in January, my staff has working with legislators and providers to explore options to provide some relief to those providers who rely most heavily on Medicaid. These options would shift some of the Medicaid cuts to those providers that receive more money from other sources. It is my goal to treat providers as fairly as possible and a differential reduction may be part of that solution.
I appreciate what the providers do to meet the needs of South Dakota citizens who rely on Medicaid services. I also know that it will take effort from all of us, including Medicaid providers, to find efficiencies and reduce costs in order to have a brighter future for our children, our grandchildren and our state. I have great hope that we will find a solution that helps providers while still meeting the goal of eliminating our structural deficit.

Source: http://sd.gov/governor/docs/2011-02-25.pdf
