Public Statements
Column from Gov. Dennis Daugaard
Statement
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: Feb. 18, 2011
Location: Pierre, SD

Local Control
Among my core principals is a belief in the ability of local people to make the best decisions for their locality. South Dakotans object when the federal government uses a "one size fits all' approach, treating all the states the same way. We are not the same as California or New York. Each state is a better judge of its own state values than is the federal government. In the same way, we should not use a "one size fits all' approach when it comes to our counties, school districts and municipalities.
Two of my recommended bills this session will actively work to promote local control and local discretion by school boards. HB1229 will repeal the requirement for a school district with an enrollment of one hundred or fewer students to reorganize. I realize that schools can become so small that it is impractical to continue operating. However, the state should not be making this determination based on an arbitrary number. The judgment should be made locally, based on what is best for the children and the taxpayers in that district. Local school boards, who are elected and held accountable by local residents, should decide what is best for their children.
SB200 also emphasizes my preference for local rather than state control. The bill will remove a current law that discourages local school districts from building general fund reserves above a set limit. The current law assumes that, without the state's intervention, schools will hold more reserve funds than they should. I believe this judgment should be made locally, by the school board and administration, based on their judgment about what is best for their children and the taxpayers. Local leaders should have the flexibility to set aside the funds they deem necessary.
Local control works in South Dakota. It works because of active citizens who serve on school boards, city councils or county commissions. It works because of engaged citizens who pay attention and keep their elected officials accountable to the values of the community. My administration will continue to give deference wherever possible to local community leaders. More local decision-making means better accountability, better responsiveness, and better governance.

Source: http://sd.gov/governor/docs/Governor%27s%20column%20Feb%20%2018%202011.pdf
