Public Statements
Commissioner Gill Selected For U.S. Army War College Seminar
Press Release
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: May 11, 2016
Location: Pierre, SD

Commissioner Laurie Gill, head of the Bureau of Human Resources, will spend part of next month joining the national security conversation at the 62nd annual U.S. Army War College National Security Seminar. Gill, who is also the mayor of Pierre, is just one of 160 civilians from across the country hand-selected to participate in the program.
During the four-day seminar, Gill will meet with an elite group of military, civilian and international leaders to examine national security issues impacting the nation. In particular, the group will consider the role of domestic politics in national security, globalization, foreign policy and international security issues.
Gill was nominated for the program by U.S. Army War College graduate Adjutant General Tim Reisch. He says that Gill is uniquely positioned to contribute to the Security Seminar conversation and inform strategic discussions in South Dakota.
"In her dual capacity serving as both mayor of our capital city and Commissioner of the South Dakota Bureau of Human Resources, Laurie plays key roles in our state," said General Reisch. "She brings very astute local and state government perspectives to the table and is positioned well to share what she learns with other state and local leaders."
The Security Seminar will be held June 6 -- 9 at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania -- the second oldest military post in the nation.
"This is an extreme honor," said Gill. "I'm thoroughly humbled and very much looking forward to joining the national security conversation."
Gill is Pierre's 18th mayor and is now in her third term. Prior to being elected mayor, she served as a Pierre city commissioner for nine years. As a part-time mayor, leading the South Dakota Bureau of Human Resources is Gill's full-time job, which is a cabinet position in Gov. Dennis Daugaard's administration.

Source:
