Public Statements
SD Participates in National Prescription Drug Take Back Program
Press Release
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: April 25, 2017
Location: Pierre, SD

South Dakotans will have the chance to throw out unneeded prescription drugs on Saturday, April 29, as law enforcement agencies across the state participate in the National Prescription Drug Take Back Program.

From 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., law enforcement, in cooperation with the Drug Enforcement Administration, will give individuals opportunities to prevent pill abuse and theft by ridding their homes of potentially dangerous expired, unused and unwanted prescription drugs. The service is free and anonymous, no questions asked.

"Prescription drug abuse is affecting families and communities all across the nation. Medicines that languish in home cabinets are highly susceptible to diversion, misuse and abuse," said Gov. Dennis Daugaard. "I applaud the law enforcement community for taking a proactive approach to preventing the abuse of these drugs."

According to the South Dakota Department of Health, there were 65 drug overdose deaths in the state in 2015, making South Dakota the second lowest in the nation for drug overdose deaths. As the national number of overdoses is high, the Department is urging residents to be vigilant.

"Studies show that a majority of abused prescription drugs are obtained from family and friends, including from the home medicine cabinet," said Health Secretary Kim Malsam-Rysdon. "Additionally, Americans are now advised that their usual methods for disposing of unused medicines -- flushing them down the toilet or throwing them in the trash -- pose potential safety and health hazards."

In addition to national takeback day, the South Dakota Board of Pharmacy is working to establish year-round take back locations in pharmacies across the state with an initial roll out expected in July.

A list of participating law enforcement agencies is available at: http://www.deadiversion.usdoj.gov/drug_disposal/takeback/index.html.

Source:
