Public Statements
State Agencies Develop Zika Protective Measures
Press Release
By: Dennis Daugaard
Date: May 4, 2016
Location: Pierre, SD

At the direction of Gov. Dennis Daugaard, two state agencies are working together to protect against the potential threat of the Zika Virus.
"The newest mosquito-borne threat has not been detected in South Dakota. However, Zika mosquito vectors have been identified in neighboring states to our south and east," said Gov. Daugaard. "The departments of Health and Environment and Natural Resources are taking steps now to help prevent the spread of this virus in our state."
Because tires and other water-containing refuse are prime breeding grounds for mosquitoes, the Department of Environment and Natural Resources is in the process of arranging waste tire collection events at regional landfills in the southeast part of the state. For more information on these events, contact Andrew Bruels at 605.773.4216.
The Department of Health is offering grants to fund local mosquito control programs. Grant applications are available online. The deadline for submitting applications is June 1. Grant awards will be issued after July 1.
The Zika Virus is transmitted by the Aedes aegypti mosquito, which is not known to exist in South Dakota. A related species, the Aedes albopictus mosquito, can range as far north as Sioux City. Beginning in June the Department of Health, SDSU and local mosquito control programs in the southeastern part of the state will be trapping and testing mosquitoes to determine whether albopictus is found in South Dakota.
The Governor is reminding South Dakotans they must also do their part in protecting themselves against mosquitos.
"Use mosquito repellent. Wear long sleeves and pants outside. Limit your time outdoors from dusk to midnight when mosquitoes are most active. Get rid of any standing water in your yard. Support local mosquito control efforts," the Governor said. "Women who are pregnant or planning to become pregnant should avoid travel to Zika areas and be mindful that the virus can be sexually transmitted."

Source: http://news.sd.gov/newsitem.aspx?id=20271
