Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces Top Prize Winner for NM True Summer Reading Challenge
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Sept. 1, 2015
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez announced that McKenna Davis, a fourth-grade student at North Star Elementary in Albuquerque, is the winner of this year's top prize for the New Mexico True Summer Reading Challenge. McKenna won an all-expenses-paid family vacation to Disney's Animal Kingdom in Orlando, Florida. Yesterday, the Governor announced 17 grand-prize winners.
"I am so proud of every kid who stepped up to the plate over summer break," said Governor
Martinez. "This annual challenge is such a great way to encourage kids to read and build a
stronger foundation for success in life. We're grateful for all our community partners for
encouraging our children to read."
This year, New Mexico elementary school students who participated in the challenge read more
than 9,300 books.
This year's New Mexico True Summer Reading Challenge, designed to help students from
losing reading skills during the summer, was open to all New Mexico elementary school
children, ages 5 to 12, and ran from May 6 to July 31. All students who submitted a completed
log showing that they read 6 books will receive a New Mexico True bookmark and a certificate
recognizing their accomplishment. Students who read 12 or more books and submitted a short
essay explaining why they love New Mexico will receive a New Mexico True bookmark, a
certificate recognizing their accomplishment, and were entered in the random drawing to win one
of the Grand Prizes.
This year's prizes were made possible by the State of New Mexico and its partnership with: the
City of Albuquerque, the ABQ Bio Park, the Greater Albuquerque Chamber of Commerce, the
Albuquerque Hispano Chamber of Commerce, Comcast Internet Essentials, Sandia Peak
Tramway, Ghost Ranch, Heritage Hotels and Resorts, Tours of Old Town, Great Southwest
Adventures, Cumbres and Toltec Scenic Railroad, X-Treme-Lee Fun Balloon Adventures, the
University of New Mexico Athletic Department, the New Mexico State University Athletic
Department, and R and C Sumthins.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Susana_Martinez_Announces_Top_Prize_Winner_for_NM_True_Summer_Reading_Challenge.pdf
