Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces Support for Commission to Bring Stakeholders Together to Establish New Mexico's Rio Grande Trail
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: March 6, 2015
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Today Governor Susana Martinez announced support for proposed legislation establishing a commission to being state, local, tribal, and private stakeholders together to work to establish the Rio Grande Trail. Governor Martinez called for community leaders along the Rio Grande to become part of history by establishing a commission to bring the vision of this trail to reality.
"Establishing a trail the length of the Rio Grande would be a historic achievement for New Mexico," said Governor Martinez. "We must bring together a diverse group of public and private partners to realize this vision, and this legislation ensures that all voices will be heard. Moving forward on this project offers a unique and wonderful opportunity to further showcase the diverse natural beauty that New Mexico has to offer, as well as to continue protecting it for future generations."
House Bill 563, sponsored by Representative Jeff Steinborn (D-Las Cruces), seeks to establish a commission led by the New Mexico Energy, Minerals, and Natural Resources Department (EMNRD) that would be tasked with establishing the Rio Grande Trail, proposed to extend more than 500 miles the length of the state from Colorado to Texas. The bill has strong bipartisan support, including Representatives Alonzo Baldonado (R-Los Lunas) and Jason Harper (R-Rio Rancho), who joined Governor Martinez for the announcement along with EMNRD Cabinet
Secretary David Martin. This legislation recently received the unanimous support of the House Energy, Environment, and Natural Resources Committee.
"The Rio Grande Trail is an excellent opportunity for New Mexicans and those outside our state to experience some of our most unique natural and cultural icons," said Representative Steinborn. "The Rio Grande River flows by national monuments, state parks, wildlife refuges, and diverse communities. A new trail would be a recreational and economic development asset that would benefit New Mexico far into the future." "The Rio Grande Trail is a one-of-a-kind opportunity to teach our kids and country about New Mexico's culture," added Representatives Baldonado and Harper. "It will create great job opportunities across New Mexico, as well as an unparalleled recreation opportunity for our communities."
Preliminary examinations of a more than 500 mile hiking trail would require the support and cooperation of at least 10 counties, 22 cities with a population of more than 5,000 and numerous other entities including tribes and pueblos as well as private and non-profit entities. In 2013, nearly 4 million visitors took advantage of New Mexico's State Park system. A separate study found that 54% of overnight visitors to the state engaged in outdoor activities including hiking, fishing and biking, all of which would be available along the proposed Rio Grande Trail.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Susana_Martinez_Announces_Support_for_Commission_to_Bring_Stakeholders_Together_to_Establish_New_Mexico%E2%80%99s_Rio_Grande_Trail.pdf
