Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Pushes Legal Protection and Loan Repayment Program for Child Abuse Workers
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: March 4, 2015
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Today Governor Susana Martinez announced two key initiatives to support Children, Youth, and Families Department (CYFD) caseworkers who investigate child abuse and work with families in crisis. Governor Martinez says she supports legislation to establish specific legal protections for caseworkers from assault and battery, and a separate proposal that establishes a loan repayment program. CYFD Cabinet Secretary-designate Monique Jacobson joined Governor Martinez for the announcement.
"Our caseworkers do one of the toughest jobs around," said Governor Susana Martinez. "Caseworkers put in long hours, often in the middle of the night, and make difficult judgment calls every day to keep children safe. These initiatives will help recruit, retain, and protect these dedicated professionals who are on the front lines in our continuing fight against child abuse in New Mexico. It's not right that an umpire in a little league game is better protected against assault and battery than a child abuse caseworker."
Under current law, it is a felony to commit assault or battery on paramedics, school employees, and sports officials like referees and umpires. However, assault and battery on a child abuse caseworker is not a specific offense, even though they routinely find themselves in stressful and potentially dangerous situations involving child custody and safety. HB 506, introduced by Representative Doreen Gallegos (D-Las Cruces) makes assault and battery of a CYFD caseworker its own specific crime and brings stiffer penalties.
"Our CYFD caseworkers provide such important services to our families and communities," said Representative Gallegos. "These bipartisan bills provide opportunities to better support caseworkers and enhance their ability to keep children safe as they go about their challenging yet rewarding profession."
HB 341, sponsored by Rep. Jimmie Hall (R-Albuquerque) seeks to establish a loan repayment program for eligible CYFD caseworkers. With the passage of this pending legislation and the availability of funding in future fiscal years, this bill provides targeted student loan repayment to eligible CYFD caseworkers over a minimum five-year period as long as that caseworker stays with CYFD during that period.

Source:
