Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez and Representative Kelly Fajardo Propose Legislation to Protect Victims of Domestic Violence
Press Release
By: Kelly Fajardo Susana Martinez
Date: Feb. 11, 2015
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Today Governor Susana Martinez, Representative Kelly Fajardo (R-Belen), and victim advocates joined together to highlight the Start by Believing campaign to support victims of rape and sexual assault. Governor Martinez and Representative Fajardo also discussed proposed legislation to further protect victims of domestic violence and abuse by clarifying New Mexico law regarding domestic violence arrests.
"Throughout my career as a prosecutor, a district attorney, and now as governor, I have seen firsthand the tragic impact that abuse and violence have on our families and communities," said Governor Susana Martinez. "I'm proud to support the Start by Believing campaign to heighten our awareness of how we respond to rape and sexual assault. I'm also proud to join Representative Fajardo to support this legislation to further protect victims of violence and abuse."
This legislation, sponsored by Representative Fajardo, seeks to clarify New Mexico law so that law enforcement officers can execute warrantless arrests after an incident of domestic violence either at the scene of the crime or at another location if the offender has fled. This important clarification improves the tools at the disposal of law enforcement to be more proactive in protecting victims of violence and abuse.
"This is an important step in improving our laws to further protect victims of violence and abuse," said Representative Kelly Fajardo (R-Belen). "Making this clarification improves the toolbox available to law enforcement in keeping our families and communities safe."
This legislation was announced along with the Start by Believing campaign. Start by Believing is a public awareness campaign designed to change the way we respond to rape and sexual assault in our communities. Too often, survivors who have the courage to tell someone what happened are blamed for bringing it on themselves. Start by Believing encourages individuals and communities to more proactively advocate for victims of sexual assault. Governor Martinez proclaimed January 2015 to be Start By Believing Victims of Sexual Assault Month throughout New Mexico. The Governor's proclamation is available online here.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Susana_Martinez_and_Representative_Kelly_Fajardo_Propose_Legislation_to_Protect_Victims_of_Domestic_Violence.pdf
