Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Unveils New Teacher Support Package
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Dec. 10, 2014
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez announced a package of key initiatives to support New Mexico's teachers, starting with increasing pay for beginning teachers for the second year in a row. The Governor also outlined a new initiative, called the "school supply bucket," to provide teachers with funds to help purchase materials for their classrooms. The Governor also introduced New Mexico's "Teachers Pursuing Excellence" (TPE) program to place the most effective teachers in mentorship positions supporting teachers who could benefit from additional, job-embedded training. The TPE program is modeled after the successful Principals Pursuing Excellence program which has increased student learning in participating schools.
RAISE THE BASE PAY FOR STARTING TEACHERS:
Governor Martinez will propose an increase in the minimum salary for beginning teachers. Last year, the Governor signed a budget increasing the minimum salary for new teachers from $30,000 to $32,000 per year. The Governor's budget proposal this year will call for another $6.7 million in funds to increase the minimum base salary for new teachers to $34,000 per year. This is a targeted approach, designed to help make New Mexico more competitive when it comes to attracting people into the teaching profession. If approved, no one in New Mexico could start a teaching job at less than $34,000 per year, and any teacher currently earning less than $34,000 per year would receive a raise.
FUND A "SCHOOL SUPPLY BUCKET" TO HELP WITH CLASSROOM MATERIALS:
The Governor also announced a $2.3 million proposal, called the "school supply bucket," to help teachers purchase supplies and materials for their classrooms. Modeled after similar programs in other states, each teacher would receive a debit card pre-loaded with $100, to be used for the purchase of classroom materials. Teachers would provide receipts accounting for the expenditures, and if successful, the amount of money loaded onto the cards could increase in future years.
LAUNCH AN EFFECTIVE TEACHER MENTORING PROGRAM:
Governor Martinez will also launch a teacher mentorship program called "Teachers Pursuing Excellence," modeled after a similar, recently-launched mentorship program for principals in New Mexico. Launched in the 2013-14 school year, the "Principals Pursuing Excellence" program pairs successful school leaders with those in struggling schools and has produced promising results. In only its first year, more than half of the schools participating in the program improved their school's letter grade at least one level, with a third of those schools improving two to three letter grades. Similar immediate improvements are the goal of the TPE program, which will follow the same structure by partnering high performing teachers with teachers in need of additional support by offering mentorship and sharing of best practices. Teachers involved in the program -- both the mentors and the mentees -- will receive a stipend for participating. The cost of the program is $2.5 million, and teachers would apply to participate in the state program.
"These are important initiatives, designed to better support our teachers and improve the achievement of students throughout the state," said Governor Martinez. "Starting teacher salaries are too low in New Mexico, so we need to raise them again, and I certainly believe that we can do more as a state to help defray the costs that teachers incur for purchasing school supplies and materials for their classrooms each year."
Joining the Governor and Public Education Department Secretary Hanna Skandera for the announcement was Superintendent Adan Delgado of Pojoaque. Superintendent Delgado's district has been an active participant in the "Principals Pursuing Excellence" program and has seen school performance increase over the past year.
"The Principals Pursuing Excellence program is making a huge difference for the students in my district. School leaders are receiving mentorship and learning what has been successful in other schools, and then they are taking it all and implementing to deliver results," said Superintendent Delgado.
"When we see success in our schools, we have to replicate it," continued Governor Martinez. "These principal and teacher mentorship programs allow for a dynamic, constant conversation among peers, where those whose students are making great gains are able to help those who are not seeing similar results."
Altogether, these proposals would cost roughly $11.5 million and will be part of the Governor's executive budget in January. Other initiatives, relating to the recruitment of teachers into hard-to-recruit positions or areas, and proposals relating to truancy, are expected to be announced early next year.
"Supporting our teachers is key to increasing student success," concluded Secretary Skandera. "When our teachers succeed, our students succeed, and we are wholly committed to do what we can to make sure New Mexico's teachers have the tools and resources they need to excel."

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Susana_Martinez_Unveils_New_Teacher_Support_Package.pdf
