Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces 88 Percent Increase in DNA Matches Due to Expansion of Katie's Law in New Mexico
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Nov. 21, 2014
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Today Governor Susana Martinez announced an 88 percent increase in DNA
matches by the New Mexico DNA Identification System. Since New Mexico expanded Katie's Law in 2011, the DNA Identification System has connected DNA from 463 arrestees to 478 cases. Without the expansion of Katie's Law, during this time frame, there would have been DNA matched from just 245 arrestees to 254 cases. The expansion of Katie's Law has led to an additional 218 arrestees connected to 224 cases.
"I am pleased to see that Katie's Law is continuing to show results in securing justice for victims and keeping our families and communities safe," said Governor Martinez. "This is a commonsense tool, and as I have in the past, I will continue to work to encourage other states to adopt this important legislation."
Since the expansion of Katie's Law, DNA samples have connected a broader range of felonies, such as drug and alcohol related arrests and breaking and entering, to 10 homicides, 21 sex crimes, and 135 break-ins and burglaries. This data shows important progress in identifying violent offenders, protecting communities, and providing justice to victims. Collecting DNA from felony arrests allows states to share information more effectively through national databases. Since the expansion of Katie's Law, more DNA evidence is solving murders and other violent crimes.
Katie's Law is named after Katie Sepich, a 22-year old college student who was raped and murdered. As Third Judicial District Attorney in Dona Ana County prior to her election as governor, Martinez successfully prosecuted and convicted Katie's killer, and fought hard to pass the original legislation, which required a DNA sample to be taken from anyone arrested for a number of serious crimes in New Mexico.
"I'm proud that New Mexico has such a strong advocate for victims in Governor Martinez," said Jayann Sepich, mother of Katie Sepich, after whom Katie's Law is named. "Through Governor Martinez's leadership, New Mexico continues to see great success in the implementation of statewide DNA collection for felony arrests. This important progress will help save more innocent lives and put more violent criminals behind bars."
After taking office in 2011, Governor Martinez made it a top priority to expand Katie's Law to require a DNA sample for all felony arrests. The expansion passed through the legislature with large bipartisan support, and the Governor signed it into law in April 2011. Governor Martinez filed an amicus brief with the United States Supreme Court when DNA collection from felony arrestees was challenged. The Court agreed with Governor Martinez and upheld the law. The Court recognized DNA collections upon arrest as a 21st Century equivalent of fingerprinting.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Susana_Martinez_Announces_88_Percent_Increase_in_DNA_Matches_Due_to_Expansion_of_Katie%E2%80%99s_Law_in_New_Mexico.pdf
