Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez, Lieutenant Governor John Sanchez and Fitness Icon Jake Steinfeld Team Up to Celebrate a Future of Fitness for Three New Mexico Schools
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Oct. 7, 2014
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Fitness took center stage today as Governor Susana Martinez, Lt. Governor John Sanchez, Jake Steinfeld, Chairman of the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils and students from Mesa Elementary, East San Jose Elementary and Jemez Elementary/Middle Schools cut the ribbon on their brand new state-of-the-art Live Positively Fitness Center. These three schools were awarded for demonstrating innovative ways in promoting physical activity and wellness to their students.
"Since 2010 we've seen a 12 percent decrease in childhood obesity among New Mexico third-graders," said Governor Martinez. "Fighting childhood obesity is a battle we can and need to win. That's why I'm proud to join with Jake and all our partners to build on this success and help our students get and stay fit. Results and efforts like these show that our students and teachers always rise to meet high standards, and we must never let up in our efforts to enable every child to succeed in school and in life."
"I'm fired up to be in New Mexico today to cut the ribbon on their brand new Live Positively Fitness Center. Governor Martinez immediately jumped on board and embraced our vision of building a nation with the fittest kids in the world - one school at a time. She recognizes how important healthy kids are to the future of this great state!" said Steinfeld. "Today's leaders -- whether in schools like, Mesa Elementary, East San Jose Elementary or Jemez Elementary/Middle or companies like Coca-Cola and AOL -- understand the value of bringing innovative fitness ideas to students. This new fitness center will provide generations of students with the necessary tools to make physical fitness activities part their daily routine."
"I am pleased to join Governor Martinez and the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils as we celebrate three new fitness centers to benefit New Mexico's students," said Lt. Governor John Sanchez. "I also want to congratulate our three National Champion Schools for being selected to receive these state-of-the-art facilities."
The National Foundation's goal is to build a nation of the fittest, healthiest kids in the world. Physical activity and exercise are shown to help prevent and treat more than 40 chronic diseases, enhance individual health and quality of life and reduce health care costs. In schools, studies show that physical activity improves academic achievement, increases confidence and self-esteem, reduces discipline problems, cuts absenteeism and fosters better interpersonal relationships.
"I've always said that academics and fitness go hand-in-hand and I firmly believe that if you provide the schools with the tools, students will excel beyond their wildest dreams," continued Steinfeld. "Not only will these students be healthier, but they'll be more confident, have greater self-esteem and ultimately achieve greater academic success."
The National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils program plans to bring its challenge to all 50 states in the coming years. An attractive and unique feature of this campaign is that the Live Positively Fitness Centers are fully funded through public/private partnerships with companies like Coca-Cola and AOL and does not rely on taxpayer dollars or state funding. Live Positively is part of Coca-Cola's commitment to bring people together to make a positive difference, which includes supporting physical activity programs.
For more information about the National Foundation, visit www.natgovfit.org.
About the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils
The National Foundation seeks to encourage and reward innovation in the field of youth fitness by awarding fitness centers to schools that use new and unique methods to promote student physical activity and wellness. The National Foundation envisions a fitness center in every school in the U.S., helping to build a nation that--through innovation and a "Don't Quit" attitude--boasts the fittest kids in the world. Since 2012, we've delivered fitness centers in Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Washington, DC, Georgia, New Jersey, Delaware, and West Virginia. In 2014, NFGFC will deliver new fitness centers to California, New Mexico, Connecticut and Virginia.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/Press_Releases.aspx
