Public Statements
Roswell Daily Record - Martinez Announces 50 New Jobs at AerSale
News Article
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Oct. 2, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Unknown
Gov. Susana Martinez announced Wednesday the addition of 50 new jobs at the Roswell International Air Center. New Mexico Economic Development Department (EDD) Cabinet Secretary Jon Barela, Roswell Mayor Dennis Kintigh, and AerSale CEO Nicolas Finazzo joined Martinez for the announcement.
"We have worked hard to make New Mexico competitive with surrounding states, and that work is paying dividends. Our aviation industry is no exception," Martinez. said "Our tax reforms, like eliminating the tax on the sale of commercial aircraft, are showing clear results, and I am pleased to have AerSale as our latest partner in this continued growth."
In March, Martinez signed legislation eliminating the sales tax on the purchase of aircraft more than 10,000 pounds, a move that is spurring growth in New Mexico's aviation industry, according to a released statement. Before this change in tax policy, New Mexico taxed the sale of commercial aircraft. This led to pilots flying to neighboring states to complete aircraft sales.
Finazzo commented, "AerSale appreciates Gov. Martinez's enthusiasm and support of the growing aviation industry here in Roswell and across the state of New Mexico. We have directly benefited from her unwavering commitment to new job creation at our Roswell facilities."
New Mexico is home to more than 100 aviation-related businesses and has unlimited growth potential. Martinez recently announced that Google will invest $15 million in a research and development and manufacturing facility in Moriarty, where it will develop and test unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV). The governor also announced that New Mexico will invest $1 million in Local Economic Development (LEDA) funding to provide water and other infrastructure improvements. Combined, these efforts will help create more than 200 aviation and aerospace-related jobs at the Moriarty Municipal Airport and the nearby industrial park.

Source:
