Public Statements
Las Vegas Optic - Promoting Las Vegas
News Article
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Sept. 11, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Mercy Lopez
A large chunk of change is coming to Las Vegas to promote and market the town, along with its events.
On Tuesday afternoon, Gov. Susana Martinez announced $40,000 of cooperative marking funds has been awarded to Las Vegas for promotional use. The city of Las Vegas will receive $20,000 and MainStreet de Las Vegas will get the other $20,000. The governor made her announcement at the Plaza Park, along with state Tourism Department Cabinet Secretary Monique Jacobson and Las Vegas Mayor Alfonso Ortiz.
She said last year was a record- breaking year in terms of tourism in the state.
"We like that because people bring their money. They visit, they shop, they stay at hotels, then they go home and they leave their money here," Martinez told an audience of roughly 40. "Overall spending is up 7 percent, which translates into about $300 million in new revenue. "
She said the national average is 4.5 percent.
"We are far outpacing the rest of the country right here in New Mexico," Martinez said.
She credits the state Tourism Department, the New Mexico True brand, and partnerships with communities through the Cooperative Marketing Program for the increase in tourism dollars brought to the state.
To receive this funding, entities must submit a grant to the Tourism Department while incorporating the New Mexico True brand into their marketing plans.
MainStreet de Las Vegas Executive Director Cindy Collins said several city entities teamed up for the city grant, including the Las Vegas Arts Council, Las Vegas Citizens Committee for Historic Preservation and the city's Rough Rider Museum. This money will be used to market local events, along with local MainStreet de Las Vegas events. She thanked Las Vegas resident Wid Slick for writing the proposals. The MainStreet de Las Vegas grant will help promote events, arts and cultural districts throughout the state.
According to a state Tourism Department press release, the department received funding requests of $869,197 with a budget of $590,000. The awards were determined based on the integration of the New Mexico True brand, past contract history, and an evaluation score.
"Not only has the governor helped us with our water project, she is also helping up with promoting our city with the New Mexico True campaign," Ortiz said. "We are elated."
He added that the tourism money brought in to communities helps every community in the state due to the gross receipt taxes collected.
"She could have chosen the 12 to 15 other communities that received grants to make the announcement; instead, she chose to come to Las Vegas," Ortiz said.
Other communities receiving grants include Alamogordo, Santa Fe, Truth or Consequences, Taos, Angel Fire, Elephant Butte, Moriarty, Red River, Mesilla, along with other organizations and entities.
Martinez said Las Vegas would use the money to promote fairs and festivals held locally.
"Over the past few years, the Tourism Department has encouraged applicants to form collaborations that maximize their advertising investment. This year the focus is on those successful collaborations finding a way to integrate New Mexico True into their marketing efforts," she said.
In addition to the grant awards, Jacobson spoke about the importance of keeping the state clean and litter-free, making mention of the "Toss No Mas" campaign and the upcoming Keep Las Vegas Beautiful cleanup planned for Saturday, Sept. 27 at Plaza Park.

Source: http://www.susanamartinez.com/news/promoting-las-vegas/
