Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces Support for Significant Expansion of Breakfast After the Bell
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Aug. 13, 2014
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez announced her support for funding a
significant expansion of the Breakfast After the Bell program, which currently provides school breakfast to low-income elementary school students after the morning bell. The Governor believes this important program should be funded for middle and high school students as well, and feels that it should be funded accordingly in the upcoming legislative session.
"No child should start the day hungry," said Governor Martinez. "Every student should have a positive learning environment, and I support providing additional funding to make sure this important program is available to low-income middle and high school students as well. We must do everything we can help ensure that New Mexico children are better prepared to learn throughout the school day."
Breakfast After the Bell ensures that low-income elementary school students who arrive at school after before-school breakfast is served are still able to eat, starting their day off well fed so they are prepared to learn. The additional funding that Governor Martinez announced her support for would allow school districts and charter schools where 85 percent or more of enrolled students qualify for free or reduced-priced lunch to offer breakfast after the bell in middle school and high schools. This would require an additional $850,000 to $1.6 million, depending on participation levels throughout New Mexico.
Breakfast After the Bell, which the Governor first signed into law in 2011, is a key piece of Governor Martinez's continuing efforts to ensure that students are eating healthy so they can be better focused and prepared to learn in school. Due in part to Breakfast After the Bell, New Mexico has been ranked number one in the nation in serving breakfast to low-income school children.
While at East San Jose Elementary School, Governor Martinez also discussed that the school, along with Jemez Valley Elementary and Middle Schools in Jemez Pueblo and Mesa Elementary School in Shiprock, will be awarded new fitness centers through a partnership between the State of New Mexico and the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils. These three schools will receive new fitness centers with training and cardiovascular fitness equipment, including design, delivery, and installation within the schools' existing structure. These schools' applications demonstrated a robust plan for using the equipment and improving physical
education and academic program.
"Childhood obesity affects 16 percent of our children here in New Mexico," concluded Governor Martinez. "These schools have taken the lead in helping students to get and stay fit, and we are so proud to support them by establishing new fitness centers to help continue their progress. Results like these show that our students and teachers always rise to meet high standards, and we must never let up in our efforts to enable every child to succeed in school and in life."

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Susana_Martinez_Announces_Support_for_Significant_Expansion_of_Breakfast_After_the_Bell.pdf
