Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces $733,000 Dollars in Funding to Expand Access to Advanced Placement Courses
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: April 28, 2014
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez announced New Mexico will receive a $733,000 award from the College Board to build on growing student achievement in AP courses. New Mexico Public Education Department Cabinet Secretary Hanna Skandera and officials from the College Board joined Governor Martinez for the announcement at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque.
"We're proud of our students and teachers as they continue to make New Mexico a national leader in AP courses," said Governor Martinez. "When we set a high standard for our students, they always rise to the challenge. Thanks to our educators and support from the College Board, our students are not only saving millions on tuition expenses, but they are also better prepared for college-level courses."
This is the second straight year the College Board has invested in New Mexico's students to build on growing success in AP courses, which offer the opportunity for students at participating schools to take rigorous, college-level courses for the chance to earn college credit through testing while still in high school. Funding designated for AP courses will expand course offerings and training for teachers and counselors, outreach to parents, and support for students in middle school who might benefit from AP courses, particularly in economically disadvantaged areas.
Additionally, Governor Martinez and the College Board recently announced that New Mexico's Hispanic high school students rank No. 1 nationwide for their success in AP courses, and New Mexico low-income students rank No. 2 nationwide. This growing success in AP courses show that New Mexico students are increasingly better-prepared to succeed in the college classroom.
According to the College Board, New Mexico's students successfully passed nearly 6,000 AP exams in 2013 while earning over 17,000 college credits saving families over $3.5 million last year alone. Since 2010, the number of New Mexico students taking part in AP courses has increased from 17,601 to 23,467 (an increase of 5,866) with the state's minority students seeing dramatic increases. Participation in AP courses by Hispanic students has increased by more than 25%, while participation among low-income students has increased by nearly 8%, and participation among Native American students has increased by more than 48%. Overall, the number of graduating students passing AP courses has increased by more than 11% in just three years.
"New Mexico's students are proving what we've always known, they can compete with anyone," said Secretary Skandera. "We know there are thousands of students in New Mexico who would be successful in AP courses if given the chance, and these efforts focus on making sure every student has this critical opportunity."
Governor Martinez has consistently worked to build on this growing success in AP courses. As part of the state budget Governor Martinez recently signed into law, funding for AP courses increases 28% from 2010 levels. In 2013, Governor Martinez secured $750,000 in state funding and $1 million from the College Board to expand AP programs. This funding was used to translate AP materials into Spanish and Navajo to increase parental involvement in supporting their children in AP courses, develop the students and subject areas where offering AP courses would yield the best results, develop online AP courses to expand access in rural areas, and support pilot projects for middle schools in Pojoaque, Bernalillo, Carlsbad, and Zuni to prepare more minority and low-income students for AP classes in high school. Governor Martinez also secured funding in last year's state budget to provide stipends to AP teachers who improve student achievement in their classroom from one year to the next.
The AP program is run by the College Board, a national non-profit membership organization committed to excellence and equity in education.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Susana_Martinez_Announces_$733_000_Dollars_in_Funding_to_Expand_Access_to_Advanced_Placement_Courses.pdf
