Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces Federal Funds to Help Fight Cajete Fire
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: June 16, 2017
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez announced that New Mexico has secured federal funding to help fight the Cajete Fire. New Mexico's request for a Fire Management Assistance Grant has been approved by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Funds through the grant will help cover costs of emergency protective measures and firefighting activities.
"Our coordinated response, through state agencies and our local partners, is working hand in hand with the Forest Service to fight the fire and protect the lives and property of New Mexicans," Governor Martinez said. "These dollars will help ensure we can keep doing all we can to fight this fire and keep New Mexicans safe."
Federal funding provided through an FMAG will cover 75 percent of the cost of fighting the fire. Eligible costs include things like pre-positioning of resources, evacuations and sheltering, traffic control, fire equipment and the firefighters.
The Cajete Fire began June 15 north of Jemez Springs in Sandoval County. So far the response is being led by the U.S. Forest Service, and several state and local agencies are partnering in the response. Approximately 175 firefighters, emergency responders and other personnel are on the scene with multiple engines and aircraft working to suppress the fire. The fire has burned more than 600 acres and New Mexico Highway 4 in the area has also been closed.
Yesterday, Governor Martinez activated the New Mexico Emergency Operations Center to assist in the coordinated response to the El Cajete Fire. The State EOC is the primary location coordinating situational information and statewide assets during an emergency, disaster, threat or a planned event (like a drill or exercise).

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Susana_Martinez_Announces_Federal_Funds_to_Help_Fight_Cajete_Fire.pdf
