Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez and NM Aging Department Encourage Low-Income Seniors to Access Additional Medicare Benefits
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: April 16, 2014
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez and New Mexico's Aging and Long-Term Services Department are encouraging low-income New Mexico seniors, and their family members and advocates, to access help with prescription medication costs by calling New Mexico's Aging and Disability Resource Center (ADRC) at 1-800-432-2080. The ADRC is a one-stop shop in New Mexico that helps seniors access resources available through various government and non-profit organizations.
"In the past couple of years, our staff at the ADRC have helped seniors submit close to 21,000 applications worth more than $52 million in valuable benefits for New Mexico's elderly," said Governor Martinez. "There are resources available to seniors, but they have to apply. Our Aging Department can help seniors navigate these sometimes complicated issues, to get them these helpful benefits."
The Department's Aging and Disability Resource Center (ADRC) can help Medicare recipients apply for benefits that make Medicare more affordable through the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA). Employees at the Resource Center work to screen older adults throughout New Mexico who may be missing out on additional resources, and assist in their benefits applications.
"I strongly encourage New Mexico senior citizens to contact the Aging and Disability Resource Center to see if they qualify for additional assistance," said Aging and Long-Term Services Department Cabinet Secretary Gino Rinaldi. "The Aging and Long-Term Services Department provides critical services that can help New Mexicans, particularly our senior citizens, live a healthier and happier life."
The Aging and Disability Resource Center can be reached by dialing 1-800-432-2080.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Press_Release_4.16_Aging_Dept._Medicare_Benefits.pdf
