Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces Four New Proposed Locations for Veterans Cemeteries in Rural New Mexico
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: April 15, 2014
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Today Governor Susana Martinez announced four new proposed locations for local veterans cemeteries in rural New Mexico. Phase one of Governor Martinez's initiative to provide for federally-rated final resting places that are closer to home for our state's veterans calls for new cemeteries of three to four acres to be established in Angel Fire, Carlsbad, Fort Stanton, and Gallup. Additional local veterans cemeteries could be established in other communities as part of subsequent phases of the project.
"New Mexicans have always stood ready to answer the call to serve our state and nation in the U.S. Armed Forces, and our veterans and their families deserve a special resting place befitting their service and sacrifices," said Governor Martinez. "In a state as large and rural as New Mexico, it is our responsibility to ensure that these resting places are as close to home as possible, so that our veterans and their families do not have to travel hours upon hours to lay their loved ones to rest or to visit their burial sites."
Governor Martinez recently signed into law the 2014 capital outlay bill, which provides the $600,000 she sought to plan, design, and construct regional veterans cemeteries statewide. This funding serves as a down payment for the projects, and upon applications for these new cemeteries being approved by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, the federal government will provide the additional funding required to design and construct the cemeteries. Management and maintenance of these cemeteries will be overseen by the New Mexico Department of Veterans Services.
New Mexico's veteran population is currently served by Fort Bayard and Santa Fe National Cemeteries, as well as Fort Bliss National Cemetery in El Paso, Texas. More than 170,000 veterans live in New Mexico, and more than half of them live in rural areas that are simply too far from the national cemeteries in Santa Fe or Fort Bayard.
The four communities selected for phase one of this plan represent areas of New Mexico with the largest underserved veteran populations, based on data from the most recent U.S. Census. During the application process, these four communities were also able to demonstrate that they are the most ready to proceed with the construction of new veterans cemeteries, including having plans in place for such a cemetery and/or land that has been procured and is ready to house the new cemetery.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Net_Vet_Cemeteries__btr_.pdf
