Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Issues Two Child Welfare Executive Orders
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: April 3, 2014
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Today Governor Susana Martinez issued two executive orders to take a more proactive and coherent approach to working with families who have faced multiple Children, Youth and Families Department (CYFD) investigations, and to improve communication between child welfare caseworkers and law enforcement officers.
"This new approach allows us to take a more proactive, deeper interest in families where CYFD has been regularly called to intervene, even when investigations of those incidents were unable to substantiate abuse or neglect of the children in the home," said Governor Martinez. "Something's clearly happening in these homes that periodic interaction with a family support worker and counseling services might be able to address."
Executive orders signed by Governor Martinez today direct CYFD to implement a policy change requiring that any family who has been investigated twice by CYFD will have any subsequent CYFD investigation reviewed by a high-level supervisory team. This team will include the county office manager, supervisor, caseworker, and children's court attorney. The Governor today has also required CYFD caseworkers to seek and review police reports and other law enforcement materials related to the cases they work before rendering a final investigative decision. Her order also directs all law enforcement entities under the State's control to comply in a timely fashion with any CYFD request for this information.
Governor Martinez also announced the creation of a pilot program in Bernalillo County,
establishing a new class of child welfare caseworker known as "family support workers." To
start, a team of roughly 10 family support workers will be hired to regularly interface with
families in Bernalillo County who have been the subject of three or more child welfare
investigations in the past 10 years, connecting those families to services, visiting their homes,
and monitoring the use and effectiveness of interventions. If the program is successful at helping
these families avoid further interaction with CYFD and law enforcement, the family support
worker model could be extended to other areas of the state.
"This is a critical, necessary change that will ensure greater scrutiny of the activities in homes
where there appears to be a pattern of concerning conduct," said CYFD Secretary Yolanda
Deines. "We spoke with several caseworkers who felt as though this new policy, in concert with
our high-level supervisory reviews, would bring greater consistency and coherence to the
investigative decisions relating to cases involving families that interact with CYFD regularly."
The Governor's executive orders today also direct state law enforcement officials to contact
CYFD's State Central Intake (SCI) system as a source of information for new referrals to obtain
all relevant information regarding all prior reports of abuse and neglect maintained by SCI.
Governor Martinez says that law enforcement will have access to historical protective service
information that includes information on the child, the parents, guardians, and custodians who
were the subject of any prior investigations and/or case history that includes the number of prior
referrals, the dates of prior referrals, the investigative decisions to substantiate or unsubstantiate
prior referrals, and any other case history that may affect important safety decisions.
CYFD caseworkers are now also required to make every effort to obtain police reports and
investigatory materials prior to rendering an investigation decision.
"It's important for our law enforcement officers and CYFD caseworkers to be on the same page
and work collaboratively when making very difficult decisions about the custody of a child,"
said Department of Public Safety (DPS) Secretary Greg Fouratt. "Too often, police officers and
CYFD caseworkers investigate the same case separately, with little contact and communication
with one another after the initial incident has occurred. I'm hopeful that local law enforcement
agencies throughout the State will also agree to provide their reports and other materials from
their child abuse investigations to CYFD caseworkers."
Governor Martinez recently announced numerous proposals to improve the well-being of New
Mexico's children and the investigation of child abuse incidents. These initiatives and directives
are designed to improve communication between CYFD and law enforcement, better work with
families who have faced multiple investigations and recruit and retain more CYFD caseworkers.
In this same vein, the Governor will continue to fight for legislation that would allow a court to
order counseling services and interventions for families who frequently interact with CYFD. The
legislation failed to pass in the recently concluded legislative session.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/CYFD_Press_Release_4.3.pdf
