Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces New Mexico Wildfire Awareness Week 2014
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: March 31, 2014
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Today Governor Susana Martinez announced that March 30th through April 5th is New Mexico Wildfire Awareness Week, and called upon residents and visitors to continue doing their part to prevent and be prepared for wildfires.
"Continuing historic drought conditions heighten the risk of what already has the potential to be another active and dangerous wildfire season," said Governor Martinez. "Last year's wildfire season was very active and destructive, and there are many important steps we as New Mexicans can take at state, federal, tribal, local and individual levels to prevent and be prepared for wildfires. Preparedness is a key element this year as firefighters and agencies across the state stand ready to protect our communities and natural resources from wildfires."
Various federal, state, tribal and local agency representatives joined Governor Martinez to discuss preparations for the upcoming fire season and how residents can best prevent human-caused wildfires and how we must all be prepared. The 2013 fire season was brief but very active, with numerous fires. More than 190,000 burned acres on public and private lands. The Silver, Thompson Ridge and Tres Lagunas Fires forced the evacuation of hundreds of residents from their homes. Since the 2013 fire season, interagency partners have worked to train hundreds of firefighters in wildland fire skills, identify grant funding for equipment and teach landowners how to reduce their wildfire threat by reducing overabundant vegetation on their property.
So far this year, nearly 100 fires have burned close to 6,000 acres of state and private land, including the Pino Fire, which began this past Friday and crews are still working on. This fire was human-caused and the landowner has been issued a citation for the improper use of fire. As seen with the Pino Fire, failure to respect the potential damage that fire can cause has serious consequences. Those consequences can be financial, or include jail time, damage to property, injury or even loss of life.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Susana_Martinez_Announces_New_Mexico_Wildfire_Awareness_Week_2014.pdf
