Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces Translation of Education Materials and Resources into the Navajo Language
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: March 26, 2014
Location: Shiprock, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez announced the translation of early literacy, parental engagement, and advanced placement materials and resources into Diné, the Navajo language. Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush joined Governor Martinez for the announcement.
"Every New Mexico student is capable of learning, and every student deserves our very best efforts to ensure their academic success," said Governor Martinez. "Reading is the key to educational achievement and opens the door to tremendous opportunities for our children throughout their lives. Parents are the best partners a teacher has when teaching a child to read, and efforts to translate these reading materials into the Navajo language should improve our ability to engage Navajo families in the education of our youth."
This new translation of "Readers Raise the Roof" materials, in particular, will help make it possible for families to more easily engage with their children in their native language. "Readers Raise the Roof" is a fun and interactive 90-minute workshop held at schools to help engage and equip parents and their students with at-home strategies to help them learn to read. The workshop teaches research-based activities aligned to the Common Core standard that families can easily do at home to support reading practice. Research indicates that time spent practicing reading outside of school hours is essential for children to become proficient readers.
As part of the "New Mexico Reads to Lead!" initiative, "Readers Raise the Roof" is specifically targeted to engaging families of students from kindergarten to 3rd grade.
"I commend Governor Martinez for her unwavering commitment to reforming the state's education system so it is student-centered and focused on improving learning," said Governor Jeb Bush. "The incredible growth in New Mexico, especially amongst minority students, proves that all students can learn when lawmakers, teachers, and parents rally around the unified goal of student achievement. From recognizing great teachers and equipping them with better tools, to bringing transparency to school accountability, placing a command focus on early literacy and implanting high standards-- The work by state leaders, the dedication of teachers and hard work by students is paying off with rising student achievement."
New Mexico has recently become a leader in student achievement in Advanced Placement (AP) courses as well, helping New Mexico students and families save more than $3.5 million in college tuition costs. According to the College Board's AP Report to the Nation, for the second consecutive year, New Mexico's Hispanic high school students rank No. 1 nationwide for their success in AP courses, demonstrating the ability to succeed in the college classroom. The report shows that nearly half of Hispanic high school graduates in 2013 took an AP course. Of those students, 43 percent scored a three or higher on the exam, the highest percentage in the country.
Additionally, materials helping students and parents learn more about AP courses will also now be available in Diné, helping to improve access and success in these AP courses. Trends in AP exam participation and success for our Native American students show that New Mexico has:
the 3rd largest percentage of Native American participation in the country;
the 2nd highest percentage of AP exam takers; and
the 3rd highest percentage of AP exam takers scoring a 3+ during high school.
Reforming education to improve student achievement continues to be a top priority for Governor Martinez. As a result of the state budget recently signed by the Governor, spending on public schools in New Mexico will increase by $147.7 million, a 5.75% increase over the current fiscal year, to a total of $2.7 billion invested in public education in New Mexico. This will be the highest level of spending on education in state history. Included in the new money for public education is the expansion of several education reform initiatives designed to get dollars into New Mexico classrooms to directly help struggling students and schools, and support efforts to better engage parents, graduate our students, and reward successful teachers. As a result, the state will expand the use of parent portals, provide more interventions for struggling students and schools, recruit more math and science teachers in areas that badly need them, pilot various initiatives to reward teachers for strong performance in the classroom, further expand the number of early college high schools, and continue the state's already successful efforts to improve student access and success in AP courses.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/3.26_Press_Release_Navajo.pdf
