Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Signs $6.15 Billion State Budget
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: March 11, 2014
Location: Rio Rancho, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez signed New Mexico's Fiscal Year 2015 State Budget, a bipartisan compromise that enacts several initiatives to increase New Mexico's healthcare workforce, invests in key job creation efforts, and expands education reform initiatives as a means of getting more education dollars into the classroom to help struggling students and schools. As signed, the $6.15 billion budget increases state spending by 4.3% over the current fiscal year. Education spending increases by 5.75% to a record high of $2.7 billion.
Over the past three years, we have worked in a bipartisan way to restore our state's firm fiscal footing after years of over-spending, and the budgets we have passed have enacted moderate, responsible spending growth. Along the way, we have invested heavily in public education and early childhood programs, expanded job creation efforts, and provided for a strong safety net to help the most vulnerable, Governor Martinez said. ―As signed, this budget continues these important efforts, and I'm thankful that the early gridlock in the budget process eventually gave way to compromise and a willingness to find common ground.
The balanced budget funds critical health care workforce initiatives, ensuring that New Mexico meets the growing demand for health care services while also creating well-paying jobs in places where they are needed most. Thirty-two of the state's 33 counties are classified by the federal government as health professional shortage areas, and the full implementation of Centennial Care and Medicaid expansion could add as many as 205,000 new patients statewide. Among other efforts, funding includes $1.5 million to increase the number of nurse practitioners at UNM, $726,000 to increase the number of health care professionals in health shortage areas, and $905,000 to expand primary care residency slots at the University of New Mexico School of Medicine. There is also funding to expand the use of tele-medicine and establish the first-ever statewide training and certification program for community health workers.
This year's budget also continues Governor Martinez's efforts to diversify New Mexico's economy and become more competitive in the effort to attract jobs. The budget invests in the Local Economic Development Act (LEDA), allocating $10 million toward job recruitment efforts (matched by another $5 million in the capital outlay legislation) and begins the process ofmaking the Job Training Incentive Program (JTIP) permanent. The Governor has also recently signed several pieces of legislation that make New Mexico more competitive with neighboring states, leveling the playing field and making the state more attractive for job creators. Just last week, Governor Martinez authorized the creation of an online one-stop shop for small businesses and signed legislation to attract aviation companies that will create high-paying jobs for New Mexicans.

Source:
