Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Proposes Nearly $2.5 Million Expansion in Nurse Practitioner and Family Practice Residency Slots, Discusses New $600,000 Investment Proposal in Telemedicine for Rural Areas
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Dec. 3, 2013
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Today Governor Susana Martinez proposed a nearly $2.5 million dollar investment to further prepare New Mexico to confront unprecedented changes in health care and connect New Mexicans in rural areas with the health care they need. Governor Martinez proposed to allocate $2.5 million to expand the family practice residency and nurse practitioner programs at the University of New Mexico. Governor Martinez also recently proposed to establish $600,000 in grant funding to connect rural New Mexico's patients and providers with telemedical services. This grant program would be administered by the New Mexico Department of Health if approved by the New Mexico Legislature.
"It is no secret that families and communities in rural New Mexico face a shortage of health care practitioners, from nursing professionals to family practice physicians and specialists," said Governor Martinez. "By expanding the number of nurse practitioners being trained in New Mexico, and offering additional loan repayment support in exchange for service in rural areas, we can significantly improve the quality of care that can be provided in rural settings throughout our state. And by recruiting more family practice physicians to our state and expanding our ability to use telemedicine in rural areas, we can better position ourselves to provide patients with the right care, at the right time and place."
Governor Martinez's proposal would dramatically increase the number of nurse practitioner slots at UNM by adding 24 seats. Her proposal also adds an additional seven family practice residency slots, three of which would participate in the "1+2" program, where residents practice for one year in Albuquerque and move into a rural area for the remaining two years of their residency program. Data from the UNM Health Sciences Center indicates that more than 60 percent of residents who participate in the "1+2" program remain in rural New Mexico following completion of their residency work.







Source:
