Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Urges Parents To Get Their Children Up To Date On Their Immunizations
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: July 31, 2013
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez is reminding parents to make sure their children are up to date on their immunizations before heading back to school.
"I strongly encourage parents to take advantage of the vaccinations available at participating clinics as part of the Got Shots? Protect Tots! Effort," said Governor Martinez. "Our hope is that by offering immunization shots, even to uninsured families, we will keep our children safe from many preventable illnesses."
The New Mexico Department of Health, the New Mexico Immunization Coalition (NMIC), the New Mexico Primary Care Association (NMPCA), and healthcare providers from across the state are partnering again to hold special immunization clinics from August 3rd through the 17th for children through 18 years old. The special clinics are part of the Got Shots? Protect Tots! immunization campaign.
Participating providers will offer immunizations to any child, regardless of whether he or she is a patient or has insurance as part of Got Shots? Protect Tots! clinics. Many providers will hold clinics on weekends to accommodate more families. All parents have to do is bring a copy of their child's shot record and Medicaid or private health insurance card. However, if a family does not have insurance, immunizations will still be made available."
Some diseases that once injured or killed thousands of children have been eliminated completely and others are close to being gone -- primarily due to safe and effective vaccines," said Department of Health Cabinet Secretary, Retta Ward, MPH. "Getting vaccinated can also save your child's life. I encourage all New Mexico parents to take advantage of the upcoming clinics."
The "Got Shots? Protect Tots!" immunization campaign is organized by the New Mexico Immunization Coalition, which includes the New Mexico Primary Care Association and the Department of Health. More than 80 private practices, community health centers and public health offices are participating in the Got Shots? Protect Tots! immunization clinics.
To find a clinic in local communities statewide, people are encouraged to call 1-866-681-5872 or go online to www.immunizenm.org and click on the Got Shots? Protect Tots! logo.
The Department of Health provides immunizations at no cost year round at public health clinics in every county for uninsured children. Immunizations are the best way to protect children from serious, vaccine-preventable diseases. Public health offices are listed online at www.nmhealth.org.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Immunizations.pdf
