Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez: New Mexico Families to Benefit from New CYFD Early Childhood Services Funding
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: June 20, 2013
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez announced today that $16.175 million additional dollars in early childhood services funding will help more New Mexico families access child care assistance, Pre-kindergarten programs, and home visiting programs. All three programs are designed to help low-income New Mexico families with young children.
The funding was allocated to the Children, Youth and Families Department (CYFD) during this year's legislative session and will benefit thousands of New Mexico families and children this upcoming fiscal year. The new early childhood service funding will become available July 1, 2013, when the state's new budget takes effect.
"These are important services for struggling families in New Mexico," says Governor Martinez. "The Pre-K program helps prepare kids for success in school, while our child care assistance and home visiting programs can help families with the challenges of parenting and supporting a family. This additional funding is an investment in our kids and our
families."
The new early childhood services funding will be distributed as follows:
 Child Care Assistance: $7.0 million dollars will go toward removing families from the child care assistance waiting list. This means that any family with an income of 100.01% to 125% of the Federal Poverty Line (FPL) will now be eligible to receive child care assistance as long as they meet all eligibility requirements. Currently, families with those income levels are placed on a waiting list, but that will change on July 1st. Over the last seven years, an average of more than 22,000 children a month received child care services through CYFD.
 Pre-Kindergarten: $5.0 million dollars will be allocated to CYFD's New Mexico Pre-Kindergarten (Pre-K) program to provide services to an additional 1,300-1,400 New Mexico children in FY14. This will be a 64% increase over the 2,481 children in FY13 who were served in CYFD-licensed Pre-K facilities. New Mexico's Public Education Department also received $14.95 million dollars to serve Pre-K students in public schools this coming school year. This funding will provide Pre-K for 4,230 students in the 2013-14 school year,
which is 1,380 more students than the previous school year.
 Home Visiting Program: $3.8 million dollars will go to CYFD's Home Visiting Services program. This funding will provide home visiting services for an additional 1,000 families in New Mexico. In FY13, services have been provided to a total of 1,361 families. This means that almost 2,400 total families will be provided home visiting services in FY14, which is a 74% increase over the previous year.
 Home Visiting in High-Risk Communities: $375,000 will be allocated to high risk communities that do not currently have a home visiting program to help in the establishment of such a program in their area.
"Helping families and children in need is CYFD's number one priority," said CYFD Cabinet Secretary Yolanda Deines. "Governor Martinez has been very supportive of these CYFD programs, and with this additional funding we are able to assist many more families and children throughout New Mexico."
"We are truly grateful to Governor Martinez for her commitment to early childhood services in New Mexico," said CYFD Director of Early Childhood Services Diana Martinez-Gonzalez. "With this new funding, many more children and families will get to take advantage of very important programs that are essential to our children's and our communities' future.
Any family interested in applying for child care assistance, New Mexico Pre-K, or home visiting services should visit CYFD.org for more information.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/CYFD_PR.pdf
