Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces New Program Targeting Teen Drug and Alcohol Dependency
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: June 10, 2013
Location: Albuquerque, NM

This afternoon, Governor Susana Martinez announced a new treatment
program targeting teen addiction to drugs and alcohol. The program is housed in Turquoise Lodge Hospital in Albuquerque at the MATS campus.
Gov. Martinez, Department of Health staff and Bernalillo County Commissioner Maggie Hart Stebbins cut the ribbon on the new 20-bed in-patient unit specifically for adolescents. The $2 million expansion was funded through the state's general fund as approved by the New Mexico Legislature and Gov. Martinez.
"With this new program, we won't wait until the severity of the problem progresses to criminal activity, incarceration, or overdose," said Gov. Martinez. "We are addressing an immediate need in our state. New Mexico teens will get the help they need now. This program has the potential to be a model for teen drug treatment across the country."
Turquoise Lodge Hospital's Adolescent Addiction Treatment Program will combine drug and alcohol dependency treatment with mental health services.
"This new unit within Turquoise Lodge Hospital will begin to provide access to inpatient services that were previously unavailable for teens in New Mexico," said Department of Health Cabinet Secretary Retta Ward, MPH. "This is a statewide effort to address the problem of addiction and mental health in the earlier stages in life and development."
Turquoise Lodge is a Chemical Dependency Treatment Hospital owned and operated by the New Mexico Department of Health. Its mission is to provide medical intervention, treatment and rehabilitation of the disease of chemical dependency and co-occurring disorders to New Mexico residents.
Turquoise Lodge Hospital is located on the Bernalillo County MATS campus. Bernalillo
County's MATS program provides detoxification services to county residents. Bernalillo County has worked closely with the Department of Health to prepare the MATS campus to ensure it provides safe and effective treatment for adolescents. The county is also working with the state to identify gaps and needs in the community. Bernalillo County is working to address inpatient step down services, including transitional living for adolescents.
The new adolescent program will be housed on one floor, with 10 male and 10 female beds on separate wings. The target population is New Mexico teens, aged 14-18, who have serious alcohol and substance abuse addictions that has not been successfully treated.
The hospital will begin accepting patients immediately. Initially, patients will be accepted from referrals by Core Service Agencies located in Bernalillo County and expand to patients around the state throughout the year.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/DOH_Treatment_.pdf
