Public Statements
Governor Martinez: New Mexico Stands Ready to Help the People of Oklahoma
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: May 21, 2013
Location: Santa Fe, NM

-- Today, Governor Susana Martinez announced that the State of New Mexico is
prepared and ready to assist the State of Oklahoma in the ongoing relief and recovery projects following the deadly tornadoes that hit the area on Monday. Governor Martinez has reached out to Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin and offered assistance and resources from New Mexico. New Mexico has already deployed a team of medical professionals to the area.
"New Mexico emergency responders are some of the best-trained in the nation and have responded in the wake of the 9-11 attacks, Hurricane Katrina, and Superstorm Sandy. We are ready to help our neighbors in Oklahoma with any resources they need, whether it's medical help, search & rescue personnel, or recovery assistance. Members of New Mexico's Disaster Medical Assistance Team from UNMH are arriving in Oklahoma this afternoon," Governor Martinez said. "Our hearts go out to those who have lost loved ones, and I'm particularly saddened by the deaths so many schoolchildren. I called Governor Fallin to tell her New Mexicans are standing by to help."
The New Mexico Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management is on standby with resources to assist the people of Oklahoma in the recovery of these deadly storms. Requests for state-to-state assistance are made through the Emergency Management Assistance Compact (EMAC).
Through the EMAC system, states in need of assistance can list the resources and/or personnel they are requesting. States capable of providing that assistance respond through the system and are reimbursed through the federally declared disaster declaration. The New Mexico Disaster Medical Assistance Team (DMAT) has already been deployed to the affected area. If New Mexicans are looking for a way to help, they are encouraged to make a cash donation to reputable relief organizations such as the Red Cross or the Salvation Army. A full list of organizations can be found at www.nvoad.org/members.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Martinez_New_Mexico_Stands_Ready_to_Help_the_People_of_Oklahoma_1.pdf
