Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Activates Emergency Operations Center in Response to El Cajete Fire
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: June 15, 2017
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez directed the activation of the New Mexico Emergency Operations Center to assist in the coordinated response to the El Cajete Fire in Sandoval County.
"I've activated our emergency operations center and directed our state agencies to work with our local and federal partners to keep New Mexicans safe," Governor Martinez said. "New Mexicans know better than most just how devastating wildfires can be, and as we face this year's fire season together, we're also reminding everyone to keep safety in mind and be prepared."
The El Cajete Fire began today north of Jemez Springs in Sandoval County. So far the response is being led by the U.S. Forest Service, and several state and local agencies are partnering in the response. So far the fire has burned more than 100 acres and as many as 200 people in the area have been evacuated as a precaution. New Mexico Highway 4 in the area has also been closed.
As New Mexico faces this year's fire season, the Emergency Operations Center is also available to local leaders throughout the state as a resource to assist with further potential fire activity across the state, as well as flooding and other emergencies that may occur. County emergency managers can contact the EOC for more information.
New Mexico State Forestry and the New Mexico Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management urge all state residents and visitors to do their part in preventing and being prepared for wildfire. Should evacuations because of wildfire become necessary, remember the "Five Ps" you need to have ready to go: People, important Papers, Prescriptions, family Pictures and Pets.
For more information about the El Cajete, active wildland fire in New Mexico or information on wildfire preparedness and prevention, log onto www.nmfireinfo.com.
For more information on preparing your homes and families, visit the New Mexico Department of Homeland Security & Emergency Management's Family Preparedness Guide: http://goo.gl/Zuams.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Susana_Martinez_Activates_Emergency_Operations_Center_in_Response_to_El_Cajete_Fire.pdf
