Public Statements
Letter to Secretary Napolitano
Letter
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Oct. 10, 2012
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez sent a letter to the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security on the subject of REAL ID Act implementation, which is set to occur on January 15, 2013. States face an October 15th deadline to communicate with the federal government about their intention to comply with the REAL ID Act. Currently, New Mexico's driver's license is not deemed to be a federally secure document under the REAL ID Act, given that New Mexico is one of only two states that issues driver's licenses to illegal immigrants.
According to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's August 28th report to Congress, "The January 15, 2013 deadline for meeting the standards of the REAL ID Act remains in effect. As of that date, federal agencies will not be able to accept driver's licenses and identification cards for official purposes from states that have not been determined to be compliant with the Act by the
Secretary of Homeland Security."
In her letter, Governor Martinez asks for a description of the various ramifications that New Mexicans would face as a result of this non-compliance, including no longer being able to use a driver's license to board an airplane or enter federal buildings and national laboratories, which employ thousands of New Mexicans. In expressing New Mexico's intention to comply with the
Act, the Governor further makes it clear that she will again push to repeal the law that provides driver's licenses to illegal immigrants in the upcoming legislative session, in order to ensure that New Mexico's driver's license is a document that does not undermine our national security and is deemed valid for use by New Mexicans when interacting with federal agencies.
"Unfortunately, New Mexico's practice of giving driver's licenses to illegal immigrants not only poses a significant and well-documented public safety threat, it also undermines the validity and security of every New Mexico driver's license,' said Governor Martinez. "It's deeply concerning that New Mexicans who work at our labs, get on an airplane, or need to show identification at any other federal facility will no longer be able to use their driver's license to do so. This is not just an inconvenience; it is an incredible burden on our citizens and our businesses, and on our ability to be competitive with our neighboring states."












Source:
