Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces New Child Support Bench Warrant Amnesty Period and Warrant Round-Up
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Aug. 16, 2012
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez announced the continuation of the
successful Child Support Enforcement Bench Warrant Program statewide. The New Mexico Human Services Department (HSD) Child Support Enforcement Division (CSED) will host a child support bench warrant amnesty period beginning at 8:00am on Monday, August 20th and ending at 5:00pm on Friday, August 24th.
During this weeklong amnesty period, anyone with an active bench warrant for failure to pay child support can visit any HSD Child Support Enforcement Division field office, without fear of being arrested, to pay the bond amount. The CSED offices will accept payments in the form of cashier's check or money order. Upon full payment of the bond, an order cancelling the bench warrant will be filed with the district court. If an individual is unable to pay the full amount of the bond set by the court, a negotiated, reduced bond payment or payment plan toward the amount of past due child support may be worked out, with the consent of the parent to whom the support obligation is owed, and the approval of the court that issued the warrant.
"The continuation of this innovative program will further help us achieve our goal of eliminating childhood poverty in New Mexico," said Governor Susana Martinez. "We are committed to standing up for New Mexico's children and ensuring that parents are upholding their responsibilities. Non-custodial parents with outstanding bench warrants have an opportunity to fulfill their obligations before our law enforcement partners work to bring them in and hold them accountable."
The Bench Warrant Program also follows on the heels of recent news that CSED was named the Most Improved Program in the country by the National Child Support Enforcement Agency. CSED also recently set a state record for the child support collections at $129 million in State Fiscal Year 2012, which ended June 30th. This collections total was 5% greater than State Fiscal Year 2011's record collections, and over 16% higher than the goal set for CSED by the Legislative Finance Committee.

Source:
