Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Unveils New Anti-DWI Campaign
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: June 22, 2012
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Earlier today, Governor Susana Martinez joined officials from Mothers Against
Drunk Driving, the New Mexico Department of Transportation, the New Mexico Department of Public Safety, and local law enforcement officers from throughout the state to launch the state's new anti-DWI advertising campaign, known as ENDWI. The launch of the new campaign follows a recent study
commissioned by Governor Martinez through NMDOT, which found that in 2011, roughly 60 percent of DWI-related fatalities involved repeat offenders, up from roughly 30 percent just five years ago. Statistics also show that while the state has been successful in decreasing DWI-related fatalities from over 200 per
year over the last two decades, that trend has flatlined as New Mexico has seen roughly 150 DWI deaths per year for the last four years.
"New Mexico's efforts to combat DWI have been successful in decreasing the number of deaths per year, but it is still unacceptable that 150 New Mexicans are killed each year as a result of drunk driving," said Governor Martinez. "The ENDWI campaign will refocus our efforts to put an end to drunk driving in New
Mexico with a particular emphasis on repeat offenders who are responsible for an increasing share of DWIrelated fatalities. We will continue to work with our partners at organizations like MADD, local law enforcement, and the federal government to stamp out drunk driving in our state and move closer and closer toward zero DWI-related deaths on our roads each year."
The ENDWI effort will include television commercials running statewide, billboards, a smartphone application, and other media efforts to combat drunk and impaired driving. For the past decade, "You Drink, You Drive, You Lose" has served as a central message for the state's anti-DWI advertising efforts.
It has been credited with helping to drive home the risks of driving under the influence to would-be firsttime DWI offenders in particular. The ENDWI effort will build upon those successes while also targeting repeat drunk drivers, which represent a larger share of DWI offenders in recent years. ENDWI also brings
the state into line with the message being used by a number of highway safety organizations such as the Federal Highway Administration, the Governor's Highway Safety Association, and the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, which all use a variation of the message, "Toward Zero Deaths." Additionally, the campaign brings the state into synergy with organizations like MADD, whose slogan is "Eliminate Drunk Driving."
"ENDWI is targeted at all of us," Governor Martinez continued. "This is a message that implies a teami effort, and our communities must be vigilant about putting an end to drunk driving. We as individuals are responsible for our own choices, such as calling a cab after drinking or taking away a friend's keys when they are impaired. I also urge lawmakers to enact tougher DWI penalties such as vehicle seizure and longer prison sentences; courts to hand down tougher sentences to DWI offenders; and law enforcement to continue their efforts to keep drunk drivers off our roads."
Today's event also marked the beginning of New Mexico's "100 Days and Nights of Summer" campaign, an intensive, annual enforcement effort by state and local law enforcement that targets seat belt use, distracted driving, and drunk driving statewide.
"Law enforcement officers will be on the lookout statewide all summer long for anyone who thinks they can get away with drunk driving," Governor Martinez concluded. "With an increased law enforcement presence across the state as well as a new anti-DWI advertising initiative under way, I am hopeful that New
Mexicans will make the right choice by staying off the roads if they've been drinking."

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/Press_Releases.aspx
