Public Statements
Governor Martinez Announces New Statewide Wildfire E-Mail Notification System, Asks New Mexico Families to Sign Up to Host Fire Evacuees
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: May 7, 2012
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez joined Housing for Emergency Evacuated and Displaced (HEED) Founder Kristin Derr, Mayor Richard J. Berry, and New Mexico State Forester Tony Delfin at the Rio Grande Nature Center in Albuquerque to discuss ways in which New Mexicans can help evacuated families and receive information about fire activity during this wildfire season.
Governor Martinez unveiled a new e-mail system that will provide residents with information about wildfires that occur near their communities. New Mexicans can sign up by going to the New Mexico State Forestry Division's main webpage at http://www.emnrd.state.nm.us/fd/. A link will take residents to a simple application asking for name, an e-mail address and location information such as Zip Code and County. Upon the report of a wildfire on state land, those who signed up will receive an e-mail alert which will supply details about the wildfire, its location, its estimated size, and other important information.
"During times of emergency, access to timely and accurate information is one of the most valuable tools the public can use to stay safe," said Governor Martinez.
The Governor also highlighted the non-profit group HEED, a one-of-a-kind New Mexico non-profit group that helps place evacuated families into volunteer host homes across New Mexico. During the Las Conchas Fire, HEED founder Kristin Derr, whose family lost its home in the Cerro Grande Fire, started a
Facebook page offering help to individuals and families who were evacuated from the Los Alamos area. The project assisted dozens of families last year and continues to grow.
"Kristin has shown remarkable compassion for her fellow New Mexicans, and I couldn't be prouder of the work she has done to start an organization that will help those most in need to find a comforting, temporary home in the midst of crisis," said Governor Martinez. "In conjunction with the tremendous work of shelter organizations like the Red Cross, I believe we will be well-positioned to take care of displaced New Mexicans should the need arise. I encourage all who are able to answer the call to sign up with HEED to serve as a host for those in need."
For more up-to-date information during wildfire season, please log onto www.nmfireinfo.com. For official State Forestry fire information on Twitter, follow @NMStateForestry. For more information, State Forestry Public Information Officer Dan Ware can be reached at 505-476-3336.
For more information about HEED, visit www.heednm.org. HEED also operates a telephone line for those displaced resident looking for places to stay during fire evacuations. That number is 505-507-3089. HEED is also looking for HOST homes and families. If interested in becoming a HOST home, please call 505-508-7179.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/Press_Releases.aspx
