Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces "Subscriptions for Soldiers" Effort
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: April 27, 2012
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Department launched the "Subscriptions for Soldiers" effort today, designed to get New Mexico Magazine into the hands of New Mexico military personnel who are deployed throughout the world.
"Subscriptions for Soldiers" was an idea conjured by New Mexico Magazine after Editor- in-Chief Dave Herndon received a letter from Col. Amanda J. Conley of Albuquerque, who was deployed to the Middle East just one week after her 65th birthday. Conley, who had received a copy of New Mexico Magazine in a care package sent by a friend back home, described how the magazine was a "mood changer" that not only reminded her of the comforts of New Mexico, but helped her persevere through her deployment.
The letter caught the eye of longtime subscriber Gary Rinaldi, who was inspired to contact the magazine to offer Conley a gift subscription. The idea was born. Now, as part of the new "Subscriptions for Soldiers" effort, New Mexico Magazine is inviting service members, or friends and family acting on their behalf, to contact the magazine at www.nmmagazine.com to request a free subscription. Anyone who would like to
donate a subscription at a discounted rate of $12 for 12 issues to active-duty New Mexicans can sign up online.
"All New Mexicans owe a debt of gratitude to the men and women of the military who are putting their lives on the line to protect our freedom," said Governor Martinez. "The experiences and scenery depicted in New Mexico Magazine truly embody the spirit and beauty of our state. This program is an excellent way to bring a little piece of the Land of Enchantment to someone serving far from home."
Col. Conley has finished her tour of duty and is now home in Albuquerque, where she works at the VA Hospital. She is the only female colonel in the New Mexico Army National Guard and served as the medic for a field artillery unit that was part of an infantry brigade at an undisclosed location.
"We all have calendars on which we mark off the days until we can return home," said Col. Conley. "Receiving a magazine each month offered me something to look forward to, like another mark, but this would bring tastes from home and a reminder that in New Mexico, the light remains on for us."
"The magazine provided an almost luxurious experience. I shared the magazines with others and found fellow soldiers had torn out pictures and hung them on the walls of our tents," Conley continued. "I wrote my letter to New Mexico Magazine because I wanted everyone to know how it had been such a powerful source of comfort for me."

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/Press_Releases.aspx
