Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Highlights Importance of Paseo del Norte/I-25 Funding in Capital Outlay Bill
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: March 6, 2012
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez emphasized the importance of funding for the Paseo del Norte/I-25 interchange provided in this year's capital outlay legislation at an event on Albuquerque's west side. During the recent legislative session, Governor Martinez worked with leaders from the city of Albuquerque and a bi-partisan group of legislators to ensure that the project received $30 million in necessary capital funds to see it through to completion.

The Governor was joined at Don Newton Community Center today by Mayor Richard Berry, DOT Secretary Alvin Dominguez, and New Mexico lawmakers.
"The interchange project at Paseo del Norte and I-25 is a sound example of how the state should be spending capital outlay funds," said Governor Martinez. "This interchange serves well over 100,000 people in central New Mexico each day and is a major artery through our state's largest city. It is an important regional infrastructure project that serves multiple communities, will create jobs in the construction industry and related fields, and will have a long-lasting positive impact on our state. There was a tremendous amount of work that went into this year's capital outlay bill on the part of legislators, the City of Albuquerque, and my administration to ensure that the state provided the funds required to see this project through. I thank Rep. Kiki Saavedra, Rep. Larry Larrañaga, Rep. Tim Lewis, Mayor Richard Berry, and all others who came to the table in order to reach a final agreement on this important commitment."
"This is a great example of working together for the betterment of our region," added Mayor
Berry. "It couldn't have happened without leadership at every level of government; from Governor Martinez, Representative Kiki Saavedra, Representative Larry Larrañaga, the Senate
Finance Committee, from both rural and urban Legislators and from both sides of the isle. This is a big piece of the funding puzzle. We are optimistic that our application for TIGER grant from the federal government will round out the funding for this critical piece of infrastructure. We are
ready to get started and I am committed to making sure it gets done."
"The interchange at Paseo del Norte and I-25 is extremely important to the efficient movement
of traffic through Albuquerque," said New Mexico Department of Transportation Secretary Alvin Dominguez. "When a corridor study to rebuild this intersection was initially completed, the cost was around $350 million dollars - inconceivable under our current funding constraints.

The Governor, the Mayor of Albuquerque and Bernalillo County, along with all of the legislators of the area came together and asked what could be done. Engineers and planners developed an
alternative that can be built for around $93 million. It provides a flyover from North to West
traffic as well as East to South movement of free flow traffic, mitigating the majority of the backup at this interchange. This is a great win-win for everyone in the area -- Paseo gets improved, traffic gets moving and we are able to quickly develop the project." Governor Martinez will finalize action on capital outlay legislation before tomorrow's 12:00 p.m. deadline

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/Press_Releases.aspx
