Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Signs State Budget in Rio Rancho Kindergarten Classroom
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: March 2, 2012
Location: Rio Rancho, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez signed House Bill 2, New Mexico's FY13 budget, at Puesta del Sol Elementary in Rio Rancho, following her participation in "Read Across America Day," where she read to kindergarteners and celebrated Dr. Seuss's birthday with students in Rio Rancho and Albuquerque.
The balanced budget keeps New Mexico's financial house in order, while increasing funding for public education by nearly $90 million and providing a $41 million increase in Medicaid to deliver health care to those most in need. The budget also allows room for significant tax reform initiatives that Governor Martinez supports as a critical way to make New Mexico more competitive in order to create jobs. Last week, the Governor signed legislation reducing the double and triple taxation on construction contractors and manufacturers, allowing for the expansion of these businesses and increasing our competitiveness with surrounding states. The legislature also approved a tax credit for New Mexico employers who hire veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.
"This budget embraces the core priorities of reforming our education system to ensure that our children can read and succeed, investing in efforts to grow businesses and create jobs, and protecting health care for those New Mexicans who are most in need," said Governor Martinez.
"And for the second year in a row, we have balanced New Mexico's budget without raising taxes. In fact, this year, we cut taxes."
Direct education reform funding includes $8.5 million for the state's early reading initiative, $3.5 million for direct assistance to schools that receive a grade of D or F under the state's A-F grading system, and $2.8 million to ensure college and career readiness by assessing students in grades 4-10 to provide students the help that they need and paying for all New Mexico 10th graders to take the PSAT. Pre-K and K-3 Plus funding will also be increased by $3.7 million and $5.7 million, respectively.

Source:
