Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Highlights Importance of JTIP Funding at Local Business
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: March 1, 2012
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Governor Susana Martinez visited Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. in Albuquerque today to highlight the importance of the Job Training Incentive Program (JTIP) in the state's efforts to support job creation and economic development. During the recentlyconcluded legislative session, Governor Martinez led a bi-partisan effort to ensure that the state's budget allocates $7.9 million for JTIP funding, an increase of $6.7 million over the current fiscal year. Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and other businesses that not only reside in Albuquerque's Sandia Science & Technology Park, but throughout New Mexico, have used JTIP to help hire and train new employees and grow their businesses in New Mexico.
"Our jobs training program has been a tremendous success, allowing businesses throughout the state to hire more New Mexicans and expand right here at home," said Governor Martinez.
"With over 50,000 jobs created since its inception, I am pleased that lawmakers were able to come together in a bi-partisan way to significantly increase funding for the JTIP program in the recently-passed budget. In conjunction with the significant tax relief we have signed into law for New Mexico's small businesses, I'm confident that we can continue to make New Mexico more competitive so that we can create jobs and get our economy back on track."
Air Products and Chemicals Inc, which recently acquired Albuquerque's PolyFlow Engineering, has participated in JTIP five times since 2007, using the program to help create 40 jobs in central New Mexico. JTIP funding is used by employers to pay for up to 50 percent of an employee's wages for the first six months of their employment while the individual is receiving training.
"The JTIP program has been an excellent economic development tool in the state during the past 40 years," said Curt Mitchke of Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. "I have personally received support from JTIP as a manager in 3 different businesses over the past 15 years. Our workforce has grown by roughly 50 percent over the past year and JTIP supported training for many of those employees."
"The money that has been allocated for JTIP in the upcoming budget will be critical as we work to make New Mexico a better place to do business and create jobs," added Jon Barela, Secretary of the Economic Development Department. "Governor Martinez, our legislators, and New Mexico's businesses all understand the importance of making it easier for companies to hire new employees, expand their operations, and help to grow our economy. The JTIP program is a success story and it deserves our continued support.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/Press_Releases.aspx
