Public Statements
Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management Secretary Michael Duvall to Join LANL Site Office as Key Security and Safety Official
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Jan. 20, 2012
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez announced today that Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management Secretary Michael Duvall has accepted a position with the National Nuclear Security Administration as Assistant Manager for Safeguards and Security at the Los Alamos National Laboratory Site Office. Duvall will leave his post as DHSEM cabinet secretary effective January 29th to transition to his new position overseeing security and safety operations for one of the nation's most sensitive facilities. Duvall was appointed to his DHSEM position by then Governor-elect Martinez in December 2010 and has served as New Mexico's top emergency management official since January 1, 2011, overseeing the state's responses to
significant crises such as last winter's cold freeze and natural gas outage, as well as last year's record-setting fire season. Governor Martinez has named DHSEM Deputy Secretary Greg Myers to serve as acting secretary while the administration conducts its search for a permanent replacement.
"Secretary Duvall's service to New Mexico has been a true demonstration of leadership, judgment, and integrity," said Governor Martinez. "Perhaps the greatest testament to his abilities is that neither last winter's widespread gas outages or the record-breaking fire season registered a single fatality. With Secretary Duvall leading the Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, I have had the highest confidence in the state's ability to respond to any emergency and I am certain that he will enjoy similar success in his new position. I wish him the very best and I am pleased that our partners at the Los Alamos National Nuclear Security Administration's Site Office have turned to such a competent and accomplished individual to tackle their safety and security efforts."
Prior to joining the Martinez administration, Duvall served as Commander of the 377th Air Base Wing at Kirtland Air Force Base. He also served as Director of Exercises and Training for the U.S. Pacific Command, Commander of the 4th Operations Group at Seymour Johnson Air Base, and Vice Wing Commander for the 455th Air Expeditionary Wing at Bagram Airbase in Afghanistan. He concluded his Air Force career as a colonel in 2010.

Source:
