Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces Upcoming Economic Development Meeting with Mexican Governors
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Nov. 16, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez announced today that she will host five northern and central Mexico governors in Santa Fe in January to discuss the further implementation of economic development strategies involving the five Mexican states and New Mexico. Governor Martinez has committed to working with the governors of Chihuahua, Durango, Sinaloa, Zacatecas, and Nayarit to develop infrastructure projects that will establish New Mexico as a key trade corridor between the two countries.
"We have an important opportunity to position New Mexico as the key geographic player in the trade relationship between the United States and Mexico," said Governor Martinez. "We are already seeing the benefits of investing in our border region, and I am confident that by working with Mexican governors in northern and central Mexico, we can promote economic activity in our state that will continue to create jobs and expand New Mexico's role as a trade corridor."
The meeting comes on the heels of the New Mexico-Chihuahua Commission, which was held in Las Cruces two weeks ago, where Governor Martinez announced a $1.8 million water treatment project in Santa Teresa to support recent business expansion and growth in the area. In addition to Union Pacific moving its rail facilities to Santa Teresa, other companies have recently moved, or will soon move, operations out of Texas and into southern New Mexico - such as TE Connectivity, Alaska Structures, and L&M Radiators.
"On the 12th of January we will be in New Mexico -- a group of Mexican governors -- to integrate a Northern Economic Block with the governor of New Mexico, to design a new economic and tourism strategy aimed at the United States through New Mexico, Chihuahua, and some states from central Mexico," added Chihuahua Governor Cesar Duarte, in making the announcement.
Governors Martinez and Duarte discussed holding the January meeting, which is separate from the Borders Governors Conference and will be comprised of a somewhat different set of participants, while together in Cuchillo Parado on Monday. The meeting is scheduled to take place on January 12th.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/Press_Releases.aspx
