Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Highlights Important Capital Projects in Santa Teresa
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Nov. 2, 2011
Location: Santa Teresa, NM

Governor Susana Martinez visited Santa Teresa this afternoon to discuss two important capital projects that will improve vital infrastructure and support economic development efforts in the border region. The two projects were included in the $86 million capital outlay bill that passed during September's special legislative session. Governor Martinez visited Monarch Litho, Inc., a commercial printing company with facilities in both Santa Teresa and Juarez, to meet with employees and discuss the capital projects and other efforts to create a friendlier business environment and promote job creation along New Mexico's southern border.
She was joined by Economic Development Department Secretary-designate Jon Barela as well as members of the Border Industrial Association.
"There is incredible potential for economic development and job creation in the border region and throughout Southern New Mexico," said Governor Martinez. "In order to realize that potential, we must provide ample infrastructure for businesses that are trying to grow and expand and companies that want to get off the ground here or relocate to our state. These two water projects are vital to retaining and supporting businesses that already exist in Doña Ana County and will provide an even greater incentive to out-of-state companies that are considering moving their operations to New Mexico. I am grateful for the leadership of Senator Pete Domenici in supporting and promoting these vital projects and I applaud the bi-partisan support they have received from our elected officials."
Roughly $1.85 million of last month's capital outlay legislation will fund water infrastructure projects in the Santa Teresa area. A total of $1.25 million will fund renovations to the area's water supply and distribution system in order to increase available water and improve water pressure for industrial sites and other facilities in Santa Teresa and surrounding areas of Doña Ana County.

Source:
