Public Statements
Governor Martinez Signs In-State Preference Bill
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez Tim Keller
Date: Oct. 5, 2011
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Governor Susana Martinez visited Jaynes Corporation in Albuquerque today to announce that she has signed a bill passed during the special legislative session that will close a loophole allowing out-of-state companies to receive a preference reserved for New Mexico businesses when bidding on state contracts. This legislation will require businesses to be housed in the state and employ New Mexico workers in order to be eligible for a five percent advantage when doing business with the state and local governments. It was sponsored by Sen.
Tim Keller (D-Albuquerque) and Rep. Larry Larrañaga (R-Albuquerque).
"This important law will assist local companies and create a more competitive playing field for New Mexico businesses," said Governor Martinez. "Making it easier for local businesses to succeed is a critical part of getting our economy back on track. By closing this loophole and creating a more favorable environment for in-state businesses, we will support companies that set up shop in our own back yard and hire New Mexico workers. I appreciate that the legislature recognized the need to provide our businesses with the tools to succeed and passed this bill unanimously through both chambers during last month's special session."
"It is important that we allow local companies the ability to succeed and create jobs here in New Mexico," added Sen. Keller. "Closing this loophole is an important step toward creating a friendlier business environment and giving our businesses the opportunity to grow, hire New Mexicans, and succeed here at home. I appreciate the Governor's support and I'm thankful for the unanimous bipartisan approval this bill received in both houses of the legislature."
Similar legislation received broad bipartisan support during the 60-day session that took place earlier this year. However, after the session ended, an unintended drafting error was uncovered that would have subjected some private businesses to the state's procurement code. Governor Martinez vetoed that bill and pledged to work with legislators to pass a clean bill during the special session.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/Press_Releases.aspx
