Public Statements
Supplemental Food Stamp Funding Restored
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Sept. 29, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez announced today that Senate Bill 3, legislation that provides $450,000 for New Mexico's supplement to the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), has been signed into law. The funding will allow the state's contribution to federal food stamp funding for low-income, elderly, and disabled New Mexicans to continue through the end of the current fiscal year. The legislation will also direct over $6 million that would otherwise revert to the federal government to the Human Services Department
for Medicaid expenses. The legislation was carried by Sen. Lynda Lovejoy (D-Crownpoint) and Rep. Dennis Roch (R-Texico).
"This important legislation will help us to fulfill our commitment to the most vulnerable New Mexicans," said Governor Martinez. "By restoring the state's supplement to the federal food stamp program, we can provide necessary funds to our low-income, elderly, and disabled citizens. Similarly, directing over $6 million that would otherwise be lost to fund New Mexico's Medicaid programs will help us to provide funds and care for those who need it most. I'm grateful for the leadership of Rep. Dennis Roch and Sen. Lynda Lovejoy, who played a major role in reaching across the aisle to ensure that this legislation was passed with unanimous support in both chambers. These are important resources that many New Mexicans rely on to make ends
meet, and I am proud that we came together to restore this funding."
Governor Martinez had requested $650,000 in funding for the state supplement to SNAP in her FY12 executive budget, but the Legislature chose not to fund the program in the 2011 regular session. The Governor extended funding for the program, using discretionary stimulus money, through the months of July, August, and September. With the passage and signature of SB3, the program is funded through the remainder of FY12. Lt. Governor John Sanchez signed SB 3 on behalf of Governor Martinez, who is currently serving as the Vice Chair of the 29th Border Governors Conference in Mexico. By signing SB 3 prior to September 30th, the State ensures there will be a timely transfer of more than $6 million to Medicaid expenses and no funding gap for SNAP supplemental recipients.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/Press_Releases.aspx
