Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces Plan to Serve Nearly 3 Million Meals to Kids Over the Summer
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: May 31, 2017
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez joined CYFD Cabinet Secretary Monique Jacobson to kick off this year's summer food program and announced that nearly 3 million summer meals will be served to New Mexico children over the summer. More than 16.5 million meals have been served since the governor took office in 2011.
"Having access to good meals ensures our kids get the essential fuel their bodies and minds need while they're out having fun over the summer," said Governor Martinez. "I encourage all parents to take advantage of the summer food program so our kids are ready to succeed the next school year."
New Mexico continues to be a national leader in providing meals to low-income children. Last year, the Food Research and Action Center once again ranked New Mexico as the No. 1 state in the country for serving meals to low-income children over the summer months.
Last year alone, more than 2.8 million meals were served to New Mexico children at over 850 meal sites throughout the state.
"Ensuring that our children have access to high-quality meals during the summer months goes a long way toward improving their quality of life," said CYFD Cabinet Secretary Monique Jacobson. "I want to encourage all parents and children to take advantage of this wonderful program and I want to thank all providers who help us to serve millions of nutritious meals to thousands of children throughout our state."
The summer food programs serve FREE meals to all children aged 18 years old and younger, and is funded nationally by the USDA.
To locate a participating meal site, or for more information on the Summer Food Program and starting dates in your area, parents can call 1-800-EAT-COOL (1-800-328-2665) or visit pulltogether.org.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Susana_Martinez_Announces_Plan_to_Serve_Nearly_3_Million_Meals_to_Kids_Over_the_Summer.pdf
