Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces Extension of Tax Deadline for Businesses Affected by Los Alamos Fire
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: June 29, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez announced today the extension of filing deadlines for gross receipts and other taxes for those businesses who have been affected by the Las Conchas Fire that has destroyed over 60,000 acres and forced the evacuation of the city of Los Alamos. The filing deadline for gross receipts, compensating and other taxes that were due June 27 will be extended to July 25, 2011 for those businesses that are located within the evacuated area.
"We are doing everything we can to assist businesses and help the Los Alamos community get back on its feet once residents are able to return," said Governor Martinez. "The extension will alleviate some of the uncertainty the evacuation has caused for those businesses who have been forced to close their doors during this emergency."
Under the law, State Taxation and Revenue Department has administrative authority to waive any penalties associated with late payments.
"We want to assist the evacuees during this difficult period," added Taxation and Revenue Secretary Demesia Padilla. "Affected taxpayers should indicate 'Las Conchas Fire' on the face of the return or on the memo of the submitted check to help identity affected taxpayers and assist us with the correct processing of returns."
Other taxes that were due on the June 27 deadline include: water conservation fee, liquor excise tax, withholding tax, interstate telecommunications gross receipts tax, governmental gross receipts tax, leased vehicle gross receipts tax, and lease vehicle surcharge.
In New Mexico, many businesses E-File their returns and pay taxes due on the Taxation and Revenue Department's online e-filing system. Using the Department e-filing system, businesses can report one or more of the following taxes: gross receipts tax (includes municipal and county taxes); compensating tax; withholding tax; governmental gross receipts tax; interstate telecommunications gross receipts tax; leased vehicle gross receipts tax; leased vehicle surcharge; and certain tribal taxes.
For more information, businesses affected by the Las Conchas Fire can call: 1-866-809-2335

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/110629_4.pdf
