Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces Federal Funds to Help Fight Dog Head Fire
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: June 16, 2016
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez announced that the state has secured federal funding to help fight the Dog Head Fire. The Fire Management Assistance Grant has been approved by the Federal Emergency Management Agency to help cover costs associated with fighting the fire.
"As we continue to move forward with our coordinated response to the Dog Head Fire, this grant will
help to ensure we can continue to support our local partners in covering costs associated with
fighting the fire," Governor Martinez said. "We'll continue to do all we can in coordinating all
available resources to protect New Mexicans' lives and property from this dangerous fire."
By securing an FMAG, federal funds will cover 75 percent of the cost of suppressing the fire.
Eligible costs include pre-positioning of resources, evacuations and sheltering, traffic control, and
fire equipment.
The Dog Head Wildfire is affecting areas of Bernalillo and Torrance Counties, and has burned
approximately 12,000 acres so far. State and local authorities will continue to monitor and respond to
the fire through a coordinated response.
Yesterday, Governor Martinez activated the New Mexico Emergency Operations Center to assist in
the coordinated response to the fire, and also declared a state of emergency to enable counties to
order and pay for additional resources needed to help with this emergency. State agencies such as the
New Mexico State Police, the Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, New
Mexico State Forestry, and others are assisting with the response to the fire. The Governor has also
directed the New Mexico National Guard to assist with the response.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Susana_Martinez_Announces_Federal_Funds_to_Help_Fight_Dog_Head_Fire.pdf
