Public Statements
Governor Sandra Martinez Creates New Mexico Effective Teaching Task Force
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: April 25, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez signed an executive order creating the
framework for a statewide initiative to reward excellent teachers and educators through
the New Mexico Effective Teaching Task Force. The task force, which will include
education leaders, teachers, parents and other community stakeholders, will focus on
finding ways to identify, recruit, reward, and retain the most outstanding teachers and
report its recommendations by August 31, 2011.
"When it comes to putting the pieces together for a quality education system, the main
ingredient is great teachers," said Governor Martinez. "Excellent educators inspire their
students and play a vital role in their academic success. It is absolutely necessary that
New Mexico has a system in place to identify, recruit, reward, and retain outstanding
teachers and educators."
Legislation that would have established a task force and framework for evaluating and
rewarding teachers, carried by Sen. Cynthia Nava (D-Las Cruces), passed
overwhelmingly in the Senate during the previous legislative session but was not heard
on the House floor.
"The current strategy of throwing money at an unsatisfactory education system has not
produced positive outcomes for New Mexico's children. We must create an environment
in which teachers, principals, parents, and community members all buy into systemic
reforms that put our children first," continued Governor Martinez. "This task force will
examine measures of achievement, identify the best practices of New Mexico's best
teachers, and propose a system of performance-based compensation that acknowledges
student growth and progress."
"Great teachers produce great students, and great students are absolutely essential to the
future of New Mexico. We must develop a system that rewards teachers based on
performance, attracts the best education professionals to our state, and creates a brighter
future for New Mexico's children," Governor Martinez concluded.
Sen. Vernon Asbill (R-Carlsbad), who helped lead several bi-partisan education
initiatives through the Senate during the previous session added, "Great teachers not only
deserve recognition, they deserve the support of all New Mexicans. This is an important
first step toward making that happen."
The text of the executive order can be found below:
EXECUTIVE ORDER 2011-024
FORMATION OF THE NEW MEXICO EFFECTIVE TEACHING TASK
FORCE
WHEREAS, the State of New Mexico is committed to ensuring every child has access to
a high quality education;
WHEREAS, research has consistently shown that one of the most critical factors to a
student's educational achievement is the quality of his or her teacher;
WHEREAS, while there are many outstanding, effective and hardworking teachers and
school leaders throughout New Mexico, the State does not have an effective system for
recognizing and rewarding their achievements in the classroom;
WHEREAS, the current method for evaluating teacher and school leader performance
has proven to be ineffective and inadequate;
WHEREAS, the absence of a framework to fully and fairly assess teacher and school
leader quality has resulted in the failure to effectively assess performance, reward
excellence and establish real accountability;
WHEREAS, one of the chief priorities of the Governor of New Mexico is creating a
comprehensive strategy to identify, recruit, retain and reward effective teachers and
school leaders;
WHEREAS, the Administration believes that improving methods of evaluating teachers
and school leaders in this State will lead to greater academic outcomes for students,
accountability and allow teachers and school leaders to reach higher levels of success and
performance;
WHEREAS, with a new evaluation framework to measure teacher effectiveness based
on student achievement, districts will be better able to address and improve school
personnel policies concerning professional development, promotion, compensation,
performance pay and tenure;
WHEREAS, any new evaluation framework shall identify teachers and school leaders
who are most effective at helping students succeed, provide targeted assistance and
professional development opportunities for teachers and school leaders, improve the
match between teacher assignments and student and school needs, and enhance incentives
for effective teachers and school leaders; and
WHEREAS, New Mexico recognizes the need to honor excellence within the teaching
profession, a Task Force comprised of a broad range of education practitioners and
experts shall be established to explore evaluation models, a performance pay structure,
value-added determinations and tenure, and recommend a statewide teacher and school
leader evaluation framework that will inform decisions about which teachers and school
leaders are most effective at helping students succeed, provide targeted assistance and
professional development opportunities for teachers and school leaders, improve the
match between teacher assignments and student and school needs, and enhance incentives
for effective teachers and school leaders.
NOW THEREFORE, I, Susana Martinez, Governor of the State of New Mexico, by the
authority vested in me by the Constitution of the State of New Mexico and by its statutes
do hereby ORDER and DIRECT:
1. The creation of the New Mexico Effective Teaching Task Force, hereinafter referred to
as the "Task Force."
2. The Task Force shall consist of up to fifteen (15) members appointed by the Governor
who shall serve at her pleasure. The Secretary of Education shall serve as the Chair of the
Task Force. The Task Force shall consist of individuals who represent the geographic
distribution and cultural diversity of the State and shall be composed of:
a. The Secretary of Education;
b. The Director of the Legislative Finance Committee;
c. The Executive Director of the Legislative Education Study Committee; and
d. Other members appointed by the Governor, including:
i. School leaders;
ii. Teachers;
iii. Administrators;
iv. Members of the business community;
v. Charter school representatives;
vi. Parents;
vii. An expert on teacher evaluation models;
viii. An expert on value-added models; and
ix. Representation from minority communities
x. Representation from the special needs community
3. The Task Force is charged with presenting recommendations to the Governor
regarding how best to measure the effectiveness of teachers and school leaders based on
specific parameters. The recommendations must include:
a. Identified measures of student achievement -- representing at least 50 percent of the
teacher evaluation -- which shall be used for evaluating educator performance;
b. Identification of demonstrated best practices of effective teachers and teaching, which
should comprise the remaining basis for such evaluation;
c. How these measures of effective practice should be weighted; and
d. How the State can transition to a performance-based compensation system, whereby
acknowledging student growth and progress.
4. The Public Education Department shall provide staff support to the Task Force.
5. The Task Force may consult with additional education stakeholders, practitioners, and
experts in the public or private sector on any aspect of its mission and recommendations.
6. The Task Force shall issue a report and recommendations on the implementation of a
teacher effectiveness and evaluation system to the Governor no later than August 22,
2011.
7. The final report of the Task Force shall be provided to the Legislature and shall be
made available to the public.
THIS ORDER supersedes any other previous orders, proclamations or directives to the
extent they are in conflict. This Executive Order shall take effect immediately.
ATTEST
DIANNA J. DURAN
SECRETARY OF STATE
SIGNED AT THE EXECUTIVE OFFICE THIS 25TH DAY OF APRIL, 2011.
WITNESS MY HAND AND THE GREAT SEAL OF THE STATE OF NEW
MEXICO.
SUSANA MARTINEZ
GOVERNOR

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/110425_1.pdf
