Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Signs Budget
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: April 8, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez today signed House Bill 2, the state budget for
fiscal year 2012, reducing state spending by roughly three percent from the previous fiscal year and cutting a total of $156 million. She also signed the committee substitute for House Bills 607 and 622, which trimmed the state's film subsidy by nearly $25 million in order to prevent deep cuts to public education.
"I am proud to sign a budget that cuts government spending while preserving classroom funding and healthcare for the most vulnerable New Mexicans," said Governor Martinez.
"During these difficult times, we have created a balanced a budget that reflects our shared priorities without raising taxes on a single New Mexican and we have demonstrated that education is a top priority by increasing state spending to our schools by roughly $56 million."
Cuts to government spending began in the Governor's office. Shortly after taking office, Governor Martinez reduced staff salaries as well as cabinet salaries by ten percent and cut salaries at the Governor's residence by over 50 percent.
"My budget proposal made it very clear that we must show a commitment to our children's education, public safety, and healthcare for our most vulnerable citizens," she continued. "This budget does just that, reducing funding to school district administrations by only 1.5 percent, replacing lost stimulus dollars to Medicaid and increasing Medicaid spending by $6 million, and ensuring that the budget was not balanced by opening prison
doors.
"The key to protecting our core priorities was trimming the film industry subsidy by nearly $25 million. Without this reduction, we would have faced deep cuts to schools and health care services. Balancing the budget on the backs of our children while continuing to give Hollywood a free ride was unacceptable to me from the start. I'm pleased that we were able to reach a suitable compromise that continues to welcome the film industry to
New Mexico."
The Governor also signed House Bill 628, which increases the retirement contributions made by state employees into their state pension funds.
"This budget makes great progress toward making necessary cuts to the size of government, but it is not perfect. While all New Mexicans have been forced to tighten their belts, the legislature refused to cut a single penny of their own budget. As we move forward, I hope they will join me in leading the way in cutting unnecessary spending. I am also committed to working with the legislature to find more permanent savings in the
future."

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressReleases/110408_2.pdf
