Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Signs Bill to Tighten CYFD Personnel Procedures
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: April 8, 2011
Location: Española, NM

Governor Susana Martinez today signed legislation that prohibits the
Children, Youth and Families Department from employing any staff or volunteers who have direct contact with children if they have been the subject of a substantiated claim of child abuse or neglect. Senate Bill 574 also streamlines the disciplinary process in the event that current employees are involved in such cases, giving the Department the ability to act more swiftly to discipline, transfer, or fire an employee with substantiated cases of
child abuse. Governor Martinez was joined by CYFD Secretary Yolanda Deines at the department's Española office.
"It is beyond irresponsible to allow individuals who have committed child abuse to work with children entrusted to the state's care and supervision," said Governor Martinez. "We must have a process in place that protects our children and allows CYFD to take swift action against employees who commit the very actions they should be working to prevent. Most employees are fully committed to their duties of keeping children safe, but unfortunately we have seen what happens when the bad ones slip through the cracks."
"The vast majority of CYFD's employees and case workers are good, solid people who work hard everyday with a passion for protecting children. We are grateful for their service," said Secretary Deines, who has more than 30 years experience in child welfare work. "But sometimes there are situations where the department needs to discipline employees up to the point of termination when our staff are themselves the subject of a substantiated child abuse investigation. We welcome this legislation and the additional
tools it gives us to deal with people who should not be investigating cases of child abuse."
SB 574 addresses those occasions when a CYFD employee becomes the subject of an allegation of abuse or neglect that is ultimately substantiated after an investigation by CYFD's Protective Services Division. The new rules provide a streamlined mechanism by which CYFD may take disciplinary action under the Personnel Act against such an employee. It also prohibits CYFD from hiring anyone who is the subject of a substantiated claim of child abuse as well as convicted felons to positions that involve contact with children.


Source:
