Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Signs Legislation to Enhance Education, Eliminate Conflicts of Interest of Government
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: April 7, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez announced today that she has signed House Bill
310, legislation that provides electronic classroom materials to New Mexico's schools.
"New Mexico's students deserve a world-class education along with the materialsrequired to provide the best possible learning environment," said Governor Martinez. "This legislation will give our children access to electronic materials that will enhance their educational experience and allow schools to use the best available technology in the classroom."
Governor Martinez also signed Senate Bill 432, prohibiting state and local government employees who are involved in the contracting process from subsequently being employed by that contractor.
"New Mexicans deserve to know that their government is operating in the best interest of the taxpayer," she continued. "Any situation in which an individual acts on behalf of the government to secure a contract and then goes to work for that contractor should raise significant red flags. This legislation will help to ensure that government employees who
oversee the use of taxpayer dollars are not spending them for personal gain."
Additionally, the Governor signed three early childhood education initiatives - Senate Bill 120, the Early Childhood Care and Education Act; Senate Bill 167, dividing appropriations for pre-kindergarten education between the Public Education Department and the Children, Youth, and Families Department; and Senate Bill 605, expanding the number of providers eligible for pre-kindergarten services.
The Governor also vetoed House Bill 298, stating, "It is unacceptable to allow sex offenders to work as janitors, assistant coaches, and in other supervised positions around children without having to register their place of employment." She has spoken to Attorney General Gary King, who shares her concerns about this legislation, and they are committed to working together to pass stronger sex offender registration legislation that
brings New Mexico into compliance with the Adam Walsh Act in the next legislative session.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressReleases/110407_1doc.pdf
