Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Signs Expansion of Katie's Law
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: April 6, 2011
Location: Carlsbad, NM

Governor Susana Martinez visited the hometown of Katie Sepich today
to sign legislation that expands Katie's Law. Senate Bill 365, sponsored by Sen. Vernon Asbill (R-Carlsbad) and Sen. Mary Kay Papen (D-Las Cruces), and carried in the House by Rep. Al Park (D-Albuquerque), requires a DNA sample from anyone arrested for a felony in New Mexico. The measure received bi-partisan support in both chambers.
Governor Martinez was joined at a meeting of the Carlsbad Rotary Club by the Sepich family, Sen. Asbill, Rep. Park, Sen. Mary Kay Papen, Department of Public Safety Secretary Gorden Eden, and First Gentleman Chuck Franco.
"This legislation is a critical tool for our law enforcement community as we fight to make New Mexico safer for our children and families," said Governor Martinez. "For five years, we have seen that Katie's Law has achieved real results -- crimes solved, crimes prevented, and lives saved. Now, we are able to do even more. Requiring a DNA sample from anyone arrested for a felony crime will make this important law even more effective. As Jayann Sepich said after its passage, New Mexico now has the toughest Katie's Law in America, with the exception of California."
Katie's Law was enacted in 2006, nearly three years after New Mexico State University student Katie Sepich was brutally raped and murdered. Though her murderer left behind traces of DNA under Katie's fingernails, New Mexico did not at the time allow for DNA to be collected upon arrest. Governor Martinez fought for the passage of the original Katie's Law legislation as District Attorney in Doña Ana County.
"I am grateful for the hard work of Dave and Jayann Sepich, Sen. Asbill, Sen. Papen, Rep. Park, and everyone else who has fought to create safer communities across the state," continued Governor Martinez. "I am proud to sign this bill into law and I am committed to ensuring that New Mexico's families do not have to suffer the tragedy that the Sepich family endured when their daughter Katie was murdered eight years ago."

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressReleases/110406_2.pdf
