Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Signs Key Economic Development Bills in Santa Teresa
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: April 5, 2011
Location: Santa Teresa, NM

Governor Susana Martinez visited Santa Teresa today to sign three
key economic development bills into law, including a locomotive fuel tax exemption that will help to create approximately 3,000 jobs in New Mexico. Joined by Sen. Cynthia Nava (D-Las Cruces), Rep. Mary Helen Garcia (D-Las Cruces), Rep. Jane Powdrell-Culbert (R-Corrales), Economic Development Secretary-designate Jon Barela, and numerous other state and local officials, Governor Martinez signed Senate Bill 179 and House Bill 523, the Locomotive Fuel Tax Gross Receipts Deduction. She also signed House Bill 24, authorizing special permits for the operation of certain overweight commercial vehicles near the southern New Mexico border, and House Bill 322, granting
additional powers to the Border Authority.
The locomotive fuel tax exemption, sponsored by Sen. Nava and Rep. Powdrell-Culbert, will put New Mexico on par with neighboring states like Texas and will bring operational facilities currently housed in El Paso across the border to New Mexico. It will allow for the groundbreaking of a new Union Pacific rail facility near Santa Teresa. Union Pacific estimates that the construction of the facility will create roughly 3,000 jobs over time,
including 900 sustained jobs at its peak.
In reference to SB 179 and HB 523, Governor Martinez said, "By eliminating New Mexico's competitive disadvantage with neighboring states, we can create a better environment for economic growth. We must encourage businesses to invest here by implementing policies that make financial sense for job creators. This legislation is an important step toward putting our economy back on track and making New Mexico a friendlier place to do business. I'm grateful to Sen. Nava and Rep. Powdrell-Culbert for
their bi-partisan leadership on this legislation and I look forward to welcoming the new jobs it will help to create."
HB 24, sponsored by Rep. Garcia, authorizes the operation of certain overweight commercial vehicles coming into New Mexico. By waiving the requirement that certain overweight commercial vehicles reduce their load as they cross the international border, companies importing those products will see reduced costs that will be passed onto consumers in New Mexico.
"Thanks to a disparity in weight requirements on commercial vehicles between the United States and Mexico, some companies sustain extra costs that result in higher costs for American customers," remarked Governor Martinez on HB 24. "This legislation will eliminate those unnecessary costs and make it easier for New Mexico businesses to sell their products and less expensive for New Mexico customers to buy them."
HB 322, also sponsored by Rep. Garcia, allows the New Mexico Border Authority a broader ability to enter into agreements with the federal government and private entities for the improvement and expansion of border facilities and the joint funding and operation of other projects.
"Promoting public-private partnerships will allow the Border Authority to maximize limited funds that are important for the development of New Mexico's border economy," said Governor Martinez. "I'm grateful to Rep. Garcia for sponsoring both of these important bills so we can move forward with developing this important region and creating sustainable economic growth in New Mexico."

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressReleases/110405_2.pdf
