Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Signs Key Public Safety Measures in Farmington
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: March 31, 2011
Location: Farmington, NM

Governor Susana Martinez visited the Boys and Girls Club in Farmington today to sign two key public safety measures into law. Joined by Sen. Sander Rue, Mayor Tommy Roberts of Farmington, Mayor Sally Burbridge of Aztec,
Farmington city councilors, San Juan County Sheriff Ken Christesen, police chiefs from Farmington, Aztec, and Bloomfield, San Juan County legislators and other state and local officials, Governor Martinez signed Senate Bill 102, requiring palm prints from individuals arrested for a crime and Senate Bill 134, banning the possession and sale of synthetic marijuana.
"One of the most basic duties of state government is providing for the safety of all New Mexicans," said Governor Martinez. "I have made it a top priority to protect and promote communities in which our children can feel safe and New Mexico's families can thrive.
These two important pieces of public safety legislation will help us to further create a positive environment for our citizens and I'm thankful to Sen. Rue and Sen. Wilson Beffort for their leadership."
SB 102, sponsored by Sen. Rue, requires a palm print to be taken from anyone arrested for a crime, just as law enforcement officers take finger prints. Last month, the FBI began using new technology to compile a palm print database and several other states, including California, Rhode Island, and Connecticut also use palm prints to identify criminals.
"Requiring palm prints from anyone who is arrested is a common-sense measure that is already being used by the FBI," Governor Martinez remarked. "This law will require a palm print to be collected in the same manner that we collect finger prints -- and it can be equally effective. When finger prints are smudged or non-existent, palm prints can be used to identify and convict criminals. This is an important tool that the law enforcement community needs to put criminals behind bars."
SB 134 outlaws synthetic cannabinoids such as Spice, K2, Blaze, and Red X Dawn, substances that were easily available online and at smoke shops in New Mexico. The substances typically consist of plant material coated with chemicals that mimic THC, the active ingredient in marijuana. In January, Farmington became the first city in the state to ban them.
Regarding SB 134, the Governor stated, "I'm proud to take statewide what Farmington started. These drugs are no less harmful just because they are known by catchy names and are chemically different than the substances they are supposed to replicate. They can pack a powerful punch and can hold devastating consequences for anyone who uses them. New Mexico now joins the federal Drug Enforcement Agency and a number of other states in recognizing that "synthetic' does not mean "harmless.'"

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressReleases/110331_3.pdf
