Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Signs Landmark Education Reform Legislation
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: March 29, 2011
Location: Edgewood, NM

Governor Susana Martinez today signed Senate Bill 427 into law,
creating a transparent A-F school grading system for New Mexico's schools.
The measure, carried by Sen. Vernon Asbill (R-Carlsbad) and Rep. Dennis Roch (R-Texico) received overwhelming bipartisan support throughout the legislative process. Governor Martinez was joined this afternoon by Sen. Asbill, Public Education Secretary-designate Hanna Skandera, Moriarty-Edgewood School District Superintendent Dr. Karen Couch, and other state and local officials at Route 66 Elementary School in Edgewood.
"The first step to ensuring every student has access to a quality education is establishing a strong foundation of accountability and transparency," said Governor Martinez. "This common-sense reform is a victory for all of us who believe that parents, students, and community members have a right to know how their schools are performing. Assigning a simple letter grade to New Mexico's schools provides a clear picture of which ones are succeeding, which ones are failing and how we can best target resources to the schools
and students most in need of help."
To increase accountability and transparency in New Mexico schools, the "Real
Accountability, Real Results" initiative originally proposed by Governor Martinez adopts an easy-to-understand, easy-to-implement system of grading schools, using the traditional school grading format of A-F.
Based on objective measures, such as student achievement and progress, with a particular focus on the lowest performing 25 percent of students, schools will be assigned letter grades of A, B, C, D, or F -- the same grades students receive -- and these grades will be posted on an easily accessible website. Schools that earn an "A" or improve a letter grade will be recognized for excellence or progress, creating an incentive for improvement in student learning. Students in failing schools will receive targeted assistance.
Under federal law, meaningful intervention for failing schools can sometimes be a five-year process. The new law calls for immediate intervention after two years for schools that have earned an "F" by targeting resources to improve these schools, helping struggling students and giving parents more options.
Governor Martinez continued, "Across the state, there are schools that are delivering real results for their students. We must do our best to identify and replicate these successes wherever and whenever possible. I thank Sen. Asbill and Rep. Roch for their hard work in passing this important legislation and I am grateful for the educators, administrators, and lawmakers across New Mexico who have demonstrated their support for meaningful education reform. I am proud to sign this bill into law, taking the important first step
toward turning New Mexico's schools around and ensuring we provide a world-class education for every single child in our state."

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressReleases/110329_1.pdf
