Public Statements
Key Education Reform Item Passes as School Grading Heads to Governor's Desk
Statement
By: Susana Martinez
Date: March 18, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez made the following statement after the House
of Representatives gave final passage to legislation to increase transparency and accountability in New Mexico's public schools by grading them on an A-through-F scale, bringing the bill to the Governor's desk to be signed. The legislation, carried by Sen. Vernon Asbill (R-Carlsbad) in the Senate and Rep. Dennis Roch (R-Texico) in the House, received overwhelming bipartisan support and passed the House tonight by a voteof 43 to 23.
"This common-sense education measure will immediately make it easier for parents and communities to understand the performance of New Mexico's public schools," said Governor Martinez. "By assigning a simple letter grade to our schools, we will have a clear idea of which ones are succeeding as well as those that need help. Establishing transparency that allows us to recognize success and reverse failure is a critical step toward an education system that truly gives our children the opportunity to succeed in the
classroom and in the workforce. I am grateful to Sen. Asbill and Rep. Roch for their leadership and I am pleased to have worked with members from both parties to pass this important education reform. I will proudly sign this important bill into law so we can begin the process of turning New Mexico's schools around."
Governor Martinez has made improving education in New Mexico a top priority and is committed to ensuring every student has access to quality schools and teachers. Her education reform plan includes key initiatives to increase accountability and transparency, set students up for success by ending social promotion, target resources where they are needed the most and identify and reward our most effective educators and leaders.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressReleases/110318_2.pdf
