Public Statements
Governor Martinez Kicks Off "Spring DWI Superblitz"
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: March 11, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez kicked off the 2011 Spring DWI Superblitz, a collaborative effort to crack down on drunk driving in New Mexico. The Governor was joined by Transportation Secretary Alvin Dominguez, Senator Kent Cravens and representatives from Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD).
The "Spring DWI Superblitz" begins today, March 11, and will run daily through March 27. This year's Superblitz includes increased DWI enforcement and features an ad campaign that highlights New Mexico citizens who have joined in the fight against DWI. "Drunk driving is an epidemic that affects all New Mexicans," said Governor Martinez.
"We are sending a clear message to drunk drivers that their actions will not be tolerated in New Mexico. We must keep these dangerous drivers off the roads and ensure that anyone who gets behind the wheel after drinking will face the full force of the law."
"Historically, the St. Patrick's Day holiday, which occurs during the Superblitz, has exhibited high DWI crash and alcohol-related fatalities. As the weather starts to warm up, we tend to see more people drinking and driving," said State Transportation Secretary Designate Alvin Dominguez. "It is our hope that along with the combined efforts of law enforcement, the citizens of New Mexico will make the right decision and decide not to drink and drive."
From 2002 to 2010 New Mexico has seen a 35 percent reduction in alcohol-related fatalities. Preliminary numbers indicate a reduction of about 10 percent in the last year in regards to alcohol-related fatalities, from 152 in 2009 to 136 in 2010.
The New Mexico Department of Transportation, Traffic Safety Bureau has designated federal funds through the end of the year to support DWI enforcement, prevention and education efforts. Federal funding from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) in the amount of nearly $2.4 million will support overtime enforcement to over 85 law enforcement agencies statewide

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/FileLinks/20e5f2e740f34a2297a940e2bacdfcce/110311_1.pdf
