Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Applauds Passage of Katie's Law Expansion in House
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: March 8, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez made the following statement applauding the House of Representatives for voting to expand Katie's Law to require a DNA sample from anyone arrested for a felony in New Mexico. The bill, carried by Rep. Al Park (DAlbuquerque), earned broad bipartisan support and passed by a margin of 55-13.
"We must give law enforcement the best possible tools to prevent crime and convict criminals and requiring DNA samples from those arrested for felonies is simply the modern-day equivalent of fingerprinting," said Governor Martinez. "Expanding this critical law to require a DNA sample from anyone arrested for a felony will solve crimes, take dangerous criminals off the street, and provide justice to victims and their families. I applaud members of the House for working across party lines to make New Mexico a safer place for our children and families and I especially thank Rep. Park and Jayann Sepich for their hard work in helping to pass this legislation. I encourage the Senate to also act in a bipartisan fashion in passing this bill so I can sign it into law before the end of the session."
Following today's vote, Mrs. Sepich said, "I'm so pleased that the New Mexico House voted overwhelmingly to expand Katie's Law. My husband Dave and I know that collecting DNA samples from those arrested for all felonies will mean more crimes solved, more crimes prevented, and more lives saved."
Katie's Law was enacted in 2006, nearly three years after New Mexico State University student Katie Sepich was brutally raped and murdered. Though her murderer left behind traces of DNA under Katie's fingernails, New Mexico did not at the time allow for DNA to be collected upon arrest. While the 2006 version of Katie's law allowed for DNA collection for certain felonies, expanding of the law to include all felony arrests has received wide support from lawmakers and the law enforcement community.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/FileLinks/20e5f2e740f34a2297a940e2bacdfcce/110308_2.pdf
