Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Applauds Passage of Social Promotion Bill in House of Representatives
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: March 1, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez today made the following statement applauding
the House of Representatives for passing legislation to end the practice of social promotion in New Mexico schools. The bill, spearheaded in the House by Rep. Nora Espinoza (R-Roswell) and Rep. Mary Helen Garcia (D-Las Cruces), passed by a vote of 62 to 5. The legislation would end the practice of advancing students from the third grade to the fourth grade when it is not warranted by classroom performance.
"Today's overwhelming show of bipartisan support to end social promotion is a critical step toward ensuring that all of our students have the knowledge and tools necessary to succeed in school and in life," said Governor Martinez. "For the sake of our children's future, we cannot continue passing students from one grade to the next before they have mastered basic skills like reading. We must get struggling students the help they need before it's too late. I strongly encourage the members of the Senate to quickly join their colleagues in the House in passing this important legislation. "Ending the social promotion of children unable to read in the third grade is a good beginning to fundamentally changing and improving New Mexico's education system.
My administration is committed to working with the legislature, educators, and administrators to ensure that every single child has the skills and opportunities to succeed in the classroom and in the workforce." Governor Martinez has made improving education in New Mexico a top priority and is committed to ensuring every student has access to quality schools and teachers. Her education reform plan is comprised of four key initiatives to increase accountability and transparency, set students up for success by ending social promotion, target resources where they are needed the most and identify and reward New Mexico's most effective educators and leaders.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/FileLinks/20e5f2e740f34a2297a940e2bacdfcce/110301_2.pdf
