Public Statements
Illegal Immigrants Busted in New Mexico Driver's License Scheme
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Feb. 18, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez announced today that state and federal
investigators have exposed yet another criminal enterprise that is using false residential documents to obtain New Mexico driver's licenses for illegal immigrants. Five illegal foreign nationals of East Indian descent were arrested Wednesday, including a suspected ring leader who is accused of charging $6,000 per individual to obtain a New Mexico driver's license. This is the sixth incident in the last seven months involving criminal operators bringing out-of-state illegal immigrants to New Mexico for the sole purpose of
obtaining a license. All but one of these suspects faces criminal charges in New Mexico for conspiracy, perjury, and the use of fraudulent documents. All suspects face federal immigration charges.
The arrests follow an intensive, ongoing investigation which was being conducted jointly by the Tax Fraud Investigations Division of the New Mexico Taxation and Revenue Department, the Investigations Bureau of the New Mexico State Police, and the United States Border Patrol. The Tax Fraud Investigations Division and State Police were planning arrests of all five individuals prior to being arrested by the Border Patrol at the Albuquerque Amtrak station. Tax Fraud Investigations Division agents had already
stopped the licenses from being issued.
"It's clear that New Mexico has become a magnet for illegal immigrants far and wide who are seeking a driver's license so they can move freely from state to state," Governor Martinez said. "Given this latest incident, I continue to urge legislators in both chambers to quickly pass legislation that puts an end to the issuance of driver's licenses to illegal immigrants. This is not a matter of partisanship; it is a matter of public safety, and New Mexicans of all backgrounds are asking for the legislature to act."
Governor Martinez also pointed out that Washington, the only other state that issues full driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, is taking steps toward repealing that policy. Democratic Governor Christine Gregoire recently voiced support for citizenship checks for driver's licenses, citing the need as "a matter of national security." Currently, several proposals in the Washington State Legislature would require the Department of Licensing to confirm an applicant's legal presence in the country. Gregoire has stated that she will
sign such legislation if it reaches her desk.






Source:
