Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Applauds Unanimous Passage of Katie's Law Expansion Out of Senate Public Affairs Committee
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Feb. 15, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez applauded the Senate Public Affairs
Committee today for unanimously approving an expansion of Katie's Law to require the collection of DNA from all individuals arrested for felony crimes in New Mexico. Governor Martinez attended the Public Affairs Committee hearing earlier today to express her strong support for the legislation, building upon the original 2006 law championed by the Governor while serving as District Attorney for New Mexico's Third Judicial District.
"Passing this bill through the Public Affairs Committee is a critical first step toward making New Mexico's communities safer," said Governor Martinez. "I'm encouraged by the continuing strong bipartisan support to expand Katie's Law and give law enforcement the best possible tools to prevent crime and convict criminals. It is imperative that we require a DNA sample from all individuals arrested for a felony in order to put some of society's worst criminals behind bars and prevent horrific acts of violence like those
committed against Katie Sepich and far too many others. I look forward to working with legislators from all parties as we take the next steps to make this important legislation law."
Katie's Law was enacted in 2006, nearly three years after New Mexico State University student Katie Sepich was brutally raped and murdered at the hands of her attacker. Though her murderer left behind traces of DNA under Katie's fingernails, New Mexico did not at the time allow for DNA to be collected upon arrest. While the 2006 version of Katie's law allowed for DNA collection for certain felonies, an expansion of the law to include all felony arrests has received wide support from lawmakers and the law enforcement community.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/FileLinks/20e5f2e740f34a2297a940e2bacdfcce/110215_2.pdf
