Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Issues Order for Recovery Funds, Describes Ongoing FEMA Assessment
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Feb. 10, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Last night, Governor Susana Martinez signed an executive order making
available up to $750,000 in state emergency funds for costs incurred by state and local entities as a result of the past week's natural gas crisis. As is customary, the state has received disaster declarations from 13 local governments within the last two days, with at least five other local governments being expected to soon file declarations. These declarations indicate the need by local communities for additional funding to assist in the
recovery process and cover both damages and costs associated with response efforts.
Additionally, damage assessment teams from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) began arriving in New Mexico yesterday to conduct a detailed accounting of the uninsured costs incurred by state and local entities including the extent of business losses, infrastructure damages, deployment of response resources, and impact on critical facilities. This effort follows on the work that has been undertaken by a FEMA representative who has been at the State Emergency Operation Center in Santa Fe since Monday. The Martinez Administration has been in contact with FEMA since the
first day of the natural gas crisis, and the Governor anticipates that damages will rise to the level of a Presidential Disaster Declaration, which will enable FEMA to reimburse state and local entities for costs associated with uninsured damages and response efforts during the state of emergency.
"We continue to express our gratitude to those who are offering a hand as we work through the process of recovering from the natural gas crisis," said Governor Martinez. "In order to facilitate the quickest possible recovery and reimbursement process for local governments, we have been responding to their requests and working with FEMA fromday one to evaluate damages and follow necessary steps to make state and federal funds available. With the worst of the natural gas crisis now behind us, we must do everything we can to aid our local communities as they process the damage and ensure that such an outage never happens again in the future."

Source:
