Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Delivers Update in Taos on Natural Gas Shortage
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Feb. 4, 2011
Location: Taos, NM

Governor Susana Martinez made the following statement after holding a press briefing on the status of New Mexico's ongoing natural gas shortage and efforts to restore services to communities experiencing outages. Governor Martinez was joined in Taos by Mayor Darren Cordova; Taos Councilmembers Rudy Abeyta, Michael Silva, and Amy Quintana; Taos Assistant Town Manager Abigail Adame; Taos Police Chief Rick
Anglada; Taos Fire Chief Eric Montoya; Taos County Sheriff Miguel Romero;
Lieutenant Sheriff Rick Medina; Taos County Commissioners Andrew Chavez, Dan Barrone, and Nick Jaramillo; Taos County Manager Jacob Caldwell; Taos County Emergency Manager Eletha Trujillo; Taos Pueblo Lieutenant Governor Luis Romero; Taos Pueblo Lieutenant War Chief Curtis Sandoval; Taos Pueblo Emergency Manger Donovan Gomez; Red River Mayor Linda Calhoun; Questa Mayor Esther Garcia; Questa Village Administrator Brent Jaramillo; Homeland Security Secretary-designate Michael Duvall and Regulation and Licensing Superintendant Dee Dennis.
"While we are still dealing with natural gas shortages across the state, the process is underway for restoring supplies and service to affected communities," said Governor Martinez. "Thanks to the generosity of our fellow New Mexicans, only 27 people were forced to stay in emergency shelters statewide last night, even though roughly 32,000 of us were without natural gas service.
"Earlier today, I spoke with officials at the New Mexico Gas Company, who told me natural gas should be restored in the communities of Alamogordo, La Luz, Tularosa, Red River, and Questa by the end of today. They are beginning the process of returning gas supplies to Bernalillo, Placitas, Taos and Espanola and will work through the weekend to restore services to those communities.
"In order to meet this goal, many volunteers from within New Mexico to as far away as Texas and even Michigan have offered to assist gas company technicians as we work to deliver natural gas to affected homes and businesses across the state. Thanks to their willingness to help, we will have over 400 qualified people supplementing the gas company's efforts to shut down meters, inspect and clear fuel lines, restore full pressure, and re-ignite pilot lights in the coming days. This group includes employees from utility
companies outside of the state, as well as volunteers from various plumber and pipefitter unions and fire departments.
"Any New Mexican who does not pass inspection when their natural gas meter is being turned back on can visit the Regulation and Licensing Department's website to find a list of licensed plumbers and contractors who will assess any problems and contact the gas company. I have ordered that the cost of permits for work done by these contractors on affected homes be waived so this cost is not passed on to customers. After an assessment
from a licensed professional, the gas company will restore the flow of natural gas and require repairs to be made in subsequent days to bring these homes and businesses up to code.
"Emergency shelters remain open across the state and will continue to serve anyone who is dealing with unbearable temperatures in their homes. A list of these can be found on the Governor's website. I also encourage everyone to continue checking the Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management's website for breaking updates and important information. I hope that all New Mexicans continue to stay safe and warm as we work as quickly as possible to resolve these challenges."
A list of qualified plumbers and contractors who are offering their services voluntarily or at a discounted rate can be found at the Regulation and Licensing Department's website at http://www.rld.state.nm.us. A list of emergency shelters and local police and fire department non-emergency phone numbers can be found at http://governor.state.nm.us. For breaking updates and other important information, please visit the Department of
Homeland Security and Emergency Management's website at http://www.nmdhsem.org.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/FileLinks/20e5f2e740f34a2297a940e2bacdfcce/110204_1.pdf
