Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Welcomes Bipartisan Support for Expansion of Katie's Law
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez Gary King
Date: Feb. 1, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez held a press conference to outline her
support for the expansion of Katie's Law and urge the Legislature and the public to continue to get behind the legislation. Katie's law is named after Katie Sepich, a New Mexico State University student who was murdered in 2003. Governor Martinez was to be joined by members of the Sepich family, who were unable to attend due to inclement weather. A copy of the remarks that were to be delivered by David and Caraline Sepich, Katie's father and sister respectively, are included at the end of this release. The Governor was joined by a bipartisan group of elected officials that included a representative from Attorney General Gary King's office and numerous Republican and Democratic co-sponsors in the House and Senate. Attorney General King was also unable to attend due to inclement weather, but expressed his deep support for the legislation to Governor Martinez.
"If we wish to make our communities safer, we must give law enforcement officials the best possible tools to prevent crime and convict criminals," said Governor Martinez. "Expanding Katie's Law to require DNA samples from all individuals arrested for a felony will prevent horrific crimes in the future by putting some of society's most heinous criminals behind bars. I have called on the legislature to work across party lines to protect the safety of New Mexico's children and families and deliver justice to those who would commit unspeakable acts of violence against them. I'm thankful for the bipartisan support this legislation has received to this point, and I look forward to
continuing our push for the passage of this critical public safety legislation."
Katie's Law was enacted in 2006, nearly three years after the murder of Katie Sepich. Though law enforcement conducted a thorough investigation of her murder, her killer's identity remained a mystery despite the fact that the murderer left behind traces of DNA discovered under Katie Sepich's fingernails. At the time, New Mexico did not allow for DNA to be collected upon felony arrests. While the 2006 version of Katie's Law allowed for DNA collection for certain felonies, Governor Martinez, Attorney General King, and
several New Mexico lawmakers have called for its expansion to include all felony arrests.

Source:
