Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Cuts Waste with Help from Fellow New Mexicans
Statement
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Jan. 26, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez made the following statement after announcing
that she is taking action on numerous cost-saving measures proposal by the people of New Mexico. After inviting her fellow New Mexicans to submit their spending cuts through CutWasteTips@state.nm.us, the Governor's office received over 1,250 responses and examined each suggestion. Today, Governor Martinez announced that she would implement the first of these proposals during a press conference at the Roundhouse.
"It should come as little surprise that when we asked for ideas to cut government spending from everyday New Mexicans, rather than politicians and bureaucrats, the response was overwhelming," said Governor Martinez. "In order to balance our budget and address our state's fiscal crisis, we must act quickly to cut waste from government. Today, I am heeding the advice of my fellow New Mexicans and taking immediate action to reduce spending.
"I have signed a one year moratorium on new car purchases for non-law enforcement purposes. This will save taxpayer money immediately while also allowing my administration to determine how many additional cars we can eliminate from the state's fleet. These cars are not personal toys -- they are paid for and maintained by New Mexico taxpayers. Along these same lines, we will also examine how we can reduce expenses by cutting cell phones for state workers who don't need them and limiting unnecessary travel by taking advantage of videoconferencing technology. We will also look at how we can eliminate redundancy and I have already ordered the Taxation and Revenue Department to consolidate its Revenue Processing Division and Audit Compliance Division."
"These measures only mark the beginning of our fight to balance the budget and rein in government spending. There are many more suggestions that will require further examination -- and my administration will implement as many as possible. The people of New Mexico have spoken and I have heard them loud and clear. It's time to cut spending, shrink government, and commit ourselves to protecting taxpayer money rather than wasting it."

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/FileLinks/20e5f2e740f34a2297a940e2bacdfcce/110125_2.pdf
