Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Notifies Board and Commission Members of Dismissal
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Jan. 14, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Governor Susana Martinez announced today that she has removed the
appointed members of the New Mexico Labor and Industrial Commission as well as the New Mexico Spaceport Authority Board of Directors. She also removed Johnny Cope from his position on the Transportation Commission. The dismissals come as Governor Martinez reviews all appointed positions within the administration and makes necessary adjustments to cut spending and balance the budget.
After notifying Labor and Industrial Commission members of their dismissal, Governor Martinez said, "Given the issues coming before the commission, it is absolutely necessary that all sides have a say in the decision-making process. My administration is committed to leading by example when it comes to cutting spending and I believe that new leadership at the commission is needed to ensure the responsible use of taxpayer money."
Governor Martinez went on to address the Spaceport board dismissals, saying, "There's no question that the Spaceport can bring jobs to New Mexico, but long-term success will require the right leadership. Given its significant costs, I believe that developing the Spaceport to its full potential requires more robust private investment and new leadership to make necessary adjustments. With more than half of construction costs coming from state funds, we must explore ways to ease the significant financial commitment that taxpayers have made in this project."
Addressing Cope's removal from the Transportation Commission, Governor Martinez said, "It's time to restore accountability to the Transportation Commission. As a body that has exceptional control over the use of taxpayer money, the potential for abuse is equally great. If we hope to restore the public's trust in government, we must guarantee that public servants are held to the highest standard as responsible stewards of taxpayer money."

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/FileLinks/20e5f2e740f34a2297a940e2bacdfcce/011411_1.pdf
