Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Introduces State Budget
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Jan. 10, 2011
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez announced her FY 2012 budget proposal,
which closes the current budget deficit without increasing taxes or cutting classroom spending and health care for the most vulnerable among us.
"This budget marks a decisive return to fiscal discipline in New Mexico," stated Governor Martinez. "It has been my top priority to balance the state's budget by cutting wasteful spending in government -- not raising taxes on New Mexico families and small businesses."
During Martinez's campaign for governor, the state's budget deficit was thought to be just over $200 million. One week after the campaign ended, the projected deficit had grown to $450 million.
Within days of taking office, Martinez cut spending at the Governor's residence by at least 55 percent, eliminating the positions of two personal chefs. She also announced that cabinet salaries would be reduced by a total of 10 percent. With today's announcement, Martinez has also pledged to reduce the total salaries in the Governor's office by 10 percent and cut the number of political appointee positions by at least 20 percent.
"The process of cutting waste in government has only just begun. Each cabinet nominee has been directed to scrub their budgets line-by-line, separating unnecessary spending from the vital mission we have to protect those in need and provide an excellent education to our children,"
continued Martinez. "For example, only 61 cents of every education dollar makes it into a New Mexico classroom. Our priority should be on kids in the classroom, and as a result, waste in bureaucracy will have to be cut."
Copies of Governor Martinez's full budget proposal were distributed to members of the media on a CD, and the budget can be viewed online at:
http://www.budget.nmdfa.state.nm.us.
A narrative summary of the proposal was sent as an attachment with this news release.
"We face serious fiscal challenges, but this administration will not hide them from the public. We are returning to fiscal responsibility and principles of common-sense budgeting. I urge patience and fortitude as we chart a new course for our beloved New Mexico," Martinez concluded. "We can no longer kick tough decisions down the road. I look forward to working with the legislature and my cabinet to lead through this difficult period, which requires shared sacrifice. We will overcome this challenging time by working and prospering together."

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/Press/2011/January/011011_01.pdf
