Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Orders DNA Lab Equipment Back to Albuquerque, Announces Key Legislative Initiative
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Jan. 3, 2011
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Governor Martinez announced this morning that she has ordered the return
of all equipment to the New Mexico DNA Administrative Center that had been removed from the Albuquerque facility and taken to Santa Fe last week.
In addition, Martinez announced her plans to push for a key initiative in the upcoming legislative session - the expansion of Katie's Law to require that DNA samples be collected from those arrested for any felony offense in New Mexico. Named after Katie Sepich, a New Mexico State University (NMSU) student who was brutally attacked, raped and murdered in 2003, Katie's
Law requires the collection of DNA samples of those arrested for certain types of felony crimes, predominantly those deemed to be more violent in nature.
"Keeping the state's DNA lab in Albuquerque is absolutely the right thing to do," Governor Martinez remarked. "It will ensure the integrity of key evidence that will help take criminals out of our communities and bring justice to victims. As a former District Attorney, I also know that the collection of DNA evidence is a critical public safety tool, and expanding Katie's Law to
include DNA collection from those arrested for all types of felonies will save lives and protect our children and families in the future."
Martinez was joined at the news conference by Albuquerque Mayor Richard Berry and Jayann Sepich, Katie's mother. As District Attorney, Martinez prosecuted and convicted Sepich's killer. Also in attendance were DPS Secretary-designate Gordon E. Eden, Albuquerque Director of Public Safety Darren White, APD Chief Ray Schultz, Senator Vernon Asbill of Carlsbad, and
Representative Bill Rehm of Albuquerque.
"I am honored to stand with Governor Martinez as she announces that the center will be moved back to Albuquerque where it belongs," Mayor Richard J. Berry said. "I thank her for her leadership. Our Governor knows the importance of this law more than anyone. As a prosecutor, she has tried and convicted numerous felons whose DNA was collected at this center."
Jayann Sepich voiced strong support for Martinez's proposal to expand Katie's Law. "DNA evidence was used to convict my daughter's killer, and by expanding DNA collection to those arrested for all felony offenses, I'm confident we can prevent similar crimes in the future," she said. "I am grateful for Governor Martinez's work on behalf of victims. This proposal would increase the safety of New Mexicans while improving our ability to convict those who harm others."

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/Press/2011/January/010311_01.pdf
