Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Signs Bipartisan Agreement on Budget, Vetoes Massive Tax Increases
Statement
By: Susana Martinez
Date: May 26, 2017
Location: Santa Fe, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez signed a bipartisan agreement on the state budget, and vetoed hundreds of millions of dollars in tax increases.
"I've long said that budgets are about priorities, and this package is no different. I'm pleased to sign this bipartisan agreement on our budget that funds our colleges, universities and legislature. It also enacts my plan to invest more money in cancer treatment and research and help more New Mexicans go to college -- while dipping into legislative retirement accounts and pork projects.
"It restrains government spending to live within our means - as our families do every day -- and puts us back on track toward rebuilding healthy cash reserves by consolidating available cash in various government accounts.
"However, I'm disappointed lawmakers once again tried to take the easy way out with hundreds of millions in tax increases that would've made it more expensive for New Mexicans to live, work and raise a family -- while increasing their own budget.
"I've vetoed these tax hikes -- along with their budget increase -- because New Mexicans expect their leaders to roll up their sleeves and find actual solutions, not take the easy way out by raising taxes anytime there's a problem. The right thing to have done is pass true comprehensive tax reform that allows families to keep more of what they earn.
"I spoke with the Speaker of the House yesterday and he said he was open to acting on comprehensive tax reform this year. I'm optimistic, and I've signed funding for a study to comb through every loophole of our tax code. I've been very clear with legislative leaders: The people of New Mexico will be watching to see if this becomes another government study that gets filed away only to collect dust. New Mexicans deserve action.
"Moving forward, I'll keep fighting to fix our broken tax code to help New Mexicans keep more of what they earn, allow more businesses to grow and create jobs, and make New Mexico even more competitive." - Gov. Susana Martinez
Signed House Bill 1 -- Supplemental General Appropriations [MESSAGE]
Signed House Bill 2 -- Tax, Fund and Distribution Changes [MESSAGE]
Signed Senate Bill 1 -- Severance Tax Bond Project Changes [MESSAGE]
Vetoed Senate Bill 2 -- Tax Changes [MESSAGE]

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Susana_Martinez_Signs_Bipartisan_Agreement_on_Budget__Vetoes_Massive_Tax_Increases.pdf
