Public Statements
Martinez: On the Issues
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Aug. 19, 2010
Location: Unknown

Republican Gubernatorial Nominee Drives Message On Comprehensive Education Reform
Martinez Releases Comprehensive Education Reform Plan:
"Republican gubernatorial candidate Susana Martinez said Wednesday she would take money from the educational bureaucracy in New Mexico and put it into classrooms. Martinez, flanked by a group of teachers, outlined an educational plan she said would put an additional 4 percent of current education dollars into schools." (Sue Major Holmes, "New Mexico Gubernatorial Candidate Talks Education," The Associated Press, 8/11/10)
* "That would free up $74 million to recruit and retain good teachers, buy textbooks and new technology, and offer remedial help to struggling students and schools in the form of additional teacher training, tutoring and summer school, she said. Redirecting money would add funds to classrooms without increasing the state budget, Martinez said." (Sue Major Holmes, "New Mexico Gubernatorial Candidate Talks Education," The Associated Press, 8/11/10)
"[Martinez] said she would ban the practice of passing students into the next grade if they lack basic skills and would solicit funds from businesses and individuals for scholarships for low-income students to transfer to private schools. Donors would receive tax credits." (Sue Major Holmes, "New Mexico Gubernatorial Candidate Talks Education," The Associated Press, 8/11/10)
"Martinez said New Mexico must undergo "a fundamental rethinking' of achievement tests by testing what students know at various points during the school year and making immediate changes if needed. She also favors merit pay for teachers, including incentives to reward high-performing teachers who go to low-performing schools." (Sue Major Holmes, "New Mexico Gubernatorial Candidate Talks Education," The Associated Press, 8/11/10)
Martinez Travels The State Talking About Bold Change In Education:
"Republican gubernatorial candidate Susana Martinez told a group of teachers here Thursday she would take money from the educational bureaucracy in New Mexico and put it into classrooms. Martinez outlined an educational plan she said would put an additional 4 percent of current education dollars into schools. That would free up $74 million to recruit and retain good teachers, buy textbooks and new technology, and offer remedial help to struggling students and schools in the form of additional teacher training, tutoring and summer school, she said. Redirecting money would add funds to classrooms without increasing the state budget, said Martinez, who first announced the plan a day earlier in Albuquerque. "Public schools succeeding is outrageously important and it would be the number one, the number one, priority for a Martinez administration,' she said." (Diana M. Alba, "Martinez Talks Up Education Plans," Las Cruces Sun-News, 8/13/10)
Martinez Publishes Op-ed On Education Reform Plan:
"When doing anything substantive or meaningful in life, the foundation one puts in place is critical to long-term success and the integrity of the effort. That is certainly true concerning education. Every year in the classroom -- from pre-kindergarten through high school -- builds on learned subject matter and experiences. The lessons and subject matter studied and taught is applied year after year and is crucial to achieving success both inside and outside the classroom. But today, the foundation our schools have constructed is not sound. The long-term success of our children is in great peril. In New Mexico, our children are not learning the basic lessons and subject matter that will position them to be successful in life. In fact, the education deficiencies in our state have now reached crisis levels, and only bold change will turn things around  Voters realize that now is the time for bold change. Specifically, my proposal aims to encourage high standards for our students, increase the accountability of our schools and provide incentives for excellence." (Susana Martinez, "Only Bold Change Will Turn Around An Education System In Crisis," N.M. Politics, 8/13/10)
Martinez Speaks Out On Failed Education System In New Mexico:
""This administration came in saying they wanted to be held accountable, they wanted to change our education system,' Martinez said. "The lieutenant governor herself said she should be judged on her accomplishments in education. By any and every measurable standard, she deserves a failing grade.'" (Kate Nash, "Governor Hopefuls Clash On Education," The [Santa Fe] New Mexican, 8/12/10)
* "[E]ducation is at least for a moment the 2010 campaign's topic de jour, with Martinez wanting to shake things up and Denish defending what she's done." (Kate Nash, "Governor Hopefuls Clash On Education," The [Santa Fe] New Mexican, 8/12/10)
"One of the top priorities for the next governor of New Mexico will be to provide our children with a high-quality education. It's important to understand, nearly eight years ago when the Richardson/Denish Administration was elected, that was also the case. And yet, almost a decade later, we are confronted by failing schools, abysmal performance scores and a growing sense of hopelessness." (Susana Martinez, "Only Bold Change Will Turn Around An Education System In Crisis," N.M. Politics, 8/13/10)
"The Richardson/Denish Administration had their chance to try their way, and our schools are now worse off as a result. The people of New Mexico understand that the Richardson/Denish Administration deserve a grade of "F' for failure on the issue of education." (Susana Martinez, "Only Bold Change Will Turn Around An Education System In Crisis," N.M. Politics, 8/13/10)
New Mexico Educators Endorse Martinez Education Reform Plan:
"Susana Martinez, Republican gubernatorial nominee today announced her statewide Educators for Martinez coalition. Coalition members include educators from across New Mexico who have endorsed Martinez's Education Reform Plan and her vision for turning our schools around." (Press Release, "Susana Martinez For Governor Announces Educators For Martinez Coalition," Susana Martinez For Governor, 8/17/10)
Martinez Releases Her Education Reform Plan For New Mexico:
"Susana Martinez's Plan To Reform Education." (Press Release, "Susana Martinez's Plan To Reform Education," Susana Martinez For Governor, 8/11/10)
"Only Bold Change Will Turn Around An Education System In Crisis." (Press Release, "Only Bold Change Will Turn Around An Education System In Crisis," Susana Martinez For Governor, 8/12/10)
"Funding In The Classroom, Where It Counts." (Press Release, "Funding In The Classroom, Where It Counts," Susana Martinez For Governor, 8/13/10)
"In Case You Missed It!: Martinez Talks Up Education Plans." (Press Release, "In Case You Missed It!: Martinez Talks Up Education Plans," Susana Martinez For Governor, 8/13/10)
"Setting The Bar High: Ending Social Promotion, Raising Standards, Increasing Accountability." (Press Release, "Setting The Bar High: Ending Social Promotion, Raising Standards, Increasing Accountability," Susana Martinez For Governor, 8/16/10)
"Susana Martinez For Governor Announces Educators For Martinez Coalition." (Press Release, "Susana Martinez For Governor Announces Educators For Martinez Coalition," Susana Martinez For Governor, 8/17/10)
"Expanding K-12 Opportunities For Success." (Press Release, "Expanding K-12 Opportunities For Success," Susana Martinez For Governor, 8/18/10)

Source: http://www.susanamartinez2010.com/2010/08/martinez-on-the-issues-4/
