Public Statements
Expanding K-12 Opportunities for Success
Statement
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Aug. 18, 2010
Location: Unknown

"A Bold Agenda For Education In New Mexico"
If we are truly going to ensure that every child receives a good education, we have to expand the opportunities for children so they can reach their full potential.
Real School Choice -- We need to recognize that different students learn better in different educational environments. Every family should have access to different educational opportunities, including charter schools, vocational schools, virtual classrooms or enhanced school choice. No child should be trapped. The core mission of our education system is to make sure our children learn, graduate and are job-ready. We can only accomplish this if we embrace different options that maximize the potential of every child.
Tax Credit Scholarships -- Tuition tax credit scholarships for K-12 students help provide greater educational opportunities for students who cannot otherwise afford them. New Mexico should provide tax credits to individuals and corporations who contribute to non-profit organizations that provide scholarships to low-income students. These donors would receive a credit against their state taxes. The tuition tax credit would help offset the cost of K-12 schooling for these students, increasing school choice and educational opportunities.
Scholarships For Students With Special Needs -- We must provide more educational choices for all students, but this is especially true for students with disabilities. If a student has an Individual Education Plan (IEP) in place, and the parents of that student are not satisfied with the progress the student is making, they will then become eligible for a scholarship which will allow them to transfer to another public school or transfer to a private school. The scholarship would be equal in amount to the funding received by the local school district for the individual student or for the cost of the private school's fees and tuition, which ever cost is less. This will allow parents the flexibility in helping choose the best educational opportunities for their children.
Tax Credits For Summer Internships -- Many times, over the summer, students lack ongoing learning opportunities. These students typically try to find summer jobs, but in these tough economic times may have difficulty doing so. In order to expand education opportunities, particularly for low-income students, New Mexico should provide a tax credit against state taxes to employers who provide summer internships. Not only will the internships provide employers with a labor force throughout the summer, but will also provide ongoing education opportunities for students.
Alternative Teacher Licensure -- In New Mexico, we are blessed with outstanding national laboratories, high tech businesses and the brightest minds in the nation, especially in math and science. Currently, if a professional in another field wants teach in New Mexico, their options of advancing to the classroom, regardless of their level of education, are fairly limited. We must take advantage of this wonderful resource and ease the process of allowing these individuals to become teachers, while maintaining high standards. New Mexico can do this through expanding alternative teacher licensure. By removing barriers of entry into the classroom for qualified individuals we can attract the best talent New Mexico has to offer.

Source: http://www.susanamartinez2010.com/2010/08/expanding-k-12-opportunities-for-success/
