Public Statements
Setting the Bar High: Ending Social Promotion, Raising Standards, Increasing Accountability
Statement
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Aug. 16, 2010
Location: Unknown

"A Bold Agenda For Education In New Mexico"
The National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) shows New Mexico at the bottom in performance comparisons to other states in overall achievement and closing the achievement gap, despite spending more per student. (Source: Achievement Gap And The Three Tiered System, LFC Report, June 2009)
We can do better -- we must do better -- in educating our students and closing the achievement gap.
Ending Unearned Grade Advancement -- If students cannot read after the third grade, they lack the basic skills needed to help them learn and they fall behind in school. From Kindergarten to third grade students are learning to read; from fourth grade on, students are reading to learn. We must focus on higher literacy rates among our students. Many times students are passed on to the next grade level even though they are not able to meet achievement standards. Simply put, students who are not achieving must be held back in order to help them meet standards. The decision to hold a student back should not be based on a single test; they should be given the opportunity to demonstrate their mastery of the content in an alternative manner. And, we need to provide the opportunity for students to catch up through aggressive remedial action.
Merit-Based Pay Increases For Teachers -- Private industry uses financial incentives as a motivating factor in achieving results. The same reward model can be applied to education for high performing teachers. Financial incentives should be linked to achievement in the classroom. Financial incentives can be further used to reward the highest performing teachers who stay at, or relocate to, low-performing schools and experience measurable improvement in student achievement.
High Academic Standards -- We saddle our children with the burden of low expectations. If we want our children to achieve, we have to set the bar high and provide an opportunity to succeed. Student progress should be measured every year and schools should be graded on their ability to meet student achievement standards and student progress. We must recognize success and identify problems to take corrective action.
School Accountability -- The Legislative Finance Committee currently grades the Public Education Department on several performance standards, but parents, students and teachers have no easy format to understand the performance of individual schools throughout the state. We should adopt an easy to understand, easy to implement system of grading our schools based on the traditional school grading format. Schools will be assigned letter grades of A,B,C,D or F and these grades will be posted to an easily accessible Web site for parents, students and teachers to access, which will help to increase performance in our schools as well as increasing transparency in our school system. We can only take steps to correct failure if we first identify it, and reward success if we measure it. New Mexico conducts annual testing in the state for grades 3-8 and grade 11. Currently, there are consequences under the federal No Child Left Behind (NCLB) guidelines for schools that fail to meet certain standards. But, interventions can take years. We need to take immediate corrective steps to get schools and students achieving standards and making progress. Measuring student progress more often would evaluate not only student achievement (achieving grade level standards), but would also recognize progress in a student from year to year. This motivates children, parents, teachers and schools to continue to strive for excellence, whether they are an "A" or "F" school.
Immediate Intervention At Failing Schools -- We cannot wait five years to fix schools that are failing. That means a whole class of students has received an inadequate education. If a school is failing, we need to begin working with that school immediately by developing stronger school curriculum, providing additional teacher support and training, working to attract high performing teachers to the school, provide remedial instruction to students who are struggling through summer school and after school programs, and provide students and parents with school options to make sure children get the education they deserve. We will not fund failure.
Ending Truancy -- While serving as District Attorney, we established a truancy program in Doña Ana County that held parents and students accountable for class attendance. Through a partnership with schools and law enforcement, we created a truancy program that ensured students showed up for class and came prepared. We need to work together to make sure all of us are held accountable for the progress of our children.

Source: http://www.susanamartinez2010.com/2010/08/setting-the-bar-high-ending-social-promotion-raising-standards-increasing-accountability/
