Public Statements
The Taos News - Governor Candidate Susana Martínez Brings Message To Taos Event
News Article
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Aug. 14, 2010
Location: Unknown

By Joan Livingston
Susana Martínez, the Republican candidate for governor, made a campaign stop in Taos Sunday (Aug. 8), delivering her message about shrinking big government and eliminating corruption at the state level.
Martínez greeted a long line of voters, listening to their comments and posing for photos at a barbecue hosted by the local Republican Party at the Sagebrush Inn. Art Ortiz, events organizer, said more than 400 people were at the event, which was attended by local and state candidates. Ortiz estimated that a third to half of the crowd were Democrats.
"I thought it was a great success," Ortiz said. "Normally we don't get that many people. We were favored with good weather and a lot of our Democratic friends who came."
So how does Martínez plan to woo voters in heavily Democratic Taos County? Martínez said she will win over voters by talking about the issues she says are important to them such as jobs, education, and getting rid of the corruption she says impacted the decisions that created New Mexico's deficit.
"When we talk issues with voters, the voters are smart," Martínez said. "They're starting to vote for individuals that bring character, that bring a principle, and that they know that will fight for them. It doesn't matter what party it is anymore."
She noted that Democrats attended organizational meetings in Taos even before the primary election. Martínez said acequias and water issues are important to Taoseños. She said she supports letting acequia associations make their own decisions. She said jobs are also important to Taos, noting that small businesses provide 80 percent of the jobs in the state. She said nothing is worse for business "than a big, corrupt government."
"What happens when you have a really big government like we have now, you end up killing jobs because you have to continuously have a high tax rate," she said. "You've got to bring that down so we can be competitive with our surrounding states."
Also attending the barbecue were: Tom Mullins, candidate for U.S. representative district 3; Dianna Durán, for secretary of state; Errol Sánchez, for auditor; Matthew J. Nielson, for state representative district 42; Rick Trujillo, for Taos County sheriff; and Sadie Boyer, for probate judge.

Source: http://taosnews.com/articles/2010/08/14/news/doc4c6418c40af00629215163.txt?utm_source=twitterfeed&utm_medium=twitter
