Public Statements
Getting NM's Economy Back On Track Requires Both A Plan And Action
Statement
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Aug. 9, 2010
Location: Unknown

I have been heartened in the weeks since becoming the Republican gubernatorial nominee by the fact that a meaningful and substantive dialogue has begun to develop concerning the chief issues confronting our state -- jobs and the economy.
My campaign, as well as that of my opponent -- Lieutenant Governor Diane Denish -- have rolled out and campaigned on economic plans for New Mexico. Come November, voters will make a determination regarding which one of the two visions best reflects their hopes and dreams for our beloved state.
As New Mexicans look at what I have put forward as an economic framework, they will appreciate the premium I have placed on making our state competitive, getting our finances in order and rooting out corruption, all with one very clear and measurable objective: getting New Mexicans back to work.
There are very real differences between the approach I have laid out to turn New Mexico's economy around and Diane Denish's. These differences will be the basis for the choice this fall.
The Differences
Taxes is one of the clear dividing lines between myself and Diane Denish. At the core of my plan is a commitment to not raise taxes that hurt New Mexico families and burdens our small businesses. But my plan goes further and pledges to work to phase out job-killing taxes so that we can stimulate growth in our small business sector, entice investment to our state, and create a more competitive tax environment with our neighboring states. If businesses have more resources, the end result is growth and new job creation.
My opponent tries to make similar claims about taxes, but has established a clear record of supporting tax increases. Though Denish has been saying that she is against tax increases to solve the budget crisis, her own budget plan calls for the elimination of tax credits, which is the equivalent of raising taxes.
Another area where there is an absolutely crystal clear contrast is corruption. I believe waste, fraud and abuse results in millions of dollars in wasted resources and additional costs that are passed on to taxpayers. Diane Denish has been lieutenant governor of arguably one of the most corrupt administrations in New Mexico history and remained virtually silent on this topic.
On the issue of tort reform, New Mexico was just named a "judicial hellhole" by a national organization that monitors frivolous lawsuits. I believe we must end lawsuit abuse, so employers are not sued out of business, resulting in jobs being lost. Diane Denish has had little to say on the matter.
I have spoken repeatedly about removing taxes on state services. In fact, New Mexico taxes 158 business services. Only six other states tax more than 100. Our neighboring states do not tax services at all. One consequence is that many business-to-business transactions are taxed in New Mexico, a policy termed "pyramiding." This practice increases overhead for New Mexico small businesses and puts them at a competitive disadvantage. While I have spoken out against these taxes that discourage job creation, my opponent is silent.
And while I have made a firm commitment to cut burdensome and job-killing regulations that hurt small businesses, Diane Denish has paid lip service to this with little more than a mention in her plan and comments. But the Richardson-Denish record speaks volumes about their regulatory views -- help the politically connected and powerful and push radical environmental regulations that are killing our rural industries.
Fundamentally Changing The Way Business Is Done
One example of a regulation I would work to change are the elements of the Pit Rule that drive up the cost of drilling for no valid scientific reason. This directive, which was not based on sound science to protect the environment, adds an estimated additional cost of $250,000 per well drilled in New Mexico, which results in less activity, fewer jobs and diminished revenue. We can protect our environment and provide a stable business environment, if we base our regulations on evidence and facts, rather than ideology. That's what I'll do as governor.
On the issue of energy taxes, I have been outspoken in my opposition to cap-and-trade legislation, or what some term cap-and-tax. And while Denish has expressed her reservations about the policy, it is difficult to take her words seriously as her administration spearheaded an effort to impose a regional cap-and-trade agreement as she stood on the sidelines.
And I believe government doesn't create jobs, but can put in place an environment that encourages growth and development (i.e. hiring). Diane Denish believes just the opposite as she has been at the head of an administration that has grown government by 50 percent as its rules and regulations resulted in less competition and negative job growth in the private sector.
At the end of the day, the differences between my vision and approach and Denish's define the choice facing New Mexicans. I believe in a bold approach that fundamentally changes the way business is done in the state from what has been done over the course of the last eight years. My opponent is nothing more than an extension of the tax-increasing, regulation-imposing and job-killing administration that has placed New Mexico on the brink of bankruptcy and cost us jobs.

Source: http://www.susanamartinez2010.com/2010/08/in-case-you-missed-it-getting-nm%E2%80%99s-economy-back-on-track-requires-both-a-plan-and-action/
