Public Statements
Op-Ed - Ground State's Jet; It Exceeds Baggage Limits
Op-Ed
By: Susana Martinez
Date: Aug. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

Published by The Albuquerque Journal on August 1, 2010.
It is unconscionable for New Mexico politicians and appointed officials to use sick kids and rural residents to justify keeping up their jet-setting ways.
But that's exactly what they are doing.
Officials don't mention that before taxpayers shelled out more than $5 million for a swanky Cessna Citation Bravo, run-of-the mill turbo props ferried those sick kids as well as those officials around the state. Or that those pedestrian planes are more economical for quick trips at lower altitudes.
Instead, Gov. Bill Richardson's spokesman sounds the dire warning that sick children "rely on the planes the most." Lt. Gov. Diane Denish says "to advocate for rural New Mexico, sometimes you have to get out to rural New Mexico." And state Transportation Commission Chairman Johnny Cope says being able to "take government to the people" is worth the cost of having the governor-appointed commissioners use the jet.
That cost to New Mexico taxpayers is $1,627 per flight-hour, nearly double the hourly operating cost of the plane it replaced in 2005.
Denish's opponent in the November governor's race, Republican Susana Martinez, says if she wins she will sell the jet because it is too much a symbol of government excess.
She's right.
From the Transportation Commission members, who have a responsibility to know the conditions of the state's highways, to the administration, which has a duty to spend tax dollars wisely, rationales for using the jet simply don't fly.
Denish also tries to wing it with the claim it makes bad fiscal sense to sell the jet in a down economy at a loss. Fine. So mothball it.
That would still leave more economical planes for the sick children, and it might give state officials a closer look at the communities and taxpayers they purport to represent.

Source: http://www.susanamartinez2010.com/2010/08/in-case-you-missed-it-ground-states-jet-it-exceeds-baggage-limits/
