Public Statements
Susana Martinez's Plan For Jobs & Economic Recovery
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: July 14, 2010
Location: Unknown

"If New Mexico is truly "open for business,' we need to send the right signals that this is a welcoming and hospitable environment for businesses to put down roots, invest and create jobs."
Susana Martinez's Plan For Jobs & Economic Recovery:
Tort Reform. New Mexico's Appellate Courts were just named a "Judicial Hellhole" by a national organization that monitors frivolous lawsuits, as our state debuted on the list of the 10 worst states for business lawsuits. We must end lawsuit abuse, so New Mexico companies are not sued out of business.
Encourage Expansion And Reinvestment. Companies that reinvest in either their personnel or equipment should receive a tax credit for helping to stimulate our economy. We must develop greater incentives to create jobs and invest in New Mexico.
Streamline And Expedite State Government Loan Programs To Small Businesses. Through various state programs, start-up funding is available for small businesses. We can streamline the process to ensure efficient and timely delivery to help jump start our economy.
Customer-Friendly Business Permitting And Licensing. It should not take two years to get the necessary license in New Mexico. We need a more efficient process to get businesses' their licenses so they can open their doors and revitalize our state. State government must be mindful that time is money for small businesses.
Reform Our Education System. New Mexico has languished in the basement nationally in academic achievement for years, with no improvement made during the Richardson/Denish Administration. Reforming our education system requires a different mindset that rewards good teachers with merit pay, cuts waste from the education bureaucracy shifting more resources to the classroom, expands parental choice so every parent can send their child to a quality school. We must also enhance truancy programs to reduce the dropout rate and reinstate vocational opportunities in high schools so every New Mexico student has the opportunity to learn critical workplace training and skills. Times of stringency are optimal for new thinking and breakthroughs. It is an opportunity to innovate, to create, to take simple steps that cost nothing at all, but can pay big dividends in the future.

Source: http://www.susanamartinez2010.com/2010/07/improving-new-mexico%E2%80%99s-business-climate/
