Public Statements
Martinez Holds Roundtable Meeting
News Article
By: Susana Martinez
Date: July 13, 2010
Location: Unknown

By Matthew Arco
Republican gubernatorial candidate Susana Martinez held a roundtable discussion with Roswell business leaders Monday, promising to cut government regulation if elected in November.

Martinez met with about 30 representatives of local businesses at Roswell Regional Hospital. She took questions during the roundtable as attendees used the opportunity to get a feel for what the candidate would do as governor.
The gubernatorial hopeful took aim at a controversial regulation on the oil and gas industry, known as the pit rule.

"We have to embrace the oil and gas industry  (and) we can do it responsibly," Martinez said. "We regulated to the point where science doesn't justify it."

The pit rule established new guidelines for using, maintaining and cleaning up pits used to tap oil and gas wells -- including the use of thicker liners, having to dispose of the waste and utilizing a closed-loop system in certain circumstances.

Opponents to the regulations argue the increased costs associated with the new rules drove the oil and gas industry out of the state

"(The Gov. Bill Richardson administration) did create jobs," Martinez said. "In Texas and Oklahoma."
Roundtable attendees, who included representatives from the dairy, oil and gas, automotive and medical industries, asked questions from border security to the national health care overhaul.

"I think she's primarily here to listen,"?said Bill Owen, the event's host.

Martinez made the stop in Roswell as part of her Jobs and Economic Recovery tour around the state. Some of her plans include reversing the pit rule, eliminating exempt positions in state government and opposing cap-and-trade legislation.
"(We're) discussing the economic plan we rolled out a few months ago," she said. "We want to meet with all the communities throughout the state  and get input on our plan and expand it in the coming days and months."

Source: http://www.susanamartinez2010.com/2010/07/in-case-you-missed-it-martinez-holds-roundtable-meeting/
