Public Statements
Making New Mexico Competitive
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: July 7, 2010
Location: Unknown

Susana Martinez's Plan For Jobs And Economic Recovery
"If New Mexico is going to grow our economy, we have to have a hospitable business environment for people to live, work, and invest. States that tax more are suffering more in these difficult economic times -- California is a prime example, with one of the highest tax rates in the nation and ranked one of the worse states to do business. Texas, on the other hand, has lower taxes and leads the nation in job growth. New Mexico shouldn't take a backseat to Texas and we won't -- if we have the courage to make bold changes."
The Susana Martinez Plan For Jobs & Economic Recovery:
Restrain Government Spending. Spending cannot grow faster than the rate of inflation and population growth. We cannot continue to expand our state budget on the backs of working families. This requires every state agency to provide aggressive plans for reducing costs and promoting efficiency. We need to look for ways to make government work better, not make it bigger, while funding critical priorities such as education and public safety.
Phase Out Job Killing Taxes.We must reform New Mexico's tax structure by identifying and eliminating taxes that stifle job growth. Just imagine where New Mexico would be today, if our leaders had used surplus tax dollars to eliminate these taxes rather than spending them on new government programs that grew government by 50%.
* New Mexico Taxes 158 Business Services -- The Second Highest In The Nation. One consequence is that many business-to-business transactions are taxed in New Mexico, a procedure termed "pyramiding." This practice increases overhead for New Mexico businesses, and may put them at a competitive disadvantage relative to other states, while leaving less revenue to expand and create jobs. This also has a more significant impact on small businesses, making it more difficult to compete with larger companies. Many times, the cost of this pyramiding is passed on to consumers in the form of higher prices.
Eliminate The "Back Door" Personal Income Tax Increase.This backdoor tax increase passed this year went virtually unnoticed. Families and businesses filing an itemized return at the individual rate will see their state income tax bill increase because the taxes that are deducted for federal income tax purposes will no longer be deductable for state income tax purposes. This backdoor tax will negatively impact New Mexico middle class families.
Lower Taxes On Individuals And Families.If New Mexico is to remain competitive, our elected leaders need to worry as much about family budgets as they do the government's budget. With an economic recovery and a strong business sector, we can work to reduce individual taxes.
Invest In Local Business. New Mexico businesses should have a real advantage in the contracting process so we are building and supporting our own companies. This means eliminating loopholes that allow out-of-state contractors to qualify as "in-state" when bidding on public projects. Another avenue is through community banking. Today, New Mexico invests its money mainly in large multi-national banks. We should look to keep more of that money in-state, and perhaps increasing liquidity and loan opportunities for New Mexico communities.

Source: http://www.susanamartinez2010.com/2010/07/making-new-mexico-competitive/
