Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces 2017 New Mexico True Summer Reading Challenge
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: May 16, 2017
Location: Placitas, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez announced the 2017 New Mexico True Summer Reading Challenge, which helps students maintain and improve their reading skills over the summer months when they aren't in class.
"This is a great way to keep kids reading all year long -- even when they're not in school," Governor Martinez said. "Not only does the reading challenge prepare students to hit the ground running in the new school year -- it's also a fun way for them to learn more about our state."
The New Mexico True Summer Reading Challenge is open to all New Mexico elementary school students ages 5 to 12. All participants submitting a completed log showing they read six books will receive a New Mexico True bookmark and certificate. Students submitting a log with 12 or more books read, along with an essay explaining why they love New Mexico, will also receive a bookmark and certificate, and will be entered into a random drawing for one of the following grand prizes:
One reader and three of their family members will receive an all-expense paid trip Walt Disney's Animal Kingdom in Orlando, Florida.
Two readers will enjoy a balloon ride with Governor Martinez and First Gentlemen Chuck Franco.
Four readers will become ABQ BioPark Junior Zookeepers for a day, including a behind- the scenes tour and admission tickets to the ABQ BioPark Zoo.
Three readers will receive an opportunity to meet the UNM Lobos Head Basketball Coach, tickets to a game (be announced on the court before the game), and an autograph ball signed by the team.
Three readers will receive an opportunity to meet the NMSU Aggies Head Basketball Coach, tickets to a game (be announced on the court before the game), and an autograph ball signed by the team.
One reader and their family will receive a "family four pack" for the 2016 New Mexico State Fair, including four admission tickets into the Fair and four tickets to the one of the fair's exciting concert/rodeo events at Tingley Coliseum.
The prizes are made possible by contributions from various agencies and departments of the State of New Mexico, and generous donations from the following community partners: the Greater Albuquerque Chamber of Commerce, the Albuquerque Hispano Chamber of Commerce, Comcast Internet Essentials, the University of New Mexico Athletic Department, the New Mexico State University Athletic Department, X-treme-lee Fun Balloon Adventures, New Mexico State Fair, The Waite Company, New Mexico State Parks, Dion's, the New Mexico State Library, Isotopes, the City of Albuquerque, the Albuquerque BioPark, the Los Alamos History Museum, the Hyatt Regency Tamaya Resort & Spa, Auslander Condominiums, the Cimarron Chamber of Commerce, Drury Plaza Hotel in Santa Fe, Duran Central Pharmacy, KRSN Radio, Sean Wells Artist & Designer, Legends by Lantern Light, Clayton-Union County, Ghost Ranch, Lago Rico Inc., Red River Ski & Summer Area, the New Mexico Museum of Space History, and Sandia Peak Aerial Tramway, Heritage Hotels & Resorts, Inc., USDA Forest Service, and Tours of Old Town.
Reading logs and brochures have been sent to public schools across the state. Participants must be a New Mexico resident entering Elementary School in the 2017-18 school year, or 5 to 12 years old by September 1, 2017. Residency and eligibility will be verified for all grand prize winners.
For a complete listing of rules and requirements and to apply online, visit the Public Education Department's website.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/2017_New_Mexico_True_Summer_Reading_Challenge_Release.pdf
