Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces $40 Million Investment in New Mexico Startups
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: May 2, 2017
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez announced $40 million worth of investments in New Mexico startups. A $20 million Catalyst Fund is being launched that will raise a matching $20 million in private equity for investments in local startups. The Catalyst Fund is expected to support more than 50 companies in New Mexico and will focus on aiding technology startups.
"New Mexico has the potential to be the next tech-startup capital of the United States," said Governor Martinez. "Through this fund, we're going to help these companies get off the ground to become the next Apple or Microsoft. And by doing so, all of New Mexico will reap the benefits because we will diversify our economy and create more jobs."
The Catalyst Fund will be invested in emerging and existing venture capital funds throughout the state with plans to invest in 8-10 portfolio funds. These funds will in turn invest in seed and early stage companies with a focus on technology companies. It is expected the Catalyst Fund will support over 50 companies in New Mexico.
"This fund will build on New Mexico's strong tradition of success in the high-tech and entrepreneurial sectors," said Economic Development Secretary Matt Geisel. "This investment strengthens our commitment to the success of homegrown New Mexico companies and hardworking New Mexican entrepreneurs."
The first commitments have been made to Cottonwood Technology Fund, Tramway Venture Partners and Arrowhead Innovation Fund. These organizations are focused on helping startups and early stage companies grow and thrive.
"We are pleased with the first three investments from the Catalyst Fund. Each of these fund managers has a track record of launching successful new companies here in New Mexico. We believe the Catalyst Fund represents a prudent way to support these fund managers and their ability to create promising new companies here," said Brian Birk, Managing Partner of Sun Mountain Capital. Sun Mountain Capital is the manager of the Catalyst Fund.

Source:
