Public Statements
Governor Susana Martinez Announces Teacher Evaluation Changes
Press Release
By: Susana Martinez
Date: April 2, 2017
Location: Albuquerque, NM

Today, Governor Susana Martinez announced changes to the teacher evaluation system that were created with support and input from teachers across the state. Under the revised system, the number of grace days will double from three to six and the weight of student achievement growth will be set at 35 percent and observations will be increased. Teachers requested that these policy changes be kept for the next five years to continue to create stability.
"Our teachers have spoken, and we've listened," said Governor Martinez. "These changes are for teachers and by teachers and I know they'll help build on the success we're seeing in the classroom."
New Mexico recently saw record-breaking high school graduation rates. And it was recently announced that New Mexico ranked second in the nation for growth in students taking AP courses. New Mexico is also a leader in Hispanic students taking AP coursework and ranks fourth in the nation for providing AP courses to low-income students.
"The Department was glad to work with and listen to teachers across the state," said PED Secretary Hanna Skandera. "When we work together with classroom teachers, we are able to accomplish great work for our students. This is a prime example."
The changes in teacher evaluations are a result of informed teachers bringing their voice and recommendations to the Public Education Department. Specific changes were proposed by members of TeachPlus, an organization of educators.
Governor Martinez has made improving education in New Mexico a priority in her administration. Under her leadership, PED has started a teacher and principal mentorship program that's showing great results, created the Secretary's Teacher Advisory Council to keep an open dialogue with Secretary Skandera, and hosted the statewide teacher summit for teachers to collaborate and share best practice.

Source: http://www.governor.state.nm.us/uploads/PressRelease/191a415014634aa89604e0b4790e4768/Governor_Susana_Martinez_Announces_Teacher_Evaluation_Changes.pdf
