Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Completion of $2.8 Million Project on Sweet Home Road in Erie County
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 27, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that work is complete on a $2.8 million highway rehabilitation project to improve the mobility and safety of travelers on Sweet Home Road in the town of Amherst in Erie County.
"The growth and success of New York's economy relies on the reliability, efficiency and safety of our transportation system," Governor Cuomo said. "Through this critical funding, we are supporting the rehabilitation of key infrastructure today to help pave the way for future growth and prosperity in Western New York and beyond."
The Sweet Home Road corridor rehabilitation project has improved the mobility and safety of residents and visitors by:
Replacing existing pavement for smoother travels;
Installing two-way, center left turn lanes to reduce the number of accidents;
Rebuilding crosswalks and sidewalks;
Improving pedestrian signals and landscaping; and
Constructing a raised medium and updated curb ramps at the Rensch Road intersection to meet standards of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Improvements to this vital educational, residential and retail corridor will allow all users of the road to safely interact in an area with enhanced transportation, mobility and pedestrian connections.
"Governor Cuomo recognized that investments in projects such as Sweet Home Road are essential for keeping our transportation network safe and open for business," said New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J, Driscoll. "Motorists, pedestrians, bicyclists and public transit users will all benefit from the transportation investments which foster more economic growth, public health benefits, and community enhancements."
Senator Michael H. Ranzenhofer said, "This multi-million dollar transportation project is the latest in our efforts to fix a crumbling infrastructure in Upstate New York. The completion of improvements to Sweet Home Road will make it safer and easier for Amherst residents to drive from point A to point B."
Erie County County Executive Mark C. Poloncarz said, "The completion of this project reaffirms Governor Cuomo's commitment to providing the best infrastructure possible and improving this important stretch of road underscores that commitment. Protecting the investments we have made in our infrastructure is important. Erie County is pleased to see ongoing maintenance take place to the vast road inventory in our region."
For real-time travel information, call 511, visit www.511NY.org, or log on to the new mobile site at http://m.511ny.org. 511NY offers free, 24/7, statewide, real-time traffic and transit information for all of New York State.
Follow New York State DOT on Twitter: @NYSDOT and @NYSDOTBuffalo. Find us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/NYSDOT.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-completion-28-million-project-sweet-home-road-erie-county
