Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Impact of American Health Care Act
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 9, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a Department of Health analysis of the House Republican's American Health Care Act has confirmed that the proposed legislation would put the health care coverage of more than 1 million New Yorkers in significant jeopardy.
Statement from Governor Cuomo:
"Health care is a human right, not a luxury. After seven years of progress under the Affordable Care Act, the Republican Congress has proposed an inadequate, ill-conceived and unacceptable plan that places the coverage of more than 1 million New Yorkers in jeopardy and, once fully phased in, would shift more than $2.4 billion in costs onto taxpayers and hospitals each year.
"Health care experts across the Country have rejected the Republican plan outright citing the devastating impact on patients and providers. The AARP says it will weaken Medicare and hike premiums for everyone over 50. Millions of seniors could lose home care and nursing home coverage. Hospital leaders say staffing and services will be cut.
"Furthermore, this plan is a direct assault on New York values -- defunding Planned Parenthood, restricting access to abortion and reproductive health services, and eliminating $400 million in means tested credits that lowered insurance costs for low-income New Yorkers, while slashing taxes on the wealthy.
"In the end, people who will still have insurance will fall into two groups under this plan: older Americans and lower-income people who will pay more for coverage or lose it altogether, and higher-income people who will pay less.
"As bad as this bill is, it may get worse. Far-right opponents of the bill in Congress are demanding changes. As disturbing and devastating as the proposed cuts would be, the final result could be downright bone chilling.
"Affordable health care is not a partisan issue. New York's entire delegation -- democrats and republicans -- needs to stand up and they need to fight against this regressive plan, and protect the people they are sworn to represent. There is no going back."
The Department of Health's analysis of the House Republican's American Health Care Act concludes that:
Over 1 million New Yorkers would face a significant loss in health care coverage under the plan.
Over $4.5 billion in costs would be shifted to state, counties, and safety net hospitals over the next four years increasing the tax burden on residents and putting countless health care providers in jeopardy.
At least $2.4 billion of these costs will be shifted annually beginning in 2020. This burden could grow even larger when the impact of Medicaid block grants is taken into account.
$400 million in tax credits used by New Yorkers to purchase health insurance on the New York State of Health insurance exchange would be lost and replaced in some cases with alternative subsidies which are not related ability to pay.
Wide range of benefits provided for under the Affordable Care Act are removed and savings are shifted to wealthy individuals and corporations.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-impact-american-health-care-act
