Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $388 Million in Funding for Critical Coastal Resiliency and Sewer Expansion Project in Suffolk County
Press Release
By: Lee Zeldin Tom Croci Andrew Cuomo John Flanagan, Jr. Chuck Schumer
Date: Sept. 13, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $388 million in State and federal funding to expand sanitary sewer service to 8,075 parcels of land in Suffolk County which currently utilize on-site septic systems. This project, which has been approved the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, represents the first step in instituting extensive measures to mitigate flooding and septic system failure in Suffolk County caused by Superstorm Sandy.
"Long Islanders have seen first-hand and up-close the damage that Mother Nature can inflict on a community and its ability to provide vital service for its residents," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding allows Suffolk County to improve and expand its sewer system in a way that not only reduces threats to water quality and contamination, but also strengthen Long Island's coast to better withstand future storms."
This initial design and environmental review phase of the project will be financed through $24.2 million in funding from New York State Environmental Facilities Corporation's State Revolving Fund and the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development's Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery Program. Both entities, along with the federal Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, will fund the $364.3 million construction phase as well.
More than 70 percent of Suffolk County's 1.5 million residents lack connections to advanced wastewater treatment infrastructure and instead rely on on-site septic systems. During Superstorm Sandy, many such systems were flooded by rising groundwater, which not only created public health hazards like water contamination and nitrogen pollution from failing septic systems and cesspools, but also caused the erosion of the coastal wetlands, which have been scientifically proven to reduce vulnerability from storm surge, to the point of failure. This project allows Suffolk County to address these important issues and further bolster coastal resiliency on Long Island.

Source:
