Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Opening of New Arctic Edge Exhibit at Buffalo Zoo
Press Release
By: Timothy Kennedy Crystal Peoples-Stokes Sean Ryan Byron Brown Brian Higgins Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 11, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the ribbon cutting for the Buffalo Zoo's new $14 million state-of-the-art habitat for polar bears and other Arctic species. With the assistance of $750,000 from the Governor's NY Works program, the planned Arctic Edge exhibit has created a new home for the zoo's popular polar bears.
"Polar Bears have been a fixture and a top attraction at the Buffalo Zoo for more than a century and, with these upgrades, we will ensure this exhibit continues to attract visitors and tourism dollars to Western New York for years to come," Governor Cuomo said.
For more than a century, polar bears have been among the most popular animals at the Buffalo Zoo. In order to keep this iconic species in Western New York, this exhibit has been built to meet the current husbandry standards adopted by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums, the zoo's professional accrediting body. The current bear exhibit dates back to the 1890s with only modest changes over the past 120 years.
The new Artic Edge has created 228 construction jobs, is more than 60,000 square feet (1.5 acres) in size and replicates the snowy, frozen climate of the Article Circle. Two large exhibits will house polar bears while three smaller enclosures will feature the arctic wolf, bald eagle and Canadian lynx to illustrate the diversity of species that have adapted to life in this harsh climate. The landscape is naturalistic and includes two saltwater pools, natural boulders and a variety of substrates. A sophisticated Life Support System has been utilized to maintain high water quality. Underwater viewing is available to allow visitors to get an up-close look at the bears' swimming styles, natural behaviors and playful antics.
The Western New York Regional Economic Development Council named the Artic Edge exhibit a regional priority in 2011, as it aligns with the council's tourism and smart growth strategies. Funding commitments from public sources include $3 million from Erie County, $1.7 million from the City of Buffalo, $776,000 from the New York State Environmental Protection Fund, $400,000 from the Western New York Senate delegation, $400,000 from Assemblyman Sean Ryan and the Western New York Assemblyman delegation, $150,000 from the Dormitory Authority of the State of New York and $15,500 from the Buffalo City Council.
Buffalo Zoo President Donna Fernandes said, "Arctic Edge is an exhibit I have dreamed of since my first days at the Zoo. We are so grateful to Governor Cuomo for putting the campaign over the top so that the new habitat could be built and Buffalo can keep its polar bears. The animals love their amazing new home."
Over the last decade, an investment of $32 million in new exhibits and visitor amenities has helped the zoo grow from 330,000 to 450,000 visitors annually, with 35 percent of visitors coming from outside Erie County. The Zoo is a leading employer of youth within the City of Buffalo, who are trained to work in its ticketing, food service and gift shop operations. These jobs, as well as skilled zookeeper positions, have been solidified with the construction of a state-of-the-art polar bear habitat which will significantly enhance the Zoo's winter attendance.
Congressman Brian Higgins said, "Located in the historic Parkside neighborhood, the Buffalo Zoo, under the great leadership of Donna Fernandez and the support of community partners, has done incredible work to enhance the visitor experience through expanded and unique natural-setting habitats for animals. New features like this one make the Buffalo Zoo a can't-miss destination for local families and visitors alike."
Senator Tim Kennedy said, "The new Arctic Edge exhibit will help to maintain the Buffalo Zoo's status as a leader in its field. Families from all over will flock here to see Buffalo's beloved polar bears, Luna and Anana, in this state-of-the-art habitat. This project is the culmination of years of collaboration between New York State, Erie County, the City of Buffalo, and the generous residents of Western New York. I applaud Buffalo Zoo President Donna Fernandes for her leadership, and I thank her and Governor Andrew Cuomo for securing the future of Buffalo's polar bears."
Assemblywoman Crystal Peoples-Stokes said, "The Buffalo Zoo is a local favorite as an anchor in Buffalo and Western New York's tourism industry. It's a wonderful attraction that strengthens family bonds while providing an educational experience. I applaud Governor Cuomo for securing these resources and to my colleagues in local and state government."
Assemblyman Sean Ryan said, "I was proud to secure capital funding from the Assembly to help support construction of the Arctic Edge exhibit at the Buffalo Zoo, and I thank Governor Cuomo for providing additional state funding to complete this important project for the City of Buffalo. This world-class polar bear exhibit will help the Buffalo Zoo continue to grow and remain a key tourist attraction in Western New York. A thriving Buffalo Zoo is an economic catalyst for Buffalo and all of Western New York. Most importantly, the Arctic Edge exhibit is a beautiful new home for Luna, and this state-of-the-art facility allows her to stay right here in the Queen City."
Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown said, "The Buffalo Zoo is one of our city's crown jewels and the opening of the new polar bear exhibit adds to the momentum in Buffalo. Tonight, I applaud the efforts of many individuals, including Governor Andrew Cuomo, who supported this ambitious project and played a significant role in making sure it happened. Tonight, city residents and visitors now have another new attraction to visit in Buffalo and our beloved, Luna, has a new spot to call home."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-opening-new-arctic-edge-exhibit-buffalo-zoo
