Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Return of New York's Second Firefighting Crew After Battling 37,400-Acre Wildfire in California
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 11, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo today announced the safe return of the second 20-member crew of Forest Rangers, employees and volunteers from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation who battled three California fires on the Mad River Complex for the past two weeks. The Mad River fires have burned a total of 37,462 acres, now with 100-percent containment. Governor Cuomo dispatched a total of 44 New York firefighters to assist in containing the West Coast fires this summer.
Governor Cuomo today announced the safe return of the second 20-member crew of Forest Rangers, employees and volunteers from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation who battled three California fires on the Mad River Complex for the past two weeks. The Mad River fires have burned a total of 37,462 acres, now with 100-percent containment. Governor Cuomo dispatched a total of 44 New York firefighters to assist in containing the West Coast fires this summer.
"Once again, New York firefighters rose to the occasion and put their own safety on the line in order to help a neighbor in need," Governor Cuomo said. "I'm thankful for their safe return and am proud of the bravery and professionalism they exhibited throughout this deployment."
The returning crew was part of a group of 95 firefighters which worked to contain the Mad River Complex Fires for the past two weeks. In late July 2015, lightning ignited the Mad River Complex fires in northwest California's Six Rivers National Forest. The three fires are now contained, but dry conditions require crews to maintain a constant presence to keep the fire contained.
The crew assisted in creating control lines to contain the wildfires, clearing materials from the path of the fires and completing burnout operations in which crews purposefully set land within the control line on fire to remove the larger fire's fuel. The crew worked in rough terrain and endured daily high temperatures. Following its two-week assignment, the crew flew back to Harrisburg, PA, rested overnight, then boarded buses to return home this morning.
"This year may not have produced the largest fires in recent history, but it has definitely produced one of the worst seasons in regards to conditions," DEC Acting Commissioner Marc Gerstman said. "I'm thankful to our DEC Forest Rangers, employees and New York volunteers for their courage and willingness to help in this time of need and happy to welcome them home today in their safe return."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-return-new-yorks-second-firefighting-crew-after-battling-37400-acre
