Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Action to Expand Cutting-Edge Breast Cancer Screening Options For Women
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 28, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that health insurers are required under New York Insurance Law to provide medically necessary coverage for 3-D mammograms without co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. 3-D mammography screening, or tomosynthesis, can be more effective at detecting cancer in dense breast tissue, which is more common in women of color. This action builds on actions the Governor took earlier this year to support the health and reproductive rights of New York women, and legislation he signed last year to enhance access to breast cancer screenings.
"We are undertaking the most aggressive action in the nation to expand access to breast cancer screenings, because early detection is the best possible treatment," Governor Cuomo said. "By expanding access to cutting-edge, life-saving breast cancer screening options, like 3D mammograms, we are taking our efforts to protect our mothers, sisters and daughters another step further. We will continue working to further remove barriers to breast cancer detection and treatment to create a stronger, healthier New York for all."
"New York continues to lead the nation in taking action to ensure that New York women have full access to health care," Financial Services Superintendent Maria T. Vullo said. "Now, more than ever, New York must lead by taking decisive steps to protect and secure women's rights and support women's health including full coverage for breast cancer screenings, including modern technologies like tomosynthesis."
Tomosynthesis, or 3-D mammography, uses X-rays to collect multiple images of the breast from several angles that a computer synthesizes to create a 3-D image of the breast. Studies have shown that breast density is one of the strongest predictors of risk for breast cancer and that the risk of cancer for women with dense breast tissue, many of whom are women of color, is much greater.
In particular, Black women tend to have denser breast tissue, which limits the sensitivity of a screening mammography, thus requiring improved screening technologies such as early detection and screening by appropriate methods. Studies have shown that 3-D mammography appears to be more effective at detecting lesions in dense breast tissue than 2-D mammography.







Source:
