Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Groundbreaking For High Tech Rochester Business Accelerator in the Historic Sibley Building
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 9, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced that work has begun on High Tech Rochester's Finger Lakes Business Accelerator Cooperative, a facility aimed at driving regional growth in entrepreneurship and innovation. The 6th floor of the former Sibley's department store at 250 East Main Street in downtown Rochester will undergo $24 million in renovations necessary for making it suitable for high-tech startups, including those that require "wet lab" facilities for biotech innovation and development. As the cornerstone of the city's Downtown Innovation Zone, it is estimated that the Business Accelerator will create more than 1,000 new jobs--in the forms of new business creation or expansion--in the first five years of operation.
"This is an important step for creating a hub of entrepreneurial activity and job growth in downtown Rochester," said Governor Cuomo. "The historic Sibley Building will soon have a high-tech space on its top floor, designed to attract the types of startups that will contribute to Rochester's economic transformation. I applaud the Regional Economic Council for making this important project a reality. "
Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul was in Rochester to break ground on the incubation and business support facility.
Lieutenant Governor Hochul said: "Rochester is in the midst of an exciting economic transformation that is bringing new life to its City. High Tech Rochester Business Accelator, headquartered right in the heart of the new downtown innovation zone, will be a catalyst to spur even more start up activity. Governor Cuomo has made the revitalization of Rochester one of his top priorities and we will remain laser focused on doing our part to expand opportunity for all."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-groundbreaking-high-tech-rochester-business-accelerator-historic
