Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Over 500 Jobs Available at the Hire Our Heroes Job Fair at Lexington Avenue Armory
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 8, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced the next U.S. Chamber of Commerce Hiring our Heroes Job Fair, to be held on Thursday, September 10 at the Lexington Avenue Armory from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Hosted by the New York National Guard, the event will have more than 115 businesses, ranging from Sears Home Services to Nestle and Hertz Equipment Rental.
"New York's veterans have sacrificed a great deal in service to our country," Governor Cuomo said. "Helping these heroes and their families find job opportunities is one small way to thank them for a service we can never fully repay. I encourage those who can to sign up for this fair and see what is available."
The job fair is designed to link veterans, military spouses and members of the reserve and National Guard with companies that want the skills and discipline that military veterans bring to the job. Each employer is committed to having at least five job openings to fill.
The Job Fair is sponsored by the University of Phoenix and is being conducted by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation, the Manhattan Chamber of Commerce, the New York National Guard, NYS Department of Labor, New York Committee of the Employer Support of the Guard & Reserve, U.S. Department of Labor Veterans Employment and Training Service, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, American Legion, Goodwill Industries International, and NBC News.
"The New York National Guard is proud to partner with the US Chamber of Commerce in hosting these job fairs because we want to ensure that our Citizen Soldiers, present and past, have an opportunity to find jobs with employers that appreciate their unique skill set," said Major General Patrick Murphy, the Adjutant General of New York.
A workshop on resume writing and other job hunting skills will be held at 8:30 a.m., and a brunch for employers will also be held at 8:30 a.m.
Veterans who want to participate in the resume writing and job-hunting workshop must sign up, and veterans interested in meeting with company representatives are encouraged to sign up.
To register for the event, please visit: http://www.uschamberfoundation.org/event/new-york-city-hiring-fair.
Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney said, "The brave men and women who risked their lives to keep our country safe deserve good paying jobs to support their families. In New York City alone we have over 200,00 veterans, many of whom are still struggling to find work. I am thrilled that hundreds of new job opportunities are now available to these heroes, and I applaud Governor Cuomo and the participating businesses for putting this event together."
Senator Liz Krueger said, "Our veterans and their families have so much to offer, and it's vital that they have the chance to use their unique skill set to thrive here at home. Thank you to Governor Cuomo, the New York National Guard, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and their partners for helping New York veterans open the doors of opportunity."
Assembly Member Richard N. Gottfried, who represents the district including the Armory, said, "This is a great opportunity for New Yorkers who have given so much in serving our country. There will be a wide selection of employers participating, and I encourage any veterans looking for a job or training programs to come out to the event."
Manhattan Borough President Gale A. Brewer said, "More than 40,000 veterans live right here in Manhattan, and it's our duty to ensure our veterans have every opportunity to secure good jobs after serving our country. Events like this job fair are crucial to lifting up our veterans and ending homelessness and higher-than-average unemployment rates among those who have served."
There are more than 202,700 veterans living in New York City, according to the United States Census. In 2014 the Iraq and Afghan Veterans of America estimated that about 22,600 of these veterans have served in Iraq and Afghanistan post 9/11.
The unemployment rate for young veterans who served during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan was 6.7 percent in July 2015, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The unemployment rate nationally was 5.3 percent in July, 2015.
A Hiring Our Heroes Job Fair at the Lexington Avenue Armory last year drew 450 job seekers. Since its inception in 2011, more than 369,000 veterans and military spouses have found jobs through the Hiring Our Heroes program, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation.
The New York National Guard's Job Zone Program will be part of the Hiring Fair as well. The New York National Guard's Employment Initiative Program helps New York National Guard Soldiers and Airmen refine their resumes while providing them with information on employers who want to hire veterans and Guard members. The Job Zone staff also works to help employers understand the skill-sets that veterans and Guard Soldiers and Airmen bring to their business.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-over-500-jobs-available-hire-our-heroes-job-fair-lexington-avenue
