Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Opening of Bus/HOV Lane Extension on Staten Island Expressway
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 2, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced the opening of a bus/HOV lane extension on the Staten Island Expressway in both directions from Clove Road to Victory Boulevard. This milestone marks substantial completion of a $118.5 million project to improve access and mobility for the more than 157,000 motorists who use the expressway each day.
"The Staten Island Expressway is the lifeblood of Richmond County's transportation network and we've made it a top priority to improve access and make travel along this corridor easier and more efficient," said Governor Cuomo. "This lane extension will further encourage carpooling and transit use to reduce congestion and auto emissions -- which means a better experience for commuters and residents alike."
With the opening of the bus/HOV lane extension, Staten Island commuters will have a 24/7 continuous bus/HOV lane from Victory Boulevard to the Verrazano Narrows Bridge in both directions. The opening also comes with strict around-the-clock enforcement of a new regulation mandating vehicles have at least three occupants to use the improved bus/HOV lane.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "The Staten Island Expressway plays a central transportation role for residents on Staten Island and is a main corridor for commuters, visitors and shipping. The extended bus/HOV lane keeps with Governor Cuomo's commitment to using transportation infrastructure improvements to support local economies all across New York State."
The project included rehabilitating three bridges; installing a new drainage system, pavement, lighting, signage and sound walls; and adding an extra highway lane (auxiliary lane) in both directions between Bradley Avenue and Clove Road to enable traffic to smoothly enter and exit the highway. All work on the project is scheduled to be completed by the end of the year.
Congressman Dan Donovan said, "It's clear that Staten Island faces enormous transportation challenges, caused in part by the dearth of public transportation. This project is a step in the right direction -- it's refreshing to see attention and resources dedicated to our borough's traffic nightmare. Thank you to Governor Cuomo and New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Driscoll for their work, and I look forward to working with them to focus on the borough's transportation infrastructure."
Senator Diane J. Savino said, "This is great news for not only the commuters of Staten Island but the many people who travel daily on our expressway. This extension will give drivers a continuous bus/HOV lane from Victory Blvd to the Verrazano bridge and I want to thank Governor Cuomo for his commitment to improving the infrastructure of the city's expressways for not just Staten Islanders but all New Yorkers."
Assemblyman Michael Cusick said, "The expansion of the BUS/HOV lane from Clove Road to Victory Boulevard is a necessary addition for the commuters on Staten Island and I look forward to seeing it completed. I applaud the Governor and NYSDOT for addressing this critical issue for Staten Islanders who face some of the longest commute times."
Assemblyman Matthew Titone said, "The Staten Island Expressway is vital to our continued economic growth, and these lane extensions will help ease the flow of traffic for both residents and commuters. I applaud Governor Cuomo for his commitment to modernizing Staten Island's infrastructure."
Assemblywoman Nicole Malliotakis said, "The Staten Island Expressway is heavily used and retains extraordinarily long travel time at all hours. Opening the HOV lane 24/7 will ensure utilization of the entire roadway, rather than closing lanes after rush hour as is done on sections of the BQE. I'm glad this proposal will now become a reality for Staten Island."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-opening-bushov-lane-extension-staten-island-expressway
