Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $2.2 Million to Improve Hospital Access to Emergency Back-Up Power During Severe Weather
Press Release
By: Diane Savino Dan Donovan, Jr. Steven Cymbrowitz Charlie Rangel Robert Rodriguez José Serrano Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 2, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced that the New York State Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services has successfully secured federal funding to support the installation of pre-connection points for interim power generators at Manhattan's Metropolitan Hospital Center and Brooklyn's Coney Island Hospital Center. These pre-connection points will allow both facilities to rent and utilize external roll up type generators to quickly restore essential services if the main equipment is rendered inoperable during extreme weather or other emergencies.
"During Superstorm Sandy, we saw firsthand the consequences of not having adequate back-up plans for when hospitals and other healthcare institutions lose power," said Governor Cuomo. "These projects will allow for these critical facilities to continue to serve their communities in the very worst of situations and are another important step toward making New York more resilient for future storms."
Just over $2 million in funding from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Hazard Mitigation Grant Program will be made available to the Metropolitan Hospital Center to install pre-connection points located on the perimeter wall of the existing building above the 500 year flood plain. Coney Island Hospital Center has received $99,125 in Phase I approval for engineering, design analysis and regulatory permitting for its project. The estimated total project cost is $699,000.
Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services Commissioner John Melville said, "The ability for hospitals and other critical care facilities to operate in any type of weather or emergency conditions is essential for the well-being of the communities they serve. I am glad that FEMA has approved these vital projects to make sure that service and be maintained in all types of emergency situations."
This funding was approved under the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Hazard Mitigation Grant Program which allows the State to establish priorities aimed at increasing the State's resiliency, reducing hardship, and mitigating the risk of loss and damage associated with future disasters. After Superstorm Sandy devastated parts of New York, Governor Cuomo called for government and non-profit organizations across the State to submit applications for projects to help communities become more resilient and rebuild smarter and stronger in the wake of recent natural disasters.
Congressman Charles B. Rangel said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo for providing vital support to better prepare NYC's hospitals to withstand future storms. Programs like these are crucial investments that will not only help ensure uninterrupted health services for existing patients but also provide critical urgent care during times of extreme weather or other emergencies."
Congressman Dan Donovan said,"Thank you to FEMA and Governor Cuomo for dedicating the resources necessary to improve the resiliency of storm-battered communities. Together with other federal investments coordinated by the City, the Coney Island Hospital project will improve access to medical services for Brooklyn residents during an emergency. Sandy was a wakeup call: our communities face serious risks, and thankfully we have the resources to be better prepared for any future storms."
State Senator José M. Serrano said, "I want to thank Governor Cuomo and FEMA for ensuring that our hospitals and critical care facilities are well equipped to withstand severe weather emergencies. Metropolitan Hospital Center provides vital services for the East Harlem community, especially during extreme circumstances. It is important that facilities, like Metropolitan Hospital, are fully functional at all times, even during the unfortunate event of a natural disaster."
State Senator Diane Savino said, "After the devastation of Superstorm Sandy, we saw not only the condition it left many of our hospitals in but the effects it had on the people of the community as a whole, when these facilities had to be shut down. This project will ensure that in the event of another storm that our residents will not have to forgo quality healthcare due to loss of power. This is a great investment in making sure our hospitals and medical facilities are prepared for future storms."
Assemblymember Robert Rodriguez said, "As we experienced during Superstorm Sandy, loss of power can be incredibly disruptive to providing our most fundamental services. FEMA's approval of these projects is a critical step in providing the redundancies needed to be prepared for future severe weather"
Assemblymember Steven Cymbrowitz said, "Superstorm Sandy taught us painfully and vividly the need to be prepared on the community-wide level if and when another emergency hits our area. Thanks to this generous grant from the Department of Homeland Security, Coney Island Hospital will never again be crippled by a severe weather event or, even more frightening, be rendered incapable of responding to residents' life-threatening situations due to forces beyond its control. These funds provide comfort to our community as well as ensuring all-important storm resiliency."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-22-million-improve-hospital-access-emergency-back-power-during-severe
