Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches "Enough Is Enough" Public Awareness Campaign to Educate Students on New Law Combatting Sexual Violence on College Campuses
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 2, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo kicked off the Enough is Enough awareness campaign to highlight the State's new law to combat sexual violence on college campuses, which takes effect this semester. As part of the campaign, Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul and Special Advisor Christine Quinn will be visiting campuses statewide to meet with students, faculty and staff and discuss the new law, and distribute informational cards that promote facts about the initiative, as well as students' rights and protections under the law.
The Governor also announced that the State Police's new Sexual Assault Victims Unit is now open to provide investigative support and assistance to victims of sexual violence, as well as training and law enforcement aid for schools and local police departments statewide in line with the new law. The Governor made these announcements earlier today at New York University's Eisner and Lubin Auditorium in Manhattan.
"New York is the progressive capital of the nation, and we are proud to take on tough issues like changing the culture and mindset surrounding sexual violence on college campuses. That is why this law is so important, and every freshman or returning student should know the rules of behavior have changed," Governor Cuomo said. "These situations are not just a violation of school policy or ethics: they are crimes, and every student should know they have more rights than before. Our message is clear: Enough is Enough, and New York will not tolerate sexual assault on our college campuses."
In the coming days and weeks, Lieutenant Governor Hochul and Special Advisor Quinn will travel to colleges and universities across the state to meet with students, faculty and staff who are all affected by the law. Download a copy of the informational card they will be distributing as part of this tour.
Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul said, "As students and faculty return to college campuses this fall, now is the time to begin promoting our State's newest law that is intended to protect our children from the scourge of sexual assault. This year, Governor Cuomo led the campaign to enact the strongest, most comprehensive legislation through the Enough is Enough campaign. Now begins the process of enforcing these measures. With the assistance of our State Police and by utilizing new technology and cutting edge tools, we are sending a powerful message that a new day is finally upon us. I look forward to crisscrossing every corner of our State to bring this new law directly to our classrooms."
Special Advisor Christine Quinn said, "Under Governor Cuomo, New York State is leading the fight against sexual assault and rape on college campuses -- and I am proud to say that our state now has the toughest law in the country relating to campus rape. Our challenge now is to make sure that students know their rights and schools know what is expected of them. That's what this awareness campaign is all about, and I look forward to meeting with students and administrators across the state in order to help bring an end to the culture of campus sexual violence."
Assemblywoman Deborah Glick said, "This awareness campaign represents the culmination of months and months of hard work from a tremendous coalition of advocates who joined the Governor and I to make this law a reality. With this new law taking effect this semester, students at colleges and universities statewide will benefit from a clear set of policies to combat sexual assault and address these crimes when they do occur. Now it's up to all of us to spread the word -- and that is what today is about."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-launches-enough-enough-public-awareness-campaign-educate-students-new-law
