Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Innovative Clean Energy Project on Long Island Under Reforming the Energy Vision
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 1, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced the launch of an anaerobic digester project on Long Island that will serve as an innovative model of how clean, on-site power can significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions and support sustainable communities. By providing Long Island with a local clean energy generation resource, the project aligns with Governor Cuomo's Reforming the Energy Vision, the State's comprehensive energy strategy to build a clean, resilient and affordable energy system for all New Yorkers.
"This exciting project is yet one more way we're investing in a sustainable energy future and building a cleaner and greener New York,": Governor Cuomo said. "This first-of-its kind project for Long Island and the greater New York metropolitan area will build upon this administration's commitment to expand the state's use of renewable energy and reduce our carbon footprint."
The new anaerobic digester will be operated by American Organic Energy at Long Island Compost's 62-acre facility in Yaphank, Suffolk County and will process over twice as much food waste as currently processed at any existing privately-owned food waste digesters accepting offsite food waste in New York State. The project will accept approximately 120,000 tons of food waste, 30,000 tons of fats, oils and greases, and 10,000 tons of grass clippings from the Long Island region annually that would otherwise have been transported and dumped into landfills, contributing to harmful greenhouse gas emissions. The digester will convert these waste streams to clean energy, clean water to be used for plant processes, and solid-based fertilizer.
Anaerobic digestion is a biological process that occurs when organic matter is decomposed by bacteria in the absence of oxygen. During the decomposition process, the biogas released can be recovered, treated and used to generate energy in place of traditional fossil fuels.
Richard Kauffman, Chairman of Energy and Finance for New York said, "Under Reforming the Energy Vision, New York is making it possible for innovators to test and market sophisticated energy solutions uniquely tailored to the needs of our communities -- a vital part of building a cleaner, efficient and affordable energy infrastructure. Projects such as this anaerobic digester are positioning New York today to meet its ambitious renewable energy goals of the future."
The project, which is scheduled to be completed in August 2016, is expected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 40,000 tons annually, equivalent to removing 8,125 cars from the road.
The project is part of the Cleaner, Greener Communities program, a major statewide initiative encouraging communities to incorporate sustainability goals and principles into local plans and projects. The program enables communities to form partnerships that transform markets and lead to expanded deployment of clean energy, the reduction of emissions and the generation of economic development benefits. The program, administered by the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA), also empowers communities to take action, providing technical resources and decision-making tools on land use, housing, transportation, energy, economic development and environmental practices, resulting in a more vibrant and prosperous New York.
John B. Rhodes, President and CEO of NYSERDA said, "Communities are at the heart of New York's clean energy goals and play a central role in advancing the state toward a cleaner and more sustainable future. This anaerobic digester project is a significant step forward for the Long Island region in minimizing greenhouse gas emissions and reducing material going into landfills, providing economic and environmental benefits to its residents."
All the electric power needed to run the digester and the existing facility will be generated using biogas from the project. Long Island Compost also plans to convert the biogas to renewable natural gas that will be used to fuel its trucks on-site, reducing diesel consumption by 200,000 gallons annually. An additional 1.9 million gallons of diesel per year will be offset by injecting the remaining renewable gas produced by the digester into the National Grid natural gas pipeline on Long Island. This will enable the gas to be used to fuel compressed natural gas vehicles in other areas.
NYS Department of Environmental Conservation Acting Commissioner Marc Gerstman added, "The Department is committed to working with communities and businesses to expand and enhance organics diversion and use in order to conserve existing resources, reduce environmental impacts and promote alternative uses of previously wasted materials. This project demonstrates that excess food and food scraps, that cannot be donated or used for animal feed, are resources that can be used to generate clean energy with the end products being recycled into a valuable soil amendment. This outstanding project will help New York lead the way in these efforts."
Senator Thomas Croci said, "I want to congratulate NYSERDA and Scotts on their partnership to fund innovative clean energy development while reducing greenhouse gas emissions and landfill waste. Several years ago, nearby residents and the facility owners finally began a constructive dialogue to explore ways to establish more sustainable business practices and for LI Compost to be a better neighbor. I'm gratified that Scotts has continued this effort, and that NYSERDA and the REDC recognized this opportunity to promote efficient clean energy and improve the environment."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-innovative-clean-energy-project-long-island-under-reforming-energy
