Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Results of "Speed Week" Campaign to Crack Down on Speeding and Aggressive Drivers
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 21, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the New York State Police issued 21,864 tickets during the June "Speed Week" campaign. The special traffic enforcement period to crack down on speeding and aggressive drivers was held June 7 through June 13, 2017. State Troopers ticketed 9,456 drivers for speeding, arrested 268 people for DWI and investigated 315 personal injury accidents, which resulted in 412 people injured.
"Reckless driving can lead to tragedy and potential life altering consequences for drivers and passengers on New York's roadways," Governor Cuomo said. "I applaud the State Police and their partners in law enforcement for keeping dangerous drivers accountable and for their continued commitment to making our streets safer."
During the June 2016 Speed Week campaign, State Police issued more than 21,000 traffic tickets. More than 10,000 of the tickets were for speeding, more than 600 were for distracted driving, and more than 200 for violations of the Move Over law.
New York State Police Superintendent George P. Beach II said, "We hope campaigns such as this will make motorists think twice about making dangerous decisions behind the wheel. We urge all motorists to make safety their top priority, drive sober, wear a seat belt and put away their smart phones. By doing so, they will help to prevent needless tragedies."
As part of the enforcement, Troopers also watched for distracted drivers, vehicle occupants who were not properly buckled up, and drivers who violated the "Move Over Law," which requires motorists to exercise extreme caution when passing emergency vehicles that are stopped in or on the side of the road.
Below is a sampling of the total tickets that were issued:
Distracted Driving
695
Seatbelt Violations
1,346
Move Over Law
383
The State Police supplemented regular patrols statewide, including fixed sobriety checkpoints and underage drinker initiatives by utilizing Concealed Identity Traffic Enforcement patrol vehicles to better locate drivers talking or texting on hand held devices. These unmarked vehicles blend in with every day traffic but are unmistakable as emergency vehicles once the emergency lighting is activated.
The results of the campaign broken down by Troop:

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-results-speed-week-campaign-crack-down-speeding-and-aggressive-drivers
