Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Re-Opening of I-190 Northbound Off-Ramp to Route 266 in Buffalo
Press Release
By: Marc Panepinto Andrew Cuomo Brian Higgins Sean Ryan Byron Brown
Date: Aug. 24, 2015
Location: Albant, NY

Governor Cuomo announced the re-opening of the Interstate 190 northbound off-ramp to State Route 266 (Niagara Street) adjacent to the Peace Bridge Plaza in Buffalo. The ramp to Niagara Street had been restricted since late December as part of the $56.7 million New York Gateway Connections improvement project to the U.S. Peace Bridge Plaza.
"We've made it a priority to advance long-stalled renovations at the Peace Bridge, and these efforts are delivering results for commuters and for the community alike," said Governor Cuomo. "This project will result in less congestion, increased international trade and tourism, and a stronger Western New York economy. I am proud to see these Peace Bridge projects move forward at an accelerated pace that few thought possible."
The Niagara Street ramp carrying traffic from northbound Interstate 190 to Niagara Street was reconstructed as a new tunnel structure, and has fully re-opened to traffic. A new direct connection ramp to carry traffic exiting the Peace Bridge Plaza to Interstate190 northbound will pass over the top of the new tunnel, over the CSXT railway and over an access driveway to the Massachusetts Avenue pumping station.
State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "Thanks to the leadership of Governor Cuomo, we will be able to realize the benefits of another smart investment in our transportation infrastructure. Direct access will be provided to travelers between the U.S. Peace Bridge Plaza and Interstate 190, international traffic will be removed from city streets, and acres of Front Park will be restored for the benefit of the community."
Upon completion, Baird Drive will be removed from the historic Frederick Law Olmsted-designed Front Park and four acres of parkland will be restored. A new ramp is being constructed to carry traffic from Porter Avenue directly into the Peace Bridge Plaza along an alignment located outside of and adjacent to Front Park. The removal of plaza traffic from the park will help restore the vision of Front Park and will allow visitors to enjoy its beauty.
The Porter Avenue Bridge over Interstate190 and the CSXT Railroad will be replaced. The new structure has increased vertical clearance over CSXT, includes a 10-foot-wide pedestrian pathway on the south side to improve connectivity between Front and LaSalle Parks, and will include a roundabout at its eastern end where ramps intersect Porter Avenue.
The Shoreline Trail Bridge over CSXT Railroad will be replaced with new a structure spanning both the railroad and Interstate 190. The new structure will include a viewing platform at the west end, which will overlook the scenic juncture of Lake Erie and the Niagara River. A section of the Shoreline Trail will be moved from east of Interstate 190 to a location directly adjacent to the Niagara River.
Mobility in the area surrounding the U.S. Peace Bridge Plaza also will be enhanced with the replacement of two existing dynamic message signs on Interstate190 and the installation of two new dynamic message signs on Interstate 190 at the exit ramp to Niagara Street and the Peace Bridge Plaza. Three closed circuit TV cameras will be replaced and a new queue end warning system along the U.S. Peace Bridge Plaza entrance ramp will be installed to manage traffic more efficiently.
Congressman Brian Higgins said, "The re-opening of the Niagara Street Ramp marks important progress in the improvement of the American Peace Bridge Plaza. This investment in transportation infrastructure will increase efficiency, encourage cross-border travel without blocking city streets, and help us fully realize the benefits of Western New York's proximity to Southern Ontario."
Senator Marc C. Panepinto said, "Governor Cuomo's streamlined approach will help to lessen the effects of burdensome traffic in our residential neighborhoods while at the same time, increase the flow of valuable cross-border commerce into our city. This critical investment into our infrastructure is one residents and businesses alike will reap the benefits of for years to come."
Assemblyman Sean Ryan said, "The reconstructed Niagara Street ramp is yet another tangible sign of progress at the Peace Bridge. The improved traffic flow will be beneficial to drivers, and will help to alleviate congestion in the surrounding neighborhoods. I thank Governor Cuomo for working diligently to advance this important infrastructure project."
City of Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown said, "Today's construction milestone mirrors the progress that's underway in neighborhoods throughout Buffalo, where over $5.5 billion in new economic development activity is underway, spurring even more investment and job growth. I thank Governor Andrew Cuomo for his continued commitment and dedication to Buffalo's revitalized economy."
Governor Cuomo's Drivers First initiatives are being employed on the project to ensure that construction causes the least impact to both motorists and Peace Bridge operations. Access to and from the Peace Bridge Plaza is being maintained at all times during project construction.
The project to improve the connectivity in the area around the U.S. Peace Bridge Plaza was awarded to Union Concrete Construction Corporation of West Seneca, Erie County, and work began in November 2014. Project completion is scheduled for summer 2017.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-re-opening-i-190-northbound-ramp-route-266-buffalo
