Public Statements
Letter to the Editor of the New York Times - Cuomo's Position on New Amtrak Rail Tunnel
Letter
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 21, 2015
Location: Unknown

The New York Times editorial board has the wrong opinion based on a wrong set of facts. The Times suggests that I am not "on board" with a new Amtrak rail tunnel under the Hudson. Nothing could be further from the truth.
I have said repeatedly that I vigorously support the idea of a new tunnel and have expressed the desperate need for expediting its construction. I have even offered to help fund the tunnel and accelerate its review process. I have said that I believe a governor's legacy is based on public infrastructure projects constructed during his or her term, and I have demonstrated that by building more public works than any governor in decades.
Indeed everyone says we need the tunnel -- but everyone has been saying that for ten years. And therein lies the challenge. There is a wide gap between politicians saying they will do something and actually getting it done. The replacement of the Tappan Zee Bridge and the reconstruction of LaGuardia airport are prime examples. They were spoken about for decades but nothing happened. Now, under this administration, they are finally taking place.
I actually want to get the tunnel done and that starts by identifying, articulating and overcoming the real obstacles to progress -- and the primary obstacle for the tunnel is determining and defining the federal commitment to fund the project. This federal commitment is both necessary and appropriate because of the massive $20 billion price tag -- which dwarfs both the Tappan Zee and LaGuardia projects, combined -- and the fact that this project is properly viewed as a national priority. This tunnel is critical not only to New Jersey and New York but to Northeast corridor train service through eight states.
Every federal representative agrees. Senator Schumer has said the federal government must fund as much as possible of the project and suggested multiple potential avenues. Senators Booker and Menendez of New Jersey have said the same thing. Governor Christie and I have said we would fund our fair share and committed the Port Authority to fund its share.
But the first step is getting the federal government to turn its rhetorical support into actual support. I am trying to do that by holding their feet to the fire. All the federal government has offered thus far is a loan for part of the project. That does nothing to make the project a reality. There is no viable financing plan with only a federal loan. And worse it creates the impression for the unwary reader that the federal government is actually participating in a way that addresses the core funding issue. They are not.
We need meaningful federal commitment in the form of federal grant dollars to support a multi-state, national priority project, and we need meaningful federal urgency here. That is the first step -- otherwise we never get to step two. If we never get to step two, we are doomed to another 10 years of editorials saying we need a tunnel and worse, commuters and passengers throughout the Northeast corridor facing delays beneath the Hudson.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/letter-editor-governor-cuomo
