Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Expansion of Early Intervention Services For New York Youth With Schizophrenia
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 21, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo today announced that the New York State Office of Mental Health is expanding a program that provides much needed mental health services to young adults with newly emerging psychotic symptoms. Individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia typically experience their first psychotic episode in young adulthood. With $6.75 million in current annual state and federal funding, the Office of Mental Health has developed the OnTrackNY program, which provides psychiatric treatment, employment, educational services, and family education and support for young adults throughout New York State.
"Early intervention can save lives, and with this funding we're going to be able to reach more young adults battling mental illness and put them on the path toward comprehensive treatment," Governor Cuomo said. "I thank our state and federal partners for working with us to secure this funding and ensuring that more New Yorkers get the services they need."
OnTrackNY began with sites in Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queens, and Yonkers; which serve approximately 160 youth at any given time. The Office of Mental Health has now expanded this program to five new locations, in Buffalo, Farmingville, Syracuse and another two in Manhattan, which will serve 175 youth combined. An additional three OnTrackNY sites are in currently in development for Albany, Rochester, and New York City and plans to further expand the program with existing resources are also in development.
It is estimated that nearly 3,000 New York residents develop schizophrenia each year, which if left untreated leads to a number of significant issues, including problems at school and work, strained family relations, and estrangement from friends. Untreated schizophrenia can lead to problems such as homelessness, incarceration, and substance abuse, the probability of which increases the longer the psychosis goes untreated. Oftentimes, untreated schizophrenia leads to disability, which exacts painful human costs upon the individuals and their families, as well as substantial financial costs to individuals, families, and the healthcare and social service systems.

Source:
