Public Statements
Video, Photos & Transcript: Governor Cuomo Holds Cabinet Meeting and Announces Next Phase of the Nano Utica Initiative at ''Capital For a Day'' in Utica
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 20, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you, thank you, thank you. You know, in this job you do many events. I've stood at this podium many, many times. But I can count on one hand how many times we were at events that I believed were truly transformative and historic. And we've done some historic things. Some transformative things. But, in the scope of life, relatively few. This is one of those moments, where I believe this is a transformative moment that will make an actual difference in peoples' lives for the entire Mohawk Region for a long, long time.
We talked about Capital for a Day, which is where the state government comes to a region and we branch out and we address our specific areas after having consulted with the local officials. The local officials all had the number one -- same number one need. County Executive Picente, Mayor Palmieri, Mayor Fusco, County Executive Ossenfort, Vince Bono -- they all had the same number one need: jobs, jobs, jobs. Why? Because if jobs are being created, everything else will take care of itself. If jobs are being created, it means there is opportunity, there is hope; it means young people are going to stay. If jobs are being created it means people have salaries, they have incomes, they're going to pay taxes, they're going to buy homes, they're going to buy groceries; it's going to run an entire economy. So it's about jobs -- that's number one and it has been number one for a long time.
Now, we're going to take a major step forward in that regard today. But before I get tomorrow and the future, I want to make sure I talk about yesterday and how we got here. Because understanding how we got here is very important to make sure that we don't make the same mistakes again, right? And some mistakes we did make. And some were just the course of life. And it's not just the Mohawk Valley. You can go across Upstate New York, it all has the same basic economic story, presently, because it has the same economic past. Upstate New York -- what made Upstate New York, Upstate New York was our boom during the manufacturing era. We seized on it. The Erie Canal: Albany, Utica, Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse; all along the Erie canal, that's where the goods were traveling for a significant period of time in this nation's history. We were along that route and we built cities along that route and that was our economy. And that worked great for a time.
And then the economy changed. No fault of our own. The economic gods said the cost of labor is cheaper overseas, a lot of manufacturing started to move overseas, a lot of manufacturing became moot in this country, and the economy started to slow down. And then the question was what do you do once that economy starts to slow down? And when that economy slowed down, it created a vicious, negative synergy. Meaning what? Meaning the jobs start to slow down, the economy starts to go down, people start to leave. People start to leave: the tax base starts to dwindle. The tax base starts to dwindle: fewer people now pay more money in taxes. And that then starts to fuel the downward cycle.
At the same time, the state government is raising state taxes. And raising state taxes like crazy. And it becomes one of the highest taxed states in the United States of America. And our attitude was "well we're New York, we can charge higher taxes, because we're New York.' I call it our arrogant phase. "People want to live in New York. They won't move. We can raise the taxes.' And people were talking about more mobility and businesses were moving and people were moving but we still believed that whatever we did with taxes, whatever we did with regulations, however difficult we made it, people and businesses were going to still stay in the state of New York -- we were wrong. We were wrong. Mistake.
Talking this morning about the highest property taxes in the United States. Think about that: the highest property taxes in the United States. You know what a young couple is going to do when they go to buy a house? Move. Why? Because people are smart. The highest business taxes in the United States -- do you know what a business is going to do? Move. Why? Because businesses are smart. "Well there is no place else to go, we're New York.' Actually there are. If you look at a map, you will see to the West of New York, these other shapes. Squares, rectangles, funny triangles. Those are actually called other states. Now, they may not be as good as New York, but they are habitable places. They have been proven to be habitable. And if you keep raising taxes, and you keep raising the regulations, people can go live there. And they did.
And that continued to fuel the downward cycle. So now we're losing more people, we're losing more businesses, more taxes for the localities, the people who remain behind, and that's making the situation worse. And we're losing our economic rationale. And we don't really have the capital and the energy to recreate the economy, which by the way, happens to be a very, very big, tough proposition. "Okay, so yesterday you were in the manufacturing business -- yesterday was Griffiss, yesterday was GE -- they've moved, what are you going to do as a business line in the future?' Tough question. Especially when you're competing with so many other regions and cities that are about the same size that were in the same business.
And by the way, who's going to provide the capital to help capitalize this new business? "Well, government will; state government should.' And you're right -- the state government should have, but it didn't, for a lot of years. Why? "Well state government doesn't care about Upstate New York; it's only focused on downstate New York.' Many people have said that. Caring bespeaks a feeling, and I don't like to comment on feelings.
Factually what happened, is the New York State government is basically run by the Legislature. I like to think I have a little something to do with it, but the Legislature is the 800-pound gorilla. The Legislature is predominately from New York City and downstate, overwhelmingly. You have about 80 members just from New York City and by the way, those New York City members all have one agenda: New York City. In the Senate, the largest-single concentration of Senators is from Long Island and they have one agenda item: Long island. Right?
Every legislator wants to do for his or her district. Well who represents upstate New York? Who is fighting for the Mohawk Valley? Joe Griffo in the Senate. He is very strong, very good. But Joe, Dave Valesky, they're outnumbered fifty to one. You have Anthony Brindisi in the Assembly. He is outnumber one hundred to one, Brindisi. So it was very, very difficult to get the kind of attention that upstate needed. That has changed dramatically over the past few years. That has changed dramatically. Why?
Because we've insisted that it change dramatically. And the legislators have put their foot down. We've actually organized the upstate legislators as upstate legislators. There is no place called "upstate New York." Right? There's Buffalo, Rochester, Utica. No one says "I'm from upstate." And there was no unity among the upstate delegation. So you had all of this power in numbers in downstate and upstate they were all fractured and separate. They understand now there is something to forming an upstate coalition. I told the legislative leaders straight out that I would not sign a budget unless it had significant economic resources for upstate New York. And over the past few years, billions of dollars have gone to upstate New York. Billions of dollars.
And over the past few years, we reversed the negative that the state had created. I was going to speak with my friends at General Electric a few weeks ago. It was a social visit and we were just catching up and talking about old times. GE was in the State of New York at one time. GE was here at one time and they were very, very big. They still have a presence in New York. They had their headquarters here and they were one of the big founding companies of New York. And GE in the mid-70's said, "I'm going to go try one of those other states on the map with that other shape, because New York doesn't get it," and they left. And they went to another state that shall be nameless and they set up shop.
And I went to GE a few weeks ago and I said basically "you were right." I understand why you left. I understand what we did with taxes, I understand what we did with regulations, but we have changed and we are different than you remember us and that is true. We cut taxes across the board. We cut income taxes down to the lowest level since the 1950's, corporate taxes down to the lowest level in over 50 years. The manufacturing tax we brought down to zero because we're trying to bring manufacturing in.
So we fixed the negative that the state had created. We recognized the need for investment in upstate New York. And then there is one other factor in the equation, which is the economic vision of what your business line is going to be. Because regions have business lines. We don't talk about it that way, we don't think about it that way, but that's true. I'll say to a mayor, I'll say to a county executive just to shake them up a little bit, "What business are you in?" They say, "I'm in government." I say "I know, you're a county executive." But I say, "What business is your county in?"
Buffalo made steel. We ran Griffiss Air Force Base here. I understand yesterday. What are you doing now and what is the economic future? And not what were you, but what are you and what will you be? And we have to re-create our economic identity and our economic future. That comes from the people in this room.
I can't tell you what the future vision for the Mohawk Valley is economically. Only the Mohawk Valley can figure that out and come up with a vision, come up with a dream, come up with a plan, and then everyone together works towards that plan. And by the way, the Mohawk Valley is going to be a little bit different than the North County, a little different from Western New York, a little different from Long Island. We don't have one economy. We have ten regional economies, each one a little different.
Now, to spur that process, which is unique -- it's a government-private sector partnership on steroids -- we have the Upstate Revitalization Initiative Competition. $1.5 billion for the regions that come up with the best economic vision and we will then invest in it, and you've done very well in that competition and you're developing a beautiful economic vision.
We do have one statewide economic vision for upstate New York that is functioning brilliantly in Albany and some isolated parts of upstate New York and today is going to come big-time to Utica. And that is an economic vision built around Nanotechnology. Now, what is nanotechnology? Good question. Nanotechnology started as an economic vision by literally a single professor who was going to SUNY Albany back in the 90's. He was actually attracted to SUNY Albany by a state program that was financing innovations in science. And the state program was run by then, the Empire State Development of its time, and the Governor was a fellow named Mario Cuomo.
And they ran the competition and a professor named Alain Kaloyeros comes to ESD twenty years ago and says, "I have a vision. I have an economic vision -- nanotechnology."
What is nanotechnology? It is the science of reducing the physical dimensions of computer processing. We had computer boards at one time, and the boards were reduced down. Then they went to chips, and then the chips got smaller, and the smaller you can make them, the more cost-effective, and the more effective from a utilization point of view. And how do you make the chip and what can you put on the chip and what is the cheapest way to make the chip? That was nanotechnology.
I'm sure my father had no idea what he was talking about, but they gave Alain Kaloyeros a grant, he went to SUNY Albany, he followed his dream, it built, it built, it built. The state then invested in something called "clean rooms." What's a clean room? You were in the clean room. A clean room is the room they need to work on these chips and manufacture these chips. They're designed in such a way that there are no particles in the way than can infect or pollute the chip manufacturing process.
The brilliance of the state investment was that a clean room can cost hundreds of millions of dollars to build. The state invested billions, literally, in building a clean room. And the state owned the clean room. And then any business that needed to use the clean room had to come to New York and had to use the state's assets. And, by the way, they couldn't leave because it was our Clean room. And it was a very different economic model. Rather than giving the company money and the company builds and the company invests, the state invested and we had the asset. It has transformed the Capital District, the Albany economy. Home values have skyrocketed. Not in just Albany County, but the entire region has been economically transformed. It is amazing.
And it is the model. It is higher education. It is training people in higher education to work in a specialized industry and that industry in partnership with that university. It has grown so big that it needs to expand, and the site to have it expand was Utica. And then we started making those preparations and talking about it.
Now, having a vision, having a dream is nice. That's step one. Step two is do it. And step two is always the hard part. Then you have to build the building, then you have to find the financing and then you have to make it happen. So this was a very long road to get here today. But, it started with the building we're in today, Quad-C. It then was ambitious enough to envision an advancement, which was Marcy Nano, which is right across the way, and then it was about putting together the initial investment and the initial companies to get it started.
Today, in Quad-C, we're joined by General Electric. General Electric is going to announce that they are establishing their R&D facility here for studying the chip application process. It's a total of a $200 million investment. $50 million from the State of New York, $150 million from General Electric.
It will create 470 jobs. Average salary will be $91,000. General Electric will be joining companies that have already committed to occupy this building, like Tokyo Electronics, Sematech, and IBM. A total of a $1.5 billion investment, which was going to be a total of 1,000 jobs. With GE's announcement today, it will be a total of 1,470 jobs right here.
Across the street is Marcy Nano -- a 500-acre site. It posed every conceivable challenge known to man. The Army Corp. of Engineers had to sign off -- which is always a treat -- dealing with that bureaucracy. The County Executive's hair went grey dealing with the Army Corp. of Engineers. But the permits are all done, the building is ready, the anchor tenant, which we are in the final stages of negotiation with, is going to AMS, which is an Australian chip manufacturer. New York State will invest $200 million. AMS will invest $4 billion in building the plant.
That will create an additional 1,000 jobs. So we're talking about 2,500 jobs right here. Now, the congratulations go truly to the people in this room. A project like this does not happen without a lot of people spending a lot of time making this happen and County Executive Anthony Picente is right at the top of the list. So let's give him a round of applause. RoAnn Destito, before she was a state big shot, and was representing the region, made it a point to say when she saw the growth of Nanotech in LAbany -- that mabe it will get so big it will need more space and I know where to bring it, and that was right here to Utica, so RoAnne Destito: thank you for what you did.
Senator Joe Griffo and I have worked together a long time on economic development. We were working together both in different capacities when I was HUD Secretary -- that's how long ago we started. But sometimes it's nice to see 20 years of effort finally come home to roost. Senator Joe Griffo: thank you very much for everything you've done. And you have a ferocious advocate in the Assembly who has taken RoAnne's seat and is doing a great job -- Anthony Brindisi. Let's give him a round of applause.
Now: this does two things for you. First, because I believe we create our own destiny, right? You can have breaks, some of them good, some of them bad, but at the end of the day it's up to you. At the end of the day it's the person in the mirror who decides your future and your fate; nobody else.
What this does -- it's not just 2,500 jobs. It's not just about two buildings. It provides you an economic engine that can drive an entire economy. You build from this. These companies will develop all sorts of off-shoots. There are going to be all sorts of companies that want to do business with these companies. You have the beginning of an economic revolution here, but you have to stoke those flames. You have to work with it. You have to partner it. What else can we do, GE? What else do you need? What other division, maybe that you could bring here? So this is not in and of itself an economic revolution, but it is the beginning of an economic revolution. And it is here for you, now. And all those years of trying to put it together and trying to make it happen -- you did it. You did it. Not the state, not the Governor, not anybody else -- you did it yourself. You were committed to the region and you made it happen.
And second, besides having an economic future and an economic engine, you gave people hope again. One of the last times I was here I was talking to a young fellow who had a kind of sour look on his face. And I said to him as I was walking out, I said "why the long face?' He said "you know, I've heard it all before. I've seen it all before. You're just another politician with another speech and another plan.' I said "really?' I used to have a temper when I was young, but now I'm too old, so I don't rise to the bait as much -- once and a while. But I couldn't blame him for that attitude, right? We have been in a bad place in Upstate New York for 30, 40, 50 years. Some places we're on the second and third generation of decline. And maybe this, maybe this, I have an idea, I have a hope -- yeah, but now it came true. And it is up to you to communicate: the future is here and it is happening.
I know it was a long wait. I know there were a lot of grey days. But that was yesterday and this is today. And look at what tomorrow can be. And we stuck it out and we stayed with the region. And by the way we have every asset that you could need. We needed that spark, we needed that energy, we needed GE, we needed AMS, we needed someone to understand who we were. But any asset God could give a region, he gave us. The best schools in the United States of America. The most beautiful landscape. The most beautiful history. Any recreation you want, you can do right here in this state. And the taxes are down and the business environment is down. And you have all of that in one place. You can't find another state in this nation that has what we have. I've worked in every state in the United States; no one can compare to New York.
And the last piece we have, and the piece that makes all the difference in the world is the people. We have New Yorkers. And you showed your grit and you showed your stamina and you showed your heart when you lived through those bad days. And you worked for a better tomorrow. And the better tomorrow is here, today. You deserve it. It's yours. You've only started. This is the first spark. Stoke those flames. We're going to have an economic fire and this region is not just going to be what it was. It is going to be better and bigger and stronger than it's ever been. Thank you and God bless you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-transcript-governor-cuomo-holds-cabinet-meeting-and-announces-next-phase-nano
