Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches Next Phase of Nano Utica Initiative With Nearly 2,000 New Jobs Expected and Over $2 Billion in Private Investment
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 20, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced that global technology leader ams AG, a multinational company that creates high performance sensor solutions and analog ICs, plans to generate more than 1,000 new jobs and initially invest over $2 billion to support a cutting edge, 360,000 square foot wafer fabrication facility to be constructed at the Nano Utica site in Marcy.
Governor Cuomo also announced that GE Global Research will expand its New York global operations to the Mohawk Valley, serving as the anchor tenant of the Computer Chip Commercialization Center (QUAD C) on the campus of SUNY Polytechnic Institute's Colleges of Nanoscale Science and Engineering in Utica. Nearly 500 jobs are expected to be created in the Mohawk Valley in the next five years from SUNY Poly, GE and affiliated corporations and another 350 in the subsequent five years.
These public-private partnerships represent the launch of the next phase of the Governor's Nano Utica initiative, which now exceeds more than 4,000 projected jobs over the next ten years. Designed to replicate the dramatic success of SUNY Poly's Nanotech Megaplex in Albany, NANO Utica further cements New York's international recognition as the preeminent hub for 21st century nanotechnology innovation, education, and economic development.
"This is a transformative moment that will make a difference in peoples' lives in the Mohawk Valley for generations to come," said Governor Cuomo. "Over the past few years, we have worked to reverse the negative and invest in Upstate NY -- and today we're taking another huge step forward. With GE and ams joining the Nano Utica initiative, we're seeing the region's economy gathering momentum unlike ever before. The Mohawk Valley is beginning an economic revolution around nanotechnology, and I am excited to see the region take off and thrive, both today and in the years ahead."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-launches-next-phase-nano-utica-initiative-nearly-2000-new-jobs-expected-and-over
