Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $6 Million Project to Repair Bridge Decks on Route 104
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 18, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced that construction has begun on a $6 million project to repair 17 bridge decks along the State Route 104 corridor in the town of Webster, Monroe County.
"These repairs will keep the Route 104 bridges in a state of good repair and maintain mobility along this east-west corridor through Monroe County for years to come," Governor Cuomo said. "This project is just another example of our commitment to rebuilding New York's infrastructure."
A combination of maintenance actions will be taken on each of the bridges along Route 104 between Dewitt Road and Salt Road to improve the structures' overall condition, as well as provide a smooth riding surface for motorists. Work includes repaving, sidewalk improvements and repairs to bridge decks, joints and concrete.
Structures being addressed as part of this project include
the bridges carrying Dewitt, Bay and Five Mile Line roads over Route 104; and
the bridges carrying Route 104 eastbound and westbound over Maple Drive, State Route 250 and Gravel, Hard, Holt, Phillips and Salt roads.
Construction will begin in the westbound direction on the bridges over Salt Road, Phillips Road and Route 250. Travel will be reduced to a single lane along this stretch through October. Work will resume in the spring.
New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "Preventative maintenance is a cost-effective way to get the most out of our transportation infrastructure, extending its life and keeping our highways and bridges safe for motorists. In keeping with Governor Cuomo's goal of minimizing impacts to the traveling public, at least one highway lane will be kept open in each direction during construction and work will be suspended during key travel weekends over the next year."
Senator Mike Nozzolio said, "These needed repairs are an important investment in our region's infrastructure. I appreciate Governor Cuomo's support for these improvements which are vital to Webster and our region's economy."
Assemblyman Mark Johns said, "Repairing the bridges on Route 104 is a major quality of life project which will provide motorists in our community a safer and more secure roadway for years to come. While this work may be a disruption, these necessary improvements will ensure that Route 104 in Webster will be a safe and secure route to travel."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-6-million-project-repair-bridge-decks-route-104
