Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Project to Replace Rexford Bridge Over Mohawk River
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 18, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the award of a construction contract for a $32.5 million project to replace the Rexford Bridge carrying State Route 146 over the Mohawk River between Rexford in the town of Clifton Park, Saratoga County and the town of Niskayuna, Schenectady County. Construction may begin as soon as this fall.
"This bridge is important to the entire region's transportation network and the thousands upon thousands of motorists who use it," Governor Cuomo said. "These improvements will not only ensure that the bridge remains viable for years to come, but will also decrease congestion and ensure smooth passage for drivers, bicyclists and pedestrians alike. This project is just another example of our commitment to rebuilding New York's infrastructure."
The new Rexford Bridge will have four lanes -- wider than the existing two-lane bridge -- to better accommodate traffic volumes. An additional travel lane will be built in each direction from Riverview Road in Rexford to Aqueduct Road in Niskayuna. Additionally, a multi-use trail will be built on Route 146 and over the bridge to connect Riverview Road with the Mohawk-Hudson Bike-Hike Trail on the Niskayuna side of the Mohawk.
The project also includes building a roundabout to replace the traffic signal at the intersection of Route 146, Williams Street and Aqueduct Road in Niskayuna, as well as intersection improvements at Riverview Road in Rexford.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "Governor Cuomo has made unprecedented investments in New York State's infrastructure, and the new Rexford Bridge will contribute to this legacy of development and smart stewardship. Replacing the Rexford Bridge will enhance mobility and support the continuing growth of Schenectady County and southern Saratoga County communities."
While major construction is expected to begin in spring 2016, tree clearing could begin this fall. The contract team for the project will immediately begin working on securing necessary permits and finalizing the bridge design. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 2017.
State Senator Hugh Farley said, "The Rexford Bridge is a key part of one of the major transportation arteries in Schenectady and Saratoga Counties. The safety, quality of life and economic development benefits of the new bridge will be tremendous. I am particularly happy that the Department of Transportation took a great deal of input from local residents into consideration before the bridge replacement and improvement plans were finalized."
Assemblyman Phil Steck said, "A substantial traffic increase over the present Rexford Bridge has led to the demand for a new structure that will better adapt to a new traffic pattern. The Department of Transportation and Tioga Construction anticipate completion of this significant project within two years. Investment in our infrastructure is a critical component of economic development here in Upstate New York. We must continue to make improvements such as these that help grow our local economy."
Assemblyman Jim Tedisco said, "The new Rexford Bridge is a project that many people have been hoping to see happen for a long time. The Rexford Bridge is a critical gateway to the 112th Assembly District for travelers and workers who commute between Schenectady and Saratoga Counties every day and the small businesses that rely on it for commerce. Once completed, this new bridge will help ease traffic congestion and make that commute just a little easier for the thousands of people who cross the Mohawk River on a daily basis. Thanks to Governor Cuomo and the New York State Department of Transportation for moving this important infrastructure project forward."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-project-replace-rexford-bridge-over-mohawk-river
