Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Statewide Emergency Regulations to Combat Legionnaires' Disease
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 17, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced that emergency regulations have been adopted by the State Department of Health to prevent the spread of Legionella bacteria and protect New Yorkers from future outbreaks of Legionnaires' disease. These first-of-their-kind statewide regulations take effect immediately. The framework for these emergency regulations was drafted in consultation with the New York City Mayor's Office and City Council representatives.
Additionally, the Governor announced that the Department of Health has launched a general tip line (1-888-769-7243) to respond to questions or inquiries regarding the regulations from members of the public, as well as engineers, technologists and technicians.
Governor Cuomo announced that emergency regulations have been adopted by the State Department of Health to prevent the spread of Legionella bacteria and protect New Yorkers from future outbreaks of Legionnaires' disease. These first-of-their-kind statewide regulations take effect immediately. The framework for these emergency regulations was drafted in consultation with the New York City Mayor's Office and City Council representatives.
Additionally, the Governor announced that the Department of Health has launched a general tip line (1-888-769-7243) to respond to questions or inquiries regarding the regulations from members of the public, as well as engineers, technologists and technicians.
Register a Cooling Tower and Submit Reports
"This summer's outbreak of Legionnaires' disease caused concern in communities across the state, and today we are moving forward to help prevent future outbreaks and keep our neighborhoods safe," Governor Cuomo said. "Our new emergency regulations will make sure that building owners live up to their responsibilities and provide health officials with critical information to counter the spread of Legionella bacteria. I want to reassure all New Yorkers: We are addressing the problem at its source and protecting the public health, statewide."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-statewide-emergency-regulations-combat-legionnaires-disease
