Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Legislation to Maintain School Aid in Saranac
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo Betty Little Janet Duprey
Date: Aug. 14, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo signed legislation that will ensure Saranac Central School District receives full state aid for the 2014-2015 school year, despite not meeting the 180 school day requirement. The schools are eligible for a waiver due to extraordinary circumstances, where they faced unexpected closures surrounding the search for two escaped inmates from Clinton Correction Facility in Dannemora.
"Saranac officials made the right decision in the name of safety and through no fault of its own, its funding was put at risk," said Governor Cuomo. "This legislation corrects this unfortunate situation and ensures that the district and its student body don't pay the price of the actions of these two criminals."
By law, school districts are required to be in session for at least 180 days in order to receive their full allotment of state aid, and for each day that they are short, they lose a small portion. The Commissioner of Education is authorized to waive shortfalls in certain limited circumstances, but in this case the Saranac Central School District would not qualify under current law.
Accordingly, this bill (S.5938 / A.8221) authorizes the Commissioner of Education to grant a waiver ensuring that neither the district nor students are penalized.
Senator Betty Little said, "The escape of two inmates from Clinton Correctional was highly disruptive for North Country residents. Nothing was more important than public safety and closing the school was the right decision for students and faculty. This new law ensures district taxpayers and the school community are not affected with a loss of school aid. I thank my colleagues and Governor Cuomo for supporting this helpful measure."
Assemblywoman Janet L. Duprey said, "I am pleased the Governor has signed this important legislation to provide full state aid to the Saranac Central School District although the school did not meet the required 180 days in session. I thank the Governor for recognizing the closure of the school was necessary because of the dangers associated with the two escaped prisoners. This bill will provide funding to ensure the School District taxpayers are not penalized."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-signs-legislation-maintain-school-aid-saranac
