Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces First-in-the-Nation Cybersecurity Regulation Protecting Consumers and Financial Institutions from Cyber-Attacks to Take Effect March 1
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 16, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the first-in-the-nation cybersecurity regulation to protect New York's financial services industry and consumers from the ever-growing threat of cyber-attacks will take effect on March 1, 2017. The final regulation requires banks, insurance companies, and other financial services institutions regulated by the Department of Financial Services to establish and maintain a cybersecurity program designed to protect consumers' private data and ensure the safety and soundness of New York's financial services industry.

"New York is the financial capital of the world, and it is critical that we do everything in our power to protect consumers and our financial system from the ever increasing threat of cyber-attacks," Governor Cuomo said. "These strong, first-in-the-nation protections will help ensure this industry has the necessary safeguards in place in order to protect themselves and the New Yorkers they serve from the serious economic harm caused by these devastating cyber-crimes."

New York State Department of Financial Services Superintendent Maria T. Vullo said, "With this landmark regulation, DFS is ensuring that New York consumers can trust that their financial institutions have protocols in place to protect the security and privacy of their sensitive personal information. As our global financial network becomes even more interconnected and entities around the world increasingly suffer information breaches, New York is leading the charge to combat the ever-increasing risk of cyber-attacks."

The final risk-based regulation includes certain regulatory minimum standards while encouraging firms to keep pace with technological advances. The new regulation provides important protections to prevent and avoid cyber breaches, including:









Source:
