Public Statements
Schumer, Gillibrand, Cuomo & De Blasio Announce More than $8.9 Million for Runway Upgrades at JFK Airport to Reduce Delays & Improve Safety
Press Release
By: Bill de Blasio Chuck Schumer Andrew Cuomo Kirsten Gillibrand
Date: Aug. 7, 2015
Location: Unknown

U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, Governor Andrew Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio today announced more than $8.9 million in federal funding for key runway and airfield upgrades at John F. Kennedy International Airport that will help reduce the time planes spend on the ground while also enhancing safety measures. The grant will fund the second of a three-phase improvement plan that includes runway upgrades and new taxiways.
"This important federal investment will help improve safety and efficiency, while reducing wait times, at New York's JFK Airport," said Senator Schumer. "This funding will update the airport's taxiway so that our pilots can fly safely and our passengers can have a safer flying experience."
"JFK is a major hub for not just New York, but the northeast, and it has to meet the best standards for efficiency and safety," said Senator Gillibrand. "Investing in our airport's infrastructure will make it better for the businesses and travelers who rely on it every day. I will continue to push for funding to help ensure there is timely, safe air travel New Yorkers can rely on."
"This funding is another step forward in our efforts to reinvent New York's airports for the 21st century," said Governor Cuomo. "By upgrading JFK's runways and its supporting infrastructure, we are fundamentally improving its ability to meet the demands of modern air travel. That means reducing delays for thousands of passengers every day, and I look forward to seeing this project get underway."??
"These are smart investments that will strengthen JFK as a transportation and economic link for the entire city," said Mayor de Blasio. "I thank Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, as well as our congressional delegation, for securing this vital funding."
"I'd like to thank Senators Schumer and Gillibrand and the entire New York State delegation for its tireless efforts in securing funding for this critical infrastructure project at JFK that will enhance safety and help reduce delays for the traveling public," said Pat Foye, Executive Director of the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey. "JFK is key to the Queens economy and these investments will ensure that the airport remains a top job generator with the 36,000 jobs it currently supports."
The grant for the work related to Runway 4L-22R will help fund a new high-speed taxiway, as well as ensuring the safety zones at both ends of the runway safety zones extend 1,000 feet to meet an enhanced FAA requirement.
The funding is awarded through the Airport Improvement Program, and is administered by DOT's Federal Aviation Administration. Funds obligated for the AIP are drawn from the Airport and Airway Trust fund, which is supported by user fees, fuel taxes, and other similar revenue sources.
Additionally, the project will widen Runway 4L-22R from 150 feet to 200 feet to accommodate the latest and largest planes in the airlines' fleet, including the A380 and its expansive wingspan.

Source: http://www.gillibrand.senate.gov/newsroom/press/release/schumer-gillibrand-cuomo-and-de-blasio-announce-more-than-89-million-for-runway-upgrades-at-jfk-airport-to-reduce-delays_improve-safety
