Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $6.2 Million in Grants For Historic Properties Damaged By Superstorm Sandy
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 4, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced more than $6.2 million in grant awards to help 16 historically significant properties repair severe damage from Superstorm Sandy in 2012. This is the second round of funding announced by the Governor to rehabilitate historic landmarks damaged in the storm.
"Many of New York's historic properties endured the devastating effects of Superstorm Sandy and as a result, have fallen into a state of disrepair," Governor Cuomo said. "With this funding, we are helping our communities rebuild these New York State treasures back stronger and more resilient than before. In the end, they will better withstand the threat of future storms and continue to serve as economic and educational assets in their communities."
"Many historic places continue to struggle with the harsh impact of Superstorm Sandy," Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation Commissioner Rose Harvey said. "Under the Governor's leadership, State Parks is part of the effort to assess, renovate and protect landmarks that are so important in our state's history."
The grants will aid in the recovery of some of the region's most significant historic properties, including the Fraunces Tavern, a gathering place for Revolutionary War-era patriots such as George Washington, Alexander Hamilton and John Adams that is now a popular historic museum in Manhattan and Old Westbury Gardens in Westbury, a premier example of a Long Island "Gold Coast" country estate and a leading Long Island heritage tourism destination. The scenic Evergeens and Green-Wood Cemeteries in Brooklyn are the final resting places of numerous prominent New Yorkers including composer Leonard Bernstein, journalist Horace Greeley, abolitionist Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, artist Jean Michel Basquiat, cartoonist Walt Kelly and eight victims of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire.
Grants are being made available to properties that are on or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places, owned by municipalities or not-for profit organizations and located in one of 13 FEMA-designated counties. Work must meet the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Treatment of Historic Properties and be pre-approved by the State Historic Preservation Office. The program isfunded by the National Park Service and administered by the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation.
The projects are the second round of funding under the program. Last year, Governor Cuomo announced more than $5 million was awarded to 14 historically significant properties that suffered severe damage from Superstorm Sandy.
Congressman Eliot Engel said,"Superstorm Sandy took a heavy toll on areas of the Long Island Sound, particularly Rye, which is still recovering from the damage almost three years later. The roof of the Palmer Tennis House at the historic Jay Heritage Center endured significant damage in the storm, and as a result was in desperate need of repairs. Now, thanks to Governor Cuomo's allocation of $391,056 in grant money to the Center, the roof can be stabilize and restored, and this historic property can once again be enjoyed by everyone in the Rye community and beyond."
Rep. Jerrold Nadler said, "The devastation of Superstorm Sandy continues to have an effect on thousands of New Yorkers whose homes, businesses and property were destroyed or irrevocably damaged. Immediately after the disaster we fought to secure the necessary emergency funding from the Federal Government to help with recovery and rebuilding, but there remains a tremendous amount of work that still needs to be done. I am glad we were able to bring these federal funds to restore such important New York historic sites; ensuring that they will continue to be enjoyed and valued by their local communities and the public at large for years to come."
Congresswoman Kathleen Rice said,"Superstorm Sandy affected all aspects of life on Long Island -- from homes and small businesses, to the historic sites and state parks that are so important to our culture and our local economy. This funding for crucial repairs at Jones Beach State Park represents another important step in our ongoing efforts to rebuild and recover from the damage that Sandy inflicted on Long Island's communities."
Congressman Steve Israel, "Our historical landmarks and buildings took a powerful hit from Superstorm Sandy and many of our communities in Nassau County, and across Long Island are still struggling to recover and rebuild. This federal and state partnership will ensure we are rebuilding and protecting our historical sites for future generations of New Yorkers to enjoy."
Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney said, "There are so many historic buildings that were damaged by Superstorm Sandy, but are still in need of repairs. I worked to support federal funding to restore historic landmarks, and I'm pleased to see the resources flowing to so many important properties. I applaud Governor Cuomo for his leadership and for making the full recovery from Sandy a top priority."
Congressman Lee Zeldin said, "When Superstorm Sandy hit, our Long Island community was left in disarray. Long Island's culture is rich in history; and the federal, state and local governments are working together to protect and restore our historic sites, like Taylor's Island in Shelter Island. This is a key victory for Shelter Island and I am honored to be a part of it."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-62-million-grants-historic-properties-damaged-superstorm-sandy
