Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Modern Marketing Concepts, Inc. to Expand and Create Nearly 600 New Jobs in Binghamton
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 4, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Global Sales and Marketing Company Retains More Than 300 Existing Jobs in Broome County; Undertakes $17 Million Redevelopment of Mostly Vacant Industrial Facility to Expand Business and Establish "Link Park"
Company Considered Options in Colorado and Florida but Chose to Remain and Expand in Upstate New York
Governor Cuomo announced that Modern Marketing Concepts, Inc., a global sales optimization company providing marketing, technology, sales and fulfillment services, is significantly expanding its operations and workforce in Binghamton, Broome County. Through this expansion, the company will create at least 592 new, full-time jobs over the next five years, while also retaining 310 existing jobs.
The company plans to invest approximately $17 million to acquire a predominately vacant, 426,000 square foot industrial structure and redevelop it into Link Park -- a multi-use and multi-tenant facility to accommodate its expansion, as well as attract additional businesses and jobs. Construction is slated to begin later this month, and will be completed in early 2017.
"From cutting taxes to helping business expand and thrive, today is proof positive that our administration's formula for growing the economy works," Governor Cuomo said. "This expansion project is another step forward for the local community, and it is one that will help Binghamton and the surrounding areas become the kinds of places where our young people come and stay to find their future in the new economy. We were pleased to do our part on the state side to make this possible, and I want to thank and congratulate County Executive Preston and Mr. Babcock for their roles as well. This is a very exciting day for the Upstate economy, and it's a reminder that the best truly is yet to come."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-modern-marketing-concepts-inc-expand-and-create-nearly-600-new-jobs
