Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Highlights Savings Craft Distilleries Across New York State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 3, 2015
Location: Unknown

Reforms implemented following summits saved over $400,000 in fees
Governor Cuomo announced that policies implemented following the Wine, Beer, Spirits and Cider Summits have saved New York distillers over $424,000 in fees over the past three years. These savings have been reinvested back into these small manufacturing businesses and encouraged new entrepreneurs to enter the market. In the last year alone, the number of farm distilleries has increased by more than 25 percent from 62 to 78. In 2011, New York had had only 10 such distilleries.
"New York State's beverage industry produces some of the finest wines, beers, ciders and spirits in the world and the incredible increase in the number of farm distillers these last few years is a testament to our efforts to lower costs, cut red tape and make it easier for these producers to open and grow," said Governor Cuomo. "With the small farm based beverage producers on the rise, and their products being shipped worldwide, there is no denying that New York is truly open for business."
As a result of New York's leadership in supporting the industry, the growth of small craft beverage producers is leading to increased tax revenue, job opportunities, increased demand for farm products, and a bolstered tourism impact for the state.
Regulatory and legislative reforms implemented to support the growth and development of New York craft distillers include:
Elimination of brand label registration fee: On December 17, 2013, the Governor's legislation to exempt small batches of spirits from brand labeling fees went into effect. Since then, the State Liquor Authority has approved 1,699 no fee brand labels, providing $424,750 in savings for craft distilleries.
Elimination of duplicative license for farm distilleries: Prior to the 2012 Summit, farm distilleries needed a permit from the Department of Agriculture & Markets in addition to a liquor license, at a cost of $400. At the 2012 Summit, the Governor eliminated this requirement, saving farm distillers over $30,000.

Source:
