Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $56 Million in Improvements Along Route 347 on Long Island
Press Release
By: Lee Zeldin Michael Fitzpatrick John Flanagan, Jr. Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 30, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Completion of Two Projects Helps Transform Corridor into Urban Greenway
Governor Cuomo announced completion of two projects worth $56.1 million to help transform State Route 347 on Long Island from a high-volume corridor into a safe, multi-modal, environmentally sustainable boulevard for motorists, pedestrians, bicyclists, and transit users. The improvements are part of a series of projects planned to enhance safety and reduce travel delays on the Route 347 corridor by transforming the busy road into a modified boulevard and suburban greenway for 15 miles through Smithtown, Islip and Brookhaven, in Suffolk County.
"The transformation of Route 347 will support businesses, improve safety and keep traffic moving for the hundreds of thousands of motorists who depend on this vital part of Long Island's transportation system," Governor Cuomo said. "I'm proud to see these projects completed as yet another example of New York investing in key infrastructure in every corner of this state."
Paving for a $25.6 million project to reconstruct State Route 347 at its intersection with Route 112 in the town of Brookhaven, Suffolk County was completed July 29, with landscaping and finishing work scheduled for completion this fall. A separate $30.5 million project to reconstruct State Route 347 between State Route 111 and Mount Pleasant Road in the town of Smithtown, Suffolk County was completed earlier in July.
New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "The shared-use path, new pedestrian signals and crosswalks and new bus shelter make this a truly multi-modal project that will increase safety for pedestrians and bicyclists and enhance connections for transit users, important goals for Governor Cuomo in all transportation projects. By making all these options available along the corridor, we are encouraging people to leave their cars at home, and -- with new solar and LED lighting and abundant tree planting -- we have transformed this section of Route 347 into an environmentally sustainable corridor."

Source:
