Public Statements
Governor Cuomo, County Executive Mahoney, Announce First Concert in New Lakeside Amphitheater
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 29, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo and Onondaga County Executive Joanie Mahoney today announced that the first concert at the newly constructed, state of the art, Lakeview Amphitheatre will be held Thursday, September 3. The concert will feature two-time Grammy Award winning singer-songwriter Miranda Lambert. The show will be promoted by Live Nation.
"In no time, this amphitheater went from an idea on paper to a state of the art facility that will bring more visitors and economic opportunity to Central New York," Governor Cuomo said. "I'm proud to work with County Executive Mahoney and other stakeholders to move this project forward and I'm certain that today will be the first of many exciting announcements."
"The Lakeview Amphitheatre is ready for its first show and we are pleased to announce that Country Music superstar Miranda Lambert will be performing," said Onondaga County Executive Joanie Mahoney. "Miranda is an incredible artist and this is exactly the type of show we wanted to be able to bring our community when we announced our plans just 20 months ago."
Grammy winning singer-songwriter Miranda Lambert said, "I'm excited to be the first live music in the brand new Lakeview Amphitheater! Upstate New York is so beautiful to visit, breaking in the new amphitheater is just icing on the cake!"
The amphitheater was built as part of a state-funded project to revitalize the neighborhoods along the western shore of Onondaga Lake. Governor Cuomo championed, and ultimately signed into law, a measure allowing the amphitheater to use a design-build process to allow construction to begin as soon as possible and to be completed in time to hold at least one concert during the 2015 Great New York State Fair. The amphitheater is adjacent to the Fair's largest parking lot and will use the lot for concert parking.
Miranda Lambert is the reigning five-time CMA and six-time ACM Female Vocalist of the Year (the first time anyone has won 6 consecutive years). Her latest album, Platinum, has featured the hit singles "Automatic," (Miranda's highest charting first week single to date), "Little Red Wagon" as well as the duet, "Somethin' Bad" with Carrie Underwood, which has been officially certified as an RIAA Platinum Digital Single.
Her last album, Four The Record, made history when it debuted atop Billboard's Top Country Albums chart, making Miranda the first country artist in the 47-year history of the chart to have each of her first four albums debut at # 1. All four of those albums have also been certified Platinum.
Mahoney added, "When we set out to do this project we set a very ambitious timetable and I am proud to say that this project has hit every milestone we have set -- and the fact we can have a concert here in 2015 is because of the hard work of literally hundreds of people. This is a great day for Central New York and I hope to see everyone on September 3rd."
Tickets for Miranda Lambert at the Lakeview Amphitheatre go on sale this Friday, July 31 at 10 a.m. Ticket prices will be $35 for lawn seats and $75 - $95 for reserved seating. Tickets may be purchased from the OnCenter box office or Ticketmaster. Ticket purchase includes admission to the Great New York State Fair.
About Live Nation Entertainment:
Live Nation Entertainment (NYSE: LYV) is the world's leading live entertainment company comprised of global market leaders: Ticketmaster, Live Nation & House of Blues Concerts, LN Media and Artist Nation Management. For additional information, visit: www.livenationentertainment.com.
About the Onondaga County Lakeview Amphitheatre:
The Onondaga County Lakeview Amphitheatre will be the newest outdoor venue in Central New York and will have a 17,500 seat capacity. The Amphitheatre sits in a park setting on the shore of Onondaga Lake and promises to be one of the top outdoor music venues in New York State.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-county-executive-mahoney-announce-first-concert-new-lakeside-amphitheater
