Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New DMV Online Service Allowing Customers to Print a Temporary License
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 29, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced that New Yorkers now have the opportunity to print a temporary license from the Department of Motor Vehicles website when they renew or replace their driver licenses, learner permits, or non-driver identification card online. This service will provide a quick, convenient way to get a temporary license, without making a trip to the DMV, allowing drivers and residents to be able to prove a new license is on the way.
"This administration remains committed to streamlining the processes of government, and one of our focuses has been making DMV wait times shorter and services more convenient," Governor Cuomo said. "We are bringing the DMV of New York into the 21st century and improving the way it serves millions of customers."
The printable documents are similar to, and as valid as, one from the DMV office or DMV kiosk, but with the added convenience of printing from home. The temporary license, permit or non-driver identification card is valid for 60 days. Each temporary document appears on an eight-and-a-half-by-eleven-inch page and carries a background image of the New York State coat of arms.
Customers can access this service on the DMV's website or with a MyDMV account. When using the DMV website, a download link on their confirmation page will appear to download the temporary document. Customers renewing or replacing a license through their MyDMV account can log into their account and re-download their document for up to five days after completing their transaction.
The ability to download a temporary document is also offered to customers renewing or replacing their registrations. Additionally, the DMV website allows customers who are renewing late, or who have lost their documents, to obtain a temporary document immediately and avoid a trip to a DMV office.
In 2012, Governor Cuomo launched the DMV Customer Service Initiative. As part of this direction, the DMV implemented a reservation system to allow customers to reserve a day and time convenient for them without a wait. Other improvements include new technology at call centers to expedite the 4.5 million calls received each year, self-serve kiosks, and assigning employees to greet customers upon arriving at state-run DMV offices in order to ensure they can efficiently navigate the office and ensure they have the right documents. Additionally, in September 2014, the average wait time at State-run DMV offices was reduced to 30 minutes -- down from an average of 72 minutes in March 2013.
The DMV is also continuing to expand its online service capabilities. More than 1.2 million New Yorkers now receive email and text reminders from the DMV to renew their driver licenses, non-driver identification cards, and registrations, and to inspect their vehicles. The DMV began offering this service to New Yorkers in February 2014 as part of its Customer Service Initiative. Customers can sign up for the electronic reminder service online, by mail, at a DMV office, or at a kiosk in a state-run DMV office and can choose to receive the reminders by email, text message, or both. Once enrolled, it is easy to change contact information in the future or unsubscribe from the service at any time.
The DMV sends enrollees license, non-driver identification card, and registration e-reminders approximately 90, 60, and 30 days prior to expiration and again at expiration. Customers receive e-reminders to have their vehicle inspected on the first of the month of expiration, the 15th of the month, and again at expiration. A MyDMV account is not required for this service.
DMV Executive Deputy Commissioner Terri Egan said, "DMV continues to combine technology and best practices in customer service to improve the customer experience while at the same time helping New Yorkers avoid trips to a local DMV office. Our e-reminder service helps customers stay informed about when their license, non-driver IDs, registrations, and vehicle inspections are set to expire, helping customers plan the renewal of these documents to avoid any lapse."
As part of the DMV's continued efforts to streamline services and improve customer service, the agency's website - www.dmv.ny.gov -- set a new record for online transactions in 2014 with more than 5.5 million transactions, up from 4 million in 2011. The website, which was recently named one of the top DMV websites in the country by DMV.com, underwent a complete redesign in February 2014, giving customers the ability to order replacement driver licenses, renew registrations on mobile devices, make online reservations for DMV visits, and easily conduct dozens of transactions online. This in turn has had a ripple effect on average wait times in local DMV offices, which decreased by 58 percent between early 2013 and late 2014.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-new-dmv-online-service-allowing-customers-print-temporary-license
