Public Statements
Governor Cuomo, Attorney General Schneiderman Hold Briefing on Special Prosecutor Executive Order For 100+ Members of Clergy, Community Leaders and State Legislators
Press Release
By: Ruth Hassell-Thompson Eric Schneiderman Nick Perry Latrice Walker Andrew Cuomo Walter Mosley III Michael Blake
Date: July 29, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo and Attorney General Eric Schneiderman today held a briefing on Executive Order No. 147, which appoints the New York State Attorney General as a special prosecutor in matters relating to the deaths of unarmed civilians caused by law enforcement officers. The order also allows the special prosecutor to review cases where there is a question whether the civilian was armed and dangerous at the time of his or her death. Today's briefing was attended by more than 100 members of the clergy, community leaders and state legislators.
"The justice system does not work without the trust of the people, so it was imperative that New York act to address the crisis of confidence that has been plaguing communities nationwide," said Governor Cuomo. "This executive order restores trust in the system by ensuring that cases of police-involved civilian deaths will be handled with independence and integrity. It addresses both real and perceived conflicts of interest, and is a critical step toward rebuilding confidence and making sure that the justice system works for everyone in every neighborhood across this state."
"We are meeting with clergy today to ensure that equal justice is present in every New York community -- and that the public is confident it will always be present," said Attorney General Schneiderman. "Clergy are the people we all look to for guidance and strength at times of crisis. They act as the connective tissue between the community and its elected leaders. I have assembled an experienced team to fulfill our duties in these tragic cases, and my office is committed to handling them with the highest level of care, professionalism, and independence."
Senator Ruth Hassell Thompson said, "I believe that the Governor's Executive Order will create an independent avenue of justice to review allegations of police misconduct against unarmed civilians. This Order empowers the Attorney General to take jurisdiction whenever and wherever there is evidence of the improper use of force by law enforcement against unarmed citizens resulting in death. By permitting the Attorney General to investigate and prosecute these special types of cases the people of New York, victims and law enforcement can have hope that these cases will be handled promptly, impartially and fairly. We need to ensure that justice is more than mere words and today, this Order brings us closer to that end."
Assemblyman Nick Perry said, "At a time when the nation is reeling from questions of bias in the justice system, New York is standing up to change that perception. Appointing a special, independent prosecutor to handle cases of police-involved civilian deaths is a monumental and transformative action that will restore faith in our courts and move New York forward. Other communities across the nation need this kind of reform, and we thank Governor Cuomo for taking action to get it done here at home."
Assemblyman Walter Mosley said, "It is vital for the American justice system to have the trust of the people -- but too often in recent months, we have seen that thrown into question following the deaths of unarmed civilians at the hands of law enforcement. Governor Cuomo's Executive Order is a crucial first step and a model for addressing this national problem. I commend the Governor for stepping up and taking action."
Assemblyman Michael Blake said, "As 2nd Vice-Chair of the Black, Puerto Rican, Hispanic and Asian Caucus and Co-Chair of the Criminal Justice task force, I commend Governor Cuomo for taking this bold move toward restoring public faith in our criminal justice system. The public's confidence is shaken any time an unarmed civilian is killed by police. Providing a mechanism for the state Attorney General to review these deaths will bring a fresh and impartial perspective that is much-needed in these very difficult cases."
Assemblywoman Latrice Walker said, "We need to restore public trust in our criminal justice system, and Governor Cuomo's decision to appoint a special prosecutor is a critical first step. By bringing impartiality to these investigations, we will help mend the damaged public perception of collusion between police and prosecutors. I applaud him for leading the way and look forward to others following suit."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-attorney-general-schneiderman-hold-briefing-special-prosecutor-executive-order
