Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Advises New Yorkers to Stay Safe in Summer Heat
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 28, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today urged New Yorkers to take precautions as high temperatures and humidity are being predicted throughout New York State this week. Temperatures are expected to top 90 degrees over the next few days in communities across the state.
"Temperatures are expected to climb significantly across the state this week, and it's important for New Yorkers to take appropriate precautions," Governor Cuomo said. "I encourage everyone to remain indoors when possible, stay hydrated, and check on any neighbors who may need assistance. Together, we can make sure that everyone stays safe during the period of extreme heat."
Excessive heat is the leading cause of preventable, weather-related deaths each year, particularly among the elderly. According to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), heat causes more than 650 preventable deaths in the United States each year. In most years, excessive heat causes more deaths than floods, lightning, tornadoes, and hurricanes combined. According to National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and National Weather Service statistics, there have been more than 80 deaths directly attributable to heat in New York State since 2006.
The expected high temperatures are prompting the New York State Department of Health (DOH) and the New York State Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services (DHSES) to offer New Yorkers tips to help them stay safe.
"Although excessive heat and humidity may seem like a normal part of summer, it needs to be taken very seriously, particularly for older individuals, infants and young children, and those participating in outdoor activities," said DOH Commissioner Dr. Howard Zucker. "Be aware of the signs and symptoms of heat-related illnesses so you know what to do if you or someone you know experiences heat-related health issues."
"Basic precautions can be taken to stay cool during hot weather, such as wearing light-colored clothing, drinking plenty of fluids, and staying in an air-conditioned environment," said DHSES Commissioner John Melville. "Also check on neighbors and friends or family who may be at risk."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-advises-new-yorkers-stay-safe-summer-heat
