Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Completion of the Greenbelt Public Pathway Extension
Press Release
By: Timothy Kennedy Byron Brown Sean Ryan Andrew Cuomo Kathy Hochul Brian Higgins
Date: July 28, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

DOT and ESD joint project brings access to Buffalo's Outer Harbor
Governor Cuomo announced the completion of the Greenbelt Public Pathway extension along the Outer Harbor in the city of Buffalo, Erie County. The $145,000 project, funded by the New York Power Authority, included the construction of a new, multi-use trail adjacent to the Michigan slip that connects the Greenbelt Public Pathway with the trail along Fuhrman Boulevard. The pathway creates a safe avenue for pedestrians and bicyclists alike, as well as points of access for fishermen and potential commercial watercraft.
"Today, we're seeing another piece of Buffalo's resurgence falling into place," said Governor Cuomo. "Buffalo's Outer Harbor is a tremendous scenic location in Western New York, and this new pathway offers another opportunity to experience it firsthand. This project adds to what is already a great destination for tourism and recreation as well as an economic engine for the region, and I look forward to seeing it enjoyed by visitors and residents alike for years to come."
Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul, Regional DOT Director Darrell Kaminski and ECHDC Chairman Robert Gioia cut a ribbon today to celebrate the opening of the new portion of the trail which will provide pedestrians and bicyclists access to the stunning views along the Buffalo River.
"The Queen City continues to reimagine new ways to capitalize on its abundance of natural resources, whether Lake Erie, Canalside or environmental upgrades along our waterways," said Lt. Governor Hochul. "The extension of the Greenbelt Public Pathway at Buffalo's Outer Harbor will create a better outdoor experience for thousands of Western New Yorkers by providing improved access and recreational opportunities. Governor Cuomo understands this and is continuing his commitment to help our region realize its full potential."

Source:
