Public Statements
Video & Photos: Governor Cuomo Unveils Vision For Transformative Redesign of LaGuardia Airport
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 27, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is available below:
Thank you, thank you. Please be seated and continue to eat, I grew up in an Italian household and very comfortable with people eating and talking, at the same time actually. First, to Bill Rudin and to ABNY who have done a phenomenal job as a convener and as a place of discussion and as a leader for this city and this state during very difficult times, let's give him a round of applause, Bill Rudin.
I am so excited about what we are announcing today and I am so excited that the Vice President is here with us to do it. The Vice President has been a friend and colleague of mine for a long time. When I was HUD Secretary we did a lot of work together all over this country, we did work in his home district, but the vice president has always been a disciple of capital construction, investment in that beautiful word; infrastructure and always been an advocate for investing in the facilities of tomorrow and putting that together with workforce development and those are the two keys to making this economy work. He has been talking about it for many, many years, I have sat in many audiences and I have listened to the vice president and I said, "He is right, he is right. Why doesn't anyone do that?"
Now I am governor and you know what I'm supposed to be the one who is supposed to do that. So you know what, we are going to do that because the vice president was right. The vice president and his team who many of his team are friends of mine, they have been the go to facilitators let's say for anything we needed federal. A project, like an airport project requires a lot of federal approvals as you can imagine. Not to say that the federal government isn't always a pleasure to deal with, because they are. Now really, I love it Joe. When I have nothing to do, sometimes I just deal with the federal government just because I enjoy it. But whenever we needed anything done, the approvals for this project, expediting the approvals for this project, it was done mostly by the help of the vice president's office and I would like to give him and his team a round of applause and thank them for their help and hard work.
We are going to talk about airports today primarily but in general the larger conversation that the vice president has always been advocating for which is building a society that is economically potent for the next generation. New York probably makes this case better than anyone and better than anyplace in the United States because New York's greatness was driven by its ability to dream big and to build bigger. Our growth was always a function of ambition meeting intelligence with that New York attitude that just wouldn't take no for answer. That New York positivism and belief in itself that there is no challenge that we can't rise to. We did the impossible and then we did it again and again; with the tallest buildings, longest bridges, there was nothing that we couldn't do. We were New York. That spirit was then institutionalized into the creation of the port authority of New York and New Jersey in 1921. That was the first national movement towards a regional governmental organization that put together the transportation systems and connections to the economy.
At that time state and city governments were also aggressive and optimistic and the product of all of this was that they built and they built and they built, and when you look at the array of things that just the port authority was building it is breathtaking. 1921, 1928 outer borough bridge, 1930 they come back with the Holland tunnel, Bay owned bridge, George Washington bridge 1931. That was the attitude and we executed and we performed. Somewhere along the way, we lost our momentum and the "we" is New York. But then we is also country wide in many cases. We lost our momentum and you say other places capitalize with that type of innovation that New York was all about. China was doing "mag-lev" trains, South Korea, state of the art airports, airports so beautiful you would almost travel just to see the airport itself, Dubai and the amazing airport complex really redefining what that experience and what a state of the art entrance way is all about.
When you look at that growth in comparison and compare it with where we are today, we have outdated airports, rails bridges that desperately need repair and somewhere along the way we lost the connection between transportation and economic growth. I was with the vice president this morning in Rochester and he was talking about where the roads lead, where the fiber optic lies, that is where the economy grows. We have learned that lesson. We have to relearn it now and for New York it is time to move because all of the planning and all the talking is nice, but if you are not acting, if you are not performing, you are doing nothing. You are standing still. The obligation and the job of government is you know what? To get something done, not to talk about getting something done, not to advocate for what should be done but to actually do it.
So it is time to move and we are reimagining our ports, our rail, our roads, our technology and our airports. We are going to talk about airports today but let's spend a minute on rail because we have chairman Tom Prendergast here. The connective tissue for the Metropolitan Area is all the MTA, right? Suburbs, New York City that is all the MTA. The MTA in my opinion was underfunded for a long period of time and the MTA has come up with an intelligent capital plan that we have been discussing over the past few weeks originally the capital plan was about $30 billion dollars. We asked the MTA to look into design build as you heard from Bill Rudin, we used that on the Tappan Zee Bridge and we saved billions of dollars, literally, on the Tappan Zee Bridge. The MTA is applying the design-build to their budget. The budget went from about $29 billion to about $26 billion.
We asked the MTA to make sure there were no additional fare increases besides the scheduled fare increases. That left a gap of about $11 billion dollars. Last week, Chairman Prendergast sent me a very lovely note, saying that of the $11 billion dollars, he thinks the state should contribute $8.3 billion dollars and that that should be the state's fair share. I have said privately, today I say publicly that I agree with you Mr. Chairman. The state will fund the $8.3 billion dollars and we will put it in the budget next year, we believe in the MTA capital plan.
As far as roads, we have the most robust road reconstruction program going on now, and nothing -- it's been more robust than any plan in the past 30 years. Technology, this state has the commitment to be the first fully-wired state with high-speed broadband from every corner of this state, and we want to be the first state in the nation to get that done. And today we're going to talk about our airports and the connectivity.
There are basically four airports in the regional area. Let's start with Stewart Airport, which is north of New York City -- Newburgh, New York, about 60 miles from New York City. Stewart is 2,400 acres. It has the second longest runway in New York State. They have much more capacity than they are now using. They have capacity to take commercial flights that are overbooking in JFK and LaGuardia, and bring them to Newark.
They also have the capacity to take a lot of the cargo that is now going to JFK and have that cargo delivered to Stewart. If you are shipping goods that are not ending in New York City, it makes very little sense to fly them into JFK, send a truck into JFK to pick them up, and then move them from there. Stewart Airport would be a natural for that kind of truck traffic. It's right at the intersections of 84 and 87, so the transportation access is much better.
To facilitate the growth of Stewart, we are coordinating in terms of flights with JFK and LaGuardia, but we're going to make Stewart what we call a New York free-trade zone. We're going to take Stewart Airport and make it a START-UP NY zone, which is a tax-free zone for ten years -- which makes that the least expensive place in the United States to site a new business. Not a state that has no income tax, because if they have no income tax they have some other tax -- value-added tax, property tax, etc. These are 100% tax-free zones. When people think about New York they say, high taxes? No. START-UP zones are the lowest taxes for business in the United States. We're going to put the START-UP zone together with the airport as a free-trade zone, and then to get flights and cargo to move to Stewart Airport.
Secondly, JFK -- we're on our way towards restoring the majesty of JFK airport. We're going to design a master plan for JFK that has a unified version for the current disparate terminals that have developed over the years. The master plan will be done within 12 months. In addition to a master plan project, we're announcing an historic renovation where JFK's award-winning Saarinen building is going to be constructed into a new state-of-the-art hotel. 500 guests, 40,000 square feet, 10,000 square feet of observation deck. The hotel will create more than 3,700 jobs, agreements are already in place with the Hotel Trades Council and the Building Trades Council, let's give them a round of applause. Construction is set to begin next year, and the hotel will open in 2018.
Republic airport is on Long Island. Its currently an underused facility, and today we're announcing a request for information for republic airport for private sector management and development. It has been sitting -- it is underutilized -- we're going to make it also a New York free-trade zone with a START-UP tax credit. We're looking for private sector partners to come in, run the airport, take the space that adjoins the airport, and develop it as a free-trade zone.
We're doing all of this simultaneously, but most of all we're focusing on LaGuardia. LaGuardia Airport is located in the great borough of Queens. I'd also like to mention that Congressman Joe Crowley has been a fierce, fierce advocate for LaGuardia for many, many years. He's my Queens homeboy, let's give him a round of applause, Congressman Joe Crowley.
LaGuardia started -- 1937 -- Mayor LaGuardia took a flight. He refused to get off the plane because the plane ticket said "New York" but the flight landed in "Newark." Sort of like our sports teams now, as a matter of fact. And he refused to get off the plane, saying he was supposed to land in New York. As he had reporters on the plane, he had them land at Floyd Bennett field to make a point that New York should have its own airport, we shouldn't have to fly into Newark. Within a decade of opening in 1939, LaGuardia became the busiest airport in the world.
Ironically, 50 years later, the Newark airport is still bigger and busier than LaGuardia airport. LaGuardia is "un-New York." This is a new phrase. You've heard the phrase "un-American?" Well I'm starting a phrase -- it is "Un-New York." LaGuardia is slow, it's dated, it is a terrible front door/entranceway to New York. It is a lost opportunity. It is almost universally decried as a poor representation of an airport, let alone a New York airport.
You talk to people who went through LaGuardia, you hear all sorts of things. I actually heard someone say that if he were blindfolded and he landed in LaGuardia, he would have thought he was in a 3rd world nation. Now I don't remember who said it, but it was a strong, some would say prophetic vision, which I believe in many ways was an impetus to say to New York: get up, move, this is unacceptable and its unacceptable for New York. It came from a man who speaks the truth and speaks his mind, and that is a beautiful thing in life. It's a truly special thing in politics. Let's give the Vice President another round of applause.
Last year I reached an agreement with Governor Christie to allow each state discretion in managing their airports. The airports are run by the Port Authority, but we have an agreement where each mayor will have discretion on running the airports in his city. In the past, the strategy by the Port Authority had been a piecemeal rehabilitation strategy, but the goal is not really to repair and rebuild a 1939 airport, right?
We want an airport that is a state-of-the-art facility. We want a globally-renowned airport for the next century that is worthy of the name New York and what we're doing. We appointed an advisory panel, led by Dan Tishman, to work with the Port Authority to reimagine LaGuardia. There is a very attractive picture of Dan Tishman, actually, before he served on the advisory committee. He looks somewhat more weathered now, as you will see shortly.
The goals for the advisory panel were three-fold: Number 1: replace the old complex with a modern, unified world-class airport. Now, this was easier said than done, because LaGuardia had become a series of ad hoc terminals. You had Terminal A, which is the Marine Air Terminal, which is off on one side. You then had Terminal B. You then had Terminal C and Terminal D. There was no airport, per se. There were a series of disconnected terminals that were running. To make it even more complicated, two of the terminals, C and D, were Delta terminals, which means they were owned separately and controlled by Delta. So you now had this division of ownership and this division of authority. Our vision was for a unified terminal, like the state-of-the-art terminals around the globe. And we had to overcome those four disparate terminals to do that.
Second goal was to improve flights by opening more open space for flight operations. Now, as Bill mentioned, LaGuardia is a relatively small airport. So you didn't have a lot of options of acquiring additional space, so you needed to reconfigure the additional space. Third, we wanted to connect LaGuardia with mass transportation, including ferry and rail service, so it wouldn't always be a car-ride to the airport. That would be the venue of the past. We wanted the venue of the future.
We had three pressing obstacles to deal with. First, the Port Authority was already underway in planning a replacement of Terminal B only. Second, the Delta Terminals are disconnected and they're privately leased. So really, the Port Authority has no power over Delta, and can only develop what they can develop. But without Delta, you can never get to a unified terminal. Third, LaGuardia is landlocked so finding more flight operation space was a challenge.
The advisory board and the Port Authority, in a relatively short time -- literally just a matter of months, actually -- came up with a very ambitious plan. They presented a master plan for a new airport that doesn't rehabilitate but replaces the airport in its entirety. Basically what they said was there is no way to fix this. We need to literally tear it down and rebuild it.
It comes up with more flight operating space, which is key for LaGuardia, because that's what's been causing a lot of the delays and a lot of the limitation. It has a world-class retail and hotel complex, State of the art, post 9/11 security protocols -- the first airport being built since 9/11. So, it will incorporate in the design the new security protocols. It will also have train and ferry access. The new airport eliminates the isolated terminals, builds one unified terminal. It moves the entire footprint 600 feet closer to the Grand Central Parkway. That creates 240 percent more space for flight operations which will be transformative for the LaGuardia airport.
It also will have a rail link in the future connecting at Willets Point where the MTA offers train service and will make a connection form Willets Point to the airport to an air train system. It will also have high-speed ferry access from what is currently the Marine Air Terminal.
Best of all, it's not a plan, it's not a sketch, it's not a dream, it's not a vision- it is actually happening. The Port Authority passed a resolution initiating a Public-Private Sector Partnership to build the first portion of the new airport. The cost of the Port Authority is $ 4 Billion dollars. More than 50 percent of that cost is going to be privately funded. It will break ground next year, believe it or not, thanks to getting all the approvals done in time, with new facilities in approximately 39 months, with all construction completed approximately 18 months thereafter. And Delta has agreed to be a full partner in the new airport and that is the only way that we've gotten to this new design. Just in construction, 8,000 construction related new jobs.
Congratulations to the Port Authority and Governor Christie. Governor Christie has been a very good colleague working with this State on the priorities for this State. Chairman John Degnan, who walked in , had a lot of things going on at the Port Authority but took the time to make this a priority- let's give him a round of applause and thank him for his help. I want to thank the entire board, especially Scott Rechler who is the Vice Chairman who has done a great job for us. Pat Foye, the Executive Director who is going to implement this and has been implementing it and has really performed a great job. And I want to thank my Special Counsel to the Governor, and I am very big on delegations so I sort of took this task and said "Here Rick, you do this" and low and behold, Rick Cotton, thank you very much.
Delta Airlines, this does not happen without Delta. If Delta does not agree to cooperate with this new terminal and does not agree to be part of this new development, this doesn't happen. Our option would have been to build a new terminal but stop at Terminals C and D which would have accomplished very little, frankly. It was also hard for Delta because Delta had the newer terminals on the site so it was actually more difficult for Delta to make his determination to go forward, especially under the short time frame. Delta has been a great citizen to this State, a great corporate citizen, and Delta has stepped up to the plate in a big way. They will cooperate, we will build simultaneously, we will be in parallel- they didn't have to do that. Because of that, New York is going to get a new airport, Ed Bastian, thank you very much for your cooperation and your help.
I wanted to say thank you to our Federal Partners- I would go through the list of all the federal approvals that we needed to do this but it would be like reading the alphabet backwards 57 times. We had approvals that normally take years expedited by the Vice President's Office and that's the only way we've made this much progress this quickly and that we're meeting this time frame and we want to thank them. I want to thank all of them together because working together, New York will once again lead the way in infrastructure development.
Last year, our project, the new Tappan Zee Bridge was the cover of the President's Annual Budget. It has become a national model. The speed and intelligence in which we are replacing the Tappan Zee Bridge with design-build legislation so it was highlighted as a national model. And now, New York will have the newest major airport in the United States, just think of that. We're going to go from this, the old LaGuardia, and all the complaints and all the years that we endured it to this. Welcome to New York's new LaGuardia Airport. This what New York deserves and it has deserved for a long time and now we're going to get it. This is just a metaphor for what we can do when we work together and we have the ambition and optimism and energy that made New York New York in the first place. Thank you and God bless you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-governor-cuomo-unveils-vision-transformative-redesign-laguardia-airport
