Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Bassmaster Elite Series to Return to New York in 2016
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 26, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Tournaments next year include Lake Placid region and Union Springs, Auburn
Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that B.A.S.S. Elite Series will partner with New York State to bring the premier fishing tournament to Auburn and Lake Placid in 2016. Under a partnership with B.A.S.S., the event will include the Governor's Challenge fishing competition and some of the biggest names in professional fishing to highlight and promote the state's many fishing and vacation opportunities.
"From the rivers of the Thousand Islands to the shores of Union Springs, New York is home to world-renowned fishing for all anglers," Governor Cuomo said. "Today, I am proud to announce that B.A.S.S. will be back next year to host three tournaments in Central New York and the North Country. These exciting competitions will continue to promote New York's status as an unparalleled destination for tourism and recreation -- which leads to more jobs and economic activity in communities across the state."
"Just one week after the Adirondack Challenge, we are back here in the North Country to shine a light on where anglers have found their fishing haven," said Lieutenant Governor Hochul. "The natural landscape along the St. Lawrence River is second to none, and it's no wonder why the Bassmaster Challenge has chosen to return to the Empire State in 2016. Through Governor Cuomo's efforts, we have brought tourism to record heights, and this event will continue to draw visitors from around the country to take advantage of these recreational destinations."
This new partnership promises to be even bigger with the addition of two professional tournaments, one in Auburn, NY in June and a second one in Lake Placid in July. Through today's announcement and the Governor's support, New York State will continue to see professional angler competitions next year providing economic impact and exposure to multiple vacation regions. Following the success of the Governor's 2014 Adirondack Challenge, the Governors Challenge will feature a tournament, fishing demonstrations, and a banquet to lure in New Yorkers and visitors from out of state.

Source:
