Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Celebrates 25th Anniversary of the Americans With Disabilities Act
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 24, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Event at West Capitol Park in Albany Commemorates Groundbreaking Legislation, Honors Advocates from Across the State
Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today honored the 25th Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act -- the world's first comprehensive law guaranteeing equal rights to people with disabilities. Today, a public celebration was held at West Capitol Park in Albany, New York, where leading disability advocates hosted New Yorkers from all over the state featuring live music by the band Flame (whose members are all individuals with disabilities) and words of inspiration from people directly impacted by the historic legislation.
"Every day, millions of New York residents are able to live freely, sustain gainful employment, and pursue their dreams thanks to the protections and parity offered by the Americans with Disabilities Act," Governor Cuomo said. "From ensuring accessible buildings to providing important support and services, the impact of this legislation cannot be underestimated. Together, we must ensure that New York extends our long history of innovation, equality, and inclusion for individuals and today we celebrate our continued dedication to the cause of equality for all."
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) was the world's first comprehensive law guaranteeing equal rights to people with disabilities, prohibiting discrimination against them, and promoting accessibility to jobs, schools, transportation, communication and all public and private places that are open to the general public. Governor Cuomo has made New York a national leader on disability rights by promoting key policies and initiatives including the state's comprehensive Olmstead Implementation Plan to serve individuals with disabilities in the most integrated settings, Executive Order 136 which established the New York Employment First Initiative to increase employment opportunities for people with disabilities, and creation of the Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs which protects the safety and civil rights of New Yorkers.
The ADA was signed by President George H.W. Bush on July 26, 1990. Among its co-sponsors were both of New York's United States Senators and 26 Members of the United States House of Representatives from New York. Since its passage, governments around the world have enacted laws guaranteeing rights and access to people with disabilities.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-celebrates-25th-anniversary-americans-disabilities-act
