Public Statements
Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Responds to Letter from MTA Chairman Prendergast Regarding MTA Capital Plan
Interview
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 23, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

This evening, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo called in to NY1 to respond to a letter from MTA Chairman Tom Prendergast regarding the MTA's Capital Plan. A rush transcript of that NY1 interview is available below:
QUESTION: Tom Prendergast sent a letter detailing how the city and state can better meet the MTA's multi-billion dollar funding needs. Governor, how do you respond to that letter and can you walk us through what the MTA is looking for now?
GOVERNOR: My pleasure. First, the MTA is a vital organization for the whole metropolitan region, right? The MTA really is the circulatory system for the City of New York and beyond. It does the entire region and anyone who is familiar with the system at all, knows it has had significant stresses over the years. And really the investment in the MTA, I believe, has not been what it should be. You want to have a top-class mass transportation system that's actually vital. Tom Prendergast is top-shelf and has done a lot of good work for us. He put together a capital budget of about $32 billion initially. We've been going back and forth on the plan that he put forth to try to make sure it is as sufficient and as effective as we can make it. The State recently made a suggestion that the MTA look at what is called "design build" which is a faster and less expensive way of building. To make a long story short, he scrubbed the budget. We believe that this is a sound budget and the fat has been removed and it's about a $26.8 billion total budget, which is a large budget, but the system needs work, as I mentioned before. Of the $26.8 billion, from the MTA resources without an additional fare increase, which is what I've asked them to do -- I don't want to raise fares in addition to the fare increases that they've scheduled -- that leaves a shortfall at the end of the day of about $9.8 billion that has to be filled by the State and the City. I don't think we should go to the riders and ask for an additional fare increase. I think that would be a mistake. I think he's right -- that between the state and the city we should make up the $9.8 billion. The MTA divides the $9.8 billion by what they think is fair for the state and fair for the city and I could argue that it's a little burdensome on the state. But I would accept the MTA's numbers just to get it done and to go forward.

Source:
