Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Administration Appointments
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 21, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo today announced ten appointments to his administration, adding to a team committed to implementing his bold agenda.
"I welcome these individuals to my administration, who are each bringing with them experienced knowledge and insight," Governor Cuomo said. "I am proud to add these new members to a skilled team, in which we are all honored to do the work of the people of this state."
Sandi Toll has been appointed First Assistant Counsel to the Governor. Ms. Toll previously served as an Assistant Counsel to the Governor, where she advised the Governor and policy staff on legal matters related to a variety of health issues. Prior to joining the public sector, she practiced law for 11 years at the law firm of Jenner & Block LLP, ultimately ascending to Partner at the firm. As a member of the firm's health care litigation and complex commercial litigation practices, she represented clients on health care fraud and abuse matters, supervised and conducted internal investigations, and maintained an extensive pro bono practice. Ms. Toll has a J.D. magna cum laude from Loyola University Chicago School of Law and a B.S. with Distinction from Cornell University.
Karen Tyler has been appointed Executive Deputy Commissioner for the Office of General Services. Ms. Tyler had been serving as Acting Executive Deputy Commissioner, and previously was the Chief Business Services Officer. She has also served as a Chief Budget Examiner, and as an accountant prior, in the New York State Division of Budget, as well as an auditor for the Office of the New York State Comptroller. Ms. Tyler holds a M.B.A. from Sage Graduate School and a B.S. from Russell Sage College.
Brian Matthews has been appointed the Chief Financial Officer for the Office of General Services. Mr. Matthews was most recently Director of the Bureau of Financial Administration for the Office of the State Comptroller, an office in which he served in various roles for 16 years. There, he developed the budget for the Office of the Comptroller, managed the competitive procurement process and ensured adherence with state guidelines. Mr. Matthews holds an M.P.A. from SUNY University at Albany and a B.S. from Springfield College.
Letizia Tagliafierro has been appointed Deputy Commissioner of the Criminal Investigations Division at the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance. Ms. Tagliafierro currently serves as the Executive Director of the New York State Joint Commission on Public Ethics, having previously served as Director of Investigations and Enforcement. Prior, she was Director of Intergovernmental Affairs in the Executive Chamber, Special Counsel for the New York State Attorney General, and Assistant District Attorney in Erie County. Ms. Tagliafierro holds a J.D. from Albany Law School and B.A. from SUNY University at Albany.
Jeffrey Nordhaus has been appointed Executive Vice President, Innovation & Broadband at Empire State Development Corporation. In this role, Mr. Nordhaus will oversee Governor Cuomo's announced $500 million New NY Broadband Program, an initiative to expand broadband service to unserved and underserved areas of New York State. Mr. Nordhaus will also oversee New York's venture capital program, including the $100 million New York Innovation Venture Capital Fund, amongst others. Mr. Nordhaus joins Empire State Development with 25 years of private sector experience focused in finance and private equity. He recently worked as Managing Director of Oaktree Capital Management, prior to which he was a Partner at Quadrangle Group and Vice President in the Communications, Media and Entertainment Group at Goldman, Sachs & Co. While at Quadrangle, Mr. Nordhaus was responsible for a number of successful investments in major cable and broadband businesses and served on the Board of Directors of Cequel Communications, Bresnan Communications, Get AS, Dice Inc., and Protection One. Mr. Nordhaus holds a B.A. with honors from Harvard College.
Theresa Egan has been appointed Executive Deputy Commissioner of the Department of Motor Vehicles. Previously, Ms. Egan served as Deputy Commissioner for Safety, Consumer Protection and Clean Air at the Department of Motor Vehicles, where she oversaw programs that generate over $260 million annually. Prior, she was elected Town Supervisor of Bethlehem, where before serving as Supervisor was the first elected and re-elected woman judge in the town's history. Ms. Egan holds a J.D. from Albany Law School and B.A. from SUNY University at Albany.
Jennifer Rivera has been appointed Assistant Vice President for Community Development at Empire State Development. Previously, Ms. Rivera served as the Bronx Regional Representative for the Executive Chamber, where she liaised between state, federal and city elected officials and community organizations. She prior held various roles, most recently Director of Operations, for New York City Council Member James Vacca and has volunteered for the New York State Democratic Committee. Ms. Rivera holds a B.A. from Quinnipiac University.
Sumit Sud has been appointed Special Counsel to the Commissioner for Ethics, Risk and Compliance for the New York State Insurance Fund. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Sud served as Senior Counsel at the New York City Law Department, where he had been for almost ten years. Previously, he interned in the state of Ohio for the City of Cleveland Law Department. Mr. Sud is a member of the Asian American Bar Association, the South Asian Bar Association, and the New York City Law Department Diversity Committee. He holds a J.D. from Case Western Reserve University in Ohio and a B.S. from the University of Washington, Seattle.
Wendy Erdly has been appointed Special Counsel for Ethics, Risk, and Compliance for the State Liquor Authority and Agriculture and Markets. Prior to this appointment, Ms. Erdly was counsel to many companies through Axiom Legal, including United Technologies, Deutsche Bank, Unilever, and Kraft. She served as a Litigation Associate at Bernstein, Litowitz Berger & Grossman LLP and at Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP. Ms. Erdly holds a J.D. from Vanderbilt University Law School, and a B.A. from Lafayette College.
C. Harris Dague has been appointed Special Counsel for Ethics, Risk, and Compliance to the Commissioner for the Office for People with Developmental Disabilities. Mr. Dague previously served as Assistant Attorney General in the Office of the New York Attorney General, where he worked on complex healthcare and civil rights issues. Prior, he held various roles at private law practices, including Howrey, Simon, Arnold and White, LLP and LeBoeuf, Lamb, Green and MacRae, LLP. Mr. Dague holds a J.D. from the University of Richmond and a B.A. from Hamilton College.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-administration-appointments-22
