Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Completion of $3.6 Million Entry Plaza For Franklin D. Roosevelt State Park Pool
Press Release
By: Terrence Murphy Steve Katz Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 17, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Entrance to Largest State Park Pool Receives Functional, Aesthetic and Sustainable Improvements
Governor Cuomo announced the grand opening of the new $3.6 million entrance plaza at Franklin D. Roosevelt State Park, which includes a completely revitalized bathhouse facility and welcome area for the park's acre-size pool. The project is part of the Governor's NY Parks 2020 initiative to rehabilitate and modernize the state park system.
"Franklin D. Roosevelt State Park offers some of the best summer recreation opportunities and through the NY Parks 2020 program, we are making them better than ever," Governor Cuomo said. "I am proud to see the progress at this park move forward and I encourage visitors to take advantage of all that Franklin D. Roosevelt State Park has to offer this summer.
"One of the main focuses of NY Parks 2020 is to revitalize the state's most popular, most heavily visited areas into the shining jewels they should be," Commissioner Harvey said. "The renovation provides visitors to a much more comfortable experience in a much more aesthetically beautiful setting. I thank Governor Cuomo for his commitment to this important vision, as we continue to see its transformation in state parks across the Hudson Valley and New York State."
The pool, open daily from late June through Labor Day, can hold up to 3,500 visitors at a time and is one of the major attractions of FDR State Park. The adjacent bathhouse facility, with restrooms, showers, and changing areas, had not been modernized since its construction in 1965. The renovation features:
Completely renovated bathhouse interior -- including the addition of four new family restrooms, new epoxy finishes on floors and walls, as well as new lighting, ceiling fans, lockers and benches -- provides a more comfortable experience for park visitors;
Newly installed heavy timber roof structure protects the bathhouse and its occupants from the elements;
Solar thermal hot water supply, which allows direct sunlight to heat the water stored and used in the building; water-saving plumbing fixtures and energy-efficient LED lights make the facility more environmentally sustainable; and
Tall masonry walls around the bathhouse complex that obstructed the park's scenic, natural backdrops were demolished to open attractive vistas of Mohansic Lake to pool visitors.
Outside the bathhouse, the garden-like entrance plaza features a welcome station, complete with new site furnishings and native plants and trees. Innovative storm water management practices, which include a filtering rain garden and pervious pavers in its plaza and walkways, build on last year's project to improve drainage and reduce storm water run-off. A 2014 partnership between State Parks and the Department of Transportation installed approximately 27,000 square feet of bio-retention basins to remove pollutants from storm water, allowing cleaner water flow into Mohansic Lake and effectively reduce phosphorous in the New York City watershed.
The project is funded with $1.8 million from Governor Cuomo's NY Parks 2020 program and $1.8 million from the U.S. Department of the Interior's Land & Water Conservation Fund.
Congresswoman Nita Lowey said, "From the banks of the Hudson to Long Island Sound, Westchester County is home to immense natural beauty. I'm pleased that $1.8 million from the Land and Water Conservation Fund helped revitalize the entry plaza at FDR State Park. Unfortunately, federal investments in parks and the environment are under attack in Washington. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting for funding that conserves irreplaceable lands and improves outdoor recreation for residents of the Lower Hudson Valley."
Senator Terrence Murphy said: "FDR Park provides both our local residents and visitors a wonderful Hudson Valley experience. This multi-million dollar renovation will not only add more comfort to the different activities offered here, but highlights New York's embrace of green energy initiatives, such as the solar thermal hot water supply which was installed as part of this project."
Assemblyman Steve Katz said: "The revitalization of Franklin D. Roosevelt State Park will bring an excellent economic opportunity for the Yorktown Community. The improved facilities at FDR will provide a safe and fun environment for all patrons who enjoy the outdoors. I look forward to seeing all future developments the Governor's administration has to better enhance state parks across the Hudson Valley and New York State."
Franklin D. Roosevelt State Park, located in Yorktown Heights, is a popular destination for swimming, picnicking, disc golf, jogging, fishing, non-motorized boating and other forms of outdoor recreation.
Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, New York State is making a historic commitment to improving and expanding access to outdoor recreation. The Governor's NY Parks 2020 program is a multi-year commitment to leverage $900 million in private and public funding for State Parks from 2011 to 2020. The Governor's 2015-16 Executive Budget allocates $110 million toward this initiative.
The New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation oversees 180 state parks and 35 historic sites, which are visited by 62 million people annually. A recent study found that New York State Parks generates $1.9 billion in economic activity annually and supports 20,000 jobs. For more information on any of these recreation areas, call 518-474-0456 or visit www.nysparks.com, connect on Facebook, or follow on Twitter.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-completion-36-million-entry-plaza-franklin-d-roosevelt-state-park-pool
