Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Newest Taste NY Stores Open at Service Areas Across the State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo Richard Ball
Date: July 16, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

New Stores on the Thruway and I-81 Further the Governor's Goal of Expanding the Taste NY Initiative and Tripling the Gross Sales of Participating Vendors
Taste NY Website Re-Launches With Updated Content and Easy Search Functions
Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the newest Taste NY stores are open at the Pattersonville and Sloatsburg Service Areas on the New York State Thruway, and at the Broome Gateway Travel and Tourism Center on Interstate 81. These mark a major step toward the Governor's goal of tripling the gross sales of participating Taste NY vendors and expanding the state's efforts to promote New York's agricultural producers. In 2014, total gross sales of NY products from Taste NY events and stores amounted to approximately $1.5 million. Pictures of the Sloatsburg store can be found here, the Pattersonville store here, and the Broome County store here and here.
"We have said time and time again that New York produces some of the best food and beverage products in the world, and taking Taste NY to service areas across the state is just one more way to get the message out," Governor Cuomo said. "Each year, rest areas on the Thruway and major Interstates are frequented by millions of visitors, all of whom will now have the opportunity to discover the great food and beverages made right here in the Empire State."
The Pattersonville store is located on I-90 westbound between exit 26 (Schenectady/Rotterdam West) and exit 27 (Amsterdam -- Route 30). It is one of the busiest service areas west of Albany and sees more than 1.3 million visitors per year. Taste NY products at the store will be rotated on a seasonal basis and will include yogurt, cheese, maple syrup and other locally made and produced products. The list of vendors includes:
Chocolate Pizza Company -- Marcellus (Onondaga County)
Joe's Jerky -- Sherrill (Oneida County)
McCadam Cheese -- Chateaugay (Franklin County)
Merle Maple Farm -- Attica (Wyoming County)
Nelson Farms-- Cazenovia (Madison County)
Red Jacket Orchards -- Geneva (Ontario County)
The Rob Salamida Co., Inc. -- Johnson City (Broome County)
Ronnybrook Farms -- Ancramdale, (Columbia County)
Wagner Vineyard (grape juice) -- Lodi (Seneca County)
Yancey's Fancy -- Corfu (Genesee County)
The Sloatsburg store is located on I-87 northbound between exit 15A (Sloatsburg -- Suffern NY Route 17 North -- NY Route 59) and exit 16 (Harriman -- NY Route 17 and US Route 6). It will be open 24 hours a day and vendors include:
Chocolate Pizza Company-Marcellus
Dominick's Spaghetti Sauce (may be a week after opening) -- Albany
Perry's Ice Cream -- Akron
Ronnybrook Farms -- Ancramdale -- Milk & drinkable yogurts
The Rob Salamida Co., Inc. -- Johnson City -- Sauces and marinades
Red Jacket Orchards -- Geneva -- pressed juices
Yancey's Fancy -- Corfu -
Merle Maple Farm -- Attica -- Assorted maple Products
Nelson Farms-- Cazenovia
McAdam Cheese -- Chateaugay
Wagner Vineyard -- Lodi -Wagner Grape Juice 750ml
Joe's Jerky -- Sherrill
In addition, the Taste NY store at the Broome Gateway Rest Area, located northbound on I-81 between the Pennsylvania state line and exit 1 in Broome County, opened its doors over the July 4 holiday weekend.
The market is operated by Broome County Cooperative Extension, and is integrated into the existing travel and tourism center managed by the Broome County Chamber of Commerce. The New York State Department of Transportation renovated 1,200 square feet of space inside the service area to accommodate display areas for I Love NY and Taste NY products and information. With more than 50 vendors at this location, 13 of them are based in the greater Binghamton area, including: Chroma Bakery, Hungry Hounds Beerscuits, Little Venice, and Dutch Hill Creamery.
The Broome Gateway Taste NY store is unique, with a set-up that allows travelers to self-checkout. Staff will be available to provide information on Taste NY products, and additional tourism and agri-tourism information will be provided by an electronic ExploreBoard. It is estimated that during the summer months, the service area sees about 1,400 to 1,600 visitors daily.
New York State Thruway Authority Executive Director Robert L. Megna said, "The Thruway Authority and operators of our service areas share Governor Cuomo's commitment to showcasing New York State's finest locally made products and making them readily available to travelers. We are pleased to partner with the Department of Agriculture and Markets, our Taste NY farm markets and Taste NY stores to introduce Thruway travelers to a taste of our great state."
State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball said, "The Governor set an ambitious goal for Taste NY to triple its vendor sales and we are pleased to partner with the Thruway Authority to kick off additional Taste NY stores in support of this effort. By offering a Taste NY experience at three new, busy service areas, we are increasing the exposure of our local producers and their delicious products, and inviting residents and travelers alike traveling the Thruway and our Interstate to buy New York."
State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew Driscoll said, "Because of Governor Cuomo's leadership, the New York State Department of Transportation has partnered again with our sister agencies and local officials to build a new Taste NY store, making the Broome Gateway Rest Area even more attractive to visitors interested in New York State and its fine products."
Richard Kinley, Vice President of Operations for HMSHost, which manages the Taste NY stores at Pattersonville and Sloatsburg said, "We are very pleased and proud to be partnering with the Thruway Authority and the Department of Agriculture and Markets on these new Taste NY stores at our Pattersonville and Sloatsburg Service Areas on the New York State Thruway, and to give travelers a true New York experience as they pass through. Travelers will be able to find many local New York products from farms, orchards, vineyards and other businesses right in one place at Taste NY."
Kaitlyn Sirna, Taste NY Agriculture and Market Manager, said, "Taste NY is a unique opportunity for our vendors because this isn't just a selling point. Selling your product at Taste NY is an advertising and branding opportunity for every business. Our staff is knowledgeable of the products they're selling, their producers and most importantly the producer's story. The education of purchasing local, and knowing your farmer has proven to be rewarding for both Taste NY as we develop our relationships with vendors, and customers purchasing from the store."
Victoria Giarratano, Executive Director of the Cornell Cooperative Extension, said, "Broome County Cornell Cooperative Extension of Broome County, is honored to be part of the Taste NY partnership. This opportunity will further our mission of helping agriculture practitioners increase production, bring produce and products to market, and serve as an incubator for new business. The Taste NY initiative as an economic driver for Broome County and New York State. We're here at Taste NY to connect the many travelers, residents and tourists to the producers themselves, at their farms and other retail locations in the area. Taste NY's economic impact doesn't stop at the store at The Gateway Center, but continues as our customers seek out these producers throughout the state, supporting them locally--wherever they are."
The Thruway Authority is also expanding current Taste NY offerings at 15 of its service areas, providing more opportunities to buy the best of New York State's locally produced goods. The announcement coincides with the re-launch of an improved Taste NY website--www.taste.ny.gov--which features streamlined and updated content, including easily accessible information on Taste NY stores across the state.
Taste NY Website Re-Launch
The Taste NY website has been redesigned to be more user-friendly and offerupdated search functions. Viewers can now search the stores by county or products sold. The new site also highlights local products and businesses in the "Monthly Features" section and has a listing of upcoming Taste NY events. The site is fully responsive, meaning that it is adaptable and easy to use on virtually any device. Additional features will be added in the coming months.
Governor Cuomo launched the Taste NY initiative in 2013 to promote New York's food and beverage industries. It is overseen by the Department of Agriculture and Markets and has created opportunities for local producers to showcase their goods at large public events such as the New York Wine & Food Festival, Summer Fancy Food Show and the Great New York State Fair. Approximately 1,100 local companies have participated in these opportunities, further linking their products and the state's growing food and beverage market to consumers around the world.
In addition to the Taste NY Stores at the Pattersonville, Sloatsburg and Broome Gateway Service Areas, existing stores are located at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center; JFK, LaGuardia and MacArthur Airports; Grand Central Terminal; the Taste NY Market at Todd Hill, located on the Taconic State Parkway; and the Taste NY Marketplace, open all 12 days at the Great New York State Fair. In 2014, total gross sales of NY products from Taste NY events and stores amounted to approximately $1.5 million.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-newest-taste-ny-stores-open-service-areas-across-state
