Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New Workforce Development Center on Buffalo's East Side
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 15, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

New Workforce Training Center will anchor $44 Million Northland Avenue Belt Line Corridor Business Park
Area residents to be trained for advanced manufacturing and electric utility job opportunities
Governor Cuomo unveiled plans for the Western New York Workforce Development Center, a new hub that will focus primarily on training for careers in the advanced manufacturing and energy sectors. To be located on Buffalo's East Side, the center will inhabit a 100,000-square-foot building at 683 Northland Avenue that has sat vacant for 25 years.
"Here in Buffalo, we are creating so many jobs that we need to make sure we have the people to fill them. That's why the new Workforce Development Center is so important -- workers need to know and have the skill set to fill these new positions," Governor Cuomo said. "We want the entire region and society to excel together-- and that includes the East Side. In the New Buffalo, there is opportunity for everyone, everywhere, and today's announcement is a monument to that vision."
As a signature initiative of the Buffalo Billion and a centerpiece of the New York Power Authority's workforce planning strategic initiative, the Workforce Development Center will help ensure a robust and diversified workforce of highly trained, skilled workers ready to meet the challenges of the 21st-century electric utility and advanced manufacturing industries. This initiative creates two co-located training facilities: an Advanced Manufacturing Training Center and a Utility of the Future & Clean Energy Training Center.
The Western New York Workforce Development Center is expected to be funded with up to $29 million from the Buffalo Billion. Governor Cuomo has also requested that the New York Power Authority Board of Trustees affirm an investment of up to $15 million for the energy-training component of the Center, as approved in the New York Power Authority's fiscal 2015 budget and four-year financial operating plan.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-new-workforce-development-center-buffalos-east-side
