Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces National Neurotechnology Center Established at New York's Wadsworth Center
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 15, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced that the Wadsworth Center in Albany is now home to the new National Center for Adaptive Neurotechnologies. The Center, a first-in-the-nation facility focused entirely on adaptive neurotechnologies, is a rapidly growing research area that works toward improving the diagnoses and treatment of stroke, spinal cord injury, traumatic brain injury, cerebral palsy, multiple sclerosis, ALS, chronic pain, and many other devastating conditions. The move was made possible under a 5-year, $6.5 million grant awarded by the National Institutes of Health.
"New York is proud to lead the way in technological and medical advancements, and the Wadsworth Center is continuing to prove it is at the forefront of emerging research," Governor Cuomo said. "I welcome the National Center for Adaptive Neurotechnologies to its new home in the Capital Region, and look forward to its successes, which will have a significant impact on New Yorkers and across the world."
As the hub of a multifaceted research and development program, the National Center for Adaptive Neurotechnologies works closely with collaborators at major biomedical research institutions throughout the United States and beyond. New technologies are already contributing to patient care in hospitals and clinics, such as a new non-invasive rehabilitation therapy that can improve walking in people with spinal cord injuries or other disorders, by restoring more normal spinal reflexes through an interactive computer-based training procedure.
Additionally, the Center and its partners have designed a non-invasive brain-computer interface system that is now enabling people who are paralyzed by ALS to use brain signals to communicate with others, made possible by translating brain waves into text through computer software. They have invented a new method for using recorded signals to map brain functions that reduces the duration and increases the safety of neurosurgical procedures. These important advances are also generating intellectual property in the form of patents and licensing agreements.

Source:
