Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Opening of Adirondack Decontamination Stations to Prevent Spread of Aquatic Invasive Species
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 14, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

More Than 100 Events to be Held Statewide as Part of Invasive Species Week
Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 12 new boat decontamination stations are now open across the Adirondacks, as part of a pilot program to prevent the spread of aquatic invasive species in the region. In addition, more than 100 events will be held this week across the state in recognition of Invasive Species Week, which Governor Cuomo proclaimed as July 12 -- 18.
"Preventing the spread of invasive species in our Adirondack waterways is vital to preserving the natural treasures of this region and ensuring it remains a major economic asset," Governor Cuomo said. "Through a proactive campaign we are getting experts and the public involved so everyone can do their part to keep the Adirondacks pristine and enjoyable for years to come."
This comprehensive pilot program is led by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, the Adirondack Park Invasive Plant Program, and Paul Smith's College Adirondack Watershed Institute. It includes strategically locating boat washing stations, the addition of boat stewards at 14 new locations in the region, invasive species prevention signage at all Department of Environmental Conservation and most municipal and private boat launches, and educational outreach efforts.
The program is the result of an agreement reached among more than 60 conservation groups, owners associations, and local and state governments in March to work in concert to help preserve clean water, increase recreation opportunities and promote tourism. This effort is funded by the state Environmental Protection Fund. Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, the new state budget included an additional $1 million in the Environmental Protection Fund targeted specifically for combatting aquatic invasive species.
Boat launch stewards at 41 boat launches will show arriving boaters the signs of possible invasive threats on their watercraft and trailers. At decontamination stations, boat stewards will use high pressure, hot water decontamination units to clean boats that have not been cleaned and drained. Boater participation is voluntary yet strongly encouraged.
"The many groups partnering with the state in this important work is key to this program's success," said Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Joe Martens. "Governor Cuomo has made significant investments to combat invasive species and educate New Yorkers about the damage they can cause. These measures will preserve pristine waters while promoting regional tourism."
A recent study by the Adirondack Park Invasive Plant Program found that if invasive species are allowed to spread, they could cost the Adirondack economy up to $900 million. This includes annual losses in visitor spending, and agriculture and primary forest production value as well as losses in property value that will affect the tax base and borrowing ability for property owners on an ongoing basis.
Data from the Adirondack Park Invasive Plant Program indicates 18 aquatic invasive and non-native species currently infest waters in the Adirondack region. Nearly 200 aquatic invasive and non-native species exist nearby in the Great Lakes, Hudson River, Lake Champlain, and St. Lawrence River and are a threat to invade waters of the Adirondacks. Aquatic invasive species, such as Eurasian watermilfoil and spiny waterflea, can be spread by boats, trailers, fishing gear and other equipment.
In 2014, during the first ever Invasive Species Week, Governor Cuomo signed a new law to help stop the spread of these harmful species. Under the law and subsequent regulations, the Department of Environmental Conservation and the Department of Agriculture and Markets created lists of prohibited and regulated species and established measures to prevent their release in the state. The regulations make it unlawful to knowingly possess a prohibited species with the intent to sell, import, purchase, transport or introduce.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-opening-adirondack-decontamination-stations-prevent-spread-aquatic
