Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Urges Caution Following Heavy Rains and Flash Flooding in Western New York
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 14, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

National Weather Service Calling for Potential Flash Flooding Throughout Western New York and Surrounding Communities
Governor Cuomo urged New Yorkers in impacted communities to exercise caution when traveling through regions that have experienced or continue to experience heavy rains and flash flooding. The National Weather Service has issued Flash Flood Watches for the following counties until July 15 at 12:00 a.m.: Allegany, Cattaraugus, Chautauqua, Genesee, Jefferson, Lewis, Livingston, Monroe, Niagara, Northern Cayuga, Northern Erie, Ontario, Orleans, Oswego, Southern Erie, Wayne, Wyoming.
"With severe rain and flooding conditions impacting parts of the state, I urge New Yorkers to exercise caution," Governor Cuomo said. "Our administration is actively monitoring these storms in partnership with local officials, and we will continue to work together in order to keep people in the impacted communities safe."
In Western New York, several County and State roads are closed due to water and debris. This includes State Route 60 Cassadaga and Fredonia, and Route 5 along the Lake Erie shore line in Chatauqua County from the Town of Ripley to Westfield and Brocton.
There were also partial lane closures earlier this morning on the New York State Thruway (I-90) in both directions between exit 60 and 61 due to flash flooding conditions, but those lanes have since been reopened following necessary debris removal.
Per the National Weather Service, a flash flood watch means the threat of flash flooding exists along rivers and creeks. If you are in the watch area you should monitor weather conditions closely. Be ready to move to higher ground if flooding is observed or a warning is issued. Stay tuned to weather radio or other radio and tv stations for further updates.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-urges-caution-following-heavy-rains-and-flash-flooding-western-new-york
