Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Seventeenth Annual "Cycling the Erie Canal" Bike Tour
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 10, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Annual Tour Begins in Buffalo on July 12
Governor Cuomo announced the seventeenth annual "Cycling the Erie Canal" bike tour, where more than 600 cyclists have already registered for the 400-mile bicycling tour from Buffalo to Albany. This year, the event kicks off on Sunday, July 12 and concludes Sunday, July 19.
"The Erie Canal is truly an engineering marvel and along it are some of the most scenic examples of natural beauty in the entire state," Governor Cuomo said. "I welcome the cyclists who are coming from far and wide to participate in this world-renown tour and encourage them to enjoy all that New York has to offer."
The eight-day recreational bicycling tour will help highlight the beauty, history, culture and recreational appeal of the Canal system and the Canalway Trail, popular tourism destinations in New York State. This year's tour has attracted more than 600 cyclists from 36 states, as well as international participants from as far away as Australia.
Roughly two-thirds of the 400-mile bicycle tour takes place on the completed portion of the Canalway Trail. When complete, the New York State Canalway Trail will span more than 500 miles and connect numerous cities, towns and villages along the Erie, Cayuga-Seneca, Oswego and Champlain Canals, making it one of the longest multi-use recreational trails in the country.
Participants will have the opportunity to partake in guided tours of the Canal, historic sites, museums, and attractions such as the Women's Rights National Historical Park in Seneca Falls, the Montezuma National Wildlife refuge in Seneca Falls, Fort Stanwix National Monument in Rome, and the Erie Canal Museum in Syracuse.
Canal Corporation Director Brian U. Stratton said, "The New York State Canal Corporation is pleased to sponsor Cycling the Erie Canal. The Erie Canal is a beautiful and historical treasure not only to New York, but the entire country, as demonstrated by more than 600 participants from 36 states. Strong support from Governor Cuomo and Parks & Trails NY has been a key element in the success of Cycling the Erie and I thank them for their continued backing of this annual event."
Robin Dropkin, Executive Director of Parks & Trails New York, said, "We are proud to partner with Governor Cuomo and the New York State Canal Corporation in promoting the Erie Canal and Canalway Trail. The Cycle the Erie Canal tour provides an opportunity for every age and cycling ability from around the country and the world to enjoy the best of New York State. Summer in New York State isn't summer without a bike tour along the Erie Canal."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-seventeenth-annual-cycling-erie-canal-bike-tour
