Public Statements
Video, Photos & Transcript: Governor Cuomo Signs Executive Order Appointing NYS Attorney General as Special Prosecutor
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 8, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is included below:
Thank you. Thank you very much. This is a very good day. It's a day of action, it's a day of fairness, it's a day of justice, and it's a day that I think should go a long way towards restoring people's trust in our system of criminal justice and trust in government. It's a pleasure to be here with the families who have lost loved ones and have waged this battle for many, many months and I applaud them for their good work. We will hear from them in a moment.
It is a pleasure to be here with the city officials here, the state officials who are here, the members of the clergy who are here. This is a very large and impressive turnout for an important issue and the issue actually merits it. It's also a pleasure to be with the Attorney General and Speaker Heastie. I wanted to thank my counsel Alphonso David who has done a great job working on this matter. We have so many assemblymen and senators here today I feel like I'm back in Albany and we're back in the legislative session. The legislative session ended a couple of weeks ago. As you know, the legislator basically sits from January through June and we had a very good session in terms of accomplishment. That's how I judge the session. What did we get done for the people of the State of New York -- period. What did we get accomplished? What did we do to make life better for people? And when you look at the record of the session, it's actually more impressive than most people realized.
We signed a bill yesterday with Leader Nancy Pelosi, that is the Campus Sexual Assault Bill. It changes the law protecting students on campus. Leader Pelosi said that she believes it's the best bill in the nation and she's going to use it as another opportunity where New York will be first and then spur national action like we have so many times before. This session we brought home more money for education than we have ever before in the history of the State of New York. More money for parochial schools than ever before in the history of the State of New York. We actually funded $1.5 billion dollars for upstate economic development because this is a big state. We brought home a 421a affordable housing program for the City of New York that includes labor and is better than the past program.

Source:
