Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $18 Million Federal Grant to Help Unemployed New Yorkers Get Back to Work
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 7, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Federal dollars secured to help nearly 95,000 job seekers with intensive career counseling
Governor Cuomo announced an $18 million federal grant has been awarded to New York that will continue reemployment services for individuals receiving Unemployment Insurance benefits. The grant -- the highest award in the nation -- comes from the U.S. Department of Labor as part of its Reemployment and Eligibility Assessment initiative.
This funding builds upon a grant for $10.3 million awarded in 2012, an $11 million grant in 2013, and an $18 million grant in 2014, which combined helped 178,788 unemployed New Yorkers. This year's grant was increased based on the State's performance and is anticipated to help more than 95,000 New Yorkers.
"As New York's economy continues to rebound, this state has developed an effective, proven model to match those in need of work with employers looking to grow and thrive in the Empire State," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding will help continue these efforts and ensure that those who need employment have the resources available to them to do so."
New York State Department of Labor career counselors work with Unemployment Insurance recipients assigned to the program as part of an aggressive agenda that includes three mandatory one-on-one meetings, a work search plan, training assessment, and referrals to additional reemployment services.
"Our primary focus is jobs, jobs, jobs and ensuring unemployed New Yorkers have the skills, know-how, and guidance to navigate an ever-changing job market," said Acting State Labor Commissioner Mario J. Musolino. "The best news we can hear from an unemployed New Yorker is that they no longer need Unemployment Insurance because they landed a new job. And we hear this across the State every day."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-18-million-federal-grant-help-unemployed-new-yorkers-get-back-work
