Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Welcomes 75 New Americans from 27 Different Countries Sworn in as U.S. Citizens
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 2, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo congratulated 75 New Americans who were sworn in as U.S. Citizens at the New York Public Library's landmark Stephen A. Schwarzman Building and welcomed another 575 immigrants who will be sworn in during various naturalization ceremonies throughout the rest of New York State.
"New York's diversity is its strength," Governor Cuomo said. "For generations -- and to this day -- this is the place where people from around the world come to pursue a brighter future for themselves and their families. I proudly welcome these New Americans and new New Yorkers to this great tradition as we prepare to celebrate Independence Day."
"Today's ceremony, with over 25 different countries represented, demonstrates yet again that the Empire State is a true pioneer in, and model for, diversity and inclusiveness," said New York Secretary of State Cesar A. Perales. "As we commemorate and congratulate our country's newest citizens, we are reminded of the countless contributions that New Americans have made to our State."
"The New York State Office for New Americans would like to congratulate and welcome all those in New York State who are being sworn in as U.S. citizens this week," said Jorge Montalvo, Director, New York State Office for New Americans. "This Fourth of July marks the birth of our country and we must continue to ensure that our State remains a land of opportunity for all."
Individuals from all over the world are being sworn in as New American citizens with ceremonies being held to commemorate and celebrate the unique diversity that makes the Empire State the world's cultural and economic center.
The 75 citizenship candidates from today's New York City ceremony originate from the following 27 countries: Albania (1), Australia (1), Bangladesh (2), Canada (1), People's Republic of China (5), Ivory Coast (1), Czech Republic (1), Dominican Republic (24). Ecuador (1), Germany (1), Ghana (6), Guinea (1), Haiti (1), India (3), Iraq (1), Israel (2), Italy (1), Jamaica (8), Kenya (1), Montserrat (1), Pakistan (1), Senegal (3), St. Kitts-Nevis (2), The Gambia (1), Togo (2), United Kingdom (2), and Yemen (1).
Additional Ceremonies taking place during Independence Day week include:
* Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza, Albany, NY (July 4, 2015)
* Genesee Country & Village Museum, Mumford, NY (July 4, 2015)
* Saratoga National Historical Park, Stillwater, NY (July 4, 2015)
These ceremonies and celebrations build on New York State's efforts to help immigrants fully participate in New York's civic and economic life. Previously, the Administration suspended participation in the Federal Secure Communities program when concerns were raised about the implementation of the program as well as its impact on families, immigrant communities and law enforcement in New York. The Governor issued Executive Order 26 requiring State agencies that provide direct public services to offer free interpretation and translation services to members of the public for vital forms and instructions. Governor Cuomo established the New York State Office for New Americans to assist newcomers in the State who are eager to contribute to our economy and become part of the New York family, and made history by making the Office for New Americans the first state-level immigrant office created by statute in the country.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-welcomes-75-new-americans-27-different-countries-sworn-us-citizens
