Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Bills to Honor New York Service Members Killed in Service to Their Country
Press Release
By: David DiPietro Patrick Gallivan Kenneth Blankenbush Joseph Griffo Steve Katz David Buchwald Patricia Fahy George Amedore, Jr. Andrew Cuomo Terrence Murphy
Date: July 2, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo signed legislation to rename portions of the state highway system and a bridge in honor of five New York service members who died in the service of their nation.
"These exceptional New Yorkers answered the call and paid the ultimate price in the service of our nation and the values it was founded upon," Governor Cuomo said. "As we approach Independence Day, I am proud to sign these legislative bills into law to honor the memory of these five extraordinary soldiers and ensure that their commitment and sacrifice will not be forgotten."
Lieutenant Colonel Todd J. Clark Memorial Highway: A portion of State Route 146 in the Town of Guilderland, Albany County will be renamed the "Lieutenant Colonel Todd J. Clark Memorial Highway" (S.2290/A.2131). Lieutenant Colonel Clark, who grew up in Guilderland, was killed in action on June 8, 2013 during an attack at close range while serving as an advisor to the Afghan National Army. The renamed highway begins at the intersection of State Route 20 and State Route 146, and continues north to Lydius Street.
Senator George Amedore said, "Lieutenant Colonel Todd J. Clark leaves behind a legacy of dedication and commitment to his nation and community. Renaming this highway in his home town allows us to pay a small tribute to a man who made the ultimate sacrifice for the nation he loved."
Assemblywoman Patricia Fahy said, "It is an honor to have sponsored this bill to rename Route 146 in commemoration of the extraordinary service and ultimate sacrifice of Guilderland's Lieutenant Colonel Todd Clark. This is such a fitting way to celebrate Independence Day and I thank the Governor for his support of this legislation, and the Lieutenant Colonel's family for their tremendous patriotism and support."
Marine Captain Eric A. Jones Memorial Highway: A portion of State Route 137 in the Town of Pound Ridge, Westchester County will be renamed "Marine Captain Eric A. Jones Memorial Highway" (S.3820-A/A.7405). Captain Jones, of Pound Ridge, was a helicopter pilot killed in the line of duty on October 26, 2009 during a helicopter collision in Afghanistan. He was on his third deployment after serving two tours in Iraq. The portion renamed begins at the intersection of Westchester Avenue and State Route 137, continues in a generally southerly direction and terminates at the New York and Connecticut state boundary.
Specialist David R. Fahey Jr. Memorial Bridge: A bridge on State Route 129 that crosses the New Croton Reservoir in the Town of Yorktown, Westchester County will be renamed the "Specialist David R. Fahey Jr. Memorial Bridge" (A.6613/S4495). Specialist Fahey, of Yorktown Heights, was deployed on combat operations to Afghanistan in 2010. On February 28, 2011, Specialist Fahey was killed by an improvised explosive device in Kandahar Province while serving with the 504th Military Police Battalion of the 42nd Military Police Brigade. The bridge is less than three miles from Specialist Fahey's childhood home.
Senator Terrence Murphy said, "I can think of no greater honor for my first bills to be signed by the Governor than those which pay tribute to the courage and sacrifice of two Hudson Valley heroes. Both Specialist David Fahey of Yorktown, and Marine Captain Eric Jones of Pound Ridge, paid the ultimate sacrifice while defending our great nation and state. This fourth of July we should make a point to remember the brave men and women serving overseas who remind us that freedom isn't free and we are blessed to have these courageous individuals defending our way of life."
Assemblyman David Buchwald said, "Growing up in Pound Ridge and at Fox Lane High School, Eric A. Jones always displayed an ambitious spirit. His willingness to help others was manifest when he became a Marine Captain and a pilot, and was with him the day he made the ultimate sacrifice. Captain Jones' proud and honorable service to his hometown of Pound Ridge and our country, having fought for freedom in both Iraq and Afghanistan, should be memorialized. The designation of State Route 137 in memory of Captain Jones is a small, but meaningful gesture that will remind the people of New York State of the patriotism and valor showed by our young local hero."
Assemblyman Steve Katz said, "This is a long awaited and much deserved tribute to one of Yorktown's finest young men who gave the ultimate sacrifice for his country."
Sergeant Elisha R. Parker Veterans Memorial Highway: A portion of State Route 13 in the Village of Camden, Oneida County will be renamed the "Sergeant Elisha R. Parker Veterans Memorial Highway" (S.3227/A.5149). Sergeant Parker, of Camden, lost his life May 4, 2006, during his third tour of duty in Iraq while performing his duties as a combat engineer with the U.S. Marine Corps. The renamed highway begins at the intersection of County Route 84 and State Route 13 and continues south to the village line.
Senator Joseph Griffo said, "Sergeant Parker was truly a man who devoted himself to his community, his country and his fellow Marines. Along with all of the servicemen and women who have put their lives on the line to help defend our nation's interests and ideals, Sergeant Parker symbolizes the unwavering courage, commitment and sacrifice that have always defined the best of what America has to offer. The Sergeant Elisha R. Parker Veterans Memorial Highway will serve as an everlasting reminder of what it truly takes to preserve our nation's principles of liberty and freedom."
Assemblyman Ken Blankenbush said, "I'm honored to be able to memorialize the service of Sgt. Elisha Parker, and all of the veterans who have served in combat. It's very important for people, as they travel this corridor, to be reminded of all those who have made the ultimate sacrifice for their country."
Captain John J. Levulis Memorial Highway: A portion of State Route 75 in the Town of Eden, Erie County will be renamed the "Captain John J. Levulis Memorial Highway" (A.8177-B/S.5854-B). Captain Levulis, of Eden, served a tour of duty in Afghanistan where he held the position of Infantry Platoon Leader with the 10th Mountain Division. On May 7, 2015, Captain Levulis lost his life as a result of injuries suffered in a crash on the New Jersey Turnpike while traveling to Fort Dix. The renamed highway begins at the intersection of U.S. Route 62 and State Route 75, and continues south to the Eden /North Collins border.
Senator Patrick Gallivan said, "Captain Levulis served his country with pride and distinction in Afghanistan as an Infantry Platoon Leader assigned to the 10th Mountain Division from Fort Drum. He was an active and beloved member of the Eden community and the designation of this highway through his hometown will serve as a tribute to his courage and sacrifice. Captain Levulis is an inspiration to all who had the good fortune to know him and he will always be remembered."
Assemblyman David DiPietro said, "Today's dedication of the Captain John J. Levulis Memorial Highway is a celebration of one of our hometown heroes gone too soon. Captain Levulis served his country in the War in Afghanistan with honor and distinction, and made everyone in our community proud to say he came from here. He will always be remembered for his service, and I'm proud to have played a part in securing this recognition for a man of courage like Captain John J. Levulis."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-signs-bills-honor-new-york-service-members-killed-service-their-country
