Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Advance Ticket Sales For the 2015 Great New York State Fair Begin July 13
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 1, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Fairgoers Can Save Over 40% by Purchasing Advance Tickets
For First Time, Electronic Ticket Scanning Using Mobile Phones will Make Entering Fair Easier than Ever
Governor Cuomo announced advance ticket sales for the 2015 Great New York State Fair begin July 13 at 9 a.m. with expanded online savings for advance admission, midway and bargain book items. For the first time, online purchases will be available throughout all 12 days of the Fair and fairgoers will be able to use an electronic ticket on their smartphone for easy entry. Tickets will be available online and in hundreds of stores across New York.
"The State Fair showcases the very best that the Empire State has to offer and with these new upgrades, planning a trip has never been easier," Governor Cuomo said. "I encourage everyone to come and experience this great New York tradition for themselves."
Five products will be sold online at www.etix.com, the Fair's official and only online ticket seller:
* Single-day advance sale tickets for $6, a 40% savings over the full admission price;
* Six-day admission Frequent Fairgoer coupon books for $30, a 50% savings over full price;
* Vouchers for ride-all-day wristbands at the Wade Shows Midway for $20, a discount of $5 over the weekday price and $10 over the weekend price;
* Vouchers for ride-everyday Mega Passes to the Wade Shows Midway for $70, which is $20 less than full price;
* The Fair's Best Bets Bargain Book of more than 100 coupons for $4, a 20% savings over the full price.
No processing fees will be charged for tickets bought online, though credit card fees will apply.
New York State Fair Director Troy Waffner said, "We're excited to be able to offer tickets online and to make tickets scannable at the gates. We believe it will provide a real convenience for fans of the Fair everywhere. We tested online sales with our special Cyber Monday and Cinco de Mayo promotions and the results were excellent. Our online sales allowed people in eleven states and Canada to purchase advance sale tickets easily, something they hadn't been able to do before now. This also allows us to sell more items than we could sell through our valued grocery store partners."
Single-day advance sale tickets will be available by mid-July in major retail outlets across New York State, as they have been for many years. Wegmans, Price Chopper, Tops Friendly Markets, and Kinney Drugs will sell tickets at hundreds of outlets across New York State and in some stores in communities bordering New York. Tickets are also available at independent grocery stores in Liverpool, Syracuse, Weedsport, Marcellus, Pittsford, and Wolcott. Single-day admission tickets will also be available at Destiny USA. The State Fair Box Office will be open daily for advance ticket sales starting July 13 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-advance-ticket-sales-2015-great-new-york-state-fair-begin-july-13
