Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Suspension of Construction-Related Lane Closures to Ease Travel During July 4th Weekend
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 1, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced that temporary lane closures associated with road and bridge construction projects on New York State highways will not be allowed from 6 a.m. on Friday, July 3, to 10 p.m. Sunday, July 5, in order to accommodate travelers during the busy Independence Day holiday weekend. Some work may continue behind permanent concrete barriers or for emergency repairs.
"This weekend is one of the busiest travel times of the year and by temporarily suspending non-essential construction on state roads, we're putting drivers first and making it easy for them to get where they need to go more quickly and with less complications," Governor Cuomo said. "I encourage all motorists to use caution and observe the rules of the road this Fourth of July weekend."
The prohibition of non-essential lane closures is in keeping with Governor Cuomo's Drivers First program, which prioritizes the convenience of motorists to minimize traffic congestion and travel delays due to road and bridge work.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "Once again we are restricting the lane closures during the Independence Day holiday weekend so that people will be free to travel to destinations across New York State in celebration of our nation's birth. The public should be focused on sharing this great holiday with their friends and family without worrying about traffic delays."
New York State Thruway Authority Executive Director Robert Megna said, "As motorists take to the roads this 4th of July holiday weekend, we are joining our colleagues at the New York State Department of Transportation in suspending construction along the Thruway to ensure travelers have a safe and enjoyable commute as they visit family and friends or one of our state's great destinations."
AAA predicts that more than 41.9 million people will travel more than 50 miles from home this weekend, up slightly from last year. This Independence Day weekend is expected to have the highest travel volume since 2007.
Travelers are reminded to check 511NY by calling 511 or by accessing www.511ny.org before departing. The free service allows users to check road conditions or link to air and transit information.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-suspension-construction-related-lane-closures-ease-travel-during-july
