Public Statements
Video & Transcript: Governor Cuomo Celebrates #Pride2015
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 28, 2015
Location: New York City, NY

A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below:
Well, thank you. What a great day to be here, isn't it? First, Robbie Kaplan said it right, today is a day that will go down in American history and it's a day that this state played a special role in and I'm especially proud to be governor of this great state today. First to Robbie Kaplan and Edie Windsor: justice doesn't just happen. Justice is a process. Justice is a journey. And every step takes you closer to the goal. The case that Robbie Kaplan brought and Edie Windsor brought was one of the first times this state and this country started to seriously think of the legal ramifications of marriage equality. And I don't believe we would have been here today if we hadn't started that journey and one of the first steps was the Edie Windsor case taken by Robbie Kaplan. Let's give her a round of applause. To Peter Thiede's family, let's welcome them and congratulate them on today. To David Turley's family, let's welcome them and celebrate them on today.
This is a proud day for America because it stands up to one of the principles that makes America so special. It says, "today we treat equal people, equally." And that really is the fundamental promise of this country. And that's what this issue is all about. "Marriage equality" we called it. I used to say it was more about the second word -- "equality" -- than the first word. It was less about marriage, more about equality. Marriage is an individual choice. I'm not married. Equality, equality is not a choice. Equality is a promise. And this was about equality. And this was a rallying point -- and really, the crucible where the LGBT community said to this nation, "I want to be treated equally in every way." Marriage became the proxy for that. Then we started to talk about civil unions if you remember. Civil unions actually advanced the entire dialogue because what civil unions said was, "we will give LGBT couples all the legal rights, but we won't call it "marriage.'" That actually sharpened the debate and inflamed the debate because then the gay community said, "no that's not what I want. I want it to be called "marriage.'" "Why?" "Because I want equality and I don't want something a little bit less than equality; something almost like equality; something that sounds like equality but isn't. I don't want equality lite. I want equality and equality is marriage. Not the legal rights of marriage. I want the world "marriage' because my life and my relationship is equal in every way to a heterosexual relationship and I don't want it diminished in any way." That's what said, "we need marriage equality. If you believe in full equality, then you believe in marriage equality and we have to make it a reality." That's when the State of New York stood up. We tried to pass it in the Legislature once before and we failed, which was a terrible rejection if you think about it -- that a legislative body would hear the matter and say, "we choose no."

Source:
