Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Free Access to Canal System for Fishing and Recreation This Weekend
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 26, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Unlimited Canal Use Coincides with Free Fishing Weekend June 27-28
Governor Cuomo announced free access to the entire New York State Canal system this weekend, including travel through the locks and lift bridges at no cost to boaters. The unlimited access complements free fishing weekend June 27-28, when New Yorkers and visitors can fish without a license on any of the state's 7,500 lakes and ponds and 50,000 miles of rivers, streams and canals.
"By providing free access to the canal system, we are making it easier than ever for New Yorkers and visitors alike to explore one of this state's most historic tourism destinations," Governor Cuomo said. "The natural beauty along New York's canal system is second to none and this weekend is a great opportunity to see it for yourselves."
The Canal system connects to seven rivers, five lakes and various other bodies of water. This weekend's use of the 524-mile Canal system gives boaters more reasons to explore Upstate New York's historic towns and villages, and ensures greater access to some of the state's best fishing areas.
Thruway Authority and Canal Corporation Chair Joanne M. Mahoney said, "Today's New York State Canal system has become a world-class recreational boating destination. We encourage everyone taking part in the Governor's free fishing program this weekend to enjoy some of the best fishing in upstate New York on our beautiful Canals."
Canal Corporation Director Brian U. Stratton said, "More and more residents and visitors are rediscovering New York's amazing Canal system. This weekend will be a great opportunity for boaters to unlock the legend of New York's Canals, and once they find out how enjoyable it is to travel the canals we know that they will come back time and time again."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-free-access-canal-system-fishing-and-recreation-weekend
