Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $658 Million to Support Nutrition Programs for New Yorkers in Need
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 24, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced $658 million to support access to healthy and nutritious food for some of New York's most vulnerable residents. The funds will be awarded to 92 health and wellness providers that administer New York State's Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) and drive an expansion of services where the need is greatest. These 92 providers support approximately 400 WIC clinics across the state, reaching nearly 500,000 New Yorkers every month.
"Providing the opportunity for all New Yorkers to have access to fresh, healthy and nutritious food is a top priority of this administration and essential to this state's future health," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding not only ensures that these essential services will continue in communities across New York, but also expands them in order to reach more people in need."
"New York State's WIC program is vital to ensuring that families with young children have access to resources essential for leading healthy lives," said New York State Health Commissioner Dr. Howard Zucker. "With these funds, local contractors who provide these services will be able to strengthen their operations and expand their reach to help even more families."
The WIC program provides resources to qualifying New Yorkers in need of nutrition assistance. The WIC program also helps to reduce obesity, health disparities and the risk for chronic disease among program participants by promoting positive health outcomes and breastfeeding. WIC currently provides services to approximately 110,000 income eligible pregnant, post-partum or breastfeeding women and approximately 360,000 infants and children up to five years of age each month. One goal of this new round of funding is to expand the reach of the program in underserved areas to provide services to 20,000 new participants. Ultimately, the aim is to serve at least 50 percent of the eligible population in each county.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-658-million-support-nutrition-programs-new-yorkers-need
