Public Statements
ICYMI: Governor Cuomo Signs Executive Orders to Eliminate the Wage Gap and Further New York's Efforts to Protect Women's Rights
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 10, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Yesterday, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo signed two executive orders to put New York on the fast track to eliminate the wage gap. The executive orders will strengthen equal pay protections in New York by prohibiting all state entities from evaluating candidates based on their prior salary or asking prospective employees their wage history. New York will also require state contractors to disclose data on the gender, race and ethnicity of employees -- leveraging taxpayer dollars to drive transparency and advance pay equity statewide.
The Governor signed the Executive Orders as part of the "New York Promise" Agenda - sweeping, unprecedented package of reforms to advance principles of social justice, affirm New York's progressive values, and a set a national standard for protections against all forms of discrimination. The Governor made the announcement at his regional New York City State of the State yesterday.
VIDEO of Governor Cuomo's remarks on advancing women's equality is available on YouTube here and in TV quality (h264, mp4) format here.
Executive Order 161
Executive Order No. 161 prohibits state entities from asking the salary history of prospective employees. As companies tend to base salary offers on a candidate's prior salary history, this measure will break the cycle of unfair compensation so that individuals, primarily women and minorities, are not disadvantaged throughout the course of their entire career.
A candidate for employment at any state entity does not have to provide his or her current compensation, or any prior compensation history, until he or she is extended a conditional offer of employment with compensation. Once a conditional offer has been extended, a state entity may then request and verify compensation information. If a state entity is already in possession of an applicant's prior compensation, the information may not be relied upon in determining the prospective employees salary, unless required by law or collective bargaining agreement. The Governor's Office of Employee Relations will monitor and oversee this process and train relevant human resources staff from state entities on the requirements of the new measure.




Source:
