Public Statements
Governor Cuomo, Majority Leader Flanagan and Speaker Heastie Announce Agreement on Legislation to Codify Comprehensive Reforms to Overhaul the Port Authority of New York And New Jersey
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 18, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo, Senate Majority Leader John Flanagan and Assembly Speaker Carl E. Heastie today announced that a three-way agreement has been reached on legislation to codify reforms to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
"The legislation introduced today adopts the comprehensive changes underway as a result of the recommendations made in December by the Bi-State Special Panel on the Future of the Port Authority," said Governor Andrew M. Cuomo. "By enshrining these improvements into law, we will ensure the Port Authority will ably and effectively serve the people of the New York metropolitan region and return to its original core mission of developing and overseeing regional transportation infrastructure. Enacting these critically important reforms will also ensure a more transparent and effective Port Authority. I want to thank Governor Christie and my partners in the legislature and in New Jersey for working together to guarantee that the Port Authority functions at the highest standards."
Senate Majority Leader John Flanagan said: "This agreement will usher in necessary reforms to ensure the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey operates with a greater level of transparency and is more accountable to the public. The residents of this state are demanding that all levels of government do more with less, identify efficiencies wherever they exist and provide more value for their hard-earned money. I thank Senator Andrew Lanza for his work on this long overdue bill that helps us achieve each of those objectives."
Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie said: "By increasing transparency, improving regulation and instituting more independent oversight, this bill is an important step toward reform. These reforms would strengthen the Port Authority and create greater accountability from within the authority as well as from the public."
Senator Andrew Lanza, sponsor of the Port Authority reform bill, said: "Port Authority operations impact upon the lives of millions of people on Staten Island and throughout the region. The complexities of this bi-state authority have made reform illusive and heretofore thought to be out of reach. It is therefore particularly gratifying to announce together with Governor Cuomo that we have hammered out a historic Port Authority reform bill which should bring greater accountability, transparency, and efficiency to the Port Authority. I thank in particular Governor Cuomo, Senator Flanagan, and Assemblymembers Brennan and Cusick for their leadership and hard work on this issue".
Assemblymember James Brennan, chair of the Committee on Corporations, Authorities and Commissions, said: "Accountability, oversight, transparency -- these are all key to reform. This bill would establish critical oversight and transparency and allow for a more efficient Port Authority that works on behalf of the people of New York and New Jersey."
The legislation introduced today would statutorily codify the comprehensive changes that the Port Authority has already undertaken to ensure that its functions are open and transparent. It also includes other reforms recommended by the Bi-State Special Panel on the Future of the Port Authority, which was convened in 2014 by Governor Cuomo and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-majority-leader-flanagan-and-speaker-heastie-announce-agreement-legislation-0
