Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $16.7 Million in Americorps Funding
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 17, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State has received more than $10.7 million in competitive AmeriCorps funding from the Corporation for National and Community Service, to support organizations that promote children's health and education, disaster preparedness, and other key initiatives. An additional $6 million will be awarded later this year, bringing the total amount of funding to $16.7 million.
"New Yorkers have a long history of lending a hand and coming to the aid of those in need," Governor Cuomo said. "Our AmeriCorps members embody that spirit of service by generously giving their time and effort to make our communities stronger, and I am proud to support their critically important work."
The New York State Commission on National & Community Service -- New Yorkers Volunteer, a Governor-appointed commission, uses the power of AmeriCorps to address some of the States most challenging issues, and encourages citizens to make a difference in the lives of others. The State's AmeriCorps members improve schools and increase educational opportunities, fight poverty, come to the aid of the sick, prepare communities for disasters and rebuild following severe weather events, preserve the environment and support veterans and military families.
Awarded through a Request for Proposal process, the funding will enable 14 non-profit organizations to recruit 1,440 people to serve as AmeriCorps members. Each organization has crafted a program to address specific needs in its community. The New York State Commission on National & Community Service - New Yorkers Volunteer will administer the funding.
New Yorkers Volunteer Executive Director Linda Cohen said, "Whether it's cleaning-up after a devastating storm or helping children succeed in school, AmeriCorps members are making a real difference in our State. This funding will help to grow and support the communities they serve."

Source:
