Public Statements
Governor Cuomo, Majority Leader Flanagan and Speaker Heastie Announce Agreement on "Enough Is Enough" Legislation to Combat Sexual Violence on College Campuses
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 16, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo, Senate Majority Leader John Flanagan and Assembly Speaker Carl E. Heastie today announced that a three-way agreement has been reached on the "Enough is Enough" legislation to combat sexual assault on college campuses in New York State.
"Today is a victory for students across New York State," Governor Cuomo said. "As the Governor, and as a father, I am proud that with this legislation New York will become a national leader in the fight against sexual assault on college campuses. This action is a major step forward to protect students from an issue that has been plaguing schools nationwide for far too long. Once again, New York is setting the standard for other states to follow, and I look forward to signing this legislation into law as soon as possible."
Senate Majority Leader John Flanagan said, "I am pleased and proud that working together we have reached a consensus on a bill to combat and root out sexual assault so our college campuses are safe learning environments for all students. I thank Senator Ken LaValle for his hard work on this issue, as well as Governor Cuomo and Speaker Heastie, and I commend my colleagues and the advocates for helping us achieve a positive result on this extraordinarily important piece of legislation."
Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie said, "Every student deserves the opportunity to obtain a higher education in a safe and supportive environment. Campus sexual assault disrupts victims' lives and shifts their focus away from their studies. This plan encourages victims to speak up and provides a uniform policy for handling accusations throughout all New York State colleges, as well as bolsters support services for victims of this heinous act. New York must continue to lead the way in the fight against campus sexual assault."
Senator Ken LaValle, Chairman of the Senate Higher Education Committee said, "We have approached this sensitive topic in a comprehensive, thoughtful manner. This legislation provides critically important protections for victims and details the processes necessary to achieve fair and just results for those involved. The measure provides a clear path to combat and eradicate campus sexual assault and a course of action for the victims of these devastating incidents. It provides for education of all college students; recommends methods of prevention, and provides assurance of due process in the adjudication of these incidents. This legislation addresses the complex issues and will better protect our college students across the state."
Assemblymember Glick, Chair of the Assembly Higher Education Committee said, "Campus sexual assault greatly diminishes a positive college experience and can have lasting effects on victims. I commend my colleagues for recognizing the importance of this issue and taking steps to protect all students, including those of the LGBT community, from the horrors of rape, sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence and stalking."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-majority-leader-flanagan-and-speaker-heastie-announce-agreement-enough-enough
