Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Urges New Yorkers to Take Precautions Against Flooding
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 14, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today urged New Yorkers to take precautions, learn about flood dangers and stay aware of current and potential weather conditions while flood warnings and watches are in effect across Central, Western and Northern New York.
"With severe weather impacting parts of the state, New Yorkers in the impacted regions should exercise caution," Governor Cuomo said. "Our administration is monitoring these storms and working closely with our partners in local governments, and I urge everyone in these communities to stay safe."
Flash flood warnings are in effect until 12:45 a.m. Monday for Livingston, Monroe, Ontario, and Wyoming Counties; until 1:45 a.m. Monday for Steuben and Tompkins Counties; until 3:15 a.m. for Chemung, and Tioga Counties; until 4:15 a.m. for Broome, Chenango, and Delaware Counties; and until 4:30 a.m. for Schuyler, Seneca, and Yates Counties. A flash flood watch is in effect until 6:00 a.m. Monday for Allegany, Broome, Cattaraugus, Cayuga, Chautauqua, Chemung, Chenango, Cortland, Delaware, Erie, Genesee, Livingston, Madison, Monroe, Oneida, Onondaga, Ontario, Otsego, Schuyler, Steuben, Tioga, Tompkins, Wayne, Wyoming and Yates Counties.
The Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services (DHSES) Offices of Emergency Management (NYSOEM) and Fire Prevention and Control (OFPC) are currently assisting emergency management officials with additional command staffing in Tompkins and Ontario Counties. The New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) is also assisting local communities and staffing the Tompkins County Emergency Operations Center. DHSES, along with the New York State Police, remain in close communication with impacted local governments.
DHSES Commissioner John P. Melville said, "As heavy rains continue throughout the state, DHSES will continue to monitor the regions that are impacted by these storms and will provide any assistance needed. It is important for residents that are in the watch and warning areas to stay informed by monitoring local media, taking necessary precautions to stay safe, and heeding the advice of emergency officials. They should especially stay informed of potential evacuation orders if necessary."
A flash flood or flood warning means that flooding has been reported or is imminent, and that citizens should take necessary precautions and actions immediately. A flash flood or flood watch indicates that flooding is possible within the designated watch area -- when a watch is issued, citizens should be alert and ready to take action. It is essential that citizens get up-to-date weather information during flood warnings and watches, which can escalate quickly.
The best way to receive official emergency information, which can change quickly, is to subscribe to NY-ALERT (nyalert.gov), the state's free, all-hazards notification system, and by downloading the app for iOS and Android devices.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-urges-new-yorkers-take-precautions-against-flooding-0
