Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 26 Properties Nominated to State and National Registers of Historic Places
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 12, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the New York State Board for Historic Preservation has recommended the addition of 26 properties, resources and districts to the State and National Registers of Historic Places. The nominations reflect the breadth of New York's history, ranging from one of the last amusement park rides left at the 1964-65 New York World's Fair in Queens, to the site of a 1943 school segregation fight in Rockland County.
"New York has a rich heritage, and important events in the history of this state and this nation have occurred in virtually every corner of it," Governor Cuomo said. "By placing these sites on the State and National Registers of Historic Places, we can ensure that they will be preserved and enjoyed by New Yorkers and visitors for years to come."
Commissioner of the state Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation Rose Harvey said, "These sites are the physical reminders of the incredible scope of architectural vision, craftsmanship, innovation and history across New York State. Listing these landmarks will give them the recognition and support they deserve."
State and National Register listing can assist property owners in revitalizing buildings, making them eligible for various public preservation programs and services, such as matching state grants and state and federal historic rehabilitation tax credits. Spurred by the state and federal historic rehabilitation commercial tax credits administered by the State Historic Preservation Office, developers invested $500 million statewide in 2014 to revitalize properties listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Homeowners using the state historic homeowner rehabilitation tax credit invested more than $9.8 million statewide on home improvements to help revitalize historic neighborhoods.
The State and National Registers are the official lists of buildings, structures, districts, landscapes, objects and sites significant in the history, architecture, archeology and culture of New York State and the nation. There are more than 120,000 historic buildings, structures and sites throughout the state listed on the National Register of Historic Places, individually or as components of historic districts. Property owners, municipalities and organizations from communities throughout the state sponsored the nominations.
Once the recommendations are approved by the state historic preservation officer, the properties are listed on the New York State Register of Historic Places and then nominated to the National Register of Historic Places, where they are reviewed and, once approved, entered on the National Register. More information and photos of the nominations is available on the Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation website.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-26-properties-nominated-state-and-national-registers-historic-places
