Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Major Deegan Expressway Construction Time to be Shortened By Two Years
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 11, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the rehabilitation timeline of the Major Deegan Expressway (Interstate 87) in the Bronx will be shortened by approximately two years, enabling the $133 million project to be completed in 2017.
"The Major Deegan Expressway is crucial to both the Bronx and the thousands of commuters who use it daily," Governor Cuomo said. "This shorter timeline will reduce the inconvenience from construction, while also ensuring that the Expressway is safer for decades to come. This is about putting drivers first, and I look forward to seeing the rehab project completed a full two years ahead of schedule."
Work on the expedited schedule will begin June 15, and the plan calls for using precast concrete deck panels for the elevated portion of the highway, running from East 138th Street to the Macombs Dam Bridge. This is instead of pouring and curing concrete on site, which will provide many benefits. Since the panels are manufactured off-site in a controlled environment, the concrete can cure without exposure to weather and vibrations from adjacent traffic, providing a superior product and extending the bridge deck's lifespan.
The process also allows the number of joints to be reduced, decreasing the chances of leaking and thus reducing long-term maintenance costs and improving durability. Additionally, fewer activities on site will reduce overall noise and construction traffic in and around the project area.
The revamped project will restrict the right northbound travel lane for two years. Starting in early July, when school is not in session, the lane will be "Exit Only" before Exit 3 (138th Street/Grand Concourse) and closed after Exit 3 to the Macombs Dam Bridge. This traffic pattern will provide motorists with reliable travel time through the corridor while reducing the duration of construction-related congestion.









Source:
