Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Agreement with Erie and Cattaraugus Counties for Replacement of Bridge Along Old Route 219
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 11, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that an agreement has been reached with Erie and Cattaraugus Counties for the construction of a new bridge over Cattaraugus Creek on old Route 219, bringing an estimated 280 new well-paying jobs to the area.
Recognizing its economic and logistical importance to the surrounding communities the state has agreed to assume the cost of the project to replace the bridge, even though it is a local responsibility.
"This bridge is a crucial, but aging, piece of infrastructure for Erie and Cattaraugus county residents, and with today's commitment, we are going to ensure this stretch of old Route 219 remains safe and drivable for decades to come," Governor Cuomo said. "I look forward to seeing the project, which will also bring jobs and economic growth to the region, get underway."
State Department of Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, we have worked diligently with our local partners to reach resolution on the maintenance and ownership of the South Cascade-Miller Road Bridge over Cattaraugus Creek, which serves as a vital transportation link between Cattaraugus and Erie counties. Maintaining this important bridge crossing helps preserve the identities of the surrounding communities and protect their economic future. The South Cascade Drive-Miller Road Bridge will continue to serve as an important transportation link and conduit for the local economy, creating jobs, enhancing mobility and providing safe and reliable travel for years to come."
The new bridge is expected to have a lifespan of approximately 75 years. Upon completion of the bridge, the state will transfer maintenance responsibility to Erie and Cattaraugus Counties. Maintenance is expected to be minimal, and the state has secured $300,000 in funding as part of the 2015-16 Enacted Budget for a county-run maintenance fund. This funding is separate from the estimated $20 million in construction costs that the state is assuming.
Additionally, the state will be assuming the cost for construction of cable conduits along the bridge at an estimated cost of up to $50,000 and the state will also pay for the first 10 years of washing the bridge.
Senator Patrick Gallivan said, "Residents on both both sides of Cattaraugus Creek depend on the bridge to get to and from the store, visit their doctor, go to work, attend school and conduct their day to day business. The agreement to build a new bridge ensures the viability of the region for years to come."
Senator Catharine Young said, "I applaud the Cattaraugus and Erie County governments, and Governor Cuomo, for their diligent work to green light the old Route 219 bridge replacement. Construction of a new state-of-the-art bridge will be extremely beneficial to Western New York because it will stimulate economic growth by creating new, good-paying jobs and providing greater access to broadband service, preserve the local economy, and give residents on both sides of the Cattaraugus Creek access to emergency care and shopping they need and deserve."
Construction of the new bridge should take approximately two years and work on the project is likely to begin late this summer.
The state voluntarily assumed responsibility for maintenance of the existing bridge in 2010 at the request of both counties following the opening of the four lane bypass on the current State Route 219.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-agreement-erie-and-cattaraugus-counties-replacement-bridge-along-old
