Public Statements
Video & Photos: Jon Bon Jovi, Labor Leaders Rally in Support of Governor Cuomo's Fight For Fair Pay Campaign
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 11, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you, thank you. First, to hear Rebecca Cornick come up and give us a real life version of what this is all about -- we thank her for her work, and we thank her for her courage. Rebecca Cornick -- let's give her a round of applause. To our host today, Peter Ward, who is a really great labor leader. He is effective, he is a friend. Let's give him a round of applause. To the head of the AFL-CIO Mario Cilento, let's give him a round of applause.
And to all the labor leaders -- what's been happening recently, and it is so beautiful to see, is labor is coming together in New York. And in unity there is strength and when that union movement comes together and shows solidarity, there is nothing that they cannot do and that is the group you see before you on that podium. Let's give them a round of applause and thank them for their unity.
And to Jon Bon Jovi. Jon Bon Jovi is a great talent. He is a great musician and we all envy his talent, but he also never forgot where he came from and he never forgot who he is. He has always given back; he is always working to help people who have less. Let's give him a round of applause. And Jon did a song that I heard when I was running for Governor. And it speaks just to this theme. It speaks to the point of a person who grew up as a working person without the skills to do a higher-tech job, without the education to do a higher tech job, but willing to work hard and feeling that he and she have lost their place in this society, and that the hope and opportunity is gone for them.
And the point of the song is who is speaking for them? Who is helping them? And this is not a New York issue. Jon sells too many songs to do just in New York. Jon sells them all across the world. But this is an issue all across this nation, where there is a whole group of people who feel like they have no voice, they have no place, and that they have no hope. And they are a permanent underclass and the whole concept of moving up is gone.
Now, people call it income inequality. I do not use those words, income inequality. Why? Because we never said we were all going to have equal incomes. It is not about income inequality and it is not about disliking rich people. I want my daughters to grow up to be millionaires and I want them to take care of me. I want to retire tomorrow and I'm banking on my daughters making a lot of money. So God bless them if they become millionaires. That's not what it is. What it is, is this nation says fairness for all, opportunity for all, mobility for all, and that's the hope and that's the dream that makes this country work.
And when you lose that, when you lose that ability to believe that your kids are going to do better and that you can do better, when you believe you're stuck in place and you're only going down, then it doesn't work for you. Then the whole promise was a scam.
Now, how do you get ahead? An education system that works for everyone. A public education system that works for everyone. Higher education system that works for everyone. Then you have to have the jobs available and the jobs have to be created by the state and then the jobs have to pay a fair wage so you can live a decent life and that's what the minimum wage is all about. And that is what this battle is all about.
The minimum wage was started by FDR. FDR said this when he was talking about passing the minimum wage: "It is a living wage, and by that I mean more than just subsistence. I mean wages so you can have a decent life."
That's what it was supposed to be about -- a decent life. Not that you're earning the minimum wage and you're living in a homeless shelter. Not that you're earning the minimum wage and you're washing your kids' clothes in the sink. Not that you're earning the minimum wage and you can't afford a decent education for your child. That's not a minimum wage. That's not the promise and that's not the opportunity that this nation is all about. We want to raise the minimum wage. And it is not a question of ideology, it is on the numbers, the minimum wage doesn't work.
You know what you earn in New York if you earn the minimum wage? About $18,000 per year. That's what you make -- about $18,000 per year. You know how much the average cost of housing is? $11,000. The average cost for food is $9,000. The average cost for clothing is $6,000, the average cost of expenses is $5,000. The numbers don't even add up. It is not possible to live decently on minimum wage.
Now, we are starting with one of the most egregious areas, and that is fast food workers. One of the largest areas of minimum wage workers is the fast food workers. They are primary wage earners for their families, which means these are not second jobs, these are people who are supporting a family and they are getting paid a minimum wage -- exactly what you heard from Rebecca.
Now, you want to hear what makes a situation worse? They work for McDonald's, they work for Burger King -- they pay them the minimum wage, and then those individuals come to government because under the minimum wage, they are still below poverty, so they still qualify for public assistance and food stamps. So they work full time at Burger King, McDonald's, they earn a minimum wage, they still get public assistance, they still get food stamps. The federal government pays several billion dollars a year to McDonald's workers and Burger King workers. This state pays $700 million every year to subsidize Burger King and McDonald's and McDonald's made $4.67 billion last year. Why are we subsidizing their employees?
Let them pay a wage so their workers can eat and pay housing and live a decent wage. And my friends, it is that simple. It is that simple. We want a wage that is right and that is fair. And what is currently going on is a fraud. And the corporations are getting away with murder. They are extorting their employees, they are paying them a wage that they cannot live on, they are then turning to government and the taxpayer to subsidize their jobs so they can make a bigger corporate profit. That's what is repugnant to the American system and the American dream.
It is fast food workers, it is tipped workers, it is a prevailing wage. Pay people what they deserve. That's what we're going to do in New York. That is our fight. That is our banner. That is what this is all about. That is what this is all about in this state and we are going to get it done in this state. And you know the nice thing about getting it done in New York? When you get it done in New York, it is not just New York. It resonates all across the county, all across the country, all across the country.
We passed marriage equality, we stopped discriminating against gay people and you know what? It resonated all across the country. We passed the law saying stop the insanity with guns, and let's have sensible gun control and it resonated all across the country. We stood up for the environment and it resonated all across the country. And this message is going to resonate all across the country.
Remember what this country is all about. Restore worker fairness and decency and opportunity and pay people a decent wage so they can live a decent life and educate their children and give hope and opportunity and mobility and make people proud to be Americans again and inspired to go to work. And let's restore the trust and the hope that made this state and this nation as great as they are. And it is the American worker that did it and it is the American worker that will do it again.
Thank you and God bless you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-jon-bon-jovi-labor-leaders-rally-support-governor-cuomos-fight-fair-pay-campaign
