Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Oledworks Expanding in Rochester
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 9, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced that OLEDWorks LLC, a U.S. light engine and panel manufacturing company, will expand in Rochester, investing $73.6 million and creating 100 new jobs over the next five years. OLEDWorks, which uses organic light emitting diode technology, is nearing completion of its development phase and is entering the first phase of manufacturing where it expects to manufacture significant quantities of lighting devices.
"It's fitting that OLEDWorks is choosing to stay and expand its one-of a-kind manufacturing operation in Rochester, the birthplace of this technology," Governor Cuomo said. "We are proud to support this company -- a true New York success story that is leading the way in developing this exciting new field."
OLEDWorks was formed in 2010 by David DeJoy and two principal scientists, Dr. John Hamer and Dr. Michael Boroson, who previously worked at the Eastman Kodak Company where organic light emitting diodes (OLED) were invented. The two partners kept together a talented technical team of 8 people from Kodak, and subsequently OLEDWorks received venture funding, added 17 jobs and has grown to the point where it is now in early production. All efforts to date have been successful and the company is poised for significant growth.
Empire State Development will provide up to $2.5 million in performance-based Excelsior Jobs Program tax credits in return for job creation and investment commitments. If OLEDWorks did not receive financial support from New York State, it would have been difficult for the company's management team to continue its' commitment to increase the manufacturing base in New York State.
OLEDWorks CEO David DeJoy said, "Rochester, where many of the OLED pioneers reside, is uniquely positioned for OLED lighting manufacturing. OLEDWorks is committed to investing in low cost production technology and anticipates creating new jobs as demand grows."

Source:
