Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 1199 SEIU, HTC Among 14 Additional Labor Groups to Support Enough is Enough Campaign
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 9, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 14 additional labor groups have signed on in support of the Enough is Enough campaign to combat sexual violence on college and university campuses. As of today's announcement, more than 100 groups -- including unions, advocacy groups and community organizations -- are supporting the Governor's initiative. These groups are part of the groundswell of support that is currently pushing for passage of the Governor's bill to ensure that all colleges in the state implement uniform and comprehensive policies to prevent sexual violence and support victims when it does occur.
"With just days left in the legislative session, the time is now to make New York a national leader in fighting sexual assault on college campuses," Governor Cuomo said. "New York's schools should be a model for being proactive in both combatting sexual violence and in supporting survivors, and our proposal will ensure that every college and university in the state lives up to that standard. It's time to come together and stand up for our college students -- because Enough is Enough."
The labor groups signing on to the Governor's Enough is Enough campaign today are:
1199 SEIU
Hotel Trades Council
Construction and General Building Laborers' Local 79
Greater New York Laborers & employers cooperation and education trust (GNY LECET)
IUPAT DC 4
The Mason Tenders' District Council of Greater New York PAC
Recycling & General Industrial Laborers' Local 108
New York, New Jersey Joint Board, Worker's United
New York Metropolitan Joint Board, Worker's United
Workers United Rochester Regional Joint Board
Workers United Laundry, Distribution & Food Service JB
CWA District 1
CWA Local 1180
PSC-CUNY
George Gresham, President of 1199SEIU United Healthcare Workers East, the largest union in New York and the largest healthcare union in the nation, said, "We are proud to stand with Governor Cuomo in protecting our young people on college campuses. By saying 'Enough is Enough,' the Governor is putting students first and working to ensure that New York's colleges and universities take the lead in responding to the problem of sexual assault. We join with the Governor and other leaders to urge the legislature to pass this bill before the session adjourns."
Hotel Trades Council President Peter Ward, said, "We join in support of Governor Cuomo's "Enough is Enough' campaign because the epidemic of sexual violence on college campuses needs to end. The Governor's legislation sets a uniform bar for colleges to protect their students, and it ensures that survivors will be supported when these terrible crimes happen. We strongly encourage the state legislature to pass the Governor's bill this session."
The new labor support is in addition to existing support from more than 80 statewide and local organizations including:
RWDSU
IUPAT DC 9
NYSNA
SEIU 200 United
Teamsters Local 237
TWU Local 100
HERE 150
Gemma de Leon, President, RWDSU Local 1102, said "Governor Cuomo's 'Enough is Enough' legislation is critically needed to curb the epidemic of sexual violence that we are seeing in higher education today. By establishing a uniform definition of consent and ensuring a clear path to reporting, New York State would be taking a bold action on behalf of our college students. We are proud to sign on to support this important campaign and urge the state legislature to pass 'Enough is Enough' this session.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-1199-seiu-htc-among-14-additional-labor-groups-support-enough-enough
