Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces More Than 7,500 Dangerous Drivers Kept Off New York's Roads Due to Tougher Regulations
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 8, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State has kept 7,521 dangerous drivers off the road since implementing tougher DWI regulations nearly three years ago. In September 2012, Governor Cuomo directed the Department of Motor Vehicles to implement some of the strongest protections in the nation against drivers who persistently drive under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
"We will not tolerate drivers who repeatedly put others in danger, and these numbers show beyond a doubt that our effort to keep the roads safe is working," Governor Cuomo said. "We're cracking down on the most dangerous drivers in our state -- and thanks to our tougher DWI regulations, New York's roadways are getting safer for everyone else to travel responsibly."
Since the implementation of the tougher regulations, the DMV has reviewed 8,450 applications for relicensing from individuals with three or more alcohol or drug-related driving offenses on their record. Based on the application review, the DMV denied 7,521 individuals from receiving a license either permanently or for an additional five years.
The DMV permanently denied relicensing for 3,942 individuals because they have either:
Five or more alcohol or drug-related driving convictions in their lifetime, or
Three or four alcohol or drug-related driving convictions in the last 25 years, plus at least one other serious driving offense during that period.
A serious driving offense includes a fatal crash; a driving related penal law conviction; an accumulation of 20 or more points worth of driving violations within the last 25 years, or having two or more driving convictions worth five points or higher.
The DMV also denied an additional 3,579 drivers from reinstatement for an additional five years after revocation due to three or four alcohol or drug-related convictions but no serious driving offense in the last 25 years. Once reinstated after that five-year period, these individuals will receive a problem driver A-2 restricted license. This type of license is limited to driving to or from work or medical visits, among certain other limitations, and most often requires drivers to use an ignition interlock on their vehicle for five years.
"As a state, we must continue to vigorously combat the problem of alcohol or drug impaired driving," said DMV Deputy Commissioner Terri Egan. "Our state's tougher regulations keep habitual offenders off our roads so that law-abiding citizens can safely travel across our state."
In an effort to combat impaired driving in the state, Governor Cuomo recently announced a statewide multi-media campaign utilizing billboards, radio, TV and social media to remind motorists about the deadly impacts of impaired driving. The campaign, funded by the Governor's Traffic Safety Committee, builds on the state's ongoing efforts to combat impaired driving and reduce the number of traffic fatalities.
Campaign billboards with an "Impaired Drivers Take Lives. Think' message are now appearing across the state. The Governor's Traffic Safety Committee also produced a 30-second public service announcement that will air on broadcast and cable television, as well as radio stations, statewide.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-more-7500-dangerous-drivers-kept-new-yorks-roads-due-tougher
