Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $3 Million for P-Tech in Third Round of Public-Private Partnership Funding
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 3, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $3 million in funding for the third round expansion of the nationally-recognized Pathways in Technology Early College High School program, or P-TECH. The funding will be used to support an additional seven schools across the state, making New York the global leader in P-TECH student enrollment with a total of 33 schools. With this level of support, New York is further strengthening its talent base to remain economically competitive in the international technology sector for years to come.
"By linking the skills taught in classrooms with the demands of 21st century employers, we are providing our students with the resources they need to build a successful future," Governor Cuomo said. "With this funding, we are linking colleges, universities and the private sector to create new opportunities for students and a talented workforce that will lead New York into the future."
P-TECH prepares students for highly-skilled jobs by bringing together public school districts, major employers, and institutions of higher education. High school students study under an industry-aligned curriculum, earn an associate degree at no cost to their families, and are first in line for jobs with participating companies upon graduation.
Today's funding will be awarded to partnerships through a highly competitive process in regions across the state. This round of P-TECH schools are funded as part of the 2015-16 enacted Budget and a total $21 million in awards over a 7 year period. Up to seven awards will be granted across New York State with the goal to have established at least two P-TECH schools in each region. Applications are due by July 15, 2015 and can be found here.
P-TECH links education to regional economic development needs through industry partners and creates a pipeline to higher education for underrepresented populations through participating colleges and universities. Modeled after the nationally recognized IBM partnership in New York City, which is graduating its first class of students this year, the new programs will join a robust network of partnerships in ensuring that more students in NY have the skills needed for success in the 21st century.
State Education Acting Commissioner Elizabeth Berlin said, "Thanks to the leadership of Chancellor Tisch, the Board of Regents and Governor Cuomo, P-TECH programs are becoming a true engine for change throughout New York State. These cutting-edge, collaborative, public-private partnerships are preparing students from across the State to graduate high school ready for success at the next level. P-TECH graduates with a high school diploma and an Associate's degree receive life-long career skills that will benefit them and their employers and will help strengthen New York's economy and its place in the global economy."
Stanley S. Litow, Vice President, Corporate Citizenship and Corporate Affairs & President, IBM International Foundation said, "We congratulate the Governor for his leadership in further expanding this uniquely successful model. P-TECH schools have demonstrated high achievement and it is exciting to see its further expansion across the state"
SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher said,"P-TECH is an essential component of SUNY's completion agenda, having emerged as an effective, high-impact strategy that sets high school students not only on a path to college enrollment but on a fast track to college completion. Governor Cuomo is to be commended for his continued expansion of P-TECH, which benefits New York's students as well as the education and business communities in every region."
Heather C. Briccetti, president and CEO of The Business Council of New York State, Inc. said, "The P-TECH program is one of the great educational success stories in recent years. Our members are clamoring for students who are college and career ready, especially those who are prepared to fill vital STEM positions. These innovative schools help to ensure businesses are able to find that talent locally. The students benefit from increased marketability by receiving an integrated academic and technical foundation for the challenges that await them in the 21st century economy. The Business Council looks forward to continuing our work with the New York State P-TECH Leadership Council, and ensuring that New York remains a fierce economic competitor on the national and global level."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-3-million-p-tech-third-round-public-private-partnership-funding
