Public Statements
Video, Audio & Transcript: Governor Cuomo Releases Report Detailing Property Tax Cap Success in New York
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 3, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you very much. Thank you. Well what a pleasure to be in Nyack today. It's one of my favorite places--the history, the location. A special pleasure to be here today. The weather is with us. The traffic is not with us, however, I want you to know. It was a little bit of a longer ride today but that was okay too because I got to come over the Tappan Zee Bridge at a very slow pace but I got a good view of the progress and I want to talk about that in a second. First, I want to applaud your mayor who has been doing just a great job, Mayor Jen Laird White, she is fantastic and we are glad to have her. Robin Lawson Scheuer, thank you very much, thank you for sharing your story. Jim Malatras, who is our Director of Operations and our wunderkind, he does all the hard work, let's give him a round of applause.
Tappan Zee Bridge, I love to talk about the Tappan Zee Bridge because it's not a government lesson, it's a life lesson, the Tappan Zee Bridge. Tappan Zee Bridge, I heard about since I was a little kid. I was never crazy about driving over bridges, I had a little bit of a fear thing about the bridges and the water. I would run through all the scenarios of bridge collapse. I had a disturbed childhood come to think of it. The Tappan Zee Bridge, you would hear all through the years, every governor would get elected and every governor would say the same thing, "I'm going to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge, the Tappan Zee Bridge is old, the Tappan Zee Bridge is dangerous, the Tappan Zee Bridge is falling down and we have to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge". And then you would drive over the Tappan Zee Bridge and they would have those plates.
Remember those big metal plates? And you would go over the plate and the plate would move just a little bit. And you would see the car in front of you go over the plate and the plate would do that little plate hop. And you're wondering, is that plate is going to hop to a point where it leaves a hole and are you going to go through that hole? That would be a bad thing.
Year after year, everybody said, "we're going to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge," and then the Tappan Zee Bridge was never replaced. It was the same bridge. Someone else would get elected and then would come in and say, "I'm going to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge because it's falling down." So I became governor and one of the first meetings I had, I was all excited, a new governor, change the world, this going to be great, we're going to do great things. I said, "you know what one of the things I want to do? I want to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge". And a whole long conference table with government professionals around the table and they said "oh you can say that you are going to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge". You have to be very careful to the words they used because the words are very important. I said," I didn't say I want to say I'm going to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge, I want to actually replace the Tappan Zee Bridge". They said "oh, you can't replace the Tappan Zee Bridge but you can say that you're going to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge." I said, "there it is, that's the first mistake governors make" and that's why every governor has said. I said, "First of all," I said, "I'm not going to say if I'm not going to actually do it. Let's establish that rule in life."
What I say I'm going to do I'm actually going to do, as novel as that may be in the political system in the State of New York. I said, second, why can't we just replace the bridge? They said, -- and they made a little laugh, like oh cute, naive, young governor -- thinks he can do something. They said "no, you can't really replace the bridge. The bridge goes over the Hudson. And the Hudson is a very acutely protected river and there would be lawsuits and all those Hudson River groups would sue and it would be so expensive, you could never do it. And you would have to go to Washington, army corps of engineers and all the approvals and the fish would have to vote and the fish would never vote." I said, "it can't be that the bridge is falling and we can't replace the bridge -- it's costing an absurd amount of money to keep the bridge up and meanwhile the bridge is falling. We have to be at a place where we can replace a bridge."
Look at us. Look at the State of New York, look at what we did, everything we did was building the first and the best and the Empire State Building and the World Trade Center Towers and the George Washington Bridge. That's all about us. They say you can't do it and we say yes we can. Watch us. Erie Canal: largest, greatest engineering feat ever. That's New York. How can we get to a point where we can't replace a bridge? I said we have to be able to do this. And they smiled again, that nice smile, "How cute. He's cute, like a young puppy dog governor."
To make a long story short, every day we met on how to replace that bridge they would come up with obstacles and we would overcome the obstacles. In one year from announcement of replacing the bridge we broke ground, in one year on the Tappan Zee Bridge and President Obama came out here and stood on the shore line and said, "This is an example of what this country can do when it actually put its mind to it, and you don't take no for an answer, and you don't listen to the naysayers, and you bring people together and you say, "by gosh we're going to get it done because that's who we are. We can overcome these obstacles.'"
So, that's the Tappan Zee Bridge and it's a story about a bridge. It's a story about government. It's a story about life. They tell you what you can't do, what you can't accomplish from where you're starting. You can't be a success, you can never do it, and you can never do it. You can do what you believe you can do. Don't listen to them because the little voices are what keep you down. You can do what they say, you can actually accomplish what you set your mind to.
The issue of New York and taxes is the same thing. For years, taxes in New York were going up, up and up. New York, one of the highest tax states in the nation. Everybody was saying why can't we do something about this? Why do we have to have the highest taxes in the country? Obviously everybody else figured out a different way--just New York can't figure out how to get the taxes under control.
My theory is it was a hangover New York arrogance. Why? Because for many years historically New York was the place to be--businesses wanted to be here, it had a lot of prestige, a lot of decorum and everybody wanted to be in New York. So whatever taxes you charged, whatever burdens you placed on New Yorkers they dealt with it because this is New York, this is where they wanted to be and they paid a premium for being here. That was true for many, many years. It was also true that there is a breaking point to that. When you really, really push people and you really, really raise taxes and make life difficult, they will find an alternative. It turned out that New York was not the only state in the country, there were actually other states. If you look at a map, you look to the west of New York you will see all these shapes--little squares and rectangles. They are what you call other states. They are not New York but they are habitable. People have moved there and people are living there and they are reporting back that other people can live there. We had new technology and more mobility--and we saw more and more people start to move away. How many neighbors do we know who say, "I just can't afford it anymore and I'm moving," North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, whatever.
Businesses went first because businesses were more about the bottom line they didn't have family connections, they didn't have culture, they didn't have tradition, they didn't have roots. So, businesses were the first to go and the other states for decades now have been calling our businesses in New York and say move here, no income tax in this state. We'll help move you, we'll send a truck, we'll do everything. We were hemorrhaging people and businesses. We said we have to get the taxes down and everybody said it is impossible. I said we are going to start by leading by example and first we are going to bring down the state taxes. We brought down the state taxes to record level. New York State was spending about eight, nine, ten percent more every year. Regardless of the economy--eight, nine, ten percent more every year and your taxes were going up eight, nine, ten percent more every year, state taxes. Your incomes were going up about one percent to two percent. Your home value was appreciating about two percent but the taxes were going up eight, nine, and ten. So government was literally taking a bigger and bigger piece out of your pocket every year.
And we said we have to get down New York State taxes. And they said to what percent? I said to 2 percent. They said "Oh we can never do that. If we had to do that the world would end if we had to get down to 2 percent.' We have been at 2 percent for five years in the state of New York. Not only did the world not stop spinning, the state is performing better than it has ever performed before.
So then we said okay, we have the state taxes down, but the state taxes are not actually the largest tax in the state. You would think they are, but they're not. The largest tax in the state is the property tax. About $50 billion per year is collected from property tax, only about $40 billion for the state tax. It is the property tax, it is the homeowners' tax that is the crusher. And not only are they high, they are the highest in the United States of America. Literally the highest in the country. And that became the piggy bank for government. Just raise property taxes. And property taxes have been going up in this area 6 percent every year. What goes up 6 percent? Nothing. Has your income been going up 6 percent? Has your home value been going up 6 percent? When you deposit money in the bank account does the bank say don't worry I'm going to give you 6 percent? No, only government was going up 6 percent. Why? I'll tell you why, because it's easier to say yes than to say no.
That is the technical answer why taxes go up. Because it's easier to say yes, and because people who are in politics--you know what they like to say? Yes, I agree with you. I hope you like me and I hope you vote for me. Yes, yes. The department chief comes and says "I need more personnel; I need more equipment I want to keep people safe.' Yes. I need more police force my cars are old. Yes. I need more personnel to help me. Yes. And the taxes went up and up and up. Not just in local government. In the school districts. We pay more to educate a student than any state in the United States of America. Highest property taxes, and highest cost of education in the country. That's why every other state started to look better as a location. We said, "Well, if we could hold spending down on the state side to 2 percent, so can local government.' And we passed what's called the 2 percent cap.
We passed the 2 percent cap which they have been talking about for as long as they have been talking about the Tappan Zee Bridge. I think both discussions started on the same day. They were talking about passing a property tax cap for 30 years. It could never happen. We finally passed a 2 percent property tax, and boy there was an explosion. People came up to me all across the state. "We can't do this, it's impossible, you can never, 2 percent, we now spend 6, we spend 8, we spend 9. We can't spend 2 percent." I said, "yes you can." They said, "no we can't." I said, "Yes you can, you really can. Because 2 percent is still higher than most growth of inflation. Inflation was 1.5 percent. 2 percent is higher than inflation, and you really can do it. You're going to do something you never did before; you're going to have to find efficiencies. You're going to have to find economies of scale." You're going to have to share--by the way we still have to do this more. Why does every government, neighboring government, everyone has to have their own everything? Why? Why does everybody have their own facilities garage? Share garages. "No, I want my own garage." Yeah, but if you really had to, you could share garages. You could share equipment. I'm not asking you to share a bed--share a truck. You could do that if you wanted to. "No, I'd like to have my own." Yes but that was very expensive. So we finally passed the 2 percent property tax cap.
Now, you want to know what's interesting about the 2 percent property tax cap? It's not a cap. We call it a cap because it sounds nice, cap. But it's not a cap. 2 percent property tax cap said, we really, really want you to spend 2 percent and no more than 2 percent. You can go and spend more than 2 percent, but then you need more than 50 percent passage; you need 60 percent to pass.
So the cap says you can spend whatever you want. Mayor, you want to spend 5 percent, God bless you. But, you have to pass that budget with 60 percent of the people as opposed to 50 percent of the people. So it's a slightly higher bar in terms of passing the actual budget. But 98 percent come in at the 2 percent property tax cap, 98 percent of the governments around the state. Not because they have to, but because what the 2 percent cap did was it changed the assumptions and it changed the budget. So now I have mayors come up to me or school districts and say I hate you so much. I hate you; I can't wait for you to run for re-election so I can vote against you. I say why, and they say that 2 percent is so hard, every year it's a real pain in the neck.
I say good, it should be a pain in the neck. You know why? Because every budget is a pain in the neck, every household is a pain in the neck, every kitchen table. The kids are coming to the kitchen table saying I need this, I need this, I need this, I need this and every parent is saying you can't have that, you can't have that, you can't have that. That's the nature of the beast. In government, it was too easy to say yes. You're the piggy bank. Ok, well just raise taxes, sure, yes. But, if the local electeds really wanted to go passed it they could. They just don't have the guts to go to the people in their town or city and say you know what, 98 percent of the local governments are living at 2 percent, we want to go above 2 percent, and we want to go above 2 percent.
It changed the norm in the state and it changed the behavior in the state and it is working and it is working better than anyone could have imagined. The state is now at 2 percent, the local governments are at 2 percent, the school districts are at 2 percent, and the state of New York spending is now flattened and is on a downward trajectory. And now all the other states are going up because they are going up at higher rates than New York. You continue this trajectory and it's not going to be New York State the high state anymore. The other states are going to be higher than us because their increase is higher. And we have now accepted this into our culture.
We can do this. We did it last year, the year before, and the year before. We can live with a 2 percent fiscal discipline because the government always should have been living with the fiscal discipline and we paid a high cost for the years where we were spending too much but we have now righted our path. There is no single fact that gives me more confidence in this state than the fact that we have our spending under control and we have our taxes under control because once you have that, then this state has everything already going for it.
The best schools, the best geography, the best culture, the most beautiful state. We had everything. We were just forcing people to leave the state because they couldn't afford it anymore. I've heard from all sorts of people who say I'm moving. No body every said I want to move, nobody. I want to go to this state it's better than New York. No, they said "I had to because I can't afford it anymore.' Well now you can afford it and people are going to stay and their children are going to stay and their business is going to stay. And you ain't seen nothing yet, because the future of this state is brighter than it has been in decades because we did what we had to do.
We had tough challenges, we had to go out and build that Tappan Zee and figure out how to do it, we had to get taxes under control, they said it was hard, they said we couldn't do it, but we did. Just the way we build this state in the first place. They said it couldn't be done, we said we are New Yorkers, you watch us do it. We did it and we are going to do it again.
Thank you and God bless.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-audio-transcript-governor-cuomo-releases-report-detailing-property-tax-cap-success-new
