Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces AmerisourceBergen to Open New Distribution Center in Newburgh and Create 121 Jobs
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 2, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that AmerisourceBergen, one of the largest pharmaceutical sourcing and distribution services companies, will invest $39.3 million to build a state-of-the-art distribution center in Newburgh and create 121 new jobs.
"This decision will bring jobs, private investment and a new economic energy to Newburgh and the entire region," Governor Cuomo said. "I welcome AmerisourceBergen to the Hudson Valley and will continue this administration's efforts to improve New York's business climate and help bring new companies and new jobs to this and every part of the state."
AmerisourceBergen, a global healthcare solutions leader, employs more than 16,000 people in more than 150 offices around the world. The Newburgh facility joins AmerisourceBergen's 26 other distribution centers and four specialty distribution centers in the United States.
Chuck Ball, Senior Vice President of Distribution Services at AmerisourceBergen said, "By expanding our distribution capabilities in New York State, we can better serve our customers by continuing to improve product access, increase supply chain efficiency and enhance patient care. New York has been a great partner to our existing operations in North Amityville and continues to provide true partnership in expanding our capabilities in the state."
Empire State Development provided AmerisourceBergen with up to $1 million in performance-based Excelsior Jobs Program Tax Credits, and AmerisourceBergen agreed to hire 121 new employees in the next two years and maintain those staffing levels through at least 2025. The company will be required to annually submit evidence that it satisfied all the applicable requirements.
Howard Zemsky, Commissioner, President and CEO of Empire State Development said, "AmerisourceBergen further diversifies the economy of the Mid-Hudson Valley and will help assure the region's long-term stability. With more and more companies choosing to locate in New York, Governor Cuomo's economic development programs are a continued success."
Senator Bill Larkin said, "Private investment and the creation of over one hundred new jobs is exactly what our communities so desperately need. This project will benefit not just the greater Newburgh area but the Hudson Valley as a whole. This project is a big win for our community."
Assemblyman Frank Skartados said, "An investment of this scale here in Newburgh and the addition of these jobs, gives us all reason to be excited. Certainly Newburgh is poised and ready for this to happen. The infrastructure network we have here makes us a logical choice considering Stuart Airport, the New York State Thruway, and I-84. But also AMERISOURCEBERGEN will find a strong and willing workforce and cooperative local governments to help in any way to make this work for us all."
Orange County Executive Steve Neuhaus said, "I'm glad to hear that AmerisourceBergen is coming to Orange County. It will bring much-needed jobs to residents and help our economy continue to grow. I look forward to welcoming AmerisourceBergen to the Hudson Valley and expect this venture to be a successful one."
Newburgh Town Supervisor Gil Piaquadio said, "Located at the intersection of two major interstates, the Town of Newburgh is ideal for intensive employment businesses. I wish to thank Governor Cuomo for his tireless efforts."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-amerisourcebergen-open-new-distribution-center-newburgh-and-create-121
