Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 11 More Companies Join Start-Up NY, Creating Nearly 200 Jobs Over Next Five Years
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 2, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 11 more businesses plan to expand in or locate to New York State as a result of START-UP NY. The 11 businesses announced today will invest approximately $4.4 million and have committed to create nearly 200 new jobs over the next five years in tax-free areas sponsored by SUNY Cobleskill, University at Buffalo, SUNY Downstate, Mount Saint Mary College and Ulster County Community College. These companies join the 110 companies already participating in the innovative program that creates tax-free areas associated with colleges and universities across the state.
"START-UP NY is changing the game for attracting businesses and creating jobs, and today we are continuing to see the program deliver results for New York's economy," Governor Cuomo said. "These tax-free areas are boosting local economies across the state and making it clearer than ever that New York is open for business. I am proud to welcome these latest companies to the program, and look forward to seeing them grow and hire more New Yorkers in the future."
Including the 11 companies announced today, START-UP NY now has commitments from 121 companies -- sponsored by 24 different colleges and universities statewide -- to create more than 3,340 new jobs and invest over $197 million in communities throughout the state.
"START-UP NY continues to prove that New York is the state of opportunity, and there is no better place to start or grow a business," said Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Howard Zemsky. "Today's announcement of 11 more companies joining the program demonstrates how START-UP NY is boosting the state's economy, producing new job opportunities and generating millions of dollars in investment statewide."
The businesses expanding in or locating to the Empire State under START-UP NY will create jobs in several key industries, including physical engineering and life sciences; biotechnology (including research and development); graphic design services and software publishing; and advanced manufacturing.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-11-more-companies-join-start-ny-creating-nearly-200-jobs-over-next
