Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Urges Individuals and Families to Stay Safe when Enjoying New York's Outdoors
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 29, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today highlighted safety tips for visitors taking advantage of New York's outdoor recreation opportunities this summer. New York State offers a wide variety of activities for visitors of all ages and abilities, and taking basic precautions can make for a safer and more enjoyable outdoor experience for all.
"From beautiful mountains and forests to pristine waters and hiking trails, New York is home to some of the top outdoor destinations in the world," Governor Cuomo said. "I encourage residents and visitors to enjoy our state's beautiful natural resources safely by making sure they plan and prepare for unpredictable weather conditions or emergencies. Taking a few simple steps to protect your safety is essential to enjoying the best Mother Nature has to offer, right here in the Empire State."
Each year, state Department of Environmental Conservation forest rangers respond to calls to assist people who are lost or disoriented in outdoor areas, suffering from injuries or in need of help from professionals. Over the past five years, rangers performed an average of 255 search-and-rescue missions annually throughout New York State.
These incidents included lost or disoriented hikers, medical emergencies, and searches for individuals who did not return from their trip, or failed to contact family members. To date in 2015, forest rangers have responded to 96 such incidents, including nine searches and six rescues over Memorial Day weekend.
Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Joe Martens said, "Under Governor Cuomo, New York continues to expand outdoor recreation opportunities to persons of all ages and abilities throughout New York, from fishing and paddling to hiking and camping. With the warmer weather, more people are visiting state lands, campgrounds, parks and water bodies for a wide range of exciting activities. By planning ahead of time, outdoor adventurers can help ensure a wonderful experience."
Proper planning is critical for people of all ages and skill levels, including those going on day-trip hikes, paddling excursions or backpacking, as well as multi-day adventures in wilderness areas. People who are trying an activity for the first time, or are not familiar with the area where the activity will occur, should consider hiring a guide. An experienced guide will ensure people are properly prepared, prevent them from getting lost and help make the trip safe and enjoyable.
Tips to prepare for an outdoor adventure include: developing trip itineraries; carrying appropriate equipment, including guides, maps and a compass; bring sufficient food and water; dressing in proper clothing; carrying emergency contact numbers; and preparing for access to shelter, such as tents, cabins or lean-tos.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-urges-individuals-and-families-stay-safe-when-enjoying-new-yorks-outdoors
