Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches Consumer Awareness Campaign to Further Protect Nail Salon Workers
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 29, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today launched a public awareness campaign to educate consumers about what they should expect when they visit a nail salon in New York State. New pocket cards listing the "Top Five Things to Ask When Entering Nail Salons" are being distributed statewide beginning today in conjunction with the launch of the Governor's new website and social media campaign.
"We are calling on New Yorkers to use their power as consumers to patronize nail salons who treat employees fairly, and boycott those unscrupulous businesses who profit by exploiting their workers," Governor Cuomo said. "There is an underground economy that thrives on workers who are overworked, underpaid and powerless. It's nail salons today -- but every business out there should know we are watching and we will not tolerate the mistreatment of any worker in New York State."
This massive public outreach campaign is the latest step from the Governor's multi-pronged Nail Salon Industry Enforcement Task Force. The Task Force is working to educate workers of their rights, salon owners of their responsibilities and now consumers so they can make informed decisions on how and where to spend their money. The first owner-worker education event was held last week in Manhattan.
Earlier this month, the Governor introduced new legislation and enacted emergency regulations designed to protect workers from labor and health violations.
Beginning today, new information cards will be distributed in person and online with assistance from community and business groups. The cards will offer the top five things to ask when entering nail salons:
1. Are workers paid at least the minimum wage and overtime?
2. Is appropriate protective equipment (respirator mask, gloves, eye protection) provided to workers and used?
3. Is there adequate ventilation (no strong chemical odors)?
4. Is the salon business license posted in plain view?
5. Is the Nail Salon Workers' Bill of Rights posted in plain view?
A smaller version of the Bill of Rights will be printed on the back of the card.
This rollout is being done in collaboration with several state agencies, industry groups and worker advocates to reach as many people as possible.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-launches-consumer-awareness-campaign-further-protect-nail-salon-workers
