Public Statements
Video, Audio & Transcript: Governor Cuomo Launches Consumer Awareness Campaign to Further Protect Nail Salon Workers
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 29, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you. Thank you very much. It's my pleasure to be here. I thank all of you very much for taking the time to come. First to Assemblyman Ron Kim, I want to thank you very much for his leadership on this effort and Senator Brad Hoylman who are sponsoring this piece of legislation that will make a significant difference and hopefully we get it done this legislative session which ends in just a couple of weeks -- which would really be a beautiful testament of government working well and government working in a timely basis. To Public Advocate Letitia James who has led on this issue, she's talked about this particular issue for a long period of time and the Public Advocate just gets it. She's doing a great job as the Public Advocate, she speaks for people without a voice and let's give her a round of applause for the great work that she's doing. To our Secretary of State Cesar Perales who has dedicated his life to public service and has worked on every level -- federal, state and city. He's doing great work in the not-for-profit community, the advocacy community, and once again he just sprang into action on this issue along with Alphonso David. So, I want to thank them for their good work. Let's give them a round of applause.
Now, you may say why all this fuss about nail salons. I have no great amount of personal interaction with nail salons, I want you to know. Beyond the fact that I have three daughters who do have quite extensive experience with nail salons, I've paid more than my share to nail salons over the past few years. My daughters spend a lot of time with Mani and Pedi I thought they were their friends, Mani and Pedi, they're actually not their friends. But the nail salon industry in and of itself is a problem. It's a large industry here in New York, larger in New York than any state in the country and we're talking about thousands of people who are involved in the nail salon industry. So, in and of itself, it affects many, many people and many, many lives. But, it's not just nail salons, it's a broader point and it's a bigger point and the point is government standing up and protecting workers who cannot protect themselves.
This American experiment in democracy has many nuances to it. This country hangs up a large welcome sign in the harbor that the Statue of Liberty holds that says, "Give me your poor, give me your people who are willing to work hard who don't have resources, who don't have education and that's okay. You can work your way up in this great state of New York and in this beautiful country." The caveat to that is we have a capitalistic system that can abuse workers who are vulnerable. It's nail salons today but it happens all throughout society. We have an underground economy that regularly abuses workers who don't have rights, who may have a questionable legal status and therefore they can't go to the police and they can't afford an attorney. Normally, the workers are hidden. They're in kitchens in the back of restaurants and you don't see them. They're in small factories in the outer boroughs and you don't see them. They're day workers who don't show up. They're laborers who you don't see. They're landscapers who you don't see. But it is a pervasive problem in society and these are people who are dealing with tremendous hardships. They are overworked, they are exposed to dangerous conditions, they're underpaid and they're powerless. Because they're anxious about their own legal immigration status so they're afraid to go to law enforcement and they get exploited because of that situation.
I did a lot of these cases when I was in the Attorney General's Office. One case we did in the AG's Office, we were investigating undocumented workers who worked in the back rooms, the kitchens of some of New York's best restaurants, where the front of the restaurant, the front of the house was magnificent, charging all sorts of money for meals. And in the back room they had undocumented workers who were not even getting paid the minimum wage and working under terrible conditions. So we did an undercover operation in the Attorney General's Office. And we took the prosecutors, investigators, who fit the profile of a possible undocumented worker and we sent them in to be hired and they were hired as undocumented workers. And we sent them into to work to make the case as undercovers. Do you know what happened? The undercovers quit after one or two days because they couldn't do the work. They literally, physically could not do the work that these workers were being asked to do. And we went through a number of undercovers and everyone came back and said, "We can't do it. They want us to work seven days a week, it's around the clock. It's dangerous. It's hot." I mean, imagine that. And imagine if you had no choice. You had to do it because that's how you fed your family. And there was no one to talk to, and there was no one to call because they were afraid they would ask you about your status and then you would have a worse problem.
So the nail salon workers today -- but again the nail salon workers, as a metaphor and as an example of a much deeper problem in this society that happens every day -- exploitation of workers, especially workers who may be undocumented. Now, the nail salon workers in and of themselves are a serious problem. And I am proud of the action we're taking. I am proud of the legislation that is now pending. The legislation will give the Department of State more power to police the industry. Remember this is an industry that is supposed to have a State license. These are workers who are supposed to be licensed. The legislation will have a component that says the workers can work in an apprentice program so they can continue to work while they are applying for the license. They can obtain the license at no cost to themselves. So it's not that they have to stop working to get a license, they can do both simultaneously. And it will give the Secretary of State real power to make a real difference in policing the unscrupulous businesses.
So I'm excited about the legislation and again want to thank Senator Hoylman and Assemblyman Kim and we've also been joined by Senator Adriano Espaillat who is by us and will be moving that legislation this session and I believe we're going to get that done.
Second, we're informing workers of their rights, and the Bill of Rights that you see to my left is going to be sent to every nail salon, it has to be posted in every nail salon, and it will tell workers of their rights.
And third -- and what I believe might be the most powerful -- is we're asking New Yorkers to help. And we're asking New Yorkers to get involved. And it's the story that the Secretary of State told you, which I've heard numerous times over the past few days. People coming up saying, "What can I do? That's terrible what's happening in nail salons." And New Yorkers get it. You walk into a nail salon, a person is performing the service, a personal service, and difficult service. It's in fact a courtesy, a luxury for the customer. And the last thing a New Yorker is going to tolerate is abuse to a worker, especially when they're involved in it. And people have said, "What can I do?" And our answer is very simple.
This is what you can do. You can download this card and take this card with you when you go into a nail salon and say to the owner in the nail salon, "I want to ask you five questions. First question, are the workers paid the minimum wage in this business and are they paid overtime? That's not a gift from the employer, that's the law. Are they paid minimum wage? Is the appropriate protective equipment: a respirator, mask, gloves, eye protection, provided to the workers?" Common sense, "Is there adequate ventilation; no strong chemical smells? Is the salon license posted in plain view?" It is supposed to be a licensed facility and if it is not a licensed facility then the Department of State wants to know. And number four, "Is the Nail Salon Workers' Bill of Rights posted in plain view?" Which is the document that you see here. On the back of the card it tells you what the minimum wage is supposed to be for a tipped worker, what the minimum wage if you are not a tipped worker, what overtime is, and very simple rules and regulations. Download this card, bring it with you. The power of the consumer in this situation could change this situation in a matter of days.
There are 3,300 nail salons in the State of New York. More nail salons than any other state. More nail salons than we have Starbucks, believe it or not. So many nail salons, which is good news and bad news. The bad news is it's very hard for the Department of State to quickly police 3,300 nail salons. The good news is, 3,300 nail salons, consumers have a choice. If there is a nail salon that is not licensed, that is abusing the workers, don't go to that nail salon. You have 3,299 other choices of nail salons. Walk down the block. Patronize good businessmen who treat their workers fairly and don't patronize businesses that are abusing their workers. It is that simple. It is part of what we believe in New Yorkers, it is part of the immigrant culture, it is part of doing the right thing, it is part of the community of New York that we are all part of. And it is that simple.
Download this from our website or you can get it from the website -- nail salon safety -- or NY.gov. Download the card, bring it with you. You don't need to speak with the worker; you can speak to the owner of the business. If the answer isn't yes, say, "Thank you very much," walk out the door, go down the block, and patronize another business, and you will see how fast we change these industry practices. Nobody can do it faster than the consumer can do it and no one can do it faster than the marketplace can do it. So we ask for your help, we ask you to boycott the bad businesses and boycott the companies that are exploiting their workers and you'll see how fast we can make a difference when we come together and we all work in the same direction.
I want to thank the Public Advocate. I want to thank Assemblyman Kim, Senator Hoylman, and Senator Espaillat. I want to thank all the good business owners who have been running nail salons legally and correctly and treating their workers fairly even though their profit margin was being undercut by the bad businesses that were actually extorting their workers. Because they have been doing the right thing, so to speak, at a great cost to themselves. If we can make this difference and we can make it quickly, this is going to be a powerful example. It's nail salons today, but I want every business out there to know: we're watching and we will not tolerate abuse of workers and we will not tolerate the exploitation of workers who have a questionable legal status and therefore are in a vulnerable position and therefore are vulnerable to being exploited by a worker. We will not tolerate it. It is not legal, and we will enforce the law. Thank you very much for being here today.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-audio-transcript-governor-cuomo-launches-consumer-awareness-campaign-further-protect-nail
