Public Statements
Video, Photos and Transcript: Governor Cuomo Calls on Legislature to Raise the Age and Tours Greene Correctional Facility
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 28, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Well thank you very much first to Soffiyah Elijah. I want to thank her very much for being here today and for the work she did on our Raise the Age commission which came up with a very intelligent and comprehensive product that we are trying to get passed through the legislature, so I want to thank her very much. To President Michael Powers and all the members of NYSCOPBA, the correctional officers in this state do a fantastic job under very, very difficult circumstances.
Most New Yorkers don't have experience walking through a corrections facility. If you did, you can just feel how intimidating and frightening it is. Correction officers are always outnumbered and they are truly in a dangerous situation and they put themselves and their life in harm's way to protect New Yorkers and they are in many ways the unsung heroes of our corrections system. So I want to thank them and I want to thank President Powers very much for his good work and his good words, and also all the members of NYSCOPBA.
Alphonso David, who you heard from, is our Counsel and has been doing great work on Raise the Age and on a number of other projects. We also have with us Superintendent Brandon Smith of this facility and Commissioner Anthony Annucci who runs the entire corrections system in the state of New York, which is probably one of the toughest commissioner positions we have. That is why he gets the big bucks. Tony Annucci, I always tell him and he always tells me I'm wrong, but he is doing a great job none the less.
When it comes to the corrections system in New York it is truly a system in transition and it is a system where we are continually learning and the challenge is in many ways continually changing. You look at the corrections system over the past 25 years; it has gone through a number of different manifestations. The challenges go up and down with the demographics. Challenges go up and down with the crime rate obviously. Challenges go up and down with the drug situation and the drug of choice.
I remember during the crack epidemic where it just appeared and the problems in the prisons sky-rocketed. The president mentioned my father, I remember during my father's tenure you had a big demographic wave, you had crack-cocaine and the number of people who were sentenced to prison sky-rocketed. The growth in the prison population sky-rocketed and the growth in building prisons sky-rocketed. The number of prison cells my father constructed, I believe, was more than any governor in the history of the state, because that was the need at the time.
In many ways we have mixed currents right now. The population in our prisons is actually coming down. That is a good thing. We do not want people in prison, that is never a good thing. So the population is coming down. Why? Demographically, the wave of younger people who are more inclined to commit crimes -- as we heard from Soffiyah about the impulse mentality. That number is coming down demographically.
Number two, you have the Rockefeller drug law reforms that have gone into place, which had a dramatic difference and made a dramatic change on the corrections system. Frankly, it was more dramatic than I think we anticipated. You went from 24,000 people who were convicted under the Rockefeller Drug Laws down to 6,000. 18,000 people left the system. Those 18,000 people tended to be nonviolent drug offenders. When you took out the 18,000 nonviolent drug offenders, that made the remaining population, by definition, more violent and more difficult because you were taking out the inmates who were less violent.
So now, when you're dealing with the prison that has a population of 500, they are a different 500 than they were five or ten years ago before the Rockefeller Drug Law reforms.
So we are seeing a number of different and in some ways, contradictory patterns. We see the prison population coming down and we see the number of assaults on correction officers going up. How can that be if the population is coming down?
I think, a theory is, that the Rockefeller Drug Law changed the characteristics. As President Powers mentioned, you have synthetic marijuana that is very hard to detect, that is a very powerful drug, that is very difficult to keep out of a prison in terms of contraband control, and has a dramatic effect on the inmates, which makes them hostile, and it makes them very hard to control. So with a more violent population and an outburst increase in synthetic marijuana coming into the prison system, you put these two things together, that is TNT.
You see the number of assaults on correction officers increasing. What are we doing about it? The Department of Corrections has come up with some new, creative alternatives. There are new smart teams that the Department has put in place that I think are very helpful. There is more with technology, more with camera surveillance, a better job on contraband interdiction, a better job on visitors coming into the facility.
And the one thing that always works, in my opinion, is increase the staffing -- more correction officers. That's why this year we increased the number of corrections officers in New York by 100. I'm proud of that because I'm sure that more staffing is going to make a difference. But it is an evolving situation. We have more work to do and it's one of the reasons I'm here, to find out first-hand, from the real experts and people who are on the ground, to find out what's going on, how can we help and what should we be doing? And I appreciate and thank the correction officers who took time to be with me today and to Mr. Smith and to Commissioner Annucci for taking the time to give me this tour.
We have a second, different, but related problem, which is the issue of 16- and 17-year olds in the criminal justice system. As you heard from Alphonso David, two states in the nation treat 16- and 17-year olds as adults -- North Carolina and the State of New York. That is something that needs to be changed.
16- and 17- year olds going into a state facility that has older, violent criminals is not a good mix. Taking a 16- and 17- year old who is just beginning his or her life and putting them in a prison situation where we do the best we can to provide services, but this is not going to be a positive experience and they are not going to be associating with positive people.
In my opinion, it is too early to condemn a 16-year old to a life without redemption. So, we propose a law called Raise the Age that would take 16- and 17- year olds who are non-violent, treat them in family court, and get them to a different type of facility while they are still young enough to learn a different way and a different path and get them the skills and the education and give them a second chance to make something of yourself.
Why? Because it's the right thing to do by them on a human level. Investing in people is what we believe in as a society. Why do we pay for public education? Because we believe it's in society's interest to invest in you and to give you an education so you're a productive member of society. That's why we pay for education. So if you have a 16- or 17- year old who made a mistake, or made a bad choice, or a bad act, try to give them a skill in education so you can actually improve their lives.
Secondly, let's say I reject your argument as to morality. Try selfishness. Do you really want to pay for a prison cell for 16-year old for the rest of their lives? Do you really want to pay $40,000 to $50,000 per year for fifty years to incarcerate that young person?
On a human cost level, on an economic cost level, it makes sense to do the rehabilitation and that's what raise the age is all about.
Now the Senate and the Assembly are debating the bill. Surprise, surprise. I'm asking them to reach a compromise position. I'm asking them to reach a compromise position this session because I think it would be a shame and a tremendous lost opportunity for them to leave this session knowing that they're leaving 16- and 17- year-olds in state facilities where they not only are receiving the services they need and the help they need, but they are also being subjected to a much more violent population than they've ever been subjected to before.
We saw some 16- and 17-year olds who look like children. Now, I'm not unrealistic and I'm not delusional and I understand 16- and 17- year-olds can do bad things, as bad as a 30- or 40-year-old. But I also know these are really young people who in many ways can be preyed upon in a situation like this. And that is not right. And that is not what we are about. Not in the state of New York.
And that's something that has to be remedied immediately. So even if the Senate and Assembly can't agree on everything, they must agree to get the 16- and 17-year-olds out of state facilities and into discrete facilities where they are getting the services they need, the care they need and they are among their own peers as opposed to being with much hardened criminals. And those are two of the issues we're going to be working on.
Again I thank the Commissioner, I thank Mr. Smith, I thank President Powers for their time. Correction officers who spent time talking to us, and the inmates who spent time talking to us. Any other questions or comments on this matter, it'd be my pleasure.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-and-transcript-governor-cuomo-calls-legislature-raise-age-and-tours-greene
