Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $1.34 Million in Funding for Kinship Caregiver Programs
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 27, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State has awarded $1.34 million to 13 programs to provide Kinship Caregiver services, an important permanency option for children in foster care and others who cannot safely live with their parents. The funding will be administered by the New York State Office of Children and Family Services.
"All children deserve a safe and secure place to live, and today we are taking a major step forward in giving them a place to call home," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding will provide caregivers with the tools to build a brighter future for thousands of New York children and place them on a path towards growth and success."
Kinship care is a living arrangement in which children who cannot safely live with their parents live full-time with a relative or close non-relative. Research shows that children who reside with relatives achieve better outcomes than those in non-relative foster care.
The funding was awarded through a competitive Request for Proposals process. Programs will provide an array of services to kinship caregivers, including crisis intervention, family assessments, linkage to community resources, parenting education and training, support groups, and trauma screenings.
Sheila J. Poole, Acting Commissioner of OCFS said, "Every child needs a loving, nurturing, safe place to call home. By funding these programs, we are helping to connect grandparents, aunts, uncles, and other relatives to the resources they need to provide that environment."
From 2006 through 2010, there were 131,108 grandparents and 87,405 non-grandparent caregivers raising relative children in New York, according to the American Community Survey. It is estimated that one quarter of children in foster care statewide are in a formal kinship placement.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-134-million-funding-kinship-caregiver-programs
