Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Latest Round of Rail Inspections
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 27, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced completion of another round of targeted crude oil tank car and rail inspections. These inspections uncovered 85 defects -- including four critical safety defects that required immediate corrective action. The inspections are part of the Governor's push to protect New Yorkers from the potential dangers associated with the transport of crude oil by freight rail companies. State and federal teams examined 487 crude oil tank cars and approximately 213 miles of track in these inspections.
"We must continue to hold crude oil transport to the highest possible standard, and we will continue to conduct these inspections to keep New Yorkers safe," Governor Cuomo said. "Far too many times we have seen the consequences of accidents involving oil trains across the country. Here in New York, we will maintain a tough inspection regime and work with our federal partners to ensure that crude oil in this state is transported safely."
Last week, inspection teams from the New York State Department of Transportation and the Federal Railroad Administration carried out crude oil tanker inspections at the CSX Corporation-owned Selkirk Yard in the below counties. The inspections focused on track, track hardware and tank car mechanical safety equipment, including wheels and brakes. The teams also performed hazardous materials inspections to ensure that equipment is in line with regulations, including valves, valve closures, and placards that describe the cargo being shipped. They also checked tank car inspection and pressure test dates.
Additionally, they inspected the Canadian Pacific mainline track between Whitehall, Washington County, and Burnt Hills, Albany County, and Clarendon & Pittsford Railroad Co track at the Whitehall yard, Washington County.
Critical defects identify important maintenance issues that must be addressed immediately, but do not necessarily indicate safety lapses. Non-critical rail defects must be repaired within 30 days, while all tank car defects must be fixed before the train departs the yard. If that is not possible, the affected car will be pulled from the train to await repair.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "It is absolutely vital that the cars and rails used to carry dangerous materials across New York State every day are kept in safe, working condition. We are committed to continuing to work with Governor Cuomo and the Federal Railroad Administration to make it safer to live, work and travel along our rail corridors."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-latest-round-rail-inspections
