Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $30 Million for Summer Youth Employment
Press Release
By: Hakeem Jeffries Andrew Cuomo Nita Lowey Elise Stefanik
Date: May 26, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $30 million in funding for the Summer Youth Employment program which supports communities across the state in creating summer jobs for youth from low-income families. With this funding, approximately 18,000 young New Yorkers will gain new skills this summer, resulting in improved academic performance and increasing future job prospects.
"Landing that first summer job has a positive effect on young people that spans well into adulthood," Governor Cuomo said. "By funding these positions we are giving businesses the summer help they need, as well as creating the opportunity for youth to both earn a paycheck and learn valuable skills that will last a lifetime. I encourage those interested to contact their local social services office and find out what opportunities are available."
To be eligible, young people must be ages 14 to 20 and have a family income below 200 percent of the federal poverty level (or $39,850 for a family of three). Employers can use the funds to subsidize wages, support education and training activities, as well as offer counseling and employment-related services, such as transportation to and from work. Young people interested in participating can contact their local department of social services.
An additional $20 million annually is available to businesses in tax credits through the Urban Youth Jobs Program. The program, formerly called New York Youth Works, encourages businesses to hire unemployed, disadvantaged young people who are age 16 to 24, and who live in Albany, Buffalo, New York City, Rochester, Schenectady, Syracuse, Mount Vernon, New Rochelle, Utica, White Plains, Yonkers and the towns of Brookhaven and Hempstead. Since 2012, the program has connected more than 18,000 at-risk young people to jobs with more than 2,000 New York businesses across the 13 target areas in New York State. The $20 million is available annually through 2018. For more information, visit: www.labor.ny.gov/youthjobs.

Source:
