Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $13.3 Million to Fight Gun Violence Across New York State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 26, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that law enforcement agencies in 17 counties participating in the state's Gun Involved Violence Elimination initiative will receive $13.3 million to target gun violence and save lives. Now entering its second year, the initiative requires the use of proven strategies to reduce shootings and firearm-related homicides in communities served by 20 police departments in those counties.
"This administration has worked tirelessly to combat gun violence in New York and prevent the needless tragedy that comes with it," Governor Cuomo said. "Through the GIVE initiative, we are giving law enforcement agencies more resources necessary to fight gun violence in our streets in order to save lives and make communities across this state safer."
GIVE funding targets communities served by the Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo, Hempstead, Jamestown, Kingston, Middletown, Mount Vernon, Nassau County, Newburgh, Niagara Falls, Poughkeepsie, Rochester, Schenectady, Spring Valley, Suffolk County, Syracuse, Troy, Utica and Yonkers police departments. District attorneys' offices, probation departments and sheriffs' offices in the 17 counties, which report 87 percent of the violent crime outside of New York City, also receive funding through the initiative.
New York State created GIVE a year ago, revamping a decade-old program that provided funding to the same agencies and counties to foster the use of data analysis, intelligence and partnerships to fight crime. Under GIVE, participating agencies must build upon that framework and implement evidence-based strategies proven to reduce gun violence. Administered by the state Division of Criminal Justice Services, the initiative also provides agencies with extensive training from national experts to help them effectively implement those strategies.
Michael C. Green, executive deputy commissioner of the Division of Criminal Justice Services, said, "New York State stands alone in our commitment to funding evidence-based efforts to combat gun violence and our corresponding commitment to providing comprehensive, hands-on training from nationally recognized experts. Funding is critical, but it is equally important to provide agencies with information and resources so they can implement proven strategies as intended. We remain committed to working with our GIVE partners to help save lives and look forward to providing additional training as we move ahead with the second year of GIVE."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-133-million-fight-gun-violence-across-new-york-state
