Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Inaugural Summer Season at Canalside in Buffalo
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 22, 2015
Location: Buffalo, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the grand opening of the summer season at the newly-filled Canals at Canalside. This year features virtually limitless opportunities to experience authentic outdoor culture and entertainment that only Western New York could offer. Every day and night of the summer starting this Memorial Day Weekend, visitors to Canalside will form lasting memories while enjoying food, music and exciting outdoor activities including paddle boats, paddle board yoga and bike rentals.
"Buffalo's waterfront has undergone a fundamental transformation, and today stands as a symbol of Western New York's comeback," Governor Cuomo said. "By offering a new way to experience downtown Buffalo, Canalside is boosting tourism and attracting private investment -- presenting itself as the ideal spot for people of all ages and yet another reason to be proud of the Queen City."
Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul kicked off the inaugural summer season at Canalside with a ribbon-cutting ceremony this morning. The $20 million project -- a priority under Governor Cuomo's leadership -- includes a comprehensive renovation of the canals, construction of three bridges and 22,000 square feet of towpaths surrounding the canals to reinforce the pedestrian experience and allow for future development as Canalside grows.
"At the beginning of the last century, Buffalo was known as the City of Light. Today we are declaring here at the opening of the Canals at Canalside that Buffalo is now the City of Fun," said Lieutenant Governor Hochul. "Canalside itself attracts more than 1 million visitors each year, and through the availability of new recreational opportunities, downtown Buffalo is prime to become an entertainment haven for all to enjoy. Without the leadership of Governor Cuomo and his commitment to our city's revitalization, none of this would be possible, and we are incredibly grateful for the commitment and follow through that has occurred over the last five years of his administration."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-inaugural-summer-season-canalside-buffalo-0
