Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Welcomes Visitors to New York State Park Campgrounds for Summer 2015
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 21, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today welcomed vacationers, alongside warmer weather and the upcoming Memorial Day Weekend, to explore the many campgrounds owned by New York State. To kick off the beginning of the season, there is a camping discount at 31 State Parks valid from May 26 to June 25, available online or over the phone.
"New York has some of the most beautiful outdoor destinations in the world, and with the unofficial start of the summer season, there is no better time to enjoy them," Governor Cuomo said. "From the Thousand Islands to the Hudson Valley to Western New York there is much to see and I encourage New Yorkers and visitors alike to discover all this state has to offer."
The special offer includes $5 per night off regular rates from May 26- June 25, 2015 for campers making reservations using the promo code EARLYCAMP15. Campers can choose from tranquil tent sites tucked amid the woods to boat-access only waterfront locations and many scenic campgrounds conveniently located near day-use parks, trails, historic sites, golf courses and other family-friendly destinations offering adventure and relaxation.
To take advantage of the deal, bookings can be made online at http://newyorkstateparks.reserveamerica.com/ or over the phone at 800.456.CAMP. Camping reservations are available through ReserveAmerica, which provides online and phone reservations for state-operated campsites in New York. Cabins, cottages, yurts and previous reservations are excluded.
Rose Harvey, Commissioner of the Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation (State Parks), said, "Camping at a State Park is an ideal and affordable way to experience the great outdoors with friends and family. Along with opportunities for swimming, hiking, fishing and boating, there are good reasons for everyone to visit -- and even stay overnight -- at one of New York's exceptional State Parks."

Source:
