Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Holiday Weekend Road and Bridge Construction Suspension
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 21, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that road and bridge construction projects on New York State highways will be suspended from 6 a.m. on Friday, May 22, to 6 a.m. on Tuesday, May 26, in order to accommodate travelers during the busy Memorial Day holiday weekend. Some work may continue behind permanent concrete barriers or for emergency repairs.
"Memorial Day weekend is one of the busiest travel periods of the year, so starting Friday the state will be temporarily halting most major construction projects in order to make things easier for travelers," Governor Cuomo said. "By suspending the majority of construction work through Monday, we will help to ease congestion and reduce traffic delays as much as possible. I encourage all drivers to be safe, keep your eyes on the road and enjoy the holiday."
The construction suspension is in keeping with Governor Cuomo's Drivers First program, which prioritizes the convenience of motorists to minimize traffic congestion and travel delays due to road and bridge work.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "Once again we are strictly limiting construction activities so that the many New Yorkers who are heading out to visit family, friends or any of the great tourist destinations New York State has to offer will not be inconvenienced by road work along the way."
New York State Thruway Authority Acting Executive Director Robert Megna said, "As millions of motorists take to the roads this holiday weekend, we are joining the New York State Department of Transportation in making travel to New York's world-class destinations more enjoyable by suspending construction along the Thruway. Safety and convenience of motorists is paramount, and this measure will help to ensure both are achieved."
AAA predicts that of the more than 37 million people traveling more than 50 miles from home this weekend, an estimated 33 million of them will be traveling by car. This Memorial Day weekend is expected to have the highest travel volume of the past ten years.
Travelers are reminded to check 511NY by calling 511 or by accessing www.511ny.org before departing. The free service allows users to check road conditions or link to air and transit information.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-holiday-weekend-road-and-bridge-construction-suspension
