Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Land Acquisition to Protect Lake George Water Quality
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 20, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the state acquisition of the Berry Pond Preserve in Warren County, which was attained to protect water quality in Lake George and its tributaries. New York State purchased the 1,436-acre property from the Lake George Land Conservancy with $1.7 million from the Environmental Protection Fund.
"By purchasing this land, the State is stepping up to protect the health and vitality of Lake George and the surrounding communities," Governor Cuomo said. "The Berry Pond Preserve is an integral part of both the local ecosystem and the region's economy, and we will ensure that it remains pollutant-free and accessible for families and visitors alike to enjoy for years to come."
The Berry Pond Preserve lies within the Warren County towns of Lake George, Lake Luzerne and Warrensburg, and includes the headwaters of West Brook, a major tributary to the southern basin of Lake George. Because water quality in this part of Lake George is closely tied to the health of West Brook, purchasing the tract will help to protect these waters. The property will be added to the State Forest Preserve and the state will pay full local property and school taxes on the newly acquired land.
The Lake George Land Conservancy purchased the preserve in January 2008 as an integral part of the West Brook Conservation Initiative, which is designed to dramatically reduce sediments and pollutants that currently run freely into West Brook and, subsequently, into Lake George near the "Million Dollar" Beach. It is a coordinated effort by Warren County, the Village of Lake George, New York State, the Lake George Land Conservancy, the Fund for Lake George and the Lake George Association.
Senator Betty Little said, "Tens of thousands of visitors will soon descend on Lake George to marvel at its amazing beauty during the very busy summer season. Protecting this incredible asset is good for the environment and for the economy. This acquisition will help ensure a watershed critically important to the health of the lake is protected for generations to come."

Source:
