Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches Public Education Campaign to Ensure Rights of Nail Salon Workers are Protected
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 20, 2015
Location: New York City, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the launch of a public education and outreach campaign that is designed to better protect nail salon workers from abuse and health risks. In partnership with community organizations and local officials, members of the Governor's administration are holding multiple information sessions across the state that will help workers in the nail salon industry understand their rights and ensure that business owners live up to their responsibilities and obligations under the law. At the first such session, which was held today in New York City, participants received copies of a Workers' Bill of Rights, fact sheets for employees which detailed how to obtain a license and information on career services; and fact sheets for employers which detailed how to start a nail salon, information on new regulations governing salons and information on how businesses can come into compliance with the law.
"By launching this campaign, we are spreading the word throughout the nail salon industry that workers' rights must be respected," Governor Cuomo said. "We will not tolerate business owners that exploit their employees or create unsafe working conditions, and I encourage anyone with knowledge of these kind of abuses to contact our Task Force Hotline. Together, we will ensure that all nail salon employees are treated fairly."
This targeted campaign provides both workers and nail salon owners with information about the law, workers' rights and licensing information. Officials from the state Departments of Labor, Health, State, Taxation and Finance, the Office for New Americans and the Workers Compensation Board are available on site to discuss relevant laws, regulations and services with the event's attendees. Today's information session in Manhattan was translated into Spanish, Chinese and Korean, and additional sessions in multiple languages will be announced across the state in the coming days.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-launches-public-education-campaign-ensure-rights-nail-salon-workers-are
