Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Incentives and Low Cost Power to Help Western New York Companies Create 157 Jobs
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 19, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the New York Power Authority (NYPA) Board of Trustees has approved allocations of low-cost hydropower to three Western New York companies. The trustees also approved Western New York Power Proceeds awards for three other firms in the region. Together, they will support nearly $100 million in capital investments and 363 jobs--including 157 new positions.
"With this low cost power, these companies have committed to creating new jobs in Western New York, as well as making millions in capital investments," Governor Cuomo said. "These commitments are yet more good news for a region that is truly on the move."
The hydropower will be drawn from NYPA's Niagara Power Plant and allocated to Just Greens in Lackawanna, North American Hoganas in Niagara Falls, both in Niagara County, and Cummins in Lakewood, Chautauqua County. North American Hoganas currently benefits from prior hydropower allocations.
In addition, the trustees approved funding under the Western New York Power Proceeds initiative to We Care Transportation and Buffalo Niagara Enterprise, two Buffalo firms, and Cambria Asphalt Products in Cambria, Niagara County.
John R. Koelmel, NYPA chairman, said, "The NYPA hydropower programs in Western New York account for one-third of the Niagara plant's generating output and are a cornerstone in the region's economy. These low-cost hydropower allocations and these proceeds funding awards act as impactful assets for businesses seeking to lower their costs."
The latest allocations, totaling 2,940 kilowatts (kW), come from NYPA's Expansion Power program for Western New York businesses that commit to creating new jobs from expansion projects. The allocations are to be provided over seven-year contracts.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-incentives-and-low-cost-power-help-western-new-york-companies-create
