Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Major Mortgage Companies Agree to Measures to Combat Vacant Abandoned "Zombie Properties"
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 18, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced today that 11 banks, mortgage companies, and credit unions representing nearly 70 percent of the New York market will adopt a set of best practices to help combat the neighborhood blight and economic damage caused by vacant and abandoned "zombie properties" in New York State. Under these best practices, the banks and mortgage companies will regularly inspect properties that fall into delinquency to determine if they are vacant and abandoned, and make sure that those properties are safe and properly maintained, among other measures. The banks and mortgage companies will also report properties determined to be vacant and abandoned to a state registry to be developed by the New York State Department of Financial Services, which will share that information with local government officials. The Department will work with those local officials to address and escalate any concerns about maintenance with the bank or mortgage company that is servicing the loan.
"Zombie properties can bring down the economic health and safety of entire neighborhoods -- but by working together we are taking steps to help strengthen and repair local communities," said Governor Cuomo. "We commend these companies for working with us to address this problem. This action is a win-win that will benefit communities and mortgage owners across the state, and should serve as a model for protecting neighborhoods from the dangers of vacant and abandoned properties in the future."
Benjamin M. Lawsky, Superintendent of Financial Services, said: "The wave of zombie properties that arose in the wake of the financial crisis harms local communities and threatens the long-term health of the mortgage market. These common sense actions are an immediate and vital part of repairing that damage as we continue to pursue additional legislative reforms. We will work closely with local officials, mortgage companies, and other stakeholders to continue addressing the vital problem of zombie properties."
"Today's agreements are a welcome step forward in our fight to stop the epidemic of vacant "zombie homes,' which have burdened our communities with maintenance costs, lowered property values, and crime," said Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman. "I will continue to work with my colleagues in government across the State to pass our Abandoned Property Neighborhood Relief Act, a legislative solution that will codify today's reforms into law, provide meaningful enforcement, and give municipalities the resources to take back their streets. I applaud Superintendent Lawsky for moving the ball forward on this crucial issue."

Source:
