Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Marks Opening of 2015 Canal Season and 100th Anniversary of Waterford Flight of Locks
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 15, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the opening of the 191st consecutive season of the New York State Canal system, as well as the centennial of the Canal's Waterford Flight of Locks, which opened 100 years ago today on May 15, 1915.
A celebration was held in Waterford today to recognize the centennial milestone of the Locks, an engineering marvel that set the stage for the eventual completion of the New York State Barge Canal, the current Canal system, in 1918. The flight, which replaced the 16 locks originally needed to raise boats from the Hudson River to the level of the Mohawk River above the Cohoes Falls, also helped to bring the Erie Canal and Upstate New York into a new century of economic prosperity and progress. With a 170-foot-elevation change, the Waterford Flight represents the highest vertical lift of any interconnected series of locks in its length -- just 1.5 miles -- and is twice the 85-foot total lift of the Panama Canal.
"The Erie Canal is a storied part of New York State's rich history, and the Waterford Flight of Locks is truly an engineering marvel," Governor Cuomo said. "This administration has sought to honor the canal's past and ensure it remains an important economic engine with new investments, including upgrades that make it more resilient to severe weather and by creating pathways for residents and visitors to enjoy. I encourage all New Yorkers to see for themselves what makes the Erie Canal so special to this state."
New York State Thruway Authority Chair Joanne M. Mahoney said, "We are thrilled to celebrate the opening of the 2015 canal season in Waterford this year. The New York State Canal system, recently honored and recognized on both the National and State Historic Registers, continues to attract millions of visitors from New York State and beyond. The canal has and continues to remain an integral component for New York State's recreational and economic success."

Source:
