Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Groundbreaking of Year-Round Nature Center at Letchworth State Park
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 14, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced New York State today broke ground on a $6.75 million, four-season Nature Center at Letchworth State Park in Castile, NY as part of the Governor's NY Parks 2020 Plan. The sustainable destination facility will feature new educational and interpretive programming to the 650,000 people that visit Letchworth each year. The additional programs, technology and recreational activities will enhance visitors' understanding of the unique history, geology and environment found at the flagship park.
"I've always said New York is home to the best state parks in the country and -- in Letchworth's case -- that's been made official. Today, we are doubling down on that honor with this new Nature Center," Governor Cuomo said. "With the addition of this modern facility, even more visitors will get to experience the essence of Letchworth and local communities will benefit as more visitors explore the park and its surroundings."
Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul said, "As someone who spent my childhood on many family trips at Letchworth State Park, I know that the Nature Center will enhance this park's already stellar national reputation. The Nature Center will provide another destination attraction for tourists to come and discover Western New York. As the number one state park in the country according to USA TODAY readers, this latest investment is just another example of how Governor Cuomo's NY Parks 2020 plan is modernizing our state park system in the 21st century."
The Americans with Disabilities Act-compliant Nature Center will span 5,000 square feet and will be the central point for new interpretive programming offered in the park. It will include: meeting and classroom space; interactive exhibits designed to lead visitors out to engage with the park; a butterfly garden; and will connect to multi-use trails. The Center will also serve as a valuable resource for expanded research with internship, volunteer and partnership opportunities.
The center's groundbreaking is the result of more than five years of planning and a successful public/private partnership spearheaded by the Letchworth Nature Center Campaign Committee in partnership with representatives of the Genesee Regional Parks Commission, the Open Space Institute's Alliance for New York State Parks and the Natural Heritage Trust. The fundraising campaign is ongoing and aims to raise $2.1 million in private funds to enhance and endow the facility. Private donations are being matched approximately 2 to 1 by public funds, with $1.75 million raised to date. The Letchworth Nature Center is expected to open in spring 2016.
Rose Harvey, Commissioner of the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation (State Parks) said, "Today marks an incredibly important day for this special park. Letchworth has always attracted millions of visitors to experience its beauty, but thanks to Governor Cuomo's NY Parks 2020 Plan and our indefatigable partners in the Letchworth Nature Center Campaign Committee, the introduction of this center will even further enhance Letchworth's standing as one of New York's greatest tourism and recreational destinations."
Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, New York State is making a historic commitment to improving and expanding access to outdoor recreation. The Governor's NY Parks 2020 program is a multi-year commitment to leverage $900 million in private and public funding for State Parks from 2011 to 2020. The Governor's 2015-16 Executive Budget allocates $110 million toward this initiative.
The $6.75 million cost of the project includes $1 million for an endowment to ensure the ongoing operation of the facility. The State's share includes funding from Governor Cuomo's NY Parks 2020 Plan, along with grants secured from the Finger Lakes regional Economic Development Council in 2013 and 2014.
In March 2015, Letchworth State Park and the State University of New York at Geneseo announced the formation of a formal partnership aimed at providing greater hands-on educational experiences and research opportunities at the new Letchworth Nature Center. As part of the 5-year cooperative agreement, the college will help develop and identify educational opportunities, research, environmental restoration, and preservation projects, programming, and exhibits at the new center. Students will benefit from the inclusion of state-of-the-art classroom space, a butterfly and biosphere garden, and specialized exhibitry detailing the rich natural diversity of the park.
Peter Humphrey, Chair of the Capital Campaign Committee and the Genesee Regional Park Recreation and Historic Preservation Commission, said, "On behalf of my family, I am proud to be a leader in the effort to support the construction of the Nature Center at Letchworth State Park, which I am certain will become not only a focal point in our beloved park, but a leading destination in western New York and beyond for environmental education and interpretation of this remarkable natural resource. Today is a momentous day in the storied history of this park, and I am honored to be a part of the powerful public-private partnership to bring the Nature Center to fruition."
Erik Kulleseid, executive director of the Open Space Institute's Alliance for New York State Parks program, a sponsor of the Nature Center project, said, "Thank you to Governor Cuomo, Commissioner Harvey and Campaign Committee Chair Peter Humphrey for leading the way toward a world-class Nature Center for this world-class park. OSI is proud to be a leading member of this collaborative, community-supported, public--private partnership. I am confident that the new Letchworth Nature Center, its educational offerings and interpretive exhibits will heighten the public's enjoyment and appreciation for this spectacular park."
Allen Payne, the Executive Director of the Natural Heritage Trust and member of the planning committee, said, "The Natural Heritage Trust has been very pleased to be a partner in seeing this project to reality, as it fits perfectly with our mission of supporting New York State's abundant natural, recreational and cultural resources. In addition to looking forward to this state-of-the-art Nature Center adding to Letchworth State Park's many wonderful offerings, I expect this very successful collaborative process to now serve as a model for bring private resources to support other NY Parks 2020 projects around the state."
Carol Long, Interim President of SUNY Geneseo, said, "SUNY Geneseo is delighted to be a partner in the new Letchworth Park Nature Center, and students and faculty are eager to learn and work with the community in this beautiful facility. Groundbreaking is the next big step in this exciting educational project, and we're honored to be part of it!"
Carol Rathbun, President of the Friends of Letchworth State Park, said, "I am thrilled that the Nature Center has finally become a reality. It is exciting as an educator to have a place where students will be able to experience nature at its finest with a lot of 'hands on' visual experiences. As a member of the 'Friends' group who have been involved with raising funds for the Butterfly Garden, this is really wonderful to see this project finally beginning."
Letchworth State Park, winner of the 2015 USA TODAY Readers' Choice Award for Best State Park in the United States, is known for its spectacular views, impressive geological formation and 66 miles of hiking trails that traverse the 14,350 acres that make up the park. The park is largely defined by the 17 miles of the Genesee River that tumble over three major waterfalls and gorge cliffs. Letchworth has proven to be a popular destination for day-trippers and vacationers alike, welcoming more than 650,000 visitors each year. The park offers a wide variety of education and recreation programming including guided walks, tours, a summer lecture series, whitewater rafting, kayaking, a swimming pool, and hot air ballooning. Winter activities include snow tubing, cross-country skiing, and snowmobiling.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-groundbreaking-year-round-nature-center-letchworth-state-park
