Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Grant Opportunities For Counties in the Northern Border Region
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 13, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the availability of federal grants intended to alleviate economic distress and create jobs within New York's Northern Border region through the Northern Border Regional Commission (NBRC). The NBRC is a regional economic development partnership among federal, state, and local governments. Local governments and not-for-profit organizations in New York's northern border counties of Clinton, Franklin, Fulton, Jefferson, Lewis, Oneida, Oswego, St. Lawrence, Cayuga, Essex, Hamilton, Herkimer, Madison and Seneca, are eligible to apply for up to $250,000 in federal funds. New York State is expected to receive up to $1 million through the program this year.
"With this funding, we are taking another step forward to create jobs and spur economic growth in Upstate," Governor Cuomo said. "These grants will help local governments and non-profits revitalize the communities that they serve, and I encourage all eligible groups to apply for them today."
The Department of State Division of Local Government Services works with the NBRC and regional planning organizations to solicit project applications for funding. Last year, New York State received close to $1 million in federal aid to be distributed through competitive grants. Municipalities and not-for-profits are encouraged to apply for up to $250,000 in the federal funds, not to exceed 80% of the total project cost.
New York Secretary of State Cesar A. Perales said, "Over the past four years the Department of State has had success working with our partners in the North Country to fund projects that are positively impacting local communities and the regional economy. This year we will continue to cultivate opportunities that strengthen the northern border region through this local, state and federal funding partnership."


Source:
