Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Introduces Parental Choice in Education Act
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 12, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today introduced the Parental Choice in Education Act, which will support and protect alternative school options for parents and students across New York State. The Act provides for $150 million in education tax credits annually that will provide:
Tax credits to low-income families who send their children to nonpublic schools,
Scholarships to low- and middle-income students to attend either a public school outside of their district or a nonpublic school,
Incentives to public schools for enhanced educational programming (like after school programs); and,
Tax credits to public school teachers for the purchase of supplies.
The Governor was joined at an event today in Hempstead by Cardinal Timothy Dolan, Rabbi Dovid Kupchik, County Executive Ed Mangano, and numerous parents, students and other elected officials to call on the legislature to pass the Act this session.
"Education is the greatest gift that a parent can give to their children -- and it is also one of the most personal decisions that a parent can make. That's why we need to support parental choice in education," Governor Cuomo said. "By rewarding donations that support public schools, providing tax credits for teachers when they purchase classroom supplies out of pocket, and easing the financial burden on families who send their children to independent, parochial or out-of-district public schools, we can make a fundamental difference in the lives of students, families and educators across the state. The legislature must pass this Act this year, because families deserve a choice when it comes to their child's education."
Cardinal Timothy Dolan said, "This is not just a Catholic issue -- it is an issue for every parochial, private or nonpublic school that is devoted to the success of their students. Our students are our greatest treasure and the Parental Choice in Education Act is all about supporting them no matter where they go to school. We need the legislature to stand with us on this issue, just as Governor Cuomo has, in order to ensure that it becomes law and we can support all schools this year."
Rabbi Dovid Kupchick, Judaic Studies Principal at the Hebrew Academy of Five Towns and Rockaway, said, "I am proud to be joining Governor Cuomo in full support of the Parental Choice in Education Act. This proposal would mean a badly needed boost in support for parochial schools in New York -- schools that provide one-of-a-kind and enriching educational opportunities to young students across our state. The Governor is right to stand up for parents and students on this issue, and I am calling on the state legislature to join us by passing it into law this year."
Nassau County Executive Edward P. Mangano stated, "Every child deserves a quality education. Across Nassau County today there are private, parochial, charter and nonpublic schools that open doors for our children, with educators that are going above and beyond for the students. The Governor's Parental Choice in Education Act will provide much needed fairness and relief to thousands of families that send their children to these schools. I urge the state Senate and Assembly to pass this Act before the end of the legislative session."
400,000 students, or approximately 15 percent of all students in New York State attend nonpublic schools, providing an important educational alternative in virtually every corner of New York State -- and especially so in communities where the existing public schools are failing. There are currently 178 failing public schools in New York State -- many of which have been failing for ten years or more.
Despite their importance as alternative options for parents and students in failing districts, many parochial schools in New York State are experiencing financial hardship, and parents can face steep costs to enroll their children in such schools. Statewide, more than 75 parochial schools have closed in just the last five years, and average tuition can reach as high as $8,500 per student annually.
Therefore, the Parental Choice in Education Act will support important alternatives for parents across the state -- especially important for low-income families and families living in overcrowded or failing districts.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-introduces-parental-choice-education-act
