Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Events to Commemorate 50th Anniversary of the Empire State Plaza
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 11, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a number of events and exhibits to be held commemorating the 50th anniversary of the June 21, 1965 cornerstone laying at the Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza. An exhibit at the New York State Museum, a September festival on the Plaza itself, and a series of talks on topics associated with the construction of Albany's iconic skyline will take place.
"Fifty years after Governor Rockefeller laid its cornerstone, the Empire State Plaza stands as a place where government and community converge," Governor Cuomo said. "The Plaza offers a number of unique opportunities for visitors to learn more about our state's history and culture, and I encourage New Yorkers and visitors alike to attend one of the many anniversary events taking place this summer and fall."
The commemoration will include a look at the politics that set the project in motion, the tradespeople who built it and its distinctive architectural style. Additionally, the events will examine the engineering characteristics that keep the Plaza running, the unrivaled public art collection that is housed within it, and its evolution to today's hub of state operations and community-based events. More information can be found here.
"In the last 50 years, generations of families have played a part in the history of this space. While the neighborhoods that were lost to build the Plaza can never be replaced, 50 years later the Plaza has become a part of the community shared by all," said New York State Office of General Services Commissioner RoAnn Destito. "From the tradespeople who constructed it and continue to maintain it, to state employees who spent their careers in its hallways, to those who come to the concerts, get engaged to be married on the ice rink, run in the road races that start here, ride the carousel at the State Museum, enjoy the fireworks on July 4, and join their neighbors each Thanksgiving Day to deliver meals, the Empire State Plaza is more than a government complex; it is part of their everyday life and family memories."
"This June is the 50th anniversary of the laying of the cornerstone for the Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza," said New York State Museum Director Mark Schaming. "In cooperation with the New York State Office of General Services, the State Museum will open TheEmpire State Plaza at 50 exhibition on June 21. The State Museum and the Board of Regents are dedicated to educating museum visitors about New York's history. This exhibition explores the Empire State Plaza's history and how Albany became the public space where New York State government, culture, and community converge."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-events-commemorate-50th-anniversary-empire-state-plaza
