Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces House of Representatives Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi Joins Enough is Enough Campaign
Press Release
By: Nancy Pelosi Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 11, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that House of Representatives Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi is joining the Enough is Enough campaign to combat sexual assault on college campuses. House Democratic Leader Pelosi's support reflects the pressure that is building across the country to end this epidemic and highlights the leadership role New York is taking in this fight. The wide-ranging, statewide campaign is pushing for passage of the Governor's legislation requiring all colleges and universities in New York to implement uniform sexual assault prevention and response protocols. Once law, this policy will solidify New York's role as a national leader in the fight against on-campus sexual violence and better protect the state's 1.2 million college students. Governor Cuomo and House Democratic Leader Pelosi today were joined by Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul, Fashion Institute of Technology President Dr. Joyce Brown, and Jessica Accardi, a junior at FIT who serves as both a leader in FIT's student government and a resident assistant on campus.
"Sexual assault and rape have reached epidemic proportions in society today, and we must do more to end this violence, especially on college campuses where it is all too prevalent," Governor Cuomo said. "Whether an assault occurs at a public university or a private college, it is a crime and should be treated as such, and the legislature must pass our proposal to make that a reality. New York can lead the way on this issue and set the standard for the nation, so that all students are protected and supported, and we must do it this year -- because enough is enough."
"Too many women are sexually assaulted while in college and our country is facing an all-hands-on-deck epidemic," said House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. "My home state of California was the first to proudly adopt 'yes-means-yes' legislation, and Governor Cuomo's proposal takes an even stronger step for New York with bold action to help protect all college students from sexual assault. I was proud to join Governor Cuomo and Lieutenant Governor Hochul to say: enough is enough."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-house-representatives-democratic-leader-nancy-pelosi-joins-enough
