Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Delivers Remarks at the New York State Electoral College
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 19, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is available below.
Before I ask for a motion to adjourn, please allow me a personal point of privilege. Many of the people in this room have long-standing personal relationships with President William Jefferson Clinton and Madame Secretary Hillary Clinton. My relationship began in 1992, when I went down to work on the transition committee for the incoming president, William Jefferson Clinton and Vice President Al Gore. 1992, it was just like yesterday. I was leaving New York because I was going to go out and see the rest of the world. I was going to rid myself of standing behind my father's shadow. I worked in the transition and President was gracious enough to offer me a position at Housing and Urban Development. I was a 100 percent a New Yorker, with the New York style and the New York rhythm and the New York cadence. I started going around the country and the New York style and cadence was slightly out of rhythm with other parts of the country. Sort of like My Cousin Vinny came to HUD. And the President took me aside one day and he was explaining to me how, "you know, sometimes you want to just slow down. It's more about just hospitality and just chatting with people. It's not always about function." And he said, "You know you should go down to Arkansas," which we want to get some things done." He said, "You should go down and you should visit with those people." And I said okay. Now I had never heard that term before, "visit with those people.' I said to him, "Mr. President, what do I do when I visit with those people?" He said, "Nothing. You just visit." I said, "Well what does that mean, "visit.' What is the purpose of the visit? What am I there to accomplish?" He said, "You're not there to accomplish anything. You just visit, you just chat, and you just talk." I said, "But for what purpose. What do I want to get accomplished with the visit?"
I don't think I ever fully internalized the process of visiting, but the President was always kind, always generous and I know that many people in this room feel the same thing and the president taught an entire generation of elected officials what it means to be a professional and effective elected official. He showed that government mattered and he showed this nation that government mattered. He showed us all that change is hard and the good fight is a fight and when you go to change things, the status quo will fight back and your job, if you believe in the change in the reform, is to carry through. He taught us that cooperation is always better than conflict and that bringing people together is always the goal. Public service is about accomplishing things that make people's lives better. It's not about the process, it's not about the politics. It's about what you get done for the people you serve. President William Jefferson Clinton's record is unmatched. 22 million new jobs, lowest unemployment rate in 30 years, highest home-ownership rate in history, sweeping gun legislation, lowest poverty rate in 20 years.
Likewise, Secretary Clinton has been a great friend to this state and has done tremendous good for this nation and for this state. What she did as Senator after 9/11, helping us get $20 million to rebuild New York, the way she stood up to the gun industry, supported child health, the way she worked as Secretary of State to lead to the capture of Osama Bin Laden. She is a role model for women all across the country and all across the globe. I know she is for my daughters and an entire generation of young women. Mr. President, your philosophy is possibly more important today than ever before. Your philosophy that the spirit of community, acceptance and love is always the path forward. As Secretary Clinton said, there is much more work to do my friend and everyone in this room and everyone in this state will join you in the next chapter of your work. We're honored to call you a friend and we're honored that you call New York home. Thank you William Jefferson Clinton.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-delivers-remarks-new-york-state-electoral-college
