Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Job Summits to Support Re-Entry Professionals That Assist Formerly Incarcerated Individuals as They Rejoin Their Communities
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 8, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced three "job summits" that support professionals that specialize in aiding the transition and re-entry of formerly incarcerated individuals back into their communities. The first summit, held today in New York City, was attended by approximately 70 professionals from organizations that provide a variety of re-entry services, including job training, placement and skill development.
"These summits are connecting re-entry professionals with the resources and support they need to help formerly incarcerated individuals find employment and become productive members of their community," Governor Cuomo said. "By improving the re-entry process, we are fundamentally reforming our criminal justice system and laying the groundwork for a safer and stronger New York."
The summits are a joint initiative of three state agencies: the Division of Criminal Justice Services, the Department of Corrections and Community Supervision, and the Department of Labor. New York State's 19 County Re-entry Task Forces receive approximately $3 million in state funding to support re-entry services which are designed to coordinate and manage services for formerly incarcerated individuals upon return to their communities.
Alphonso David, Counsel to the Governor, said, "Gainful employment is essential for formerly incarcerated individuals to effectively transition from state prison to become productive members of their communities. Further, research shows that reducing recidivism has a direct impact on making communities safer. These job summits will provide professionals with assistance and resources to achieve those equally important goals. In addition, Governor Cuomo's Council on Community Re-entry and Reintegration is working diligently to review the state's laws and regulations and examine how to remove barriers for individuals seeking employment."

Source:
