Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Instructs State Labor Department to Convene Wage Board to Investigate and Make Recommendations on Raising Minimum Wage For Fast Food Workers
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 7, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today instructed Acting State Labor Commissioner Mario J. Musolino to empanel a Wage Board that will investigate and make recommendations on an increase in the minimum wage in the fast food industry. The Wage Board will take approximately three months to examine the issue and make recommendations regarding a possible increase. Those recommendations are expected by July, and do not require legislative approval in order to become enacted.
Under New York State law, a Wage Board can suggest changes to the minimum wage in a specific industry or job classification if it finds that wages are insufficient to provide for the life and health of workers within that industry or classification. Despite being a well-established and thriving multi-billion dollar industry, the fast food sector employs tens of thousands of minimum wage workers in New York State -- the vast majority of which are women, primary breadwinners for their households, and recipients of welfare or other forms of public assistance.
"If you work full time, you should be able to provide for yourself and your family and move beyond poverty. That is what the minimum wage is all about, but for too many fast food workers in New York today that is simply not the case," Governor Cuomo said. "The minimum wage must be a wage that allows for a decent living -- not one that condemns hard-working people to an endless cycle of poverty and government assistance -- and that is why I am taking this action. We must fulfill the promise of honor and justice for fast food workers in New York, and I urge the Wage Board to stand up for what is right and help us move forward."
To read Governor Cuomo's full op-ed announcing his instructions to Acting Labor Commissioner Musolino, please click here.
"This is a day of hope and inspiration for underpaid Americans, not just in New York but across the nation," said Mary Kay Henry, International President of the Service Employees International Union (SEIU). "Fast food cooks and cashiers who are fighting for $15 and the freedom to form a union have shown that when working people stick together, our voices are heard. Working moms and dads are fed up with big corporations like McDonald's making big profits and paying poverty wages that slow down our economy. Governor Cuomo's leadership will open the way to raise their wage floor to $15, re-balance our economy, and strengthen communities."
"Today, Governor Cuomo and New York State are leading the way and offering hope and a path forward for the close to 200,000 fast food workers in New York, along with the millions of others in our country making too little for too long," said Hector Figueroa, President of 32BJ SEIU. "$15 and a union would lift thousands of moms and dads out of poverty, inject hard-earned dollars into communities across the state and build momentum in the fight for fair wages for airport workers and other low-wage workers. Raising the wage for fast food workers is good for communities, good for the economy, and good for New York. We applaud Governor Cuomo for taking this important step forward."
"This is an historic opportunity for fast-food workers," said Flavia Cabral, a 53-year-old McDonald's worker and mother of two from the Bronx who hopes one day to send her kids and grandkids to college. "No one in New York can survive on $8.75 an hour, so we've been on strike nine times. All we've ever asked for is a fair shot at the middle class and a chance to provide for our families. Today, Governor Cuomo heard us-- and soon, I know we're going to get to $15. I am inspired today, because $15 an hour would completely change my family's life."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-instructs-state-labor-department-convene-wage-board-investigate-and-make
