Public Statements
Video & Transcript: Governor Cuomo Instructs Department of Labor to Convene Wage Board to Investigate and Make Recommendations on Raising Minimum Wage For Fast Food Workers
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 7, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you. Thank you very much. First, first to Flavia Cabral. Let's give her a round of applause and thank her for her leadership. All the great labor leaders you heard from today -- Mary Kay Henry who is a national force for justice. Let's give her a round of applause. To Hector Figueroa, we thank him for his leadership. Let's give him a round of applause. And for my courageous colleagues who are here today from government, starting with Comptroller Scott Stringer; Chris Shelton from CWA; Carolyn Maloney; Congressman José Serrano; Congressman Jerry Nadler; State Senators Dan Squadron and Adriano Espaillat. Let's give them a round of applause.
And do we have any members of labor in the crowd today? I'm sorry I can't hear you. I can't. No, because if 32BJ was in the house, you'd hear 32BJ. If 1199 was in the house, you'd hear 1199. If HTC was in the house, you'd hear HTC.
My friends, we gather today at a very, very important time. Not just in this state, but in this nation that is going through a transformation. And you feel it on every level. You look at what's happening internationally with international affairs and the increase in terrorism and it seems like the planet is spinning faster than ever on its axis. You look at what's happening in the environment where yesterday's extremes are today's new normal. And you see it on what's happening in the economy where you have a permanent underclass that can't get up that ladder; that feels that the promise of opportunity for all has been forsaken; who can't live with what they're getting paid. It's polarizing society. It's corporate greed at its worst. It's a minimum wage that doesn't work. It has to stop and it has to stop right here. And it will in the state of New York.
Now, some people call it "income inequality." And we've been talking about it for years. Unfortunately, we've made very little progress. But it's not really income inequality. Because we've always had income inequality. And we always will have income inequality. We never said in this country, "it should be equal incomes." It's not. But, but words matter. And what we're really talking about is a state of affairs that has our economy commonly dealing with wage fraud from companies that don't want to pay a minimum wage. It's about employee extortion. It's about corporate irresponsibility. It's about the misappropriation of taxpayer funds. It's a fundamental violation of the promise of America. It is unethical. And it should be illegal what's going on.
This country passed a minimum wage law in 1938. It was passed -- the champion was named Franklin Delano Roosevelt, a great president. And what FDR said was that if you work full time, you should be able to provide for yourself and your family and you should be able to move beyond poverty. That's what the minimum wage law was all about. FDR said, FDR said, and I quote, "by living wages, I mean more than a fair subsistence; I mean the wages of a decent living." That's what the minimum wage law is all about.
Now I am proud that we raised the minimum wage laws in New York two years ago. And we have been working very hard to raise the minimum wage again this year. I have been joined by my colleagues in the State Assembly and I want to thank them for their support. But the Republican Senate in New York has refused to raise the minimum wage and my friends, they are wrong.
The fact that the minimum wage law is too low is not a question of politics and it is not a question of ideology; it is a question of simple math. You cannot support a family in New York for $18,000 per year. Period. The numbers just don't add up. The average cost of housing is $11,000. The average cost of food is $9,000. The average cost of clothing and expenses is $6,000. $18,000 doesn't cover it. We have to raise the minimum wage law to fulfill the promise of the law when it was created. A safe, clean, decent way to live with honor and dignity beyond poverty, and that is what today is all about.
Now there is no more obvious and obnoxious display of this injustice than in the fast food industry. Fast food workers are not kids. Over 70 percent of them are primary wage earners for their families. Fast food workers are proof that the minimum wage is unlivable because they are not living on the minimum wage. Over half the families qualify for public assistance to make ends meet and need food stamps to make ends meet, and that is how they are living. And that happens more in the fast food industry than any other industry in this country.
So think about what we have really been doing. The taxpayers of this nation have been subsidizing the workers at McDonald's and Burger King at a cost of over $7 billion annually and that's just wrong. Here in the state of New York, we pay more than any state in the nation to subsidize welfare. We pay an average of $6,800 per worker -- per worker - through public assistance. It costs this state $700 million a year to subsidize the profits at McDonald's and Burger King and that is wrong and that must stop. It is not like government subsidizing small businesses or mom-and-pop businesses. This year McDonalds made $4.67 billion and Burger King made $291 million, they don't deserve subsidies from the taxpayers of New York State.
It's not like the CEOs are struggling. They made an average of about $24 million over the past few years, and it is not like these corporations are even trying to be fair, they don't even pretend over the past few years they quadrupled the CEOs salary and the minimum wage worker went up less than one half of one percent. It is outrageous.
So I announce today as the Governor of the State of New York, that I want to get out of the hamburger business. I don't want the taxpayers of New York subsidizing the profits of McDonald's anymore and this has to end. I think the fast food industry should live up to the spirit of the law and pay a minimum wage that is truly a minimum wage and a livable wage. I think their situation is a fraud. I think their profits are based on unpaid wages and unpaid employee expenses and costs that have been improperly transferred to government. If the Republican Senate doesn't want to hear it, then I will use the power I have and I call on the Department of Labor to assemble a Wage Board to study this issue, determine what is fair and raise the minimum wage for fast food workers to a livable wage and stop subsidizing McDonald's and Burger King with the hard-earned tax dollars of New Yorkers.
And I say to you, and I say to you today -- let this great State of New York lead the way in redefining the issue of income inequality and reestablishing a true minimum wage. Let New York lead the way in ending the ongoing wage fraud and ending the gross corporate welfare and ending the improper use of tax dollars. My friends, New York leads by not talking about it, by doing it. We start today. I want that Wage Board finished in three months and have real progress to show. We'll do that by setting a true minimum wage and then we're going to challenge every state in the nation to follow the lead of New York and do what's right and do what's fair. New York will lead.
New York will lead just like we led on marriage equality and gay marriage and ending discrimination and the way we led on gun control and the way we led on protecting the environment, we're going to lead the way on raising the minimum wage and fulfilling the promise of honor and justice for workers in New York.
New York is still the progressive capital of this nation and because we are right and because FDR was right when he said, and I quote, "No business which depends for existence on paying less than living wages to its workers has any right to continue in this country."
They don't. They don't. It violates the promise of this county. It violates the ethics of this state. It violates the morality of the people of this state. It's a theft of the tax dollars of the people of this state. It's going on too long. It stops, it stops here. It stops now. And we will win. We will win. We will win. We will win. We will win. We will win. We will win. We will win.
Thank you and God bless you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-transcript-governor-cuomo-instructs-department-labor-convene-wage-board-investigate-and
