Public Statements
Video & Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces Private Colleges and Universities Across the State Join Enough is Enough Campaign to Combat Sexual Assault on College Campuses
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 6, 2015
Location: Unknown

"Thank you very much. It's my pleasure to be back in Syracuse Onondaga County. Let me first thank first Meaghan Greeley, not just for her kind words and her beautiful introduction, but for her courage and taking a negative situation in your personal life and turning it into a positive for others because that's what you did. Congratulations to you, Megan. To Chancellor Syverud congratulations again on taking office here, I'm very excited about your new chancellor I think he is going to be great for the university. I think he's going to be great for the city, I think he is going to be great for the county; I think he's going to be great for the region. We had the opportunity to share a lunch in Albany and talk about the Regional Economic Development Council which the chancellor serves a co-chairperson of and he had ideas and I wisdom about Regional Economic Development that just was very exciting. Frankly I wasn't expecting, I didn't know that chancellors were also regional economic development experts but when you are Chancellor Syverud you are. So, I listened intently but he very much understood exactly what we were trying to do. This university is a tremendous asset to do just that and you have a chancellor who really has tremendous experience, wisdom and energy in this area so congratulations to Syracuse, congratulations to the region--now let's give the chancellor a round of applause.
"I also want to applaud the chancellor and this university for their leadership on this issue. This is a difficult issue. It is an issue that people don't like to talk about. It's an issue that people don't like to even validate that the issue exists. So this is one of those issues where leadership really counts and that is exactly what the chancellor has shown--so let's give him another round of applause. To your County Executive Joanie Mahoney she's doing a great job running the county, she also wears several hats for the state--she's on the power authority, just became chairperson of the thruway authority which is very important because it runs the thruway. So what I do now because I am on the thruway all day long is I take little notes of every pot hole that I pass and I compile them at the end of the week and I send a little email to Joanie that says, "right past exit 23, left lane" you may want to do the same think I know she would appreciate it. Wise cracks too, you want to make sure you note the wise cracks--just get them to Joanie because Joanie is responsible. Not me, its Joanie if there's a pot hole. That's why she's the chairman; let's give her a round of applause.
"We are now in the second half of the legislative session in Albany. They are basically two components--the first half of the session is about getting the budget done the finances of the state and the operating plan of the state that has to be done April 1st. In the past it was never done on April 1st. For many, many years it was always late the budget; it was one month late, two months late it was a joke frankly at one point. We've had five budgets, we've gotten them done the way we were supposed to get them done. So we got the budget done on April 1st. Now the second half of legislation is about passing laws. What type of laws--different types of laws criminal laws, laws regulating businesses all sorts of environmental laws, we have a very full plate.
"The laws that tend to capture my interest most and tend to be the most impactful on people are the laws that seek to right a societal wrong. Or the laws that go to justice or the laws that go to fight in justice and the laws that go to speak towards the way society behaves and defines our relationship one to the other as a community. Those are the laws that capture my attention intellectually and the laws that actually can make a difference in real people's lives. The impact of those laws captures my attention and that's what this law is all about.
"It is very simple. It first starts with the very powerful premise. The premise happens to be admission. The admission is that in this society today, even in this great progressive state we still discriminate against women and that there are double standards in society. Often it is one society for men and one society for women. Now that is a very stark and when you think about it--damning premise. How can that be?
"After all these years with a home to women's suffrage. How can the governor of the state get up and say we get up against women? Because we do, because we do. It's not always intentional, it's not always purposeful, but it's always the same result. You look at the numbers, women earn on average $11,000 less per year than men in the similar position. $500,000 less over their lifetime, 32 times less likely to become a CEO, a woman than a man, five more times more likely to be sexually harassed or a victim of domestic violence, more than twice as likely to be a victim of lending discrimination or housing discrimination, twice as likely to be a single parent, twice as likely to be poor. Just by birth and gender. So we do discriminate against women, that's why we've been working very hard over these past few years in something called the Women's Equality Act, which is just that. It's a bill of rights for women to achieve full equality. This issue is an extension of that inequality and an extension of that discrimination.
"We have a crisis on college campuses of rapes and sexual violence against young women. The numbers are all across the lot but they are all staggering, some estimates, one out of five women who goes to college will be raped or seriously sexually assaulted. I mean just imagine that. What's worse than the crime in some ways is the cover up, is the way we handle it, and is our lack of admission. Why? Because we don't want to admit these kinds of issues. It's why I'm so proud of what you've done here at Syracuse, only 5% of the committed rapes on campuses are reported, 5%. Of the perpetrators who are found guilty of sexual assault, found guilty, only 10% are expelled permanently from the school, how can that be, How can that be? How can the number of incidents be so high and how can the resolution, the number of reports is so low and the statistics on the resolutions be so low? Because nobody wants to talk about it, we've never admitted it, and the instinct of the organizations is to cover it up and make it go away.
"So, what does this law say, the Enough is Enough law? It says enough is enough. What a funny name, Enough is Enough. Yes, it's a funny name, who came up with that funny name? I came up with that funny name. Why? We had a discussion in a big conference room and they had all sorts of name for the laws, violence, sexual predator and act cause everything has to have seven words and be an acronym. I said the name of this law should be Enough is Enough. They said you can't name a law Enough is Enough. I said no, I can I'm the governor; I can say enough is enough. I said because it's that simple, it's not that complicated, it doesn't take a lot of words. This is about justice and fairness. The law says number one, when a women complains that she has been sexually abused, she is a victim, and she has rights, and at that moment she has to be informed of her rights, and informed of the resources and informed of the experts who can help her.
"The law says, number two, she has the right and must be informed that she has the right to go to the police. Well that's obvious; no, it's not so obvious. Right now, the majority of the cases are handled by whom? Campus security, campus security. And the orientation of the campus security, the orientation of the campus administration is make this go away, make this go away, we don't want to be in the newspaper the next day, student rape on so and so campus, so make it go away. And they talk to the women and then they talk to the man whoever else is involved and whoever else is involved and they come back and say there's two sides to the story, he says this; he says you had a few drinks, he says you had a reputation, he says and now the women is on the defensive. And the women starts to get a sense that this is going to be messy and this is going to be hard, and the witnesses said this, or they will turn it over to a panel of professors, and the professors will investigate.
"Most of the women walk away, that's why only 5% of rapes reported, rapes, not sexual attacks, rapes reported. And to the extent they can, they come up with an amicable resolution. That's why only 10% are expelled, because they don't really take it to the conclusion where you can expel a student because of it, so our law says, the person has a right to go to the police. And local police, county police, town police, state police, we'll have a special number, special trained group that handle just these cases because the women has nothing to be ashamed about, because the women was the victim and the person who did it committed a crime, didn't just do a bad thing, didn't just violate campus policy and the motto of the school. It is a crime to abuse or assault someone and it should be treated as a crime and the women should be supported and not attacked and not questioned and not assailed.
"And that's why the most, to me, impactful piece of the law says, let her go to the police, handle it as the crime it is. It will also bring down the recidivism because when you let a person get away with it once do you know what happens? They do it again, they do it again, and they do it again. The third part of the law is a universal state wide standard on what's called affirmative consent. Affirmative consent means that both people had to say yes. You have to say yes to a sexual encounter, it's that simple. And you have to affirmatively say yes. You have to be there and it has to be consensual. And you can't have one definition for Syracuse and one definition for Rochester and one definition in New York City, one state wide definition of what consent is and what affirmative consent is. Also, the bill says for students, who are witnesses; they can get amnesty if they are witnesses and they were in a situation that they shouldn't be in. What often happens is, there a party on campus, there's alcohol which violated the campus rules, the students who are witnesses don't want to cooperate because they don't want to admit they were in the party and drinking alcohol and then have their own issue. So they would get amnesty so we have the students come forward to actually cooperate with the police. That's what the law says. And it is common sense, it is inarguable, and it is right, and its fair, and sometimes you don't need a calculator to figure out if this is the right this to do, you need this, you need this.
"We treat women differently, we've made great progress, but we have more to do. There is too much sexual violence, too much assault, and too many people are getting away with it on college campuses and it has to stop and it has to stop now. It is not right, it's not who we are, it's not what we teach our children, it's not what we believe as a community, there not the values of the people of New York, and were going to write this wrong because enough is enough. We're going to pass this law and I need you to help, I need you to call your assembly person, call your senator and say you have a lot to do, pass this law because enough is enough. Thank you and God bless you."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-transcript-governor-cuomo-announces-private-colleges-and-universities-across-state-join
