Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 85 Businesses Will Offer More Than 5,000 Jobs at the Bronx Career Expo
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 6, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced today that the Bronx Career Expo, offered by the New York State Department of Labor, will be held tomorrow, May 7, at Hostos Community College. The 2015 Career Expo will build on the success of last year's event, with 85 businesses on hand offering more than 5,000 positions. The Career Expo is part of the Governor's Unemployment Strikeforce Initiative, which coordinates support at all levels of government and engages in on-the-ground outreach to target unemployment in the areas of the state where it is highest.
"New York's economy has made significant progress since the recession -- but we are not at our best until everyone is benefitting from that success," Governor Cuomo said. "The Bronx Career Expo seeks to link dozens of local companies with thousands of open jobs with those who need them. I encourage anyone seeking employment in the area to come and learn more about the opportunities available to them."
The Bronx Career Expo will be held from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. at Hostos Community College's East Academic Complex, Building C. Preregistration is encouraged, as space is limited. To register for the event, please visit www.labor.ny.gov/BronxExpo.
The Governor's Unemployment Strikeforce began work in the Bronx in May 2014 and has contributed to a significant drop in the unemployment rate. In March 2014, the Bronx unemployment rate stood at 11 percent. As of March 2015, the unemployment rate in the Bronx had dropped 2.1 points to 8.9 percent, the lowest since March 2008, and the number of employed people in the Bronx -- 559,100 -- was the highest for any month on record.
Acting Labor Commissioner Mario J. Musolino said, "The New York State Department of Labor is proud to lead Governor Cuomo's Unemployment Strikeforce and to offer this Career Expo and other events like it around the state. The Department will continue to work with our partners in the public and private sectors to ensure that everyone in our state who wants a job has one."

Source:
