Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces State Resources Deployed to Fight Fire in Sullivan and Ulster Counties
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 5, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced New York State has deployed resources, including state firefighters and equipment, like helicopters, to fight a wildland fire underway in Sullivan and Ulster counties that has already burned approximately 2,284 acres and is 75 percent contained. In addition, Governor Cuomo activated the Fire Operations Center at the NYS Emergency Operations Center, which is coordinating fire department resource requests. The Center has bolstered State and local responders with additional firefighting forces from other counties.
"We have deployed emergency personnel to help local firefighters, and all have been working tirelessly to contain these wildfires," Governor Cuomo said. "The safety of New Yorkers living in the path of these fires remains our top priority and we are urging all those in the area to stay informed, be aware of current dangers, and remain cautious when outdoors."
Numerous state assets from the Division of Homeland Security, Department of Environmental Conservation, State Police, Department of Transportation and the Division of Military and Naval Affairs are helping local firefighting efforts, with additional fire department assistance from Greene, Schoharie, Delaware and Broome counties.
New York also requested the assistance of a "Fire Boss" air tanker plane from Canada that can scoop and carry 800 gallons of water while flying and then drop the water on the fire. The specialized fire suppression plane is expected to arrive and begin operations early this afternoon.
Out of an abundance of caution, first responders evacuated approximately 30 homes Monday in the Hamlet of Cragsmoor, along Route 52 in Ulster County. A reception center has been established at the Walker Valley Fire Department for those that have been evacuated from their homes as flames have spread from Sullivan County into Ulster County. These evacuees are now able to return to their homes, although additional evacuations may be required later today.
Conditions are favorable for additional brush fires throughout New York State and red flag warnings are expected from the National Weather Service later in the week. A Red Flag Warning indicates that fire weather conditions are either occurring now, or will shortly, and is declared when a combination of strong winds, very low relative humidity and warm temperatures create volatile fire growth potential.
Open burning of debris is the largest single cause of spring wildfires in the state. When temperatures are warmer and grasses and leaves dry out, wildfires can start and spread easily and be further fueled by winds and the lack of green vegetation.
Any fires that develop will likely spread rapidly. To view an updated map of fire danger ratings in New York, visit, http://www.dec.ny.gov/lands/68329.html.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-state-resources-deployed-fight-fire-sullivan-and-ulster-counties
