Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Honors 27 Fallen Officers from Across New York State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 5, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today honored 27 fallen law enforcement officers from agencies across New York State, including officers who died last year from injuries sustained in the line of duty, officers who died from Ground Zero-related illnesses, and historical deaths.
The names of the 27 officers honored today have been inscribed on the Police Officers' Memorial located on the Empire State Plaza in Albany. They join 1,360 others represented on the memorial from 141 police agencies across the state and five federal law enforcement agencies.
"These officers paid the ultimate sacrifice in service to their communities and their state," Governor Cuomo said. "Each personified bravery and selflessness, putting the safety of their communities before their own lives. Today, we honor their memories and their service, which will live on through this memorial and in the hearts of all who knew them and were helped by them."
Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul honored the fallen heroes at a remembrance ceremony held at the memorial today, where she joined more than 400 guests, including local, state and federal law enforcement professionals, elected officials, and family members, colleagues and friends of the officers.
The names of fallen officers are placed randomly and without rank on the memorial's walls to signify that every officer's sacrifice is the same. This concept was suggested by Colleen Dillon Bergman, the daughter of Trooper Emerson J. Dillon, Jr., who was killed in the line of duty in 1974 after more than 16 years of service. Following her father's death, Ms. Bergman wrote a letter to the Police Officers' Memorial Advisory Committee, which oversees the memorial, writing, "It doesn't matter from which department they came, the feeling of loss is experienced the same." That sentence is now etched on the memorial's nameplate, which was dedicated in 1991.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-honors-27-fallen-officers-across-new-york-state
