Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Major Investment from Tom Golisano Allows Bak USA to Create 167 Additional New Jobs in Buffalo
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 4, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Bak USA, a START-UP NY participant, will accelerate sales and production related to its expansion in Western New York. A new, multi-million dollar investment spearheaded by former Buffalo Sabres owners Thomas Golisano will enable Bak USA to expand its job creation in the region, with an estimated 167 new jobs being created and an additional 100 previously planned jobs being created ahead of schedule. Bak USA, which is one of the first American firms to produce its own-branded electronic tablets, is located at Compass East and covers 10,000 square feet of space on the top floor of the former site of Sheehan Memorial Hospital at 425 Michigan Avenue.
"With this acceleration by Bak USA, we are continuing to see that Western New York's economy is on the move," Governor Cuomo said. "This investment by Tom Golisano will allow Bak USA to expand its production further and faster than expected -- and it goes to show that the private sector is taking notice of Buffalo's resurgence. I am proud of the progress that has been made thus far, and I look forward to seeing it continue to unfold in the days to come."
Thomas Golisano, founder of Paychex Inc. and former owner of the Buffalo Sabres, said, "I'm pleased to make a substantial investment in Bak USA. This investment will help Bak increase their workforce to 100 within the next year and up to 267 within the coming years. The tablets will also help combat illiteracy and unequal access to educational materials worldwide. I'm excited to be a part of this team and I look forward to helping them grow. Having these tablets produced in Buffalo is yet another sign that American workers can compete with anyone in the world."
Ulla Bak, President of Bak USA, said, "We are so pleased to have Tom Golisano as our partner. His unique perspective, contribution and experience will help us realize our goals much sooner than we anticipated. We couldn't think of a better partner to begin the next phase of Bak USA's expansion."
Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul said, "The expansion by Bak USA, courtesy of a major investment on the part of Tom Golisano, is just the latest success story for Western New York. As a result, this announcement brings with it new jobs, new optimism, and reinvests in the Buffalo economy and beyond. This is further proof that the Governor's START-UP NY program is moving full speed ahead and working in the way it was originally intended. I applaud the Governor for his continued commitment to this region and wish nothing but continued success for our friends at Bak USA."
Bak USA is one of the first businesses to participate in the Governor's START-UP NY program in Buffalo. As part of its local efforts, Bak will engage SUNY Buffalo engineering students in a senior design course that will provide students with hands-on experience and help the company advance product development and efficiency. The company also intends to collaborate with the School of Management's Center for Entrepreneurial Leadership on social entrepreneurship programs and activities.
While Golisano will not manage the company, he has agreed to lend significant strategic and valuable assistance to Bak USA as needed. His important financial investment and expertise will enable Bak to accelerate its ambitious sales goals of 80,000 tablets before the year's end, and comes at a time when Bak USA has just completed its second recruiting drive, adding 13 new operators to their permanent staff.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-major-investment-tom-golisano-allows-bak-usa-create-167-additional-new
