Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Applauds New Federal Safety Regulations for Shipment of Crude Oil by Rail
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 1, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

"I applaud President Obama and the U.S. Department of Transportation for adopting tougher safety regulations for crude oil shipments, and urge them to implement these strengthened regulations as quickly as possible," Governor Cuomo said. "These new regulations will better protect our communities from the dangers posed by the transport of crude oil by rail. New York has taken a proactive role under our administration when it comes to inspecting rail cars and rail facilities within our state's borders, but the fundamental responsibility for the safe transportation of crude oil across the country continues to reside with federal agencies. These stronger regulations are a step in the right direction, and we will continue to work alongside our federal partners to prevent crude oil disasters and ensure the safety of our communities."
Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, New York State has:
Coordinated with the Federal Railroad Administration on targeted crude oil tank car and rail inspections, inspecting 9,359 rail cars and 3,012 miles of track since February 2014. Those efforts uncovered 1,132 defects and resulted in 20 hazardous materials violations being issued.
Enhanced emergency response preparedness with a focus on crude oil transport. State agencies have taken 66 actions to better prepare state and local responders in the event of a crude oil incident, and they continue to take additional steps to improve safety.
In addition, Governor Cuomo's 2015 Opportunity Agenda and the 2015-16 State Budget include several measures to further prevent and prepare for potential crude oil incidents. These include providing the necessary funding for staff and associated preparedness costs by increasing the Oil Spill Fund cap to $40 million from $25 million and allowing up to $2.1 million of the Fund annually to be used for prevention and preparedness measures. These changes support compliance with Governor Cuomo's Executive Order 125, which outlines steps the state is taking to improve oil spill response and prevention.
The state budget also provides for eight new employees at the Department of Environmental Conservation and six at the Office of Fire Protection and Control dedicated to oil spill planning, training and response. In addition, the budget increases fees for oil transported through New York to 13.75 cents per barrel from 12.25 for most oil imported into the state, and 13.75 cents for oil that is imported into a New York facility and subsequently transshipped to another State. In-state end users will be exempted from the fee increase and will remain at 12.25 cents per barrel.
Governor Cuomo also initiated the hiring of five new NYSDOT rail safety inspectors, which has allowed NYSDOT to increase its capacity to perform rail safety inspections across the state.
State and emergency response officials also participated in more than two dozen training exercises last year to better prepare our communities for potential crude oil disasters.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-applauds-new-federal-safety-regulations-shipment-crude-oil-rail
