Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces First NY Prize Awards For Five Energy Microgrids Across New York
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 30, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced funding for five energy microgrids across New York State as part of the first phase of the NY Prize Community Microgrid Competition. Microgrids provide critical energy backup for local community networks during extreme weather events or emergencies. The recipients of the $500,000 in funding -- which include the Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus and several municipalities across the state -- will now launch feasibility studies before beginning construction of their microgrids. The competition is part of the Governor's Reforming the Energy Vision plan (REV), to build a clean, resilient and affordable energy system for all New Yorkers.
"These communities are taking an important first step toward securing their energy future," Governor Cuomo said. "By ensuring a continuous energy supply, medical facilities and communities can more reliably provide critical services and be better protected in the event that disaster strikes. I encourage communities across the state to participate in the NY Prize program to make their energy systems stronger and more resilient."
The NY Prize Microgrid Competition's first five awards, $100,000 each, will fund feasibility studies at each location. The awardees are: The Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus; electrical utilities associated with the villages of Bath, Westfield and Sherburne; and the East Hampton area of Long Island. Submissions for additional awards are still being accepted through May 15 -- details are available at http://www.prize.ny.gov. Applications for the second and third stage funding, which first stage winners are eligible to receive, will be available this summer.
Traditionally, microgrids serve only one user, such as a university or hospital. NY Prize aims to broaden this scope by connecting multiple users, like a series of homes and businesses, through a network that relies on clean, reliable and affordable energy sources. Microgrids expand customer choice, ensure reliability, improve resiliency and preserve the environment.
Eligible awardees of the NY Prize Microgrid Competition funding include local governments, community organizations, non-profit entities, for-profit companies and municipally-owned utilities. Potential projects must be integrated into utility networks and serve multiple customers, including at least one "critical infrastructure" customer, such as a hospital, police station, fire station or water treatment facilities.
The website also has information on NY Prize Opportunity Zones, which are geographic areas that have been identified by the local electric distribution companies in New York where microgrids may reduce utility system constraints, and defer expensive infrastructure investment costs. The NY Prize Community Microgrid Competition is administered by the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, with support from Governor Cuomo's Office of Storm Recovery.
Chairman of Energy and Finance Richard Kauffman said, "Community microgrids can protect residents and businesses from some of the devastating effects seen after storms like Sandy, Irene and Lee and I'm pleased to see many of cities and towns across New York most impacted by these storms have entered this first phase of the NY Prize competition. Microgrid technology is just one component of the State's efforts in building an energy infrastructure that is more resilient, reliable and efficient."
NYSERDA President and CEO John B. Rhodes said, "Under Governor Cuomo's REV plan, the State continues to transform the way electricity is distributed. These winners are leading the effort to capture the benefits of investing in a community microgrid. This innovative solution will bring greater power reliability to the residents and businesses of these communities, as it will reduce power outages, protect the environment and reduce grid pressure."
Governor's Office of Storm Recovery Executive Director Jamie Rubin said, "Superstorm Sandy and other recent storms reaffirmed the need for resilient infrastructure across New York State and in particular we need to have access to back up power for assets that power our communities and speed recovery. Through the NY Prize Microgrid completion, the State under Governor Cuomo's leadership is again positioning itself to be a leader in developing innovative solutions that will make us better and stronger. By inviting innovation from the brightest businesses, entrepreneurs and electric utilities from across the State and nation and complementing this with other resiliency measures being driven by NY Rising Community programs, this competition seeks to inspire a new generation of community-based power, and brings us another step closer to a reimagined New York."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-first-ny-prize-awards-five-energy-microgrids-across-new-york
