Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Grand Opening of Yahoo's New State-of-the-Art Center in Lockport
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 30, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Yahoo has opened its new customer care center, which was part of the second phase of its East Coast data center expansion in the Town of Lockport. The project will result in 115 new, well-paying jobs and a capital investment of $170 million by Yahoo, which is the world's largest network of integrated internet services with more than half a billion users worldwide.
"The expansion of Yahoo's operations here in Lockport is even more proof that Western New York is on the move," Governor Cuomo said. "Bringing 115 new jobs and more than $150 million in capital investment complements the region's dedicated workforce, world-class universities, and low-cost hydropower. I welcome Yahoo to their newer, bigger home."
Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul said, "As Yahoo's own CEO, Marissa Mayer, once said, "Companies with the best talent win.' The decision by Yahoo to make such a significant investment right here in Lockport will help create over 100 new jobs that will directly benefit our hardworking and well-educated residents. Western New York is rapidly becoming an economic magnet known for attracting some of the most innovative and cutting-edge companies throughout the world. Through Governor Cuomo's commitment, we continue to make New York State a place "Open for Business' so that the high-tech industries of the future have a place to call home."
The state incentive package for the 150,000-square-foot expansion of Yahoo's existing data center and the construction of the customer call center includes 7.2 megawatts of low-cost hydropower from the New York Power Authority and $2 million in Excelsior tax credits from Empire State Development. Yahoo received the incentive package in 2013 and began ramping up its customer call center workforce in the region at a temporary location in Amherst. Those jobs will now migrate to the new facility in Lockport.
The expansion project's sustainable design uses moderate-to-cold outside air for cooling the data center's servers, consistent with the current facility's features. The Yahoo campus uses 40 percent less electricity and 95 percent less water compared to conventional data centers. Yahoo's East Coast data center is the company's second largest and most efficient worldwide.

Source:
