Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Regional MWBE Expo Workshops
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 29, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprises Opportunities EXPO events, which will take place in Western New York, Central New York, the Finger Lakes, and Mid-Hudson regions. These workshops will connect MWBEs with New York State agencies and expert resources to increase those businesses' consumer-base, expand their footprint within their respective industries and communities, and spur job creation.
"Minority- and Women-Owned Businessesplay an important role in New York's economy, and it has been a priority of this administration to ensure they have the tools, resources and information they need to grow and succeed," Governor Cuomo said. "I encourage all who qualify to stop by these events and learn about what's available for them in this state of opportunity."
"New York's economy continues to thrive because of the diversity and success of our small businesses," said Empire State Development President, CEO and Commissioner Howard Zemsky. "The MWBE workshops (EXPOs) are key to connecting firms to the resources they need while starting up, adding jobs and expanding."
The EXPO, sponsored by Empire State Development's Division of Minority and Women's Business Development and local State partners, will provide MWBEs with opportunities to meet with procurement officers and receive basic government procurement training. The events will also feature workshops and panel discussions about New York State MWBE certification and business development resources. It will include the New York State MWBE BOOT CAMP, which highlights resources available to MWBEs in their region such as the Small Business Development Center, Procurement & Technical Assistance Centers and the Entrepreneurial Assistance Program.
Business Mentor NY, the State's first large-scale, hands-on business mentoring program, will join the Division of Minority and Women's Business Development at the EXPO. Business Mentor NY connects volunteers working in the private sector to small businesses and MWBEs to help them address specific challenges and obstacles to success.
Information will also be available for the Bridge to Success Program, which expands access to short-term loans for MWBEs and state contractors, providing qualified MWBEs with the short-term resources needed to access the up to $1 billion in contracting opportunities with New York State.
Since taking office in 2011, Governor Cuomo has held more than 500 workshops and events to support MWBEs in communities across the state. In the last four years, MWBE utilization has more than doubled, increasing in FY 2013 - 2014 to 25 percent and exceeding the Governor's goal of 20 percent for the first time in the State's history. The Governor raised the bar even higher in 2014, setting the goal to 30 percent, the highest such target for any state government in the nation.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-regional-mwbe-expo-workshops
