Public Statements
Video & Transcript: Governor Cuomo Receives Final Blueprint to End the HIV/AIDS Epidemic in New York State By the End of 2020
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 29, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Good Afternoon! What a beautiful day in every way, isn't it? First to Charles King -- Charles King is a visionary when it comes to dealing with this crisis. I remember when I first met Charles many, many years ago and this crusade just started, he wasn't wearing glasses then, he didn't have as much grey hair then, but neither did I. This has been a long road and it has been a hard road and it was a sad road. It took a person of real courage, determination and intelligence to lead the movement and that was Charles King let's give him a round of applause. Stand up for Charles King! To Glennda and the whole team at the LGBT center it is a pleasure to be back once again, we admire your work and what you do. To Alphonso David who is my new counsel, right outside of the box he did pretty good, didn't he? Our Health Commissioner Howard Zucker and our Deputy Secretary Courtney Burke, who when this first started, people thought it was an outrageous goal and they show that sometimes when it sounds outrageous, it is exactly what we need to do. Howard Zucker and Courtney Burke -- let's give them a round of applause. And to two great representatives: Senator Brad Hoylman and Councilman Corey Johnson, thank you very much for your leadership.
Well my friends, today the sun is shining and it is appropriate because today we see a real ray of light in what has been a 35 year nightmare. It was in the early 80s when the nightmare started. Cruel, frightening, relentless. New York was ground zero of what became known as the AIDs epidemic.
In those early years it wasn't just a medical crisis. It was a social divide. It fanned the flames of bigotry and negative stereotyping. It led to blame and anger, to tremendous loss and tremendous grief.
Over those 35 years 153,000 New Yorkers lives were lost. 153,000. Many of our finest, many of our most accomplished, many of our most creative, youngest New Yorkers were lost.
While the AIDs epidemic brought out the worst in some, in New York it also brought out the best in some. It brought out courage and it brought out leadership. The LGBT Center is a monument to that courage and that leadership when it was started in 1983 as one of the first centers in the country to provide social, cultural, wellness and health based programs to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender New Yorkers.
As you heard from Charles, in 1983, my father, then Governor Mario Cuomo who is not with us today, we lost him in January, but he did create the first state Aids Advisory Council, the first state to stand up and have the honesty and the courage to admit the extent of the crisis and to demand government responsibility to the crisis. He was the first to say a state should open its arms and welcome in all its citizens and work with them to get through this crisis. That changed the tone of the debate in this nation. I am proud of that today.
In 1986 I was working with a group called HELP that partnered with a fantastic organization, Project Samaritan to build one of the first residential treatment centers for people who were HIV Positive in the Bronx. In 2000 Al Gore came to this Center a day before the Super Tuesday primary to speak on behalf of equal rights for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender New Yorkers.
And today New York leads the way once again by raising the bar and saying we will not stop until the AIDs epidemic is part of the past like tuberculosis and the measles and polio and influenza, we will not stop. We will not stop until we add AIDs to the list of conquered killers which are a distant memory and are not present today.
Now this blueprint that was provided by the task force, it is smart and right. More testing, more health care, more access to new drugs like PREP can lead us to the end this epidemic.
And once again New York State is going to do what will do what New York State does best: it is going to lead this nation towards a progressive future. New York says today, we are the capital of individual rights, community responsibility and government innovation. New York is audacious as Glennda has said and we will not be told we can't do it, we can do it, we can end the AIDs epidemic and we can do it by 2020 and make it a reality. New York says that compassion is still the foundation of strong community and New York says the strongest four letter word is still love, for all of our citizens, all of our brothers and sisters, of all sexual orientations, of all races, of all colors and creeds and bigotry and discrimination has no place in the state of New York.
We are going to do this in New York, but this is going to resonate all across the nation and this goal is going to be indisputable and you will feel it move like a wave from the east coast all the way across to the west coast, until every state stands up and every state says they are committed to ending the AIDs epidemic.
We did it once before when this state had the courage to stand up and pass Marriage Equality and end discrimination for gays and those of other sexual orientations. New York passed Marriage Equality and it changed the dialogue all across the country. After New York passed that law every politician in the country was asked the question, "Will you do what New York did and will you pass Marriage Equality?"
And the same thing is going to happen here. They are going to put that microphone in the face of congressmen and senators and presidents and governors and say, "Will you end the AIDs epidemic in your state, the way New York is ending the AIDs epidemic in their state?"
That is who we are as New Yorkers and that is what we are going to do and commit ourselves to do today. There is a lot of work in this blueprint, we are not there yet but we are going to honor the 153,000 brothers and sisters that we lost and we are going to dedicate ourselves to this goal. We are going to lock arms and work night and day and we are going to get it done because we must end the epidemic, we must do it by 2020 and we must say to this United States of America, every state and every community has the same obligation that we have here in New York.
Let's show them what is possible. That is the New York way. Thank you and god bless you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-transcript-governor-cuomo-receives-final-blueprint-end-hivaids-epidemic-new-york-state
