Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Receives Final Blueprint to End the HIV/AIDS Epidemic in New York State By End Of 2020
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 29, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today received the final Blueprint to end the HIV/AIDS epidemic in New York State by the end of 2020. The Blueprint was produced by members of the State's Ending the Epidemic Task Force, and includes recommendations that support the Governor's goal to reduce the annual number of new HIV infections to just 750 (from an estimated 3,000) by the end of 2020 and achieve New York's first ever decrease in HIV prevalence. This would mark the first time there is a reduction in the pervasiveness of AIDS due to a drop in new cases. An epidemic is a widespread occurrence of an infectious disease in a community at a particular time. The Governor's goal puts New York State in a leadership position in the national and global effort to end the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
"Once again, New York is a national leader by raising the bar and saying we will not stop until the AIDS epidemic is part of the past," Governor Cuomo said. "We must add AIDS to the list of diseases conquered by our society, and today we are saying we can, we must and we will end this epidemic. The blueprint compiled by the Ending the Epidemic Task Force is smart, requiring an all-out comprehensive approach including more testing, more healthcare and more access to new drugs. We can do this by 2020 and end this nightmare once and for all."
The Blueprint -- which can be found here -- includes recommendations to address the three-point plan announced by the Governor in June 2014 to decrease new HIV infections by:
1. Identifying people with HIV who remain undiagnosed and linking them to health care;
2. Linking and retaining people diagnosed with HIV to health care and getting them on anti-HIV therapy to maximize HIV virus suppression so they remain healthy and prevent further transmission; and
3. Providing access to Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) for high-risk people to keep them HIV negative.
The Task Force met on five occasions starting in October. In order to gather recommendations for consideration from across the state, a series of listening forums were held and an online recommendation form was made publicly available. A total of 294 recommendations were generated and reviewed by the Task Force. The Task Force's four committees -- Data, Care, Prevention, and Housing and Supportive Services -- used this information to develop the final Blueprint document.
More information on the members of the Ending the Epidemic Task Force can be found here.
We must add AIDS to the list of diseases conquered by our society, and today we are saying we can, we must and we will end this epidemic.
Governor Cuomo
In 2015-16 budget, Governor Cuomo included $10 million to support End of the Epidemic in New York State. The budget also removed the requirement for individuals in correctional facilities to give written consent for HIV testing, encouraged high-risk populations to use condoms by prohibiting prosecutors from using them as evidence in prostitution cases, and made it legal to possess syringes obtained through a syringe access program.
Acting State Health Commissioner Howard Zucker, M.D., J.D., said, "The Blueprint document developed by the Task Force provides New York State with concrete next steps that will decrease new infections and improve the lives of all New Yorkers living with HIV/AIDS. It will help us move New York from a history of the worst HIV epidemic in the country to one where new infections will be rare and those living with the disease will have normal lifespans with few complications."
Housing Works President & CEO Charles King, who also served as the Task Force's Community Co-Chair, said, "Hundreds of people around the state participated in this process. This included many hours in listening sessions and other formal and informal conversations, brainstorming, criticizing, and helping us think through our ideas. I am proud to have served as the Community Co-Chair for the Task Force. We carried out this task in full consultation with hundreds of stakeholders around the state and we developed a Blueprint that provides a clear guide for ending the HIV epidemic here in New York State by 2020."
GMHC CEO Kelsey Louie said, "Today marks the beginning of what could be one of the last chapters in the fight to end HIV and AIDS. We have the tools, we have the data and we have the unprecedented political will and partnership with Governor Andrew Cuomo. We now have a Blueprint to help make the plan to End AIDS as an epidemic by 2020 a reality."
The Blueprint is structured first to include the three points of the Governor's plan, but also includes other recommendations to minimize new infections and inhibit disease progression. The Task Force ensured that prioritizing the needs of key populations significantly impacted by HIV and AIDS became a central component of the final Blueprint document. Recommendations and strategies included in the Blueprint are intended to evolve with new technologies and policy advances so the document can remain useful and relevant over the years between its development and the end of 2020.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-receives-final-blueprint-end-hivaids-epidemic-new-york-state-end-2020
