Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $20 Million Funding For 76West In Southern Tier
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 29, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced additional details for funding of the 76West initiative, announced in this year's Opportunity Agenda, which includes a $10 million clean energy business competition and $10 million for business support services to the local clean energy market.
"This competition is designed to jumpstart the clean energy economy in the Southern Tier, bringing with it new jobs, new economic opportunity and increased sustainability to local communities," Governor Cuomo said. "By supporting the growth of clean energy companies in the area and investing in the infrastructure they need to succeed, we are laying the groundwork for a brighter future for residents and businesses throughout the region."
76West was modeled after the successful 43North business idea competition in Western New York, which named its winners last October. 43North garnered thousands of applications from companies who would locate their company to Buffalo.
Centered on a $10 million business model competition, 76West will be open to any early-stage clean energy technology business that builds on the indigenous strengths and assets of the Southern Tier. Individual prizes will range from $100,000 to $1 million. Eligible categories will focus on business development.
The initiative, expected to launch this fall, supports the Reforming the Energy Vision plan, which is designed to enable self-sustaining, clean energy markets to build a clean, resilient, and affordable energy system for New York.
Richard Kauffman, Chairman of Energy and Finance for New York State said, "Communities and regions across the state have the opportunity to boost their local economies and spur greater investment in clean energy as a part of Reforming the Energy Vision. With 76West, we are enabling local businesses and residents in the Southern Tier to create jobs and protect our environment."

Source:
