Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Culinary Institute of America as Education Partner For Taste NY Program
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 29, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today named The Culinary Institute of America an education partner for the Taste NY program via a partnership between the State and the college to promote New York's food and beverage industries. The Culinary Institute of America, which is based in the Hudson Valley, will work closely with the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets on several initiatives to promote awareness of the state's food products under the Taste NY brand.
"New York State boasts some of the best local products and goods around, and this partnership will further showcase all our food and beverage industries have to offer," Governor Cuomo said. "I cannot think of a better partner than the Culinary Institute, based in New York, to work with Taste NY, and look forward to seeing its programs promote goods from across the state. This is yet another step our administration is taking to grow the state's great agriculture industry and provide local products to consumers all over the world."
During the first year of this partnership, The Culinary Institute of America will create programs targeted to food enthusiasts, including Taste NY-branded boot camps and one-day cooking classes at the college's Hyde Park campus along with a series of instructional cooking videos featuring New York State products. A campus restaurant, American Bounty Restaurant, will also host three Taste NY-themed Farmer's Dinners during the fall 2015 harvest season.
The partnership has the potential to be renewed each year and, as it grows, the college and New York State will explore opportunities to use the Marriott Pavilion's 800-seat theater and conference center on the college's campus to host Taste NY conferences, educational programming, and other events.
In 2014, Taste NY participated in 58 events across the state, with more to come in the next few years: The program will expand its stores so more people can access New York State-made products, a new mobile app will be launched to help consumers find designated Taste NY attractions and Governor Cuomo's planned trade missions will promote New York State food products all over the world.
Taste NY is an initiative launched by Governor Cuomo in 2013ý to promote New York's food and beverage industries. It is overseen by the Department of Agriculture and Markets and has created opportunities for local producers to showcase their goods at large public events such as the PGA Championship and the Great New York State Fair. The program has also opened stores at Thruway rest stops and New York City airports, enabling travelers to buy New York State's homegrown and homemade products. Approximately 1,100 local companies have participated in these opportunities, further linking their products and the state's growing food and beverage market to consumers from across the globe.
The Culinary Institute of America spends nearly $1 million each year on products from New York State farms, including fruits, vegetables, eggs, dairy, meats, mushrooms, syrup and honey. The college has also taken the Pride of New York Pledge in support of the state's agricultural products and beverages and its restaurants will increase sourcing their ingredients from state-grown and -made products. They also plan to feature locally produced beverages on drink menus and introduce New York-themed dishes prepared with seasonal, locally-grown products.
"The Culinary Institute of America is proud of our long history of supporting New York State products," said Dr. Tim Ryan, President of The Culinary Institute of America. "I joined the faculty more than 30 years ago with a commitment to integrate the bounty of our state's farms into the college's curriculum before "farm-to-table' was even a term. I now look forward to working together with Governor Cuomo and the Department of Agriculture and Markets to help educate food lovers across the Empire State and beyond about the diversity of the products produced right here in the place we all call home."
"The Taste NY program is bringing farm products from New York to every corner of the state, creating economic growth for our vital agriculture industry," said New York State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball. "This partnership with one of the world's greatest culinary schools is sure to link many more consumers to the great products of New York, and that will give many small businesses a boost while creating more jobs across the state. I look forward to the great things we can create together."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-culinary-institute-america-education-partner-taste-ny-program
