Public Statements
Governor Announces $47 Million in Transit Grant Funding Available to Support Mobility Services For Seniors and People With Disabilities
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 28, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the state has secured $47.5 million in federal transit grant funding to enhance the mobility of senior citizens and persons with disabilities. This funding is available to programs run by non-profit groups, local governments and other agencies that meet the unique needs of transit-dependent populations beyond the services provided by traditional sources of public transportation, as well as paratransit services in connection with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
"This $47 million will provide essential services to people with unique transportation needs, and ultimately improve their quality of life," Governor Cuomo said. "By supporting programs that offer transit alternatives to the elderly and people with disabilities, we are enhancing mobility and making a difference in the lives of New Yorkers across the state. I encourage all eligible organizations to apply for this funding today."
The funding is administered by the New York State Department of Transportation on behalf of the Federal Transit Administration's Enhanced Mobility of Seniors and Individuals with Disabilities Program.
"With Governor Cuomo's leadership, we are offering this expanded transit funding program to enhance the mobility of New Yorkers who can't easily utilize traditional transit vehicles," State Department of Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said. "We encourage qualifying organizations to submit an application for this important transportation grant program."
As part of the program, at least 55 percent of the funding available may be used for traditional capital projects that are planned, designed and carried out to meet the special needs of seniors and individuals with disabilities when public transportation is insufficient, inappropriate, or unavailable. Up to 45 percent of the available funds may be used to support public transportation projects that either exceed the requirements of the ADA; improve access to fixed-route service; decrease reliance by individuals with disabilities on complementary paratransit; or provide alternatives to public transportation that assist seniors and individuals with disabilities.
Funding awarded through this program requires a 20 percent match provided by the applicant for capital and mobility management projects and 50 percent applicant match for operations.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-announces-47-million-transit-grant-funding-available-support-mobility-services-seniors
