Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Reminds New Yorkers to Sign Up to Volunteer at State Parks This Saturday For Fourth Annual I Love My Park Day
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 28, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today reminded New Yorkers to sign up to volunteer at their favorite state park or historic site as part of the fourth annual I Love My Park Day to be held this Saturday, May 2. Volunteers who would like to support clean-up and beautification efforts at sites across the state can register at ptny.org/ilovemypark.
"From recreational opportunities to one-of-a-kind scenic beauty, New York has some of the best parks and historic sites in the nation, which also support tourism and economic activity in virtually every corner of the state," Governor Cuomo said. "I Love My Park Day helps brings local communities together and helps ensure that these sites are maintained and preserved for future generations. I encourage everyone who can to come out this Saturday and join the effort to get New York's parks in top shape for the summer season."
This year volunteers of all ages will help improve parks and historic sites through nearly 200 projects ranging from general park clean-up, such as debris and trash pick-up, and invasive plant and species removal to beautification efforts such as planting flowers and trees, weed removal, reseeding, painting, installation of benches and picnic tables, trail maintenance and much more.
State Park Commissioner Rose Harvey said: "It's inspiring to see the dedication from so many of our visitors as they participate in I Love My Park Day each year and work together on behalf of their State parks and historic sites. The grassroots effort complements Governor Cuomo's commitment to revitalizing and transforming the State park system through his NY Parks 2020 plan which will invest $900 million in public and private dollars to modernize our state park system. Our volunteers are vital partners in this effort to make our parks and sites the very best they can be."
Robin Dropkin, Executive Director of Parks & Trails, New York, said: "The creation of New York's remarkable park system was the work of friends, supporters, and many ordinary citizens who believed in the importance of parks. This park legacy is a responsibility handed down from one generation to the next. Through I Love My Park Day, New Yorkers are able to step up and do their part for their parks. Parks help us all stay healthy and active, and by working together we can make them even better."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-reminds-new-yorkers-sign-volunteer-state-parks-saturday-fourth-annual-i-love-my
