Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Launch of First in the Nation Pilot Program Providing Immigrants Free English Training Via Mobile Phones
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 27, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today at the Daily News Citizenship NOW! phone bank event hosted at CUNY Stella and Charles Guttman Community College announced the launch of a pilot program to provide free English-language training via mobile phones to hundreds of immigrant in New York State who may lack regular access to a classroom, a computer or the Internet. Learners will gain access to self-paced audio and text lessons through their personal cell phones. The program will initially reach farm workers in three areas: the "dairy belt" in both the Finger Lakes and North Country regions, and downstate in the Hudson Valley and New York City where immigrants face transportation challenges. This is the first state program of its kind in the country.
"Anyone that wants to learn English should have the opportunity to do so," Governor Cuomo said. "By dramatically increasing the chances for people to learn and practice English, we are making it easier for them to improve their economic livelihood and build a better life. I am proud that New York is launching this first-of-its-kind program and leading the way in expanding opportunity for all people."
"A lack of transportation or a demanding day of honest work should not be a barrier to learning English," said New York Secretary of State Cesar A. Perales. "I applaud Governor Cuomo's dedication to helping immigrants fully participate in our State's civic and economic life."
"We are excited about this new effort because it will not only help create stronger links between these New Americans and their communities, but it will also help the millions of New Yorkers who depend on the products and services these hard-working immigrants provide," said Richard A. Ball, Commissioner of the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets.
The New York State Office for New Americans (ONA) has partnered with social impact venture Cell-ED to provide customized mobile English-language training. The training combines voice tutorials and messaging services that allows for two-way interactivity and instant feedback. A learner simply calls a Cell-ED number from his or her cell phone, listens to a lesson, reviews the lesson received via text and texts back responses. The learner receives additional support and moves on to the next lesson. The program is free to the learner (excluding minutes and texts billed at the rate of the users cell phone plan) and available at any time of the day.

Source:
