Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 17 Companies Join Start-Up NY to Create 343 Additional Jobs
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 27, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 17 additional companies will create 343 new jobs in New York State through START-UP NY. These companies join the 93 businesses that already participate in this program, which creates tax-free areas associated with colleges and universities across the state.
"The addition of these companies to START-UP NY represents significant private sector interest and investment in the Empire State," Governor Cuomo said. "New York boasts some of the best colleges and universities in the country and, along with access to our talented workforce, these companies will have the opportunity to thrive in New York while creating hundreds of new jobs and boosting local economies. I look forward to seeing the companies, participating schools and New Yorkers across the state succeed thanks to this growing initiative."
Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Howard Zemsky said, "The START-UP NY program continues to attract a tremendous amount of interest, with thousands of leads and inquiries coming in from throughout the state and across the county. We are working hard to turn the substantial interest being generated by the program into thousands of new jobs. Today's announcement of 17 more companies joining the program demonstrates our ability to attract entrepreneurs and to the Empire State with the unique tax-free benefits of START-UP NY."
START-UP NY launched in 2014 and offers new and expanding businesses the opportunity to operate tax-free for 10 years on or near eligible university or college campuses in New York State.
The 17 businesses announced today will additionally invest nearly $13.5 million into these new job creating ventures. They will be located in tax-free areas at SUNY Downstate Medical Center, SUNY Cobleskill, University of Rochester, University at Buffalo, Binghamton University, Finger Lakes Community College and New York University.
This group of companies joining STARTUP-NY brings the total number of businesses participating in the program to 110, representing commitments to create nearly 3,150 new jobs and invest more than $186 million throughout New York State.
The businesses will create jobs in a variety of industries, including data processing, research and development in physical engineering and biotechnology, construction equipment and textile manufacturing, industrial design, exam preparation and tutoring, software and internet publishing, custom computer programming and craft beverage.
SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher said, "Businesses from across the country continue to seek out New York State and our SUNY campuses as a result of Governor Cuomo's innovative START-UP NY program. In communities state-wide, our students and faculty are gaining unprecedented access to workforce experiences, jobs, and research opportunities that not only enhance their education but also prepare them to contribute to New York's economic success in the future. Congratulations to each of the campuses welcoming new business partners as a result of this most recent START-UP NY expansion."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-17-companies-join-start-ny-create-343-additional-jobs
