Public Statements
Video & Photos: Governor Cuomo Announces Program to Provide Immigrants With Free English Training Via Mobile Phones at Citizenship NOW! Phone Bank
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 27, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

"Thank you very much; good morning to all of you, it is truly my pleasure to be here in what is really a day that is New York at its best. First, to the representatives of CUNY, to the chairman, to the chancellor, to the professors, to the students, this is a beautiful testament to what CUNY is all about. It's about higher education, it's about teaching, learning, but it's also about making a difference and a spirit of activism and involvement and that is exactly what CUNY is doing today so let's give them a round of applause for their leadership. We have our secretary of state, Cesar Perales, who has spent a life time of advocacy for new immigrants; let's give him a round of applause.
To the Daily News, Colin Mylar, the Daily News is a great journalistic empire in our city and our state. Hard hitting journalism, which is nice in concept, its nice hard hitting journalism unless you're on the other side of the hard hitting journalism then it doesn't feel so nice, so I have a lot of interaction with the Daily News and Colin Mylar now that I'm on the other side of the hard hitting journalism. I call Colin once in a while, I don't want to say to complain, I'm not a complainer, I think it's more just pointing out the facts and the truth. I don't mind the articles but if you look at the pictures the Daily News runs of me, look at those pictures. It makes it look like I have a big nose, bags under my eyes, lines in my face, which is a clear distortion of the truth, isn't it? That's exactly right. The Daily News is not just a great publication of a journalistic point of view; is has been in many way the voice of the new immigrants for generations, that's what the Daily News was always about. It was the conversation place for the new immigrants coming to this city, coming to this state, coming to this country, where they would learn about the current events, the issues of our day. They have done a magnificent job for generations and they are probably doing some of their finest work right now so let's give them a round of applause, Colin Mylar.
What you are doing today, the volunteers, 350 volunteers who are here, the law firms who have helped, the professors from CUNY; it is the distillation of the best of New York. This is what we are all about, right? New York is the welcome mat to the nation. That's what the Statue of Liberty is all about, that's what New York Harbor is all about, that is what our premise is all about, that we open our arms and we say to people all across the globe, you're welcome, we want you to come here, that's out philosophy of democracy, that's our philosophy of what makes this country a great country. We don't just welcome immigrants, we affirmatively welcome them and say if you come here now only are you welcome but we will work with you in partnership because we want you to do well, because we believe that if you do well and if you succeed it's not just good for your family, it is good for all of us.
We have an agreement, a partnership, with people who come here. The first part of the partnership is a public education system that will bring you wherever you want to go if you're willing to work. That's why so much of what we do is we spend our time on our public schools. Why? Because the public schools in some areas are not as good as they were and are not as good as they need to be. That promise of public education said, you can come here from wherever, and you go through that public education system and you can rise as high as your talents will take you. The Chairman mentioned my father, my grandfather, I am Andrew Cuomo, named for Andrea Cuomo, Andrea Cuomo came here from Italy, penniless. They had a son named Mario Cuomo, South Jamaica Queens, poor community running a little delicatessen grocery store. Mario Cuomo went to public education and the public education system made him governor of the state of New York, all from the public education system. Colin Powell, boy from the Bronx, rises to the top of the federal ranks, an international figure, all from public education. That is, in my ways, what actualized the American promise. It has to work, that's what CUNY is all about. That education will continue and the CUNY system and the SUNY system was a fundamental promise. We have even more creative ways to do it. Secretary of State Cesar Perales working day and night and finding new ways to help people come into society, that's what this phone bank is all about. The Secretary of State is going to unveil a new program now. We're on a mobile phone; you can get free English lessons. Immigrants can call in and farm workers can call in and just on a mobile phone, learn how to speak the language, to empower you and enable you to rise to the highest level.
This is a great New York moment and it is as I said the essence of New York. It also comes at a time when it is a powerful message nation-wide because this nation is trying to figure out a number of things. We're trying to figure out how we have an economy that works for everyone. How do we get people who are at the bottom of the economic ladder up higher on the economic ladder without pulling down those who are at the top of the ladder. We're working through a lot of issues. One of the issues we're working through is how we feel about immigration. The dialogue has the full range and there are people in this country and there are parts of this country who say we don't want any immigrants, we want to close the door, we think there taking from me that they are taking from us, and if we bring in more immigrants, it's going to cost me. That's part of the immigration debate; put up a fence, put up a wall, stop them from coming in. We don't want anyone detracting from what we have, that's part of the immigration debate.
A voice that is very loud and powerful in Washington has in many ways has stopped the progress that the President has wanted to make. There's another voice, which is your voice today and the voice of New York that says, don't be threatened and don't be afraid, immigration isn't a bad thing, immigration is a good thing, immigration brings in new people with new talents, new cultures, and they add to society, they bring a new asset to society, they don't detract, look at New York. 40 percent of the people in New York City were foreign born, 40 percent of the city, 20 percent of the state. We made New York the greatest state on the planet by welcoming people and using their strengths and we are still doing it aggressively, that's the message that you send nationwide today. You'll be helping thousands and thousands of immigrants on their journey to become citizens and you're leading your voice at a time when this nation is engaged in an important dialogue. A more essential function, a more important function, I can't think of. A more quintessential New York function, I can't think of. So, congratulations to CUNY, congratulations to the Daily New, to Mort Zuckerman who is a publisher who lives this message and has always been a champion of citizens, not just in this city and this state but around the globe who need a champion. To Colin Mylar, do something about the pictures, they're false, they're misleading, and obviously I have a tiny button nose, Colin. Thank you all very much for being here."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-governor-cuomo-announces-program-provide-immigrants-free-english-training-mobile
