Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Recipients of Better Buffalo Fund Incentives
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 24, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the first recipients of funding through the Better Buffalo Fund, a $30 million Buffalo Billion initiative dedicated to projects that encourage density and growth along transportation corridors and revitalize neighborhood commercial districts. A total of $11,722,500 was awarded to 21 projects, including nine on the East Side of Buffalo, which will contribute to the renovation of more than 200 residential units and more than 50,000 square feet of store front and commercial space.
"This key part of the Buffalo Billion is aimed at revitalizing neighborhoods and businesses, and with today's announcement, more main streets and more neighborhoods will have the resources they need to help take part in this region's transformation," Governor Cuomo said. "We remain committed to investing in Buffalo and continuing the momentum that is moving Western New York forward."
The fund aims to create vibrant, mixed-use, high-density neighborhoods and is focused on giving all residents of the City of Buffalo greater access to the major employment hubs--projected to create thousands of jobs and increase the city's tax base. Announced as part of Governor Cuomo's Buffalo Billion initiative, it will create stronger transit and transportation access linkages between neighborhoods and existing and growing employment centers, job training and services. Applicants applied for grants and revolving loan funds through the Better Buffalo Fund for one of two initiatives--Transit Oriented Development and Buffalo Main Streets. To learn more about the two tracks, visit http://www.esd.ny.gov/BusinessPrograms/BetterBuffaloFund.html.
Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Howard A. Zemsky said, "With targeted grants funding mixed-use development projects, the Better Buffalo Fund will revitalize Buffalo's commercial corridors and bring residents back to the city's neighborhoods, strengthening its communities and securing its economic future."
New York State Homes & Community Renewal Commissioner Darryl C. Towns said, "It takes many partners to revitalize and rebuild a community. This effort in Buffalo is proof of that fact. Homes & Community Renewal is proud of the part that we are playing here and in other communities across the state under the leadership of Governor Cuomo. These newly revitalized buildings and residences, financed through the Better Buffalo Fund Main Street Program are helping to bring back the glory of Buffalo in its heyday while building the basis for a strong and vibrant future."
The announcement took place at 1423 Fillmore Avenue in Buffalo, a property that will receive facade improvements as part of a $300,000 matching grant to the Community Action Organization of Erie County from the Better Buffalo Fund. The Community Action Organization's award will assist seven commercial property owners along Fillmore Avenue from East Ferry to Martin Luther King, Jr. Park with a variety of facade improvements. The grant will also provide streetscape enhancements--including interpretive historical signage through the Buffalo Story/Ferry Street Corridor Project--that continue to build on recent federal and city infrastructure improvements developing a gateway entrance to the Fillmore Avenue commercial corridor.
An addition project, the Mid-Town Apartments, is receiving a $1.2 million loan. The Mid-Town Apartments is a high density development that will increase the number of residents and create a more walkable neighborhood on Main Street between East Delavan and East Ferry. The project will transform 1666 Main Street--a 6-story, 100,000 square foot, early 20th century structure currently used for storage--into mixed-use occupancy with first floor retail space and five floors of 60 residential apartments. The building will be marketed as workforce housing for those who work or study on the Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus or desire to be close to downtown. Storefront space will target much needed amenity-based retail or service oriented commercial. The project is located on the route of major NFTA bus lines and within close proximity to MetroRail. The developers are partnering with Buffalo Car Share and Buffalo Bike Share to make 1165 Main Street a major node for alternative modes of transportation.
Satish K. Tripathi, Western New York Regional Economic Development Council Co-Chair and University at Buffalo President, said, "The Better Buffalo Fund aims to create a livable city with revitalized, inclusive communities. These projects have the opportunity to reinvigorate the most neglected areas of our city and make real, quality of life improvements."
Jeff Belt, Western New York Regional Economic Development Council Co-Chair and president of SolEpoxy said, "The Better Buffalo Fund combines state, local and private sector resources to make targeted capital investments in priority areas of the city. The projects announced today are the first step in creating a vibrant, thriving city."
There will be another round of Better Buffalo Fund funding later this year to continue the revitalization of Buffalo's neighborhoods and main streets. Empire State Development will offer technical assistance to non-profits that may need assistance in preparation for the next round of Better Buffalo Fund Main Street funding.
Senator Tim Kennedy said, "With the Better Buffalo Fund, our city will continue its economic renaissance and revitalization. Boarded up and abandoned buildings will be transformed into vibrant businesses and fresh new residential space. As we strengthen these neighborhoods along corridors served by public transportation, we're hopeful that block by block, these streets evolve into livable, thriving communities. I thank Governor Cuomo for continuing to invest in all of Buffalo, and for making sure no neighborhood is overlooked."
Assemblywoman Crystal Peoples-Stokes said, "The Better Buffalo Fund is targeting certain neighborhoods to help make them more inviting for residents and businesses. By improving the city one neighborhood at a time we are enhancing the overall image of Buffalo. This will continue the historic investment into the East Side of Buffalo along many commercial corridors. Governor Cuomo's Buffalo Billion initiative continues to bring visible changes to our streetscapes and encourage private investment throughout Buffalo."
Assemblyman Sean Ryan said, "The Buffalo Billion has been a driving force to spur economic activity and the Better Buffalo Fund component of the Buffalo Billion will be no exception. The projects receiving funding today will help create more vibrant, mixed-use neighborhoods and encourage growth along our city's transportation corridors to enhance the attractiveness and livability of Buffalo. This funding will help to continue growth at the Medical Campus, and makes key investments in the future of public transportation in the City of Buffalo."
City of Buffalo Mayor Byron W. Brown said, "We want every single city resident and business owner to benefit from Buffalo's prosperity and the Better Buffalo Fund supports projects that will connect people and neighborhoods to employment opportunities. Today's announced projects will help further strengthen major Buffalo residential and commercial districts along corridors served by public transportation -- particularly on Buffalo's East Side - helping us build even stronger neighborhood centers that enhance the quality of life for our residents. I thank Governor Andrew Cuomo for his comprehensive and collaborative approach with my administration to ensure the Buffalo Billion reaches its full potential and is inclusive of all residents of Buffalo."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-recipients-better-buffalo-fund-incentives
