Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Orders New Round of Rail Safety Inspections as Inspectors Uncover Numerous Safety Defects
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 22, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced completion of another round of targeted crude oil tank car and rail inspections. These latest inspections uncovered 84 defects -- including three critical safety defects and two hazardous materials violations that required immediate corrective action. The inspections were the latest part of the Governor's push to protect New Yorkers from the potential dangers associated with the transport of crude oil by freight rail companies. State and federal teams examined 855 crude oil tank cars and approximately 30 miles of track in these inspections.
"These inspections are part of this administration's ongoing commitment to keep New Yorkers safe and ensure that crude oil cars and rail tracks that run through our state are kept in good repair," Governor Cuomo said. "As New York continues to thoroughly inspect these cars and facilities, I am also calling on our federal partners to implement strong, standardized safety measures that impact all crude oil rail carriers in the United States. Together we can ensure that all issues are identified and resolved quickly, and that public safety is protected nationwide."
Last week, inspection teams from the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) and the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA)carried out track and crude oil tanker inspections at the CSX Corporation-owned Selkirk Yard in Albany County, and crude oil tanker inspections at the CSX Corporation-owned Frontier Rail Yard in Buffalo and the Canadian Pacific Railway-owned Kenwood Rail Yard in Albany and Colonie Yard in Watervliet. The inspectors also examined the CSX mainline track between Milton and Fort Montgomery, Fonda and Rotterdam, and within the city of Kingston.
The inspections focused on track, track hardware and tank car mechanical safety equipment, including wheels and brakes. The teams also performed hazardous materials inspections to ensure that equipment is in line with regulations, including valves, valve closures, and placards that describe the cargo being shipped. They also checked tank car inspection and pressure test dates.
Critical defects identify important maintenance issues that must be addressed immediately, but do not necessarily indicate safety lapses. Non-critical rail defects must be repaired within 30 days, while all tank car defects must be fixed before the train departs the yard. If that is not possible, the affected car will be pulled from the train to await repair.
NYSDOT Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "Because of these inspections, crude oil and other hazardous materials are traveling through New York State more safely. I'm proud to work with Governor Cuomo and the Federal Railroad Administration to address track and crude oil tanker defects before they endanger the public."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-orders-new-round-rail-safety-inspections-inspectors-uncover-numerous-safety
