Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Buffalo Manufacturing Works Open For Business
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 22, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the opening of Buffalo Manufacturing Works, a world-class facility for advanced manufacturing. This Buffalo Billion initiative will provide manufacturers with the support they need to innovate, expand into new markets and boost productivity.
"Through the Buffalo Billion, we are making strategic investments that will grow jobs and boost the economy, and Buffalo Manufacturing Works will do just that by growing cutting edge business and technology," Governor Cuomo said. "Collaboration between leading industry and academic partners is at the heart of our strategy for success, and at this facility we will see lower costs, improved productivity, and better trained employees--all essentials for future development."
Buffalo Manufacturing Works is operated by EWI, a leading non-profit engineering and technology organization dedicated to developing, testing, and implementing advanced manufacturing technologies for industry. Based on input from local manufacturers, the center will concentrate on four primary technology focus areas: Flexible Manufacturing, Materials & Testing, Additive Manufacturing and Machining & Finishing. These will augment the technical capabilities at EWI's headquarters in Columbus, Ohio and will be driven by industry demand for technology services in each area.
Howard Zemsky, President & CEO of Empire State Development and Commissioner of the Department of Economic Development said, "Buffalo Manufacturing Works is a key part of Governor Cuomo's Buffalo Billion initiative, working to make Western New York more competitive and positioning the region as a leader in high-tech advanced manufacturing and innovation. Businesses are already partnering with the center because it is an opportunity to solve manufacturing and production issues and develop, commercialize, and implement leading-edge manufacturing technologies that improve product performance, quality, reliability, and cost competitiveness. Today's announcement will foster future economic opportunities and benefit job creation across Western New York."
Michael Ulbrich, President of Buffalo Manufacturing Works said, "Our groundbreaking collaboration with EWI, Insyte Consulting, World Trade Center Buffalo Niagara and the University at Buffalo will help innovation-driven organizations across North America excel. By partnering with our clients' internal manufacturing, engineering and R&D teams, we can help them deliver better products, grow and compete."
Henry Cialone, President and CEO of EWI said, "EWI is honored to be launching and operating Buffalo Manufacturing Works. We are impressed by the local manufacturers that we are already working with and believe there will soon be some great new innovation stories to build on Western New York's rich manufacturing history."
Buffalo Manufacturing Works is housed at 847 Main Street in Buffalo, with 50% of the space dedicated to laboratories and the balance of the space being filled by large meeting rooms and flexible office space. The Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus is providing, at no cost, space to house EWI for their start-up operations. In addition, New York State is investing $45M of the Buffalo Billion toward machinery, equipment, future facility needs and operations over the next five years. Empire State Development is also providing $800,000 start-up funding support for EWI.
Today's announcement underscores the benefits realized by regional companies, organizations and the overall community that are the result of successful collaboration between EWI, University at Buffalo, Insyte Consulting and the World Trade Center.
University at Buffalo President and Co-Chair of the Western New York Regional Economic Development Council Satish K. Tripathi said, "The University at Buffalo is rich with resources that will benefit Buffalo Manufacturing Works. A world renowned faculty and extensive research programs in the fields of advanced computing and material sciences will be utilized by the Works to help companies find creative solutions to their advanced manufacturing challenges. Thanks to Governor Cuomo, this important Buffalo Billion investment will enable us to further strengthen the productivity and competitiveness of the advanced manufacturing sector in Buffalo."
Buffalo Manufacturing Works has established a Founders Council that includes anchor companies that will advise on industry needs and inform the center's technology roadmapping activities. Founders Council members include: Eastman, EverFab, Harmac Medical Products, Harper International, Jiffy-tite, MacLean Curtis, Moog, Pfannenberg, Praxair, Sherex Fastening Solutions, TAM Ceramics and The Inventures Group.
Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus, Inc. President & CEO Matthew K. Enstice said, "We commend Governor Cuomo for continuing his strategic vision for Buffalo by investing in the infrastructure needed to support private sector growth and job creation on the Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus. Continuing to build out the entrepreneurial ecosystem and strengthening advanced manufacturing at the Innovation Center Annex will significantly aid our ability to grow and attract biotech, health care, life sciences, manufacturing, and energy companies, creating new jobs for Western New York. We thank the Governor for supporting our work and implementing his vision to grow a high-tech corridor across New York State."
Senator Tim Kennedy said, "The opening of Buffalo Manufacturing Works marks another important step in the economic rebirth taking place here in Western New York. This partnership between government, business, and academia is going to help put Buffalo on the map, making us a leader in advanced manufacturing innovation. I applaud Governor Andrew Cuomo for his continued dedication to Western New York through his Buffalo Billion initiative, and I thank all of the public and private partners who have helped to make this new facility a reality."
Assemblywoman Crystal Peoples-Stokes said, "The Buffalo Billion continues to help grow Main Street and fuel partnerships between industry and workforce development. Our region will soon have mass exodus as baby boomers retire, creating a huge labor need, the timing for this facility and access couldn't be better. Buffalo Manufacturing Works will be operated by EWI, providing important industry specific information from material testing to advance manufacturing. I applaud Governor Cuomo for his continued efforts on growing our regional economy."
Erie County Executive Mark Poloncarz said, "The Buffalo Manufacturing works will be a vital tool in our region's tool belt as we continue to develop our advanced manufacturing sector and attract more jobs. Thanks to our partners, our area's economic resurgence is continuing with initiatives such as this."
Buffalo Mayor Byron W. Brown said, I'm excited that the Buffalo Manufacturing Works resource center is open and ready for business. With over $5 billion in new economic development activity underway, resulting in the creation of over 12,000 new jobs, this new facility adds to the momentum by helping our local manufacturing community create cutting-edge technologies to spur even more economic opportunity in Buffalo. I'm grateful for my continued partnership with Governor Andrew Cuomo and his Buffalo Billion initiative. By working together, we share a vision and commitment to Buffalo, providing the right resources that will deliver more opportunities to city residents."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-buffalo-manufacturing-works-open-business
