Public Statements
Governor Cuomo's Trade Mission to Cuba Helps Connect New York Businesses to New Opportunities
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 22, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

In the afternoon, the Governor delivered remarks at the opening of a business roundtable meeting between New York and Cuban industry leaders representing a variety of sectors. Mary Lou B'Hamel, North America Director for the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Trade, welcomed the Governor and delegation to Cuba. A transcript of a portion of the Governor's remarks is as follows:
Governor Cuomo: "I want to thank the minister for my first Cuban cigar which I intend to enjoy right after this as we become much more aggressive in going out and seeking business opportunities for New York, what we call global New York which is where we look for international business opportunities for the state of New York. This is our first mission in that regard and the first mission, we wanted to come here to Cuba, and we are. Like the people in Cuba, the people in New York and the United States are very excited about the courage that your president, Raul Castro, has shown and the leadership that he has shown and likewise the leadership of President Barack Obama. We believe this is going to be a dramatic change and that it is going to the benefit the people of Cuba and the people of the United States. Longer term, we are looking forward to the embargo, as we call it in the United States, being lifted, legally, by congress so we can have normalization of relations. I personally agree with what President Obama has done and the simple premise that isolation has not worked. We've had 50 years of isolation and it has not worked. Engagement and full relationships are the best ways to have dialogue on the issues we agree with and the issues that we disagree about."
Governor Cuomo: "A special thank you to Vice President Díaz-Canel for his hospitality and kindness. There is no doubt that change is in the air and that this is a very exciting time in Cuba, it was our pleasure to be here at this time. I applaud the courage and leadership of your president Raul Castro and Vice President Díaz-Canel. I am also proud of the President of the United States, President Barack Obama for his leadership in working to normalize relationship.
"After this trip, it affirms that feeling I had coming down that normalization of relations between our respective countries is the exact right direction to go. The isolation of the past has not been a productive and developing a full relationship with full diplomatic relations, with business relations, cultural relations, social relations, will allow us to deal with the issues where we agree that are easy. Also on issue where we have disagreements or different perspectives; like in the area of human rights. The business people who we brought with us had a very busy day and a half but also a very productive day and a half. There is doubt that developing those mutual business relationships that assist Cuba and also work for the companies is a big, big part of moving forward. You will hear next from Howard Zemsky who is in charge of economic development for the State of New York who will update you on the business discussions.
"New York has always had a special connection with Cuba and Cuba has always had special place in the heart of New Yorkers. We stand today in the Airport named for José Martí. When José Martí was threatened, where did he go? He went to New York and he was welcomed in New York and he thrived in New York and we have a statue in the middle of New York City to José Martí. So it is not about starting a friendship, we have had a friendship that went on for decades, it is about rekindling a friendship. That is what we have done on this trip. I look forward to returning soon, hopefully for longer than a day and a half. Hopefully next time a little less work and a little more sleep and I speak for myself and my business colleagues and my government colleagues, speaker of the New York State Assembly Carl Heastie, Co-leader of the New York State Senate Senator Jeff Klein, Minority leader of the Senate Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, when I say New York looks forward to the day when we welcome all Cubans with open arms. Muchas Gracias."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomos-trade-mission-cuba-helps-connect-new-york-businesses-new-opportunities
