Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $22 Million to Improve Flooding and Storm Resiliency
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 22, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that a project in Oneida and Herkimer Counties and three projects in New York City are moving forward after receiving approvals from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. These projects will make communities more resilient and better equipped to mitigate the risks of loss and damage associated with future disasters. During the recovery and reconstruction process following a federally declared disaster such as Hurricane Irene, Tropical Storm Lee, or Superstorm Sandy, FEMA provides HMGP funds for states to administer grant programs that mitigate the vulnerability of life and property to future disasters.
"Sandy, Irene and Lee all demonstrated how important it is that we continue to rebuild our infrastructure so that it can withstand flooding, damage, and other hazards posed by the threat of extreme weather," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding will ensure construction of critical projects for communities affected by these severe storms and will build on our success in making New York State stronger and more resilient than ever before."
FEMA has granted final approval for construction and Phase I approvals for final engineering, along with permission for three projects under its Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. After Superstorm Sandy devastated parts of New York, Governor Cuomo called for government and non-profit organizations across the state to submit applications for projects to help rebuild smarter, stronger, more resilient and more sustainable communities in the wake of recent natural disasters. The projects total more than $22.1 million.
Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services (DHSES) Commissioner John Melville said, "It is imperative that we take proactive steps to protect New Yorkers and become more resilient against future storms. It is through these four vitally important projects that we will reduce risks to our communities and be safer and stronger in the face of disasters."
Final construction approval has been granted for the State Route 8 Bridge over West Canada Creek in the Village of Poland and the Towns of Russia and Deerfield in Herkimer and Oneida Counties. Construction on the bridge is set to begin in June 2015. The project is part of Governor Cuomo's request for FEMA funding for the State's complete 105 bridge scour program, which aims to upgrade and strengthen critical transportation routes across the State to ensure access during emergencies. FEMA has approved more than $7.8 million to remove and replace the existing State Route 8 Bridge, a two-span pony-truss bridge, with a new, higher two-span steel girder bridge that will be more resilient to extreme weather events.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-22-million-improve-flooding-and-storm-resiliency
