Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Completion of Energy Efficiency Project at Grand Central Terminal
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 21, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced, as part of Earth Week, the completion of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's largest-ever energy-efficiency project, which will save $2.5 million in annual energy costs at Grand Central Terminal.
"It is important for us to do our part to sustain the planet, and that starts with making our mass transit as clean as possible," Governor Cuomo said. "Energy-saving projects, such as the one completed at Grand Central Terminal, have a critical impact in reducing our carbon footprint so future generations can enjoy a greener tomorrow."
The upgrades will reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions by more than 11,200 tons a year--the equivalent of removing roughly 2,140 cars from the road. The more than 750,000 people who pass through Grand Central daily will benefit from improved air quality and better climate control.
The $25 million project is the result of a partnership between the New York Power Authority and the MTA and was carried out under Governor Cuomo's BuildSmart NY program, a statewide initiative to increase energy efficiency in public buildings. It is consistent with the Governor's Reforming the Energy Vision plan, which spurs clean-energy innovations that protect the environment and strengthen the State's economy.
The project, which began in 2012, includes a variety of energy-saving measures, such as the installation of cooling towers, temperature controls and compressed air and steam distribution systems, air handling upgrades, and new chillers to enhance the terminal's original cooling system. The project also implemented sub-meters to provide a better understanding of the energy usage throughout the facility.
Gil C. Quiniones, NYPA President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Aspart of BuildSmartNY, the Power Authority is completing energy efficiency projects like this one across the state every month, but it is certainly fitting that we're able to highlight the completion of such a major initiative in an iconic building like this one during such an environmentally significant week."
Thomas F. Prendergast, MTA Chairman, said, "This undertaking is the largest energy efficiency project in the MTA's history and will reap benefits for this terminal for decades to come--all with no upfront costs to Metro-North and capital expenses to be repaid to NYPA with the money saved by reduced energy consumption."
Metro-North, the nation's second-largest commuter railroad, is the MTA railroad that operates Grand Central.
The New York Power Authority is actively partnering with the MTA to improve energy efficiency in its facilities and is moving forward with multiple projects that, when completed, will save more than 31,000 megawatt hours of electricity and 64,900 gallons of fuel a year and eliminate almost 20,000 tons of greenhouse gas emissions annually. (One megawatt hour is equivalent to the amount of electricity used by about 330 homes during an hour.)
The New York Power Authority and MTA have partnered to complete 133 energy efficiency and clean energy projects, saving 145,000 megawatt hours of electricity and 267,700 gallons of fuel a year, while reducing greenhouse gas emissions by about 92,400 tons annually.
BuildSmart NY calls for an increase in energy efficiency in state government buildings by 20 percent by 2020. The initiative will save millions of dollars for taxpayers and create thousands of jobs while significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Under Reforming the Energy Vision, New York is pioneering a new statewide approach that gives customers greater opportunities for energy savings, local power generation, and enhanced reliability. New Yorkers will have access to a safe, clean and affordable energy infrastructure that creates jobs and provides economic development.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-completion-energy-efficiency-project-grand-central-terminal
