Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Regional Task Forces to Help Crime Victims
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 20, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that task forces are being piloted across the state to enhance the investigation and prosecution of cases involving New York's special needs population. The countywide task forces will address and enhance the way law enforcement, medical personnel and social services agencies respond to criminal cases involving people with disabilities and special needs who have been victimized.
"New York was the first state in the nation to establish an independent state agency dedicated to safeguarding people with special needs and disabilities, and these task forces are a crucial step in continuing that progress," Governor Cuomo said. "This work will help to prevent further trauma to innocent victims across the state, including those with various disabilities."
Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul said, "Often times crime victims are unaware of their rights and the services available to them and are, therefore, underserved. Because of New York State's Justice Center and Office of Victim Services we have a unique opportunity to make a difference in the lives of these victims. I am proud to be part of our Crime Victims' Rights Week announcement and I applaud Governor Cuomo's commitment to protecting New York's most vulnerable residents so they and their families get the assistance they are entitled to."
The newly created Vulnerable Persons' Task Forces will enhance collaboration and identify best practices and training to better serve New York's vulnerable populations. April 19th also kicked off Crime Victims' Rights Week in New York, and this year's theme is Engaging Communities, Empowering Victims, which sends the message that, through partnerships we can provide support and services that will empower victims to direct their own recovery.
Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul today visited Monroe County, one of four counties piloting a task force. Joining her at the Monroe County Public Safety Building were representatives from the state's Office of Victim Services and the Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs, as well as law enforcement officials, crime victim service providers and advocates for persons with disabilities from throughout Monroe County.

Source:
