Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Enhanced Equipment and Training for Police Officers and New Recruits Across New York State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 6, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York will provide 33 police academies and agencies across the state with equipment for enhanced training of current officers and recruits. The state invested approximately $322,000 to purchase equipment required for reality-based training, which is designed to improve the safety of interactions between police and civilians.
"This state-of-the-art equipment and training will provide officers with new skills and enhance their ability to protect and serve their communities," Governor Cuomo said. "New York is committed to providing officers and agencies with resources, training and guidance to perform their work at the highest level and help ensure a safer New York for all."
Reality-based training allows officers to engage in realistic scenarios they are likely to experience on patrol, from routine encounters with people on the street to high-risk situations with the potential for deadly violence. The training scenarios allow instructors to work with officers to review and evaluate their performance with the ultimate goal of improving decision-making skills, reactions and responses for better outcomes on the street. The hands-on training -- designed to recreate the stress experienced by officers during those interactions -- requires specialized equipment: non-lethal firearms that act and feel like those carried by officers on duty and protective gear, including helmets and chest protectors.
The state Division of Criminal Justice Services purchased and distributed the equipment: 269 non-lethal training firearms and appropriate ammunition and 476 full sets of protective gear, which include helmets with facemasks, neck guards, chest and groin protectors and gloves for officers. A list of academies and agencies receiving the equipment is available here. Police academies train about 1,000 recruits annually, and thousands of current officers attend in-service trainings at the academies each year.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-enhanced-equipment-and-training-police-officers-and-new-recruits
