Public Statements
Governor Cuomo, Legislative Leaders and Industry Representatives Prepare to Depart for Cuba as Part of NYS Trade Mission
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 19, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today is meeting with the members of the NYS Trade Mission to Cuba to prepare for tomorrow's departure to Havana. In addition to the Governor and members of his administration, the delegation includes Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie, Senate Minority Leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins, Independent Democratic Conference Leader Jeff Klein, and business leaders representing a number of important sectors and industries in New York's economy. More information on the delegation is available here.
"As the door begins to open between the U.S. and Cuba, we want New York businesses to be first out of the gate when it comes to building trade partnerships and establishing a strong position in this new market," Governor Cuomo said. "That is what this trade mission and our larger Global NY initiative are all about - promoting opportunities for New York businesses to grow and compete on the international stage. The new New York is committed to being open for business, and this trade mission is another example that we are no longer waiting for opportunity to come knocking - we're going door-to-door ourselves. We are pursuing opportunities at every turn, just as we will with our other upcoming trade missions around the world, and we will continue to show that entrepreneurial government is no longer an oxymoron."
Governor Cuomo continued: "Trade does not occur in a vacuum, however, and Cuba is a special case. The President announced a dramatic shift in U.S. foreign policy toward Cuba last December. Like other places around the world that the U.S. engages with, there are strong policy disagreements between us on issues like human rights. The U.S. shift in policy recognizes that engagement is far more likely to lead to change in policies we disagree with. Our trade mission is part of that new engagement. New York has proudly long been a leader on issues of equality and human rights and I agree with the President that engagement is the best way to promote democracy and bring about positive change, rather than continuing a failed policy of isolation."
As the door begins to open between the U.S. and Cuba, we want New York businesses to be first out of the gate when it comes to building trade partnerships and establishing a strong position in this new market.
Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie said: "I am excited to be joining Governor Cuomo and the entire New York delegation in this historic trade mission to Cuba. For New York State's businesses in the banking, financial, agricultural, and technology sectors this is a unique opportunity to gain access to an emerging market. The trade mission has the potential to not only create new opportunities for the people of our state, but also to benefit the Cuban people by encouraging and supporting reforms. There are so many opportunities to explore and I am proud to represent the New York State Assembly as we engage in this important dialogue."
Senate Minority Leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins said: "This is an exciting and wonderful opportunity for the people of New York. I look forward to helping build relationships that will help move forward the New York economy. I commend both the President and Governor for understanding that building these types of relationships can help both the economy move forward as well as the struggle for greater equality of all people. New York and the United States must act as a shining beacon of Democracy."
New York has proudly long been a leader on issues of equality and human rights and I agree with the President that engagement is the best way to promote democracy and bring about positive change, rather than continuing a failed policy of isolation.
Independent Democratic Conference Leader Jeff Klein said: "I am pleased to be joining Governor Cuomo as part of the New York delegation to Cuba. This trip is a positive first step in exploring ways we can grow and expand economic opportunities that will build an even stronger New York. We've made great strides at getting people back to work in the Bronx and I'm always open to innovative and targeted approaches that offer us the possibility of creating even more good paying jobs in my borough as well as throughout the state."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-legislative-leaders-and-industry-representatives-prepare-depart-cuba-part-nys
