Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $443,000 in Awards For Eight Adirondack Communities
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 15, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $443,000 in smart growth grants awarded by New York State to eight Adirondack communities for sustainable revitalization and economic development projects. Funds will go toward general revitalization efforts as well as to help refurbish historic properties and develop recreational trail connections to sustain and enhance tourism.
"The Adirondack Park is one of the most beautiful natural resources in the country, and funding sustainable projects to revitalize small communities will continue to draw visitors," Governor Cuomo said. "These projects are an investment in the region that will bring long-term economic benefits and ensure that the Adirondacks remain enjoyable for years to come."
This is the third round of smart growth funding through the Environmental Protection Fund to support Adirondack Park communities, building on the success of two rounds (in 2007 and 2010) that focused on planning projects. Previous funding supported locally led plans to establish direct links between Department of Environmental Conservation trail systems and community trails, as well help underutilized hamlets use historic resources to attract visitors. This year's awards focus on implementing projects, both regional and local, that are supported by prior planning and are now ready to move forward.
The Department of Environmental Conservation administers the smart growth grants in partnership with the Adirondack Park Agency and the New York State Department of State. The program has provided direct support to municipalities and not-for-profit organizations for parkwide initiatives -- such as the Common Ground Alliance and Adirondack Partnership -- that are promoting critical, shared priorities of local residents, municipalities, not-for-profit organizations and state agencies, including economic development, broadband and sustainable recreation and tourism.
Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Joe Martens said, "The beautiful natural resources in the Adirondacks offer a unique opportunity to attract tourists and new businesses, and these grants will help local communities develop projects to achieve their economic potential. Governor Cuomo is committed to helping Adirondack communities build more sustainable economies and this smart growth funding supports strategies and partnerships that will benefit communities across the region. We congratulate the grant recipients for their vision and commitment, and look forward to working with them to make the North Country an even better place to live, work and play."
Adirondack Park Agency Chairwoman Lani Ulrich said, "The Agency is very pleased to collaborate with Governor Cuomo and the Department of Environmental Conservation on the smart growth in the Adirondack Park program. Across the nation, there is a growing appreciation for communities with a sense of place. An increased desire for neighborhoods devoid of sprawl, and a yearning for landscapes that sustain wildlife while supporting a rural way of life. The implementation of these projects will improve the economic well-being of the Adirondack Park while preserving the exceptional open space characteristics which make the Adirondack Park so wonderful."
Senator Betty Little said, "For the past four years, we've seen a wonderful and productive partnership develop in the Adirondacks among state and local government officials, not-for-profits, environmental groups, businesses and residents. Working cooperatively, a lot has been accomplished and this new round of smart growth grants builds on the positive momentum. I'm very thankful for the support of Governor Andrew Cuomo and Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Joe Martens for their commitment to help our local communities implement strategies to grow the economy while safeguarding the environment."
Assemblyman Dan Stec said, "These grants will continue to enhance economic development opportunities along with providing multi-use recreational activities that will benefit our North Country communities."
Assemblymember Janet L. Duprey said, "I am pleased three of the communities in my Assembly District are receiving Smart Growth awards in this round of funding. The Town and Village of Tupper Lake are in the process of revitalizing those communities by improving the visual appeal of streets, businesses and tourist attractions. People often make quick assessments on a community based on first sight, and these improvements will definitely increase the appeal and vibrancy of Tupper Lake. The Town of Duane Church is a unique structure in the center of this small rural community that will allow town officials to develop tourism and activities throughout the town. I thank the Governor and Commissioner Martens for their continued support of our Adirondack Region."
Fred Monroe, executive director of the Adirondack Park Local Government Review Board, said, "The Adirondack Park Local Government Review Board applauds the Department of Environmental Conservation for the smart growth grants announced today. The smart growth planning grants announced in 2007 and 2010 set the stage for the implementation phase of projects announced in this round. These grants will help Adirondack communities improve their economies by increasing recreational opportunities, attracting more visitors and increasing tourism."
Adirondack Association of Towns and Villages President Brian Towers said, "Governor Cuomo's continued support for the Adirondack Park is greatly appreciated and is having a profound positive impact on Park municipalities. Connecting the Forest Preserve to our communities is an economic strategy that is strongly supported by local government."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-443000-awards-eight-adirondack-communities
