Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $438,000 to Support Anti-Poverty Programs in Rochester Area
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 12, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that $438,000 is available to support new AmeriCorps programs that combat poverty and fight inequality in the Rochester area. Programs that receive funding will complement the work of the Governor's Rochester Anti-Poverty Task Force by increasing access to critical services for individuals in need, including child care, health care, job training and youth mentoring, as well as promoting quality education, anti-hunger and anti-homelessness efforts throughout Monroe County.
"By investing in community organizations that help those in need with everything from child care to job training, we are taking a crucial step forward in the fight against poverty," Governor Cuomo said. "Civic engagement is one of the most important pieces of the equation when it comes to combatting inequality in our society. This funding will strengthen our nonprofit groups as they work to expand opportunity throughout the Rochester area, and I encourage all interested parties to join us in making a difference in people's lives."
Applications for funding will be accepted by the New York State Commission on National and Community Service -- New Yorkers Volunteer (NYS CNCS).
"We are proud to aid the work of the Governor's Rochester Anti-Poverty Task Force," said Linda Cohen, Executive Director of NYS CNCS. "AmeriCorps is about getting things done, solving problems and meeting needs that would otherwise go unfulfilled. As Governor Cuomo has said, these needs are more urgent than ever in Rochester and Monroe County. We are bringing the energy and resources of AmeriCorps to these communities to help tackle severe challenges like childhood poverty and extreme poverty, and to lend a hand to our fellow New Yorkers as they climb out of poverty and create more opportunities for themselves and their families."
A bidders' conference will be held on Tuesday, April 14 at the SUNY Rochester Educational Opportunity Center (Multi-Purpose Room), 161 Chestnut St., Rochester, between 10 a.m. and 12 p.m. To register for the bidders' conference, view the RFP and for additional information, visit the NYS CNCS website, newyorkersvolunteer.ny.gov. Proposals are due by 5 p.m. on May 4, 2015.
Since 1994, more than 72,000 AmeriCorps members in New York have completed more than 110 million hours of service. NYS CNCS, a Governor-appointed commission, uses the power of AmeriCorps to address some of the State's most challenging issues, and encourages citizens to make a difference in the lives of their neighbors. The State's AmeriCorps members have changed the lives of New Yorkers by improving schools, fighting poverty, coming to the aid of the sick, preserving the environment, and supporting veterans and military families.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-438000-support-anti-poverty-programs-rochester-area
