Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Path Through History Events to Recognize 150th Anniversary of President Lincoln's Death
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 9, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the 150th anniversary of the death of President Abraham Lincoln will be commemorated starting this month with numerous special events statewide, including a full day of free activities on Saturday, April 25 at the New York State Capitol. This is the date the Lincoln Funeral Train arrived in Albany in 1865 carrying the slain President's body that then laid in state at the old Capitol on April 26.
"President Lincoln guided our nation through one of its darkest times, and his commitment to unity and equality continues to inspire," Governor Cuomo said. "As we recognize the 150th anniversary of his death, I encourage all New Yorkers to learn more about his life, his enduring legacy and his profound impact on our nation."
The East Gallery of the Capitol will feature an exhibit dedicated to Lincoln's memory and the contributions New York made to the Union effort in the Civil War. Central to the exhibit is the flag that laid on the President's coffin. In addition, numerous Lincoln-themed activities will take place at the Capitol including re-enactors, period music and more. To cap off the day, the National Parks Service is sponsoring a presentation by a noted actor who will portray Lincoln in the War Room of the Capitol at 3:30 and 6:30 p.m. All events are free and open to the public. However, because of limited seating, reservations are required for the Lincoln portrayal and can be made at www.governor.ny.gov/lincolntribute.
Visitors will be able to experience the exhibit at the Capitol through the summer. In addition, New York's Path Through History program will feature sites and events statewide that explore President Lincoln, the Civil War and their connection to the Empire State. Information is available at www.iloveny.com/Lincoln. More information on the National Parks Funeral Train events can be found here.
National Park Service Director Jonathan B. Jarvis said, "Over the last four years, the National Park Service has commemorated the 150th anniversary of this country's greatest national crisis, while exploring its enduring relevance in the 21st century using the guiding theme of Civil War to Civil Rights. As the sesquicentennial events come to a close, our commemorations of Abraham Lincoln's funeral train highlight the major cities, including three in New York State, that held funeral ceremonies along the route to Springfield, Illinois. These events in New York, Albany and Buffalo recognize the Empire State's significant role in the Union war effort, both on the battlefields and on the home front."
Harold Holzer, Senior Vice President for Public Affairs at The Metropolitan Museum of Art, said, "No state contributed more soldiers, more money, or more innovation to Lincoln's war to preserve the Union and destroy slavery than did New York. And no state grieved at his assassination more publicly and more passionately. Lincoln earned unforgettably grand farewells in Manhattan, Albany, and Buffalo. But as this exhibit reveals, small tributes occurred in many towns and villages in between, from the Hudson Valley to the Southern Tier--and all along the tracks where his funeral train rode in its journey back to Springfield, Illinois. This is an amazing, virtually untold story of which all New Yorkers should be proud. And they should be equally proud of the successful effort to preserve the flag that once covered his coffin in Albany--and was supplied in 1865 by the Albany woman who helped our state obtain the priceless Preliminary Emancipation Proclamation in Lincoln's hand. As chair of the Lincoln Bicentennial Foundation, I'm proud to have supported the flag preservation effort. As a Lincoln historian, I'm honored to have worked with Mark Schaming and the New York State Museum on its interpretation. And as a New Yorker, I'm grateful to Governor Cuomo for all he has done to encourage history education and exhibitions in the Capitol and throughout the state."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-path-through-history-events-recognize-150th-anniversary-president
