Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $233 Million to Fund Counterterrorism and Emergency Preparedness
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 8, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced more than $233 million in federal grants that will support counterterrorism and emergency preparedness activities in counties across New York State. The funding, provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) through its Homeland Security Grant Program, supports regional preparedness efforts, including planning, organization, and training activities that are critical to sustaining and improving community prevention, protection, response, and recovery capabilities.
"New York continues to be a target for terrorism, and we must ensure there is adequate funding to prepare, plan and prevent," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding will help defend the state against those who wish to do harm and will support our first responders who are called upon when emergency strikes. Keeping New Yorkers safe is the top priority, and through these programs and exercises we will continue to work toward this goal."
The homeland security grants support exercises and training for first responders, equipment purchases, and other capabilities essential to keeping New Yorkers safe. Federal guidelines require that 25 percent of each county's total award be directed toward law enforcement terrorism prevention activities.
Priority projects include efforts that build upon Governor Cuomo's Citizen Preparedness Program, development of effective cyber security programs and policies, and continued coordination of emergency management planning efforts. The state Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services is also advancing regional partnerships and enhancing information sharing among law enforcement. The agency provides guidance and support to counties, which must submit detailed project plans in order to receive reimbursement-based grant contracts.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-233-million-fund-counterterrorism-and-emergency-preparedness
