Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Dr. King Career Fair With 150 Businesses Offering Over 3,000 Jobs
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 7, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that this year's Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Career Fair, to be held on April 16, will be the biggest yet with 150 businesses ready to hire for more than 3,000 available Capital Region jobs.
"Our economy is growing and, especially here in the Capital Region, businesses are expanding and looking for more talented workers," Governor Cuomo said. "Businesses come back each year because they know they can find good workers here and, with such a wide range of jobs available, I strongly encourage anyone looking to advance their career to attend this event."
The Career Fair will be held on Thursday, April 16, from 12:30 p.m. to 4 p.m. in the Empire State Plaza Convention Center in Albany. The event is free for job seekers and businesses. Job seekers are encouraged to pre-register early: www.labor.ny.gov/mlkcareers.
Participating businesses come from 16 industry sectors, including:
Manufacturing
Finance and Insurance
Utilities and Construction
Professional, Scientific & Technical
Healthcare and Social Assistance
The Dr. King Career Fair is sponsored by the New York State Department of Labor in collaboration with the Office of General Services.
Acting State Labor Commissioner Mario J. Musolino said, "Now in its 16th year, we have expanded our space for the Dr. King Career Fair to allow more businesses in than ever before. This growth of the event is a testament to the success businesses find when they participate in our recruitment events."
In addition to meeting with businesses, job seekers can attend workshops before doors open, starting at 11 a.m. Workshops offered by career search experts will include "Use Your Resume to Sell Your Skills," which will teach how to write a strong resume, and "Find Success with Jobs Express," which will show how to navigate Governor Cuomo's Jobs Express website (www.jobs.ny.gov) to find the best job leads. There will also be resume review services and on-site interviews with several participating businesses.
For more information about career services and hiring events, please call the Department of Labor at 1-888-4-NYSDOL or visit www.labor.ny.gov.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-dr-king-career-fair-150-businesses-offering-over-3000-jobs
