Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches Online Application System For Crime Victim Compensation
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 7, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the launch of a new online application system that will aid crime victims and their family members who are seeking compensation for medical bills, moving expenses, lost wages, and other forms of assistance. Last year, the state Office of Victim Services received more than 17,500 paper-based claims, making this online system a more efficient and streamlined way to process those requests for help.
"Launching this new online system is an important step towards helping victims receive the compensation and the support they deserve," Governor Cuomo said. "This easy-to-use application system will make it easier to submit claims, and it represents another way that we're making government work better, smarter and more efficiently for the people of New York State."
Administered by the Office of Victim Services, the online Victim Service Portal is now live in Western New York, accessible to victim advocates who work for the 49 victim assistance programs funded by the agency in that region. The portal will be activated in the five remaining regions of the state over the next six weeks, with all 228 agency-funded programs able to file online claims by mid-May.
Approximately 85 percent of claims filed are submitted by victim assistance programs. The Victim Service Portal also is accessible to victim assistance programs not funded by the agency and is scheduled to be available in June to individuals seeking to file their own claims.
Office of Victim Services Director Elizabeth Cronin said, "When someone is a victim of a crime, it can seem as if the whole world has been turned upside down, so we are always looking for ways to improve services and better respond to the needs of crime victims. The Victim Service Portal meets both of those important goals. This was truly a collaborative effort, with the Office of Victim Services and information technology staff working in partnership with victim assistance programs to make this project a reality."

Source:
