Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Spring and Summer I Love New York Bus Getaways
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 6, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the kick-off of the spring and summer season of the I LOVE NEW YORK Bus service, which offers easy and affordable getaways from New York City and Long Island to destinations across New York. This spring and summer, the bus service has doubled the number of opportunities to experience the state's rich heritage with tours to various destinations including the Hudson Valley, Long Island and the Catskills, as well as overnight trips to the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, Saratoga Springs and Niagara Falls.
"Following a successful opening season, the I LOVE NEW YORK Bus is hitting the road with more to offer than ever before," said Governor Cuomo. "This service provides downstate New Yorkers an easy and affordable way to head out of town to experience the best that the Empire State has to offer. Whether it's a wine tour on Long Island or a family trip to Niagara Falls, there's something for everyone -- all while generating economic activity and supporting jobs in communities across the state."
The complete list of I LOVE NEW YORK Bus trips is available at www.iloveny.com/bus.
The I LOVE NEW YORK Bus was launched last fall to increase transportation access to tourism opportunities, promoting economic growth and jobs throughout New York. This spring and summer lineup builds on the 14 fall and winter outings that brought hundreds of travelers Upstate by offering dozens of additional day and overnight itineraries.
Gavin Landry, Executive Director of Empire State Development's Division of Tourism said, "The I LOVE NEW YORK Bus is becoming a valuable asset in tapping into the significant New York City market and expanding our outreach to promote travel across New York State. The I LOVE NEW YORK Bus offers a convenient and fun way for New Yorkers to explore the state. It's great to sit back and relax after an exciting day sampling our wonderful regional wines and foods, sightseeing or exploring nature."
"From the beaches of the East End to horse racing in Saratoga, the I LOVE NY trips that we've developed for the warmer months will continue to make the best attractions and venues of New York available to everyone like never before," said Andrew Lynch, vice president of operations of Hampton Jitney, which operates the I LOVE NEW YORK Bus service.
Reservations for trips with the I LOVE NEW YORK Bus are highly recommended, but walk-on ticket sales are available if space permits.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-spring-and-summer-i-love-new-york-bus-getaways
