Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces PW Minor in Batavia Will Bring Outsourced Production from China Back to New York State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 6, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that PW Minor, a manufacturer and international distributor of leather footwear and orthopedic products, will bring previously outsourced production work from China back to New York State. The move will create 100 additional jobs at the company's Batavia facility. This news comes on the heels of the Governor's announcement in August 2014 that PW Minor, which was scheduled to close on July 31, 2014, will remain open under new local ownership and management, retaining more than 50 manufacturing jobs.
"I am pleased that these jobs are being brought back to New York State, where they belong," Governor Cuomo said. "Our priority is not only to attract new businesses to New York, but also to ensure that the ones already here continue to grow. PW Minor's decision to bring jobs back to Western New York will add to the region's growing reputation as a great place for businesses to thrive and I look forward to their continued success."
The owner of PW Minor, which was founded by two brothers in 1867 shortly after they returned from fighting in the Civil War, is Batavia Shoes LLC, headed by Andrew Young and Peter H. Zeliff. PW Minor is one of a few remaining shoe manufacturers in the United States and the oldest company in Genesee County.
Andrew Young said, "What an awesome opportunity for us to positively impact our community. The people of PW Minor have stepped it up and my money is on them that they will again. We look forward to growing production in Batavia and adding to the PW Minor family."
Peter H. Zeliff said, "Bringing our production back to New York is our priority. There will come a day when again we can proudly stamp "Made in America" on each and every pair of shoes with the PW Minor brand name." We are excited to be a part of the resurrection of this American icon.
PW Minor's $7.35 million project will automate its processes, allowing the company to close the gap between Batavia and China and thereby granting the company the ability to shutdown overseas operations and bring 100 new jobs to Batavia. Empire State Development (ESD) will provide up to $1.75 million in performance-based Excelsior Jobs Program tax credits in return for job creation commitments. This is in addition to the previously awarded $449,505 in 2014. If ESD did not incentivize this project, the company would not be able to close production in China and continue to grow in Batavia.
Howard Zemsky, President, CEO & Commissioner of Empire State Development, said, "PW Minor's decision to bring jobs back from overseas is a testament to the quality of the region's workforce and New York State's welcoming environment for growing a business. It's great news that more than one hundred employees of this iconic and valued business will continue to make hand-crafted quality shoes in Batavia for years to come."
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Genesee County Economic Development Center (GCEDC) Steve Hyde said, "The Governor and his economic development team at Empire State Development have once again made a significant commitment to Genesee County to bring new jobs and investment to our region. It's also a belief in the vision and business acumen of Pete Zeliff and Andrew Young in their efforts to restore the rich tradition of PW Minor in our community."
Senator Michael H. Ranzenhofer said, "PW Minor's decision to continue doing business in the City of Batavia and bring jobs back from China is proof positive that Genesee County is a good place to operate a business. With the partnership between Governor Cuomo, Empire State Development and this historic business, the opportunities for Genesee County residents continue to grow."
Assemblyman Stephen Hawley said "As a small-business owner, I know the struggles and successes that New York's small-business owners face on a daily basis. Locally-owned businesses are the lifeblood of our economy and I am proud to see my business advocacy in Albany materialize. I am thankful to Pete Zeliff and Andrew Young for re-energizing the new PW Minor as an historic mainstay of our Western New York economy."
Genesee County Chairman Raymond F. Cianfrini said, "Today is a great day for PW Minor and its employees and a great day for Genesee County. Our thanks go out to Peter Zeliff and Andrew Young for saving this historic business when it was on the brink of closure and now, with New York State's assistance, bringing additional jobs back from overseas. We in Genesee County are fortunate to have these two individuals, as well as the support of Empire State Development, who are committed to economic development and keeping our county vibrant."
City of Batavia Council President Brooks Hawley said, "P.W. Minor has been a company deep routed in Batavia for well over 100 years and I am thrilled to see their continued growth in our community. Thanks to Empire State Development for the State's incentives and to the commitment of new, local owners, Andrew Young and Peter Zeliff, PW Minor has a bright future in Batavia."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-pw-minor-batavia-will-bring-outsourced-production-china-back-new-york
