Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Grand Opening of Cornerstone CFCU Arena
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 27, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the opening of the new 93,500 square foot ice arena. The Cornerstone CFCU Arena is a $15 million dollar project designed to enhance the quality of life in the community by providing young people with easily accessible activities, while at the same time promoting physical fitness and developing good sportsmanship through supervised games. The arena is also an economic generator, expecting to attract more than 150,000 people each year for public skating, competitive hockey, skating lessons, private parties and performance training. These patrons could create a demand for more than 4,000 nights per year in area hotels. View the arena here.
"The opening of this ice arena is just another example of the success that can happen when we invest in each region from the ground up," Governor Cuomo said. "This completed project, one which the Western New York Regional Economic Development Council recognized, will bring new economic life to the community of Lockport. I encourage anyone looking to skate or play hockey to check out this new facility and see what it has to offer."
The state-of-the-art facility is located at the intersection of Chestnut and Market Street, just south of the historic Erie Canal that runs through the heart of downtown Lockport. The arena, designed by Bammel Architects, PC, houses two NHL-sized rinks, a community room and sports training facility for skaters of all ages. There is 2,000 square feet of tenant space for a restaurant as well as 630 seats for spectators, which are actually heated by the rink's refrigeration equipment.
"Our goal is to make Western New York a hockey destination" says John Ottaviano, chairman of the Cornerstone CFCU Arena. "The benefits from the arena will be felt throughout the region as teams will need to be accommodated in the Amherst and Niagara Falls area when a tournament is in town. This project is proof that we all benefit when we work together."

Source:
