Public Statements
Chief of the Cuban Interests Section José Ramón Cabañas and Governor Andrew M. Cuomo Announce that Governor Cuomo Will Lead Trade Mission to Cuba
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 26, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Chief of the Cuban Interests Section José Ramón Cabañas and Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Governor Cuomo will lead the first official state trade mission to Cuba since President Obama began the process to normalize diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba. President Obama's change in policy is the first step in opening new markets and new opportunities for New York businesses, and New York is poised to take advantage of reestablished relations. This upcoming trade mission will allow New York State officials and business leaders to explore new opportunities and advance shared interests. The trade mission delegation will leave for Cuba on April 20, 2015, and will include New York State government officials and business leaders.
"I am pleased to join Governor Andrew Cuomo in announcing this historic trade mission to Cuba. It is only right that New York's Governor will lead the first official state delegation to Cuba since President Obama's December 17th announcement," said Chief of the Cuban Interests Section José Ramón Cabañas. "As the gateway to America, New York State has always been a great symbol to the Cuban people. It has welcomed Cubans over the years as they came to visit and live in the United States, including the great José Martí. We are greatly excited that Governor Cuomo has agreed to be the first Governor to lead an official state trade mission to our beautiful island."
"I am pleased to announce that New York will be the first in the nation to conduct an official state trade mission to Cuba since President Obama's announcement," Governor Cuomo said. "This mission will be a tremendous stepping stone for our State's relationship with Cuba, and will help open the door to a new market for New York businesses. Creating an environment that supports growth and economic development is one of our administration's top priorities, and Global NY is the perfect example of how we're taking that approach to the international stage. As the first state to launch a trade mission to Cuba in this new era, New York will continue to stand at the forefront of opportunity."
Global NY, an initiative launched by Governor Cuomo in 2014, has positioned New York State to enhance its international competitiveness. With offices in New York, Canada, China, Israel, Mexico, South Africa, and the United Kingdom, Global NY has on-the-ground experts around the world creating new business opportunities for New York State. In addition, the $35 million Global NY Development program will soon provide loans and grants to help small- and medium-sized New York businesses export abroad. The Governor also recently unveiled www.global.ny.gov, a one-stop shop for trade and investment. The Global NY trade mission to Cuba will be the first of several trade mission destinations, including Canada, China, Israel and Mexico.
Howard Zemsky, Acting President, CEO & Commissioner of Empire State Development, said, "The Global NY trade mission to Cuba will seek to expand economic development opportunities across New York by creating a trade relationship that will leverage the State's unparalleled resources. The business environment in the Empire State is thriving, and under Governor Cuomo's leadership, we will take these successes to new heights by creating a truly global New York."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/chief-cuban-interests-section-jos-ram-n-caba-and-governor-andrew-m-cuomo-announce-governor
