Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New York Trout and Salmon Fishing Season Opens April 1
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 26, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State's trout and salmon fishing season will open on April 1. Ahead of the season opening, anglers can start planning their first outing on the I LOVE NY website, which features information on freshwater, saltwater and fly fishing as well as highlights ideal locations for fishing.
"New York is home to some of the best fishing opportunities in the world, and we are proud to kick off yet another season for trout and salmon," Governor Cuomo said. "Hundreds of thousands of visitors come to this state every year to enjoy the beautiful natural resources we have to offer, and I encourage all anglers to start planning their first fishing trip of the season right here in New York."
New York boasts 7,500 lakes and ponds and 70,000 miles of riversand streamsfor resident and visiting anglers to enjoy. The state is home to an estimated 1.9 million total anglers, while 297,000 non-resident anglers come to New York to fish, according to a study by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. New York's sport fishing industry generates an estimated $1.96 billion in economic activity annually, supporting nearly 17,000 jobs.
Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Joe Martens said, "Some of the best fishing of the year can be found in lakes and ponds immediately following ice out. Enjoy opening day while using caution when fishing in high, cold water and icy banks and streambeds, common during the early season this time of year. To get ready for another great season of fishing in New York, the Department of Environmental Conservation plans to stock over 2.3 million catchable-size brook, brown and rainbow trout in 312 lakes and ponds and roughly 2,900 miles of streams across the state."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-new-york-trout-and-salmon-fishing-season-opens-april-1
