Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 22 Properties Nominated to State and National Registers of Historic Places
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 25, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the New York State Board for Historic Preservation has recommended the addition of 22 properties, resources and districts to the State and National Registers of Historic Places. The nominations reflect the remarkable breadth of New York's history, ranging from the home of an Albany County man who was a witness to the events leading up to the American Revolution, to the Canajoharie downtown district that took shape along the Mohawk River Valley's evolving transportation corridor, to the unique Westchester County home built by an out-of-work African-American carpenter on an extremely narrow lot donated by his Italian immigrant neighbor.
"New York has a rich heritage and has served as the location of significant events that are important to this nation's history," Governor Cuomo said. "By placing these properties on state and national registers, we can ensure that these sites from New York's past are preserved, maintained and enjoyed for future generations."
Being listed in the State and National Register is a boost for property owners to revitalize their buildings, as it makes them eligible for various public preservation programs and services such as matching state grants and state and federal historic rehabilitation tax credits. Spurred by the state and federal historic rehabilitation commercial tax credits administered by the State Historic Preservation Office, developers invested $500 million statewide in 2014 to revitalize properties listed on the National Register of Historic Places, while homeowners using a tax credit invested more than $9.8 million statewide on home improvements to help revitalize historic neighborhoods.
The State and National Registers are the official lists of buildings, structures, districts, landscapes, objects and sites significant in the history, architecture, archeology and culture of New York State and the nation. There are more than 120,000 historic buildings, structures and sites throughout the state listed on the National Register of Historic Places, individually or as components of historic districts. Property owners, municipalities and organizations from communities throughout the state sponsored the nominations.
Rose Harvey, Commissioner of the state Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation said, "These nominations reflect the diversity and distinctiveness of New York's communities. These landmarks are worthy of preservation, and listing them on the National Register is a way to offer them the support and recognition they deserve."
Once the recommendations are approved by the state historic preservation office, the properties are listed on the New York State Register of Historic Places and then nominated to the National Register of Historic Places, where they are reviewed and, once approved, entered on the National Register. More information and photos of the nominations is available on the Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation website.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-22-properties-nominated-state-and-national-registers-historic-places-0
