Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Launch of Year Two of World's Largest Business Competition and Unveiling of New Incubator Space
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 25, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the opening of the 2015 application period for 43North - the world's largest business ide43North is open to applicants ages 18 and older in any industry, with the exception of retail and hospitality. Applications to the competition will be accepted through June 24, 2015 at 43north.org. To view the 43North 2015 application terms and details, click here.
Empire State Development Acting President, CEO & Commissioner Howard Zemsky said, "The inaugural 43North competition was a terrific success and now the time has come to build on the momentum and create an even greater impact in year two. Thanks to Governor Cuomo, Western New York has become a place where startups and entrepreneurs come to launch and expand their businesses and the excitement continues to build as we see ideas turn into reality."
Mayor Byron Brown said, "Buffalo is becoming a magnet for entrepreneurs around the world through the 43North competition and other local startup efforts," said City of Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown. "We are building a city of opportunity for everyone in Buffalo and with Governor Andrew Cuomo's continued support and another $5 million at stake for this year's candidates, we will see even more innovation and investment injected into the local economy."
NYPA Chairman and Erie County resident John R. Koelmel said, "The New York Power Authority knew we were getting behind something big for Western New York when we supported Governor Cuomo's vision by providing funding to launch 43North in 2014. The results far exceeded our expectations and we are pleased to increase our grant to 43North this year to $6 million. This project puts Buffalo on the map for startups around the world and we're tremendously excited for what's ahead."


Source:
