Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Nearly 300 Institutions Take the Pride of NY Pledge
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 25, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that nearly 300 restaurants across the state have taken the Pride of NY Pledge, almost tripling the number of restaurants actively supporting New York State agricultural products and beverages since last year. The Pledge is part of the Governor's Taste NY initiative and was created to increase the sourcing, marketing and education of New York State grown and made products. By signing the Pledge, restaurants and chefs from the North Country to New York City have promised to expand their use of New York State products by ten percent or more.
"Our state produces some of the best food and beverages in the world and it's a recipe for success when more New Yorkers buy New York products," Governor Cuomo said. "By taking the Pride of NY Pledge, chefs, restaurants and even schools in every corner of the state are helping to introduce more customers to the world-class products that the Empire State has to offer. I thank the more than 300 participants who have joined us in this initiative, and I look forward to seeing our agricultural industry continue to grow and thrive in the years ahead."
Two of the more recent individuals to have taken the pledge include internationally-acclaimed chef Charlie Palmer, and SUNY Geneseo Interim President Carol Long.
During the second annual NYS Beer, Wine, Spirits and Cider Summit on April 8, 2014, the Governor set a goal to triple the number of restaurants participating in the Pride of NY Pledge in three years. With the initiative having grown to include more than 300 dining establishments and top chefs in the industry, the State is well ahead of meeting this target by 2017.
State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball said, "We have seen an incredible response to the Pride of NY Pledge, and the importance of this initiative is catching on in all corners of the State. With more and more restaurants looking to serve fresh, locally grown and produced products, we are better able to connect our farmers to new markets and increase exposure of the best of New York State food and beverages."
Each chef and/or restaurant participating in the initiative has pledged to:
1. Increase by 10 percent or more the sourcing of New York State grown and made products and ingredients, including products from New York's food and beverage producers,
2. Feature, highlight and increase by 10 percent wines, beers, spirits, ciders and other locally produced beverages on their drink menus,
3. Introduce New York-themed dishes made with locally sourced and seasonal products,
4. Consistently communicate their commitment with suppliers, peers and the public to encourage more support of New York State food and beverages, and
5. Educate staff and maintain knowledge of New York State's locally grown and made products.
A list of companies that have signed the Pride of NY pledge can be found here. Several of the companies listed have signed on for more than one location.
Internationally-acclaimed Chef Charlie Palmer recently took the Pride of NY Pledge and has signed on to source the best quality, New York State ingredients, and introduced an all-new New York-focused wine, beer and spirits selection at his New York City steakhouse.
Chef Charlie Palmer said, "Finally having a great steakhouse location in New York and working to increase our support of New York producers is really a proud moment for me. Our team has really embraced the New York maker culture and local product and we're really excited to feature all of these great quality beverages so prominently on our lists."
Carol Long, Interim President of SUNY Geneseo, who personally signed the Pride of NY Pledge, said, "The State University of New York at Geneseo and the Campus Auxiliary Services are proud to sign the Pride of New York Pledge to sustain and expand our efforts to increase our use of New York grown and produced products across our campus and in our community. We are proud of the quality of New York's locally grown and produced products; we showcase them on our campus and communicate our commitment to New York sourcing to our suppliers. We are particularly pleased to partner with local farms and businesses in our richly agricultural Livingston County, and we recognize how important such businesses are to the regional economy."
Executive Chef Madison of Midtown Premiere Restaurant and Lounge in Poughkeepsie said, "Taking the Pride of NY Pledge has been very important to me. Growing up my mother always grew our own vegetables and there was nothing more exciting than snacking on fresh tomatoes off the vine. Now as an adult and professional I have multiple relationships with local farmers. To be able to know where exactly your food is coming from is something close to my heart. On top of that, you know exactly what is being put into the plants and are able to pick them at their peak of freshness to ensure the most amazing quality. Lastly, I have to say that working with local farms and purveyors keeps money in our backyard. Helping each other out is what makes the world go around."
Scott Murray, Executive Chef/Owner of Anthony's Restaurant & Bistro in Plattsburgh said, "Buying local, regional or even statewide gives us an opportunity to develop relationships with our growers and producers. When we have a personal relationship with our growers and producers there becomes a mutual appreciation between them and the restaurant. This direct contact gives us the ability to strengthen our knowledge and better understand the products we use and the people behind them. As a Chef, this awareness increases the pride and confidence we have in our cuisine."
Chef Waldy Malouf of The Culinary Institute of America said, "The Culinary Institute of America is dedicated to providing the world's best culinary education, and a key part of that is helping our degree program students understand the importance of supporting local growers whenever possible. In fact, the college currently purchases products from more than 30 New York State farmers, contributing more than one million dollars to the local economy. By taking the Taste NY pledge, the restaurants of the CIA are highlighting their use of New York State products, and reinforcing our commitment to not only sourcing foods from the Empire State, but also to supporting the growers that are such an important part of the state's economy. By taking the Taste NY pledge, everybody wins--students, chefs, growers, and our restaurant guests."
To join these dining establishments and take the Pride of NY Pledge please click here, or for more information, please email TasteNY@agriculture.ny.gov.
The Governor's Taste NY program focuses on branding and expanding New York's food and beverage industry by making the wide variety of foods and beverages made and grown in the state readily available and recognizable to New Yorkers as well as to the hospitality industry and public nationwide. Part of Governor Cuomo's efforts to promote agribusiness across the state, Taste NY is being marketed through a range of promotional efforts including Taste NY tents at important events, Taste NY stores in transportation hubs and a dedicated website, www.taste.ny.gov.
Sodexo responded quickly to the call from Pride of New York, mobilizing more than 25 of its SUNY campus locations to participate in the Pride program and taking the message about New York products into unique areas.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-nearly-300-institutions-take-pride-ny-pledge
