Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces First World War II Veteran Certified Under the State's Veteran-Owned Business Program
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 24, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Surface Finishing Corporation, a business located in Camilus and founded by World War II veteran Frederick C. Shibel, Sr. in 1979, has been certified under the State's Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Business Act. The company, which sells chemical systems and equipment used for resurfacing metal, is the first one owned by a World War II veteran to be certified under the program, which the State developed to increase economic opportunities for these small businesses through the State contracting process.
"Our brave men and women in the military have served and sacrificed for their state and country, and giving them the tools to grow a good business when they return home is only one way we can thank them," Governor Cuomo said. "I congratulate Mr. Shibel on his certification, and encourage any eligible veteran to apply to the program today."
Once certified under the program, a business becomes eligible for set-asides that will be established on state contracts for services, technology and construction. When a contract has a set-aside that means a certain portion of that contract must be awarded to a service-disabled, veteran-owned company. A certified businesses will also qualify to be a supplier or subcontractor to a company that is a prime contractor on a state contract. The legislation, signed by Governor Cuomo in May 2014, created the Division of Service Disabled Veterans Business Development within the Office of General Services, which oversees the program and certifies eligible businesses. Certification also leads to increased awareness of service-disabled, veteran-owned businesses throughout New York State.
Office of General Services Commissioner RoAnn M. Destito said, "We are very pleased to be certifying the first business owned by a veteran of World War II through this program. OGS has been actively certifying service-disabled, veteran-owned companies statewide since Governor Cuomo created the Division last year."
Frederick C. Shibel, Sr. said, "At 17 I convinced my parents to let me sign up for the Navy, because I wanted to go to college but didn't have the money. The decision to join the Navy has paid off in many ways for me, including this new opportunity that New York is making available to people with similar backgrounds in the military. It's a great opportunity that I hope to take advantage of to grow my business."
Two of Shibel's brothers were already serving in the military when he convinced his parents to give him the permission for a 17-year-old to enlist. Although he had not heard about the G.I. Bill, Shibel wanted to go to college and realized the military might provide him with the chance to achieve that goal. He served in the Navy in the South Pacific and was injured during a training exercise.
After being honorably discharged in 1946, Shibel returned home and attended college at Syracuse University on the G.I. Bill, earning a Bachelor of Science degree in chemical engineering and industrial engineering, and a Master of Science degree in chemical engineering with a minor in polymer chemistry from the College of Environmental Science and Forestry.
His first job out of college was with the Diamond Shamrock Company where he became a senior engineer. He went on to become a project manager at Onondaga Associates in Lafayette and then at Crouse-Hinds Company in Syracuse. Shibel broke out on his own in 1975 and started FCS Associates in Syracuse where he acted as a manufacturers' representative, supplying companies with both engineering and chemistry products as well as acting as a broker.
Shibel then founded the Surface Finishing Corporation in 1979. The company, which has two employees, provides the systems, chemicals, and equipment companies need to clean and place surfaces on metals used for everything from aircraft propellers to computer electronics. He has done business with major manufacturers in New York, including Xerox and Kodak. Shibel already knows the value of the State's business development programs. The work he did for Kodak was as a subcontractor for a company that was certified as a minority-owned business.
Shibel's company is already certified by the federal government as a service-disabled, veteran-owned business and has done work for the military. A chemical system known as electroless plating was developed by Shibel for the Watervilet Arsenal. He has been able to sell that system on the international market for the past 15 years.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-first-world-war-ii-veteran-certified-under-states-veteran-owned
