Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 10 More Companies Join Start-Up NY
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 23, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 10 more businesses plan to expand in or locate to New York State as a result of START-UP NY. These companies join the more than 80 companies already participating in the innovative program that creates tax-free areas associated with colleges and universities across the state.
"With more and more companies applying each month, START-UP NY continues to prove that there is no better place to start or grow a business than right here in the Empire State," Governor Cuomo said. "By allowing companies to partner with New York's world-class colleges and operate in tax-free environments, we are laying the groundwork that will continue to drive the economy and deliver real job opportunities and millions of dollars in investment statewide."
The 10 businesses announced today will invest nearly $40 million and have committed to create at least 267 new jobs over the next five years in tax-free areas sponsored by SUNY Cobleskill, Stony Brook University, Rochester Institute of Technology and Hudson Valley Community College. START-UP NY now has commitments from 93 companies -- sponsored by 21 different colleges and universities statewide -- to create more than 2,805 new jobs and invest over $173 million in communities throughout the state.
The businesses expanding in or locating to the Empire State under START-UP NY will create jobs in several key industries, including physical engineering and life sciences; biomedical and sustainable technology development; research and development in biotechnology; custom computer programming services; metal manufacturing; and electromedical and electrotherapeutic apparatus manufacturing.
Empire State Development Acting President, CEO & Commissioner Howard Zemsky said, "START-UP NY is a game- changing initiative that is catalyzing economic growth and strategic public-private partnerships across New York State. Governor Cuomo's program is paving the way to a stronger economic future by fostering job creation and generating hundreds of millions in investment from high-growth industries such as biotechnology, software development and advance manufacturing."
SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher said, "Governor Cuomo's START-UP NY program continues to attract innovative, high-tech businesses to SUNY campuses and New York's communities, and expand access for SUNY students and faculty to have valuable research opportunities and applied learning experience. We look forward to welcoming these newest businesses to SUNY in the Mohawk Valley, Capital District, and on Long Island."chnology; custom computer programming services; metal manufacturing; and electromedical and electrotherapeutic apparatus manufacturing.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-10-more-companies-join-start-ny
