Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Details Critical Importance of Fort Drum Ahead of Army's Community Listening Session
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 20, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today highlighted the critical importance of Fort Drum to New York State and the North Country and detailed the State's substantial investments over the past years -- and proposed in the 2015-16 Executive Budget -- to strengthen the base and local community, ahead of the Army's Community Listening Session Friday evening.
As the U.S. Army prepares to decide on force structure reductions, it is conducting approximately 30 community listening sessions nationwide at major Army installations in order for members of the community to have their voices heard. As part of the Cuomo administration's efforts to demonstrate the State's commitment to Fort Drum, Lt. Governor Kathy Hochul and leadership of State Agencies -- including Richard Ball, Commissioner of the Department of Agriculture and Markets, Eric Hesse, Director of Veterans Affairs, Audrey Zibelman, Chair of the Public Service Commission, Sean Fitzgerald, Assistant Commissioner of Homes and Community Renewal, Rosemary Powers, Chief Operating Officer of the Department of Transportation -- will attend Friday evening's community listening session in Watertown.
"Fort Drum is an integral part of the North Country, of New York State, and our nation's military, and New York is extraordinarily proud to be home to the 10th Mountain Division," Governor Cuomo said. "Over the years, the North Country community and the State have made significant investments in Fort Drum to support the Army's mission and to help meet its needs including new roads, infrastructure, affordable housing, and improved local healthcare services. Working together with our local and federal partners, we will continue do everything we can to ensure Fort Drum remains a vibrant and active military installation for years to come."
"As the largest employer of the entire North Country, Fort Drum remains an invaluable asset that drives economic growth and shared prosperity for our State and its residents," said Lieutenant Governor Hochul. "As New Yorkers, we also understand the invaluable role it plays in providing a home for our brave men and women in uniform -- along with an estimated 26,500 of their loving family members. The Governor, along with the backing of our Congressional delegation, strongly believes that we must continue our unwavering support of Fort Drum and protect this critical installation from any reductions whatsoever. I am confident that the testimony provided here today will convince the federal government just how much the local community and New York State supports Fort Drum."
Fort Drum, home to the 10th Mountain Division, directly employs 21,068 individuals, including 3,799 civilians and supports an additional 6,195 jobs in the region that would not exist otherwise. Personnel reductions considered by the Army -- as large as 16,000 -- would have a devastating impact, affecting an additional 24,288 spouses and children of soldiers at Fort Drum, and could result in the direct loss of one-third of the total population of Jefferson County. All Fort Drum children attend schools, and as a result, 7,276 children of military families enrolled in three local schools systems during the 2014-15 school year, comprising 40 percent of total enrollment in the Indian River Central, Carthage Central, and Watertown City School Districts. Soldiers, their family members and veterans comprise 38 percent of the student body of Jefferson Community College.
In August 2014, Governor Cuomo sent a letter to Secretary of the Army John M. McHugh and Army Chief of Staff General Raymond T. Odierno expressing his concerns about cuts at Fort Drum, and further detailing the State's efforts to invest in and support Fort Drum and the surrounding community. The letter can be viewed HERE. In September 2014, Governor Cuomo participated in a trip organized by the Department of Defense to visit with troops from the 10th Mountain Division serving in Afghanistan. In December 2014, Governor Cuomo attended the 10th Mountain Division's "Welcome Home" ceremony at Fort Drum.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-details-critical-importance-fort-drum-ahead-armys-community-listening-session
