Public Statements
Public Safety Officials from Across the State Join Governor Cuomo's Enough is Enough Campaign
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 19, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the Police Benevolent Association of the New York State Troopers, Inc., the New York State Association of Chiefs of Police, which represents all 400 police departments in the state, and 28 individual sheriffs from across the state have joined the Enough is Enough campaign in support of the Governor's proposal to combat sexual assault on college and university campuses. Many of these law enforcement officials respond to reports of sexual violence and, under the Governor's proposal, are among the officials to whom students can reach out to report incidents of on-campus sexual assault. The Governor's proposal would codify uniform sexual assault prevention and response protocols for all colleges and universities in New York. The adoption of this proposal will make New York a leader in the fight against on-campus sexual violence and will better protect the State's 1.2 million college students.
"The addition of these public safety officials to our effort to make New York a leader in the fight against on-campus sexual violence will help ensure our higher education institutions are safe havens for learning," Governor Cuomo said. "As the broad-based coalition supporting Enough is Enough continues to grow, we are sending a message that these crimes will not be tolerated and now is the time to get this policy passed into law."
"The Troopers PBA supports these proposed changes, which significantly toughen New York State's laws on sexual assault on college campuses throughout the state," Troopers PBA President Thomas Mungeer said. "This legislation addresses overwhelming concerns that parents have when sending their children off to college. These are some of the most difficult cases for our members to investigate, and this proposal would make a significant difference on New York's campuses."
"The New York State Association of Chiefs of Police join Governor Cuomo's "Enough is Enough' campaign to combat sexual violence on college campuses and universities," NYS Association of Chiefs of Police Executive Director Margaret Ryan said. "NYSACOP members are committed to investigating all crimes, especially in the case of sexual assaults, which are often under reported. As law enforcement officials, we welcome the opportunity to help alleviate this problem in our society as we work closely with SUNY and other college chiefs."
"As law enforcement officials, we are often the entity to whom victims reach out to for help. It is critical students on campuses across the state know that they share that right and have the power to choose how and where they report incidents of sexual assault, including every level of law enforcement in the state," President of the New York State Sheriffs Association and Niagara County Sheriff James Voutour said. "We are proud to join the Governor's Enough is Enough campaign to combat sexual assault on college campuses as we continue our efforts to make students and all New Yorkers safer, no matter where they are."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/public-safety-officials-across-state-join-governor-cuomo-s-enough-enough-campaign
