Public Statements
Stony Brook University's Senate of Undergraduate Student Government Passes Resolution Supporting Governor Cuomo's Enough is Enough Campaign
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 18, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the Senate of the Undergraduate Student Government of Stony Brook University has passed a resolution in support of the Governor's Enough is Enough campaign. The resolution calls for student governments of each SUNY campus to work with their schools and create educational programs and resources related to sexual assault prevention; student governments to use online tools to share initiatives and ideas on the issue; and for students to raise awareness among their peers and encourage them to learn about the Governor's policy. Last year, all 64 SUNY campuses adopted Governor Cuomo's uniform sexual assault response and prevention protocols for handling sexual assaults on college and university campuses. This was New York's first major step in the fight against on-campus sexual violence. The Governor is now proposing to codify those protocols so they are implemented at all colleges and universities, public and private, in the State.
"By adding their voices to our campaign to combat sexual assault and rape on college campuses, the representatives of SUNY Stony Brook's undergraduate student government are helping to ensure a safer learning environment for their peers at schools around the state," Governor Cuomo said. "Together we are saying that enough is enough -- it is time for New York to lead the nation on this issue and take strong stand to combat and prevent sexual violence in higher education."
Nathan Blazon-Brown, member of Undergraduate Student Government Stony Brook and writer of the resolution said, "The Senate of the Undergraduate Student Government was proud to pass a resolution in support of the Enough is Enough campaign, which is an important tool for us to learn about Governor Cuomo's proposal creating stronger guidelines to better protect students on college campuses from sexual violence. Students deserve to know important information regarding their school's mechanisms for handling sexual violence, where they can go for help, and need to feel that the system in place supports them, and the Governor's proposal does just that. We applaud SUNY for being the first to implement these protocols and thank the Governor for his leadership on this issue."
Stony Brook University President Samuel L. Stanley, Jr said, "At Stony Brook University the safety and security of our students, faculty and staff is a top priority. Maintaining an environment that is free from discrimination and sexual violence is essential to creating and fostering a learning and working environment in which all members of our community can thrive. As we continue to implement the governor's guidelines and support the Enough is Enough campaign, we value and encourage our students' input and commend their participation in this important process."
The Stony Brook Senate of Undergraduate Student Government resolution supporting the Enough is Enough campaign comes one day after student advocates from Barnard College, Columbia University, Fordham University, New York University and Syracuse University travelled to Albany to meet with Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul and lobby legislators to support the Governor's proposal.
Last month, Governor Cuomo launched the Enough is Enough campaign to build support for his proposal to implement uniform prevention and response measures to combat sexual assaults on all college and university campuses across the state. This policy has already been adopted by the State University of New York. The Governor's proposal will extend the SUNY policy and protections to public and private colleges statewide to ensure the state's 1.2 million college students are protected with comprehensive and uniform procedures and guidelines.
The "Enough is Enough" campaign includes a new State Police hotline -- 1-844-845-7269 -- dedicated to reporting sexual assaults on college and university campuses. Specially-trained members of the State Police will be on-call 24 hours a day to respond to sexual assault calls throughout the state. The campaign also has a video featuring students, advocates and elected officials supporting the Governor's policy to address sexual assault on college campuses. The video can be viewed here.
To promote the campaign and the importance of passing the Governor's proposal, Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul has embarked on a statewide tour to bring "Enough is Enough" to college campuses across the State. She is meeting with members of the student body, faculty and administration as well as service providers and advocates for survivors of rape and sexual assault.
Members of the public wishing to state their support for Governor Cuomo's proposal can do so at www.ny.gov/EnoughisEnough. They can also join the conversation online using #EnoughisEnough.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/stony-brook-university-s-senate-undergraduate-student-government-passes-resolution-supporting
