Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches #Broadband4All Campaign Rallying Support for New NY Broadband Program
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 18, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today launched #Broadband4All, a campaign to rally support for his New NY Broadband Program proposal, which will ensure that every New Yorker has access to high-speed Internet service by the end of 2018. As part of the campaign, the Governor today unveiled a new website, ny.gov/BroadbandForAll, which provides New Yorkers with more information about the issue and encourages them to become involved. Additionally, members of the Governor's administration are continuing to visit communities across the state to present the proposal in regions with some of the greatest broadband needs.
"Having powerful Internet access has become a necessity in today's world, but in communities across the state -- both rural and urban -- there is a broadband gap that is leaving New Yorkers behind," Governor Cuomo said. "This is a problem that impacts everything from businesses to hospitals and schools, and we need to make a bold investment to change that and ensure every New Yorker has fast, reliable Internet access. By implementing this proposal we can lay the foundation for a stronger and more competitive New York years into the future, so let's start making broadband for all a reality this year."
By implementing this proposal we can lay the foundation for a stronger and more competitive New York years into the future.
Governor Cuomo
"Connecting all New Yorkers to broadband is the single most important step that we can take to ensure New York's future," said Rachel Haot, Deputy Secretary for Technology. "Already, Governor Cuomo has committed more to New York's connectivity infrastructure than any other state in history. The New NY Broadband Program will help us fulfill the greatest infrastructure need of our age, and Governor Cuomo's visionary plan will ensure New York's economic, education, health and safety success for not just years but generations to come."

Source:
