Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Administration Appointments
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 17, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Cuomo announced five appointments to his administration. These appointments bring additional talent to the administration and will build on the Governor's bold agenda.
"These men and women bring substantial knowledge and expertise to their new roles in our administration," Governor Cuomo said. "I am proud to have them on board as we continue our work to make this state stronger, safer and more fair for all New Yorkers."
Seth Agata has been nominated to serve as Chairman of the Public Employment Relations Board. Most recently, he served as Counsel to the Governor and, prior, as First Assistant Counsel and Assistant Counsel. Before joining the Governor's staff, Mr. Agata served as Assistant Secretary for Program and Policy and as Senior Associate Counsel in the Office of Counsel to the Majority for the New York State Assembly. He was also Assistant Counsel Program and Counsel Staff in the Assembly. He served as Counsel for Investigations in the Office of State Comptroller, Assistant District Attorney for Columbia County, a trial examiner in the New York City Office of Collective Bargaining and was in private law practice in New York City and Columbia County. He is a co-author of The History of the New York Court of Appeals, 1932-2003 (Columbia U. Press, 2006) and has written articles on other topics, as well. Mr. Agata graduated from the New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University as well the Cornell Law School. This nomination requires Senate confirmation.
Michael Weisberg has been appointed Chief Information Security Officer and Deputy Commissioner of Information Technology Services, with a special focus on cyber security. Most recently, Michael was CIO and Director of Information Technology for a consulting firm in Richmond, Virginia. Prior to that, Michael worked at the U.S. Federal Reserve as their Senior Information Security Architect, where he developed and published security architectures and designs, and advised Senior Federal Reserve Officers and management on security technologies and practices. In addition, he was the Vice President for Information Security for Bank of America and served as an Information Security Consultant. He is the Director of the Cyber Security program in the School of Professional and Continuing Education at the Sage Colleges. Mr. Weisberg has a Bachelor of Science from RPI and holds several industry recognized certifications, including Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) and Certified Scrum Master.
Johannah Chase has been appointed Assistant Secretary for Education. She previously was a consultant at Bank Street College of Education, where she worked with senior leadership on developing their strategic plan. Prior to that, Ms. Chase held a number of roles at the New York City Department of Education, most recently serving as Chief Executive Officer of the Office of Special Education and Chief Operating Officer of the Division of Students with Disabilities and English Learners. She also served as a Senior advisor on special education reform, Chief of Staff of the Division of School Support & Instruction and Associate Director of the Division of School Support & Instruction. She was also an eighth grade English and Math teacher in New York City for three years. Ms. Chase has a B.A from Cornell University and an M.S. in Teaching from Pace University.
Lisa Black has been appointed Director of Intergovernmental Affairs for the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services. She previously held a number of roles at the New York City Department of Homeless Services, most recently serving as Assistant Commissioner and, prior, Acting Deputy Commissioner, Director of Government Relations, and Acting Director of Communications and External Affairs. She also held a number of roles working in leadership in the New York State Senate for 14 years. Ms. Black has a B.A. from the College of Saint Rose.
Brian Shea has been appointed Upstate Director of Intergovernmental Affairs for the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services. He held a number of roles in the Office of Assemblywoman Donna A. Lupardo. Most recently, he served as Chief of Staff where he oversaw all office operations, legislative initiatives and external communications. Prior to that, he served as Clerk to the Assembly Committee on Children & Families and Legislative Director to the Assemblywoman. Mr. Shea has a B.A. in Political Science from Binghamton University.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-administration-appointments-14
