Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Next Phase of Statewide Combat Heroin and Prescription Drug Abuse Awareness Campaign
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 17, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the next phase of the statewide #CombatHeroin and Prescription Drug Abuse awareness campaign to address the opioid epidemic in New York. The campaign includes messages on billboards, posters, online advertisements, social media and commercials that will be aired across the state for four weeks. The messaging warns that alcohol overuse and abuse of prescription opioid medications are often a gateway to heroin use, and refers those who need help to New York State's 24-hour addiction HOPEline.
"Our efforts to fight heroin and prescription drug abuse are raising awareness and helping to save lives in communities across New York," Governor Cuomo said. "Heroin addiction can often start with other forms of drug use -- and with this next phase of the Combat Heroin campaign, we are working to break this cycle of abuse before it starts."
The Combat Heroin and Prescription Drug Abuse campaign is launching online advertisements that will appear on social media and select websites, and includes commercials underscoring the message, "addiction can happen to anyone, at any time -- however, there is help available" to run on network and cable television stations.
Awareness posters will appear on the Staten Island Ferry, Staten Island subway lines, Long Island Rail Road trains, and at select Amtrak stations and malls in Poughkeepsie and Rockland County. The campaign's billboards will appear on highways in Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse and Westchester County.
New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services Commissioner Arlene González-Sánchez said, "Studies have shown that alcohol use can be a gateway to use of prescription drugs, heroin and other illicit drugs, especially in young people. Many of the young people that appear in the campaign PSAs and the website's 'Real Story' videos shared that their progression to heroin often started with alcohol and pain pills. This campaign helps get the message out that underage drinking, alcohol abuse, and illicit drug use can quickly spiral out of control resulting in serious addiction and devastating consequences."

Source:
