Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $7.7 Million to Support Home Visiting Programs for New and Expecting Families
By: José Serrano Nydia Velázquez Sean Maloney Jerry Nadler Chuck Schumer Yvette Clarke Andrew Cuomo Paul Tonko Eliot Engel Charlie Rangel
Date: March 16, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced that $7.7 million will be distributed to seven health providers to support pre- and post-natal care for at-risk families. New York secured the funding from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Service's Maternal, Infant and Early Childhood Home Visiting (MIECHV).
"For new and expecting parents, having access to high-quality pre and post natal care is critical," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding will go a long toward ensuring that this kind of care is available through community-based programs for at-risk families across the state. By supporting these programs, we are providing a vital service to those in need and working to keep some of the youngest New Yorkers healthy and strong."
New York's MIECHV initiative works to improve the health and wellbeing of at-risk families by implementing proven home visiting programs. Through periodic home visits, home visitors assess pregnant women's health and social and economic support needs, newborn's health, school readiness as well as for the prevention of domestic violence and child abuse. Home visitors provide support and information to improve birth outcomes and connect families to needed services. Home visiting programs help guide families during the critical prenatal, newborn and early childhood periods. This initiative is a critical component of New York's work to ensure that children have the best start possible.
Currently, the MIECHV initiative serves 2,400 families a year through 10 home visiting projects, and with the additional $7.7 million in funding, it is estimated that seven new home visiting projects will be added to serve an additional 700 families a year over two-and-a-quarter-years.
Break in Transcript
Acting New York State Health Commissioner Dr. Howard Zucker said, "Home visits by nurses, social workers and other trained professionals have proven to be very helpful to young families in at-risk situations. By bringing knowledge and services out into the communities, we are working to ensure that people have the tools to improve health and prevent abuse in the home. This award will allow us to expand upon our already successful programs and help hundreds more families achieve a happier and healthier home life."
Senator Charles E. Schumer said, "The Maternal, Infant and Early Childhood Home Visiting program provides much-needed support, training and guidance to help at-risk families and expecting mothers better navigate the earliest days and years of life for a new child. From financial planning to the prevention of child abuse, the earlier we provide access to essential services, the better chance our children and young families have to succeed and thrive -- and this smart federal investment will do just that. I will continue to do all I can deliver resources to help new mothers and New York's families succeed."
Congressman Charles B. Rangel said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo's commitment to ensuring that mothers have the assistance they need to raise their children in a safe environment. The vital funding from HHS will allow New Yorkers to receive essential healthcare and social support through the new home visiting projects across our state, including two in the Bronx. By providing basic resources to expecting and new mothers, we are not only investing in the wellbeing of the family but also helping to create stability in the home."
Congressman Eliot Engel said, "The Federal funds the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has granted to expand New York's Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting program will help bring needed medical and social services into the homes of many at-risk families who otherwise would not have easy access to them. Hundreds of New York families will benefit from this grant and I thank Governor Cuomo for his efforts to support this program."
Congressman José E. Serrano said, "Thanks to this federal funding, more pregnant women and their families in the Bronx will be able to count on the support they need to have a successful pregnancy, lead healthy lives, and achieve economic self-sufficiency. They will receive these services from the comfort of their home, without having to go through the hassle of getting to a health clinic or doctor's office. I applaud the New York State Department of Health's efforts to expand these important services that help ensure pregnant women in our community are safe and supported throughout their pregnancy, and that are so necessary for our families' well-being."
Congressman Jerrold Nadler said, "I have long been a strong supporter of the Mother, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program (MIECHV), which provides critical support and guidance to ensure New York families are healthy, strong, and safe. With this new federal funding, many more families will have access to these necessary services, and New York will continue to be a leader in supporting children and families."
Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez said, "These programs ensure working families in New York can access valuable health and social services. I'm pleased to see federal resources dedicated to these initiatives, particularly in Sunset Park."
Congresswoman Yvette D. Clarke said, "By expanding access to home visits by nurses and social workers, Governor Cuomo and the New York State Department of Health will provide resources to families and children at a time when those resources -- such as health assessments, referrals for social services, preparation for school, and abuse prevention -- are most critical to the their development. I am committed to collaborating with Brookdale University Hospital in the Ninth Congressional District of New York to assure the successful implementation of this invaluable program."
Congressman Paul Tonko said, "This announcement is great news for the most vulnerable families in our communities. Expanded support for these households will go a long way to meet the most pressing health and wellness needs of women, newborns, and infants -- needs that could turn into long-term issues for individuals and the community as a whole. I thank Governor Cuomo for his recognition of the challenges we face in Schenectady County as the establishment of this center will benefit the entire Capital Region."
Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney said, "The Institute for Family Health provides a comprehensive approach to maternal and child healthcare in the Hudson Valley, and this investment is critical to meeting the needs of our most vulnerable children and families."
In addition to the grant for the expansion of New York State's MIECHV, DOH was also awarded $6.3 million in formula-based federal funding to allow for the continuation of current programs through 2017.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-77-million-support-home-visiting-programs-new-and-expecting-families
