Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Reconstruction of Routes 3 and 30 in Tupper Lake
By: Betty Little Janet Duprey Elise Stefanik Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 13, 2015
Location: Tupper Lake, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced that work is scheduled to begin on Monday on a $15.6 million project to reconstruct State Routes 3 and 30 in the village of Tupper Lake, Franklin County. This project is needed to address the deteriorated condition of the roadway, as well as the aging water and sewer infrastructure that runs along these routes in the village.
"Our North Country roads are lifelines to the communities they serve, especially on this busy corridor through the village of Tupper Lake," Governor Cuomo said. "We have been working hard to make this region more accessible and enjoyable to residents and tourists alike. This project will not only deliver safer and more efficient roadways, but will make seeing the area's natural beauty easier for years to come."
Work will include full reconstruction of the highway and replacement of water and sewer lines, storm drainage, curbs and sidewalks. In addition, streetscape enhancements such as plantings, ornamental lighting, benches, pocket parks and ornamental pavers will be included.
The mile-long project begins near the intersection of State Route 30 and Queen Street through the intersection of Routes 3 and 30. One leg of the project extends along State Routes 3 and 30 ending near the intersection with McLaughlin Avenue. Another leg of the project follows State Route 3 and ends near the intersection with Pleasant Street.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "Tupper Lake is an important cross roads for those traveling in the Adirondacks and this project will be a significant improvement to the highway infrastructure and to the community's municipal utilities. I thank Governor Cuomo for continuing to make rebuilding transportation infrastructure a priority."
Congresswoman Elise Stefanik said, "Our North Country roads are critical to our community and our local economy. This project will help make travel through Tupper Lake and the Adirondacks safer and more efficient, and I thank Governor Cuomo for making this a priority."
State Senator Betty Little said, "Our tourism economy depends a great deal on the quality of our roadways. We know first impressions count, so it's important our roads are safe and easy to drive. In addition to fixing the roadway, the water and sewer upgrades will be a long-term benefit for the community. I'm pleased to see this project move forward and thank the governor and the Department of Transportation commissioner for recognizing its importance to Tupper Lake."
Assemblywoman Janet L. Duprey said, "I am pleased this much needed project is becoming a reality. Department of Transportation officials met several times with a committee of local officials and residents, and the final design addresses the concerns expressed by Tupper Lake people. I want to thank Governor Cuomo, and congratulate the Department of Transportation for listening to the residents and business community and incorporating their ideas to assure the project meets the aesthetic wishes of the community as well as the transportation needs. The reconstruction of this corridor will be a great improvement for traffic flow in the village."
Chairman of the Franklin County Legislature Billy Jones said, "Several roads around Tupper Lake are in sore need of repair -- which is why the Governor's announcement today that construction is starting is so important. Rebuilding these roads will ensure that we are prepared for whatever comes our way in the future, and will make this village an easier and safer place for visitors to navigate. I thank Governor Cuomo for recognizing this need and look forward to these redone roadways."
Tupper Lake Mayor Paul Maroun said, "These two routes are a vital lifeline for our residents, local businesses and tourists visiting from all over the state. I applaud Governor Cuomo and our federal and state partners on making this funding and upcoming reconstruction a reality. With this work, Tupper Lake will continue to be a desirable destination for years to come."
The project, awarded to Kubricky Construction, Inc. of Wilton, Saratoga County, is scheduled for completion in the fall of 2016.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-reconstruction-routes-3-and-30-tupper-lake
