Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Deploying DFS Mobile Command Center to Suffolk County to Deliver Foreclosure Prevention Help to Homeowners
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 12, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that he is deploying the Department of Financial Services Mobile Command Center to Suffolk County to provide foreclosure prevention assistance to financially struggling homeowners.
DFS representatives will be available to meet homeowners from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Friday, March 13 inside the MCC which will be located outside the Copiague Public Library, 50 Deauville Blvd. in Copiague.
"We want to ensure that anyone in danger of a foreclosure knows their rights and what options are available," Governor Cuomo said. "Trained personnel from the Department of Financial Services will be on-hand, and I encourage any Long Islander at risk of foreclosure to come and see what solutions are available."
Benjamin M. Lawsky, Superintendent of Financial Services, said, "The Cuomo Administration's foreclosure prevention program is important because it enables financially challenged homeowners with an opportunity to explore options that may help them save their homes."
Senator Michael Venditto said, "I am pleased to be partnering with Governor Cuomo and the Department of Financial Services to bring the mobile foreclosure prevention command center to areas in the Eight Senate District. DFS will help to provide assistance to members of our community who are struggling with the foreclosure and housing crisis. I encourage any resident who needs assistance to take advantage of this free service."
Assemblywoman Kimberly Jean-Pierre said, "Too many families on Long Island are struggling to make ends meet and can't afford to pay their mortgages due to the high cost of living. Since the modification process is long and overwhelming, I am pleased to see that the New York State Department of Financial Services is providing assistance to people on Long Island. The foreclosure rate in my district is troubling and I look forward to continuing to work with DFS to curb this trend and provide relief to all New Yorkers."
Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone said, "Avoiding foreclosure is not always an easy task when money is tight, but with assistance from the State Department of Financial Services we can ensure that more Long Islanders stay in their homes for the long-run. I am thankful for the Governor's support on this front, and I encourage anyone in need of assistance or advice to come out tomorrow."
Babylon Town Supervisor Rich Schaffer said, "I am very excited that the Governor's administration is deploying trained personnel to help homeowners in our area avoid foreclosure. This is an important step toward keeping more people in their homes, and I urge people to seek help if the need it."
State Resources Available to Homeowners
Governor Cuomo launched the DFS foreclosure prevention program in 2012 to extend help to homeowners facing foreclosure. The outreach program has visited locations with high rates of foreclosures throughout the State. Assistance is provided at no cost to homeowners. Depending on individuals' specific situations, DFS specialists may offer homeowners assistance in such areas as:
Applying for mortgage modifications or providing help to homeowners who have already sought mortgage modifications.
Interceding on behalf of homeowners with their mortgage lenders or servicers.
Assisting homeowners in communicating with mortgage lenders or servicers.
Accepting complaints from homeowners who believe they have been victimized by mortgage lending abuses so complaints can be investigated by the Department.
U.S. Housing and Urban Development approved housing counselors will also be available to assist to homeowners.
Homeowners unable to meet personally with DFS representatives are urged to the call the Department's toll-free foreclosure prevention hotline, 1-800-342-3736, from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Homeowners may also file complaints against their mortgage lender or servicer using the Department website, www.dfs.ny.gov.
DFS also urges homeowners to be cautious of mortgage rescue scams, which may be marketed by private businesses. For example, homeowners should:
Be wary of anyone asking for an upfront fee in exchange for a loan modification, saving a home from default or stopping a foreclosure or tax sale. New York law prohibits the collection of such fees in most cases. Also, many not-for-profit housing counselors will help homeowners negotiate with lenders for free.
Be wary of anyone who says they can save a home if a homeowner signs or transfers the deed to his or her house over to them so the homeowner can catch up on mortgage payments or refinance a loan. A homeowner should never submit mortgage payments to anyone other than the homeowner's mortgage company without its approval.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-deploying-dfs-mobile-command-center-suffolk-county-deliver-foreclosure
