Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $4.9 Million to Repair Historic Properties Damaged by Superstorm Sandy
Press Release
By: Grace Meng Jerry Nadler Carolyn Maloney Sean Maloney Lee Zeldin Joe Crowley Eliot Engel Gregory Meeks Kathleen Rice Steve Israel José Serrano Charlie Rangel Nita Lowey Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 12, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $4.9 million in grants are available to provide repair and assistance to historic and archeological resources that were impacted by Hurricane Sandy. With the money being made available by the National Park Service for a second time, not-for-profit organizations, municipalities, and state agencies can apply to the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation to receive aid.
"New York has a rich history, and many places important to it were damaged in Superstorm Sandy, making them more vulnerable to future severe storms," Governor Cuomo said. "These grants will help build back these significant sites and ensure they remain important parts of New York's heritage, and tourism economy, for generations to come."
Properties are eligible for grants if they:
Are located in Suffolk, Nassau, Kings, Queens, Bronx, New York, Richmond, Westchester, Rockland, Putnam, Orange, Sullivan or Ulster counties; and
sustained Hurricane Sandy-related damage; and
are listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places, or contribute to a listed or eligible historic district.
The deadline for applications is 4:00 p.m. on May 1. Work must meet the U.S. Department of the Interior's standards for treatment of historic properties and be pre-approved by the State Historic Preservation Office. Eligible activities include:
pre-development activities, including Historic Structure Reports, condition assessments, plans and specifications, and other related surveys and studies;
archeological stabilization;
building restoration, rehabilitation and stabilization; or
restoration, rehabilitation, preservation and stabilization of a documented historic landscape.
Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation Commissioner Rose Harvey said, "Sandy's wrath did not spare countless properties listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places. Under the Governor's leadership, we are excited to offer a second round of assistance to historic properties impacted by the storm."

Source:
