Public Statements
Law Enforcement Officials, Community Advocates and Impacted Youth Join "Raise the Age" Campaign
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 11, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today unveiled a new video featuring law enforcement officials, community advocates and impacted youth who are voicing support for his proposal to raise the age. Earlier this week, Governor Cuomo launched the State's "Raise the Age" campaign to build support for the proposal and encourage New Yorkers to contact their legislators about the issue. This effort includes a new website, www.ny.gov/RaiseTheAge, and key facts about the incarceration of teenagers in adult prisons that help New Yorkers understand the gravity of this issue.
"Under New York's current laws, hundreds of young people are being placed in adult prisons where they face abuse and limited opportunities to rebuild their lives," Governor Cuomo said. "Raising the age and reforming New York's juvenile justice system is imperative, not just because it help at-risk youths build successful futures, but because it will improve public safety in communities across the state. That is why this reform must pass this year, and I encourage all New Yorkers to join us in making our justice system stronger and fairer for all."
The Governor's proposal includes raising the age of criminal responsibility to ensure that 16- and 17-year old youth who are convicted of non-violent offenses are not incarcerated with the adult prison population. By raising the age and implementing common-sense measures that help young offenders get back on track through means other than imprisonment, New York can more effectively crack down on crime by reducing the recidivism rate, as well as reduce the financial cost of the criminal justice and prison system. By keeping the law as-is, however, public safety is compromised because young people who are processed as adults have a 26 percent higher likelihood of re-incarceration than youth who are processed as juveniles. More information can be found at www.ny.gov/RaiseTheAge.
Appearing in the video being announced today are:
Juan Cartagena, President and General Counsel of Latino Justice PRLDF
Janet DiFiore, Westchester District Attorney
Melanie Hartzog, Executive Director, Children's Defense Fund
Steven Krokoff, Albany Police Department Chief
Charles Nunez, Community Advocate at Youth Represent
Allen Riley, Madison County Sheriff
Anjelique W., incarcerated at age 17
The full transcript of the video is available below:
Melanie Hartzog: "New York is a national leader."
Juan Cartagena: "But there are New Yorkers that don't get a fair shot."
Allen Riley: "Our youth need our help."
Janet DiFiore: "New York's criminal justice system is one of only two in the nation"
Anjelique W.: "only two in the nation"
Steven Krokoff: "that automatically processes 16- and 17-year-olds as adults"
Juan Cartagena: "no matter the offense."
Melanie Hartzog: "It's outdated. It's unfair."
Allen Riley: "It's unfair."
Charles Nunez: "So it's time we raise the age."
Steven Krokoff: "Raise the age."
Janet DiFiore: "Raise the age."
Narrator: "Processing youth as adults makes them more likely to re-offend"
Janet DiFiore: "to commit more crimes"
Charles Nunez: "and to compromise public safety."
Steven Krokoff: "We need to support teens,"
Juan Cartagena: "and get them the help,"
Anjelique W.: "the treatment,"
Allen Riley: "and the services they need."
Melanie Hartzog: "We need to keep youth out of adult prisons,"
Janet DiFiore: "to give them a chance to succeed and turn their lives around."
Steven Krokoff: "The system we have now isn't working."
Anjelique W.: "We need to change the odds."
Charles Nunez: "We need to change the odds."
Narrator: "16-hundred minors each year are saddled with criminal records"
Juan Cartagena: "that create barriers to success for the rest of their lives."
Melanie Hartzog: "It's time to give our youth the rights they deserve."
Charles Nunez: "to make sure there is justice for all,"
Steven Krokoff: "and to treat our teens fairly."
Janet DiFiore: "It's time we stand up for our youth."
Juan Cartagena: "It's time we raise the age."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/law-enforcement-officials-community-advocates-and-impacted-youth-join-raise-age-campaign
