Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Appointments to JCOPE
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 11, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the appointment of Michael K. Rozen and the reappointment of Michael A. Romeo to the Joint Commission on Public Ethics. Mr. Rozen will fill the seat that was vacated by Mitra Hormozi. Mr. Romeo was originally appointed to the Commission last year to fill the seat vacated by Vincent Delorio; he is now being reappointed to begin his own term.
JCOPE is an independent ethics and lobbying regulator with oversight that includes State legislators, candidates for the Legislature and legislative employees, as well as the four statewide elected officials, candidates for those offices, executive branch state employees, certain political party chairs, and lobbyists and their clients. The Commission provides information, education, and advice regarding current ethics and lobbying laws, and promotes compliance with these laws through required disclosure filings, audits, investigations, and enforcement proceedings.
"Mr. Rozen and Mr. Romeo are both highly respected, accomplished in their fields, and possess real world experience that will greatly aid the Commission in its work to ensure accountability and provide guidance, training, and oversight to those who work in state government," Governor Cuomo said. "I thank them for their dedication to New York State and for their willingness to serve."
Mr. Rozen is a nationally renowned lawyer, strategist and negotiator, having successfully resolved thousands of complex, multi-party cases. He has advised companies in fashioning national litigation and settlement strategies, played a significant role in product liability cases including asbestos, lead paint, and medical device cases, and has been active in toxic tort and environmental insurance coverage, shareholder class action, employment discrimination, intellectual property, and numerous other business and commercial matters. Mr. Rozen was a Deputy Special Master of the Federal September 11, 2001 Victim Compensation Fund, assisted in administering the BP Compensation Fund, and has been appointed by Federal and State courts throughout the country to help resolve a wide variety of matters. He has lectured extensively throughout the U.S. and abroad to corporations, investors, attorneys and the judiciary on issues including ethics, Alternative Dispute Resolution, mass torts, and complex litigation. He has a B.A. from Tufts University and a J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center, where he was a member of the American Criminal Law Review.
Mr. Romeo was first appointed to the Commission in February 2014 and is being reappointed today. He has worked in the insurance industry for more than 38 years and currently is Executive Vice President of Industrial Coverage, a wholly owned company of The United Nations Federal Credit Union. He also serves on the Board of the Long Island Insurance Community, an organization that has raised over $4 million for Long Island charities. He previously served as President and Automation Chairman of the Suffolk County Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America, the largest agents association of its kind in the United States. He also served as chairman of several local and national level automation user groups and has been selected to serve on a number of insurance company agent councils at the local and national level. Mr. Romeo attended the University of New Haven majoring in business administration.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-appointments-jcope
