Public Statements
Hudson Valley Business Leaders, Secretary of State Cesar Perales Discuss Support for Governor Cuomo's Campaign to Raise the Minimum Wage
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 10, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that business leaders from the Hudson Valley have joined the "Fight for Fair Pay" campaign to raise the minimum wage in New York this year. These business leaders represent broad private sector support in the Hudson Valley for the Governor's proposal, which increases the minimum wage from the current $8.75 to proposed $10.50 statewide and $11.50 in New York City. Their support was announced during a press conference with Secretary of State Cesar Perales in Montgomery, New York in the Lower Hudson Valley.
"We are calling on all New Yorkers to get behind raising the minimum wage -- from our hardest workers to the small businesses driving our economy forward," Governor Cuomo said. "More money in the pockets of New Yorkers translates to more spending in our communities, including those in the Hudson Valley. I thank these business leaders for joining the Fight for Fair Pay campaign, and working together we will raise the minimum wage in New York this year."
In total, 1.3 million New Yorkers will experience higher wages as a result of the minimum wage increase, which translates into a $3.4 billion direct economic value statewide -- meaning that more New Yorkers will have more money to spend on goods and services in their community. During the last six increases in New York State's minimum wage, employment increased in industries with many minimum wage workers following an increase in the state's minimum wage.
Business leaders who joined Secretary of State Perales today included:
James W. Taylor, Jr., President of Taylor Biomass Energy, LLC
Scott Tillitt, Co-Founder & Board Chair of Re>Think Local
Wiley Harrison, President of Business of Your Business, LLC
Laura Ornstein, Coordinator for the NYS Sustainable Business Council

Source:
