Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces "Ski NY Spring Break" Promotion at Second Annual Adirondack Winter Challenge
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 8, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a number of initiatives to boost tourism in the Adirondack region during the winter months, including the new "Ski NY Spring Break" promotion targeted to encourage visitors to spend their spring break on New York's ski slopes. The goal of the promotion, provided in partnership with the Ski Association of New York, is to attract visitors to slopes across the state, including the mountains of the North Country, and boost tourism in Upstate New York during the last few weeks of the winter season.
The Governor made the announcement at the second annual Adirondack Winter Challenge in Lake Placid, which highlighted the region's exciting winter recreational activities and attractions with a day of skiing, bobsledding and snowshoeing, among a number of winter sports. The event drew hundreds participants, including federal, state and local elected officials, as well as sporting enthusiasts from across the state. Special guests of the Governor at the Challenge included a group of children from the Capital Region's Lansingburgh Boys & Girls Club. The children were invited to experience tubing and tobogganing in the Adirondacks with members of the Governor's administration and state officials.
"Tourism has boomed over the last four years, thanks to I LOVE NEW YORK, the Adirondack Winter and Summer Challenges, and other initiatives that show the world all that Upstate has to offer," Governor Cuomo said. "New York has some of the most beautiful mountains, vistas and attractions in the world. These programs prove what we all know: to see Upstate New York is to love Upstate New York."
For the last four years, Governor Cuomo has been a champion of boosting New York tourism, which has experienced an increase in visitors, employment and spending. In 2014, New York's tourism industry generated a projected $62 million in direct spending, producing an estimated $7.8 billion in state and local sales taxes. The number of visitors to New York is estimated to have increased by 4 percent, or 8.75 million people, to 227.5 million total in 2014. As the fourth largest employment sector in New York, the tourism industry also added 22,000 jobs for an average total of 852,000 in 2014, generating more than $18.5 billion in wages. One out of every 12 jobs is New York is tourism-related.
Between 2011 and 2013, total visitation to the Adirondack region increased by 2.9 percent to 4.59 million; spending increased more than 6 percent to $1.25 billion; and tourism employment increased 5.5 percent. State and local sales taxes attributable to tourism also jumped, with state sales taxes increasing 5.4 percent to $68.95 million and local sales taxes increasing 4.3 percent to $86.88 million between 2011 and 2013. Additionally, revenue per available hotel room in the region increased by 3.3 percent to $69.60 from 2013 to 2014.
Attending today's Adirondack Winter Challenge was: Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul; Congresswoman Elise Stefanik; Senators Betty Little and David Valesky; and Members of Assembly Michael Benedetto, Michael Cusick, Donna Lupardo, Steven Otis, Angelo Santabarbara, Dan Stec and Kenneth Zebrowski.
Also in attendance was: Nassau County Executive Ed Mangano, Essex County Board of Supervisors Chairman Randy Douglas, Lewis County Board of Legislators Chairman Mike Tabolt, Clinton County Treasurer Kim Davis, Niagara Falls Mayor Paul Dyster, Canton Town Supervisor David Button, Indian Lake Town Supervisor Brian Wells, Keene Town Supervisor Bill Ferebee, Lake Placid Mayor Craig Randall, North Elba Town Supervisor Roby Politi, and Town of Plattsburgh Councilor Michael Cashman.
Adirondack Winter Promotions
New York is home to total of 52 ski areas -- more than in any other state in the country -- whose economic impact is $1.1 billion.
The "Ski NY Spring Break" promotion will take place March 13-31. It will include a downloadable coupon for 25 percent off equipment rental, lesson and lift ticket packages available at www.iskiny.com.
For the 2015-16 winter season, the state and the Ski Association of New York will offer "Discover NY" ski day and "Learn to Ski & Snowboard Month" promotions. "Discover NY" ski day will feature discounted skiing at $14 and $25 for a lift ticket, based on ski area size, as well as "learn to ski" discount packages of $25-35 for lift tickets, equipment rentals and lessons. In the past, this event has attracted 15,000 skiers. The specific day will be announced in advance of the 2015-16 season. January 2016 will be "Learn to Ski and Snowboard Month" with significant discounts for "learn to ski and snowboard" packages at most New York ski areas all month.
These programs prove what we all know: to see Upstate New York is to love Upstate New York.
Governor Cuomo
The goal of these promotions is to make New York's slopes a recurring destination for in- and out-of-state winter enthusiast. All three promotions will be supported by I LOVE NY digital advertising campaigns as well as social media and other platforms.
This year, New York's ski areas have some of the deepest snowpacks in the nation, with many ski areas expecting to extend their operating season beyond their planned closing dates.
Expanded Advertising Campaign
Continuing his efforts to boost New York State tourism, Governor Cuomo is making a $25 million investment into the I LOVE NEW YORK marketing campaign in the 2015-16 budget. Approximately 20 percent of that funding will be allocated to promote the Adirondacks and grow the region's tourism economy. This targeted campaign will include television, digital, print and out-of-home advertising as well as traditional and social media components. It will focus on bringing New York City residents and visitors to the Adirondacks to experience all the region has to offer.
This campaign builds on the $15 million previously committed to advertise the North Country as a New York destination and boost regional tourism. In addition to the advertising campaigns, events like the Adirondack Winter Challenge, promotional campaigns and the Market NY program have resulted in a strengthened tourism industry in the region.
"I Shop NY"
Governor Cuomo today also announced the "I Shop NY" initiative, a partnership with the Retail Council of New York to promote New York-based stores and businesses to Canada and boost the state's economy. This year, "I Shop NY" will take place March 22-April 6.
The Canadian tourism market is the number one source of tourism in New York; Montreal is only 60 miles away from Plattsburgh, New York. Canada ranks first in visitor spending in the state, with 76 percent of Canadians indicating shopping as their choice activity when traveling here.
"I Shop NY" will also be promoted via I LOVE NEW YORK and will include television and digital advertising in key Canadian markets to encourage travelers north of New York's border to visit the state for a shopping getaway. The video can be viewed here.
The Retail Council of New York State coordinated the participation of nearly 200 stores in the effort and enabling I LOVE NEW YORK to offer a downloadable, "flexi" coupon to give shoppers access to special discounts and rewards on in-store purchases. The coupons are available at www.ILOVENY.com/ishopny.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-ski-ny-spring-break-promotion-second-annual-adirondack-winter
