Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Rochester Institute of Technology Unveils State of the Art Battery Prototyping Center
Press Release
By: Joe Robach Patrick Gallivan Joe Morelle Harry Bronson Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 6, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Rochester Institute of Technology is unveiling its new Battery Prototyping Center, a $1.5 million state-of-the-art facility that will conduct research and work with companies statewide in this rapidly growing industry. The center is part of a plan to create a battery and energy storage hub in the region, a priority of the Finger Lakes Regional Economic Development Council. RIT's Battery Prototyping Center was made possible by support from New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA), the New York Battery and Energy Storage Technology Consortium (NY-BEST) and Empire State Development (ESD), the state's economic development agency.
"This project is a top priority of the Finger Lakes Regional Economic Development Council and shows what can be possible when private industry partners with New York's world-class research universities," Governor Cuomo said. "This facility will be a vital resource for companies across the country and will make help cement Rochester's status as the epicenter of next generation energy storage."
Following the ribbon cutting ceremony, RIT offered tours and hosted nearly 50 industry executives for a workshop on how they can use the new center. The center, located in RIT's Institute Hall, will work with companies on prototyping the next generation of rechargeable batteries (such as lithium ion) in an industry-recognized size typical of that used in consumer electronics, including cell phones. While ultimate applications for these new batteries will include electric grid and transportation storage, this size is a recognized standard for testing and evaluating new prototypes. Companies can either use the laboratory's equipment to conduct their own trials or hire RIT to do the work.
Several companies have already inquired about working in the RIT Battery Prototyping Center, which will be directed by RIT Research Scientists Christopher Schauerman and Matt Ganter. They will also conduct grant-funded research at the center, and will be developing a course to train students in the growing battery industry and educate faculty on the lab's capabilities.

Source:
