Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces the Return of the Craft New York Brewers Festival to Albany on March 7
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 5, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the return of the Craft New York Brewers Festival to the Desmond Hotel and Conference Center in Albany on March 7. This year's festival brings together 41 craft brewers from across the state offering more than 100 hard to find, award-winning beers to sample and pair with food from more than a dozen restaurants.
"This weekend's craft brewers festival shows the success of this fast-growing industry that is creating new jobs and opportunity all across New York," Governor Cuomo said. "The state is committed to driving the industry forward by empowering entrepreneurs, keeping the Empire State a top destination to enjoy the best craft beer in the world."
The second annual festival will run from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Saturday, March 7 at the Desmond Hotel and Conference Center, 660 Albany Shaker Road in Albany. VIP ticket holders will be able to enter the Festival at 4 p.m. and enjoy a selection of beers not available to holders of General Admission tickets. Doors will open at 5 p.m. for General Admission ticket holders. General Admission is $40 prior to the event and $50 the day of the event. VIP tickets are available for $65 if purchased ahead of time and $75 the day of the event. Tickets can be purchased here.
To help promote the festival, Empire State Development is providing support to the New York State Brewer's Association through its Craft Beverage Industry Tourism Promotion grant program. The program, launched last year as a result of the Governor's second Wine, Beer, Spirits and Cider Summit, promotes special destinations specifically related to the craft beverage industry in coordination with the I LOVE NEW YORK campaign.
Since 2011, the number of micro-breweries in New York State has grown by nearly 175 percent, from 40 in 2011 to 110 today. In addition, restaurant breweries have increased from 10 in 2011 to 36 today, a 260 percent increase. There are already 74 Farm Breweries operating across the state, a new license that went into effect on January 1, 2013. In addition, six Farm Breweries have opened offsite branch locations, authorized under the Governor's Farm Brewery legislation, where they can sell their products and other New York State labeled beer, wine, and liquor, in addition to having tasting rooms and retail shops.
Empire State Development Acting President, CEO & Commissioner Howard Zemsky said, "The State has made great strides in supporting the production and purchase of locally made craft beer, wine, cider and spirits. Equally as important is the marketing aspect, which will increase awareness and provide exposure of the State's growing beverage industry. The Craft New York Brewers Festival is already expecting an increase in attendance over last year and it's our hope that the momentum will continue to build, helping our craft beverage producers gain a firmer foothold in the marketplace and drawing even more visitors to experience the very best of New York State products."
State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball said, "The growth of New York's craft beer industry is spurring the growth of agritourism events in every region of New York while providing our hard working farmers with opportunities to grow their businesses. This event will be a haven for craft beer connoisseurs and food enthusiasts alike and we look forward to a well-attended event."
New York State Brewers Association Executive Director Paul Leone said, "The best part of this year's Craft New York Brewers Festival is that we have grown to 41 New York State breweries representing every region of the state - from the tip of Long Island, to the city, the Adirondacks, Catskill region and Western New York. There will be over 100 beers being poured by the brewers themselves who will also be there to talk about their breweries and their beer."
Participating breweries include:
Brooklyn Brewery
C.H. Evans Brewing at the Albany Pump Station
Crafty Ales & Lagers
Crossroads Brewing Company
Empire Brewing Company
Saranac -- FX Matt Brewing Company
Great Adirondack Brewing Company
Great South Bay Brewery
Greenport Harbor Brewing Co.
Hamburg Brewing Company
Lake Placid Pub & Brewery
Paradox Brewery
Rare Form Brewing Company
Rushing Duck Brewing Company
Saint James Brewery
Shmaltz Brewing Company
Upstate Brewing Company
Water Street Brewing Co.
Binghamton Brewing Company
Prison City Pub & Brewery
Third Rail Beer
Cooperstown Brewing Company
Coney Island Brewing
Mad Jack Brewing Company
Good Nature Farm Brewery & Tap Room
Olde Saratoga Brewing Co.
Community Beer Works
Ithaca Beer Co.
Adirondack Brewery
Davidson Brothers Brewing Company
St. Lawrence Brewing Co.
Brewery Ommegang
Browns Brewing Co.
Skewed Brewing
Newburgh Brewing Company
Keegan Ales
Druthers Brewing Company
Naked Dove
Chatham Brewing
Jonas Bronck's Beer Co.
Special food samples will be available from a number of from New York restaurants, food trucks, and farms, including:
The Desmond Hotel
Honest Weight Food Co-op
Capital American Eatery and Lounge
The Hollow Bar and Kitchen
Cheeky Monkey Foods
Chefs' Consortium
Adirondack Pub and Brewery
Elegant Touch Catering Company
20 North Broadway Tevern
Albany Pump Station
Crossroads Brewing
Davidson Brothers Brewing Company
The Ruck
The Mohawk Taproom & Grill
Cheese Filled Company

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-return-craft-new-york-brewers-festival-albany-march-7
