Public Statements
Labor Leaders Join Fight For Fair Pay Campaign to Raise the Minimum Wage
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 5, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a new video featuring workers and representatives of more than a dozen labor organizations from across the state in support of raising the minimum wage in New York. The video complements the Fight for Fair Pay campaign, a call to action to raise the minimum wage to $10.50 statewide and to $11.50 in New York City, and calls on fellow New Yorkers to urge their state legislators to support an increase in the minimum wage.
"New Yorkers who work full-time should be able to afford food on the table and a path out of poverty," Governor Cuomo said. "As our economy strengthens and more jobs are created in our communities, we must do more to ensure opportunity for all New Yorkers. I thank our labor leaders from across the state for joining the Fight for Fair Pay campaign and urging the State Legislature to increase the minimum wage this session."
Labor leaders from across the state support the governor's push to raise the minimum wage, including:
Stuart Appelbaum, RWDSU
Mario Cilento, New York State AFL-CIO
Héctor Figueroa, 32BJ SEIU
George Gresham, 1199 SEIU
Peter Ward, New York Hotel Trades Council
The video can be viewed on YouTube HERE and downloaded HERE. Full text of the script is below.
The video is prominently featured on the Fight for Fair Pay website, which promotes the #Fight4FairPay campaign announced earlier this week. Labor leaders and union members from across the state participated in the video, including:
Stuart Appelbaum, RWDSU
Gary Bonadonna, Workers United RRJB
Gary Bonadonna, Jr., Workers United RRJB
Trisha Botty, SEIU
Jeff Brylski, Teamsters Local 449
Mario Cilento, New York State AFL-CIO
Jerry Dee, Union Carpenter
Brian Dickman, Teamsters Local 264
George Gresham, 1199 SEIU
George Harrigan, Teamsters Joint Council 46
Tom Harris, Northeast Regional Council of Carpenters
Greg Lancette, CNNYBTC
Bob Mahoney, SEIU Local 200 United
Mark Manna, UFCW District Union Local One
Len Ranallo, Northeast Regional Council of Carpenters
Kathleen Reid, a SEIU homecare worker
Ann Marie Taliercio, UNITE-HERE, Local 150 AFL-CIO
Peter Ward, New York Hotel Trades Council
David Young, Rochester Building & Construction Trades Council
Dennis Young, SEIU
More information about the facts related to raising the minimum wage in New York is available here.
Script of labor leaders endorsing plan to raise minimum wage:
Mario Cilento, New York State AFL-CIO: New York is a state of opportunity. But for many of our hard-working New Yorkers the opportunity
Peter Ward, New York Hotel Trades Council: to provide for themselves
Kathleen Reid, a SEIU homecare worker: to provide for their families
Trisha Botty, SEIU: is beyond reach.
George Harrigan, Teamsters Joint Council 46: That's because the basic promise of employment
Stuart Applebaum, RWDSU: that you can earn a decent living, with dignity
George Gresham, 1199 SEIU: isn't the reality.
George Harrigan, Teamsters Joint Council 46: It's time to fight for fair pay.
Peter Ward, New York Hotel Trades Council: It's time to raise the minimum wage
Ann Marie Taliercio, UNITE-HERE, Local 150 AFL-CIO: and we need to do it now.
Gary Bonadonna, Jr., Workers United RRJB: We raised the minimum wage once
Greg Lancette, CNNYBTC: but once isn't enough.
Peter Ward, New York Hotel Trades Council: The gap continues to grow.
Bob Mahoney, SEIU Local 200 United: Workers struggle every day just to get by.
Brian Dickman, Teamsters Local 264: Families struggle to pay their rent
Kathleen Reid, a SEIU homecare worker: buy their groceries
Peter Ward, New York Hotel Trades Council: and they continue to live in poverty.
George Gresham, 1199 SEIU: Hardworking New Yorkers deserve better.
Mario Cilento, New York State AFL-CIO: It's time to fight for fair pay.
Mark Manna, UFCW District Union Local One: That's what New Yorkers do -- we fight for what's right
Len Ranallo, Northeast Regional Council of Carpenters: and we help each other out.
Tom Harris, Northeast Regional Council of Carpenters: When one does better
Kathleen Reid, a SEIU homecare worker: we all do better.
Jerry Dee, Union Carpenter: It's time to stand up for each other.
Jeff Brylski, Teamsters Local 449: It's time to raise the minimum wage
Stuart Applebaum, RWDSU: because it's long overdue.
George Gresham, 1199 SEIU: Because it's fair.
Peter Ward, New York Hotel Trades Council: Because it's what our workers deserve.
Stuart Applebaum, RWDSU: Join the fight.
Len Ranallo, Northeast Regional Council of Carpenters: It's time to fight for fair pay.
Gary Bonadonna, Workers United RRJB: It's time to fight for fair pay.
Trisha Botty, SEIU: It's time to fight
David Young, Rochester Building & Construction Trades Council: for fair pay.
Ann Marie Taliercio, UNITE-HERE, Local 150 AFL-CIO: For fair pay.
Dennis Young, SEIU: It's time to fight for fair pay.
Jeff Brylski, Teamsters Local 449: And the time to do it is now.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/labor-leaders-join-fight-fair-pay-campaign-raise-minimum-wage
