Public Statements
City Mayors from Across the State Join Governor Cuomo's 'Enough Is Enough' Campaign to Combat Sexual Assault on College Campuses
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 5, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 42 city mayors from across the State have joined the "Enough is Enough" campaign to combat sexual violence on college and university campuses. The support of this group of mayors adds to the ongoing momentum building around the Governor's proposal to create the strongest protections for college students in the country, codifying uniform sexual assault prevention and response protocols for private colleges -- protocols which have already been adopted by the State University of New York. Earlier this week, Whoopi Goldberg and 17 out of 18 county executives statewide joined the campaign to voice their support for the need to end sexual violence on college campuses.
"New York is home to many colleges and universities, and we must be a leader in combating on-campus sexual violence so our students are protected to the greatest extent possible," Governor Cuomo said. "The broad-based support from mayors in every corner of the state shows this issue transcends political affiliations and there is no reason for it not to pass. We are taking a stand together to say enough is enough when it comes to sexual violence on our college campuses."
The city mayors who have joined the Governor's "Enough is Enough" campaign are:
Bill Aiello, City of Olean
Dennis Baker, City of Mechanicville
Noam Bramson, City of New Rochelle
Byron Brown, City of Buffalo
James Calnon, City of Plattsburgh
Rich David, City of Binghamton
Rick Davis, City of Tonawanda
Bill de Blasio, City of New York
Joseph DeStefano, City of Middletown
Jack Diamond, City of Glens Falls
AJ Dolce, City of Dunkirk
Daniel Dwyer, City of Rensselaer
Paul Dyster, City of Niagara Falls
Joseph Fusco, City of Rome
Shayne Gallo, City of Kingston
Thomas Gillen, City of Oswego
William Hallenback, City of Hudson
Shawn D. Hogan, City of Hornell
Judith Kennedy, City of Newburgh
Michael Manning, City of Watervliet
Joseph Mauriano, City of Norwich
Anne McCaffrey, City of Lockport
Gary McCarthy, City of Schenectady
Svante Myrick, City of Ithaca
William Nelson, City of Ogdensburg
Robert Palmieri, City of Utica
Ellen Polimeni, City of Canandaigua
George Primeau, City of Cohoes
Michael Quill, City of Auburn
Thomas M. Roach, City of White Plains
Lou Rosamilia, City of Troy
Kathy Sheehan, City of Albany
Sue Skidmore, City of Elmira
A. Max Smith, City of Oneida
Mike Spano, City of Yonkers
Geoff Szymanski, City of Lackawanna
Sam Teresi, City of Jamestown
Ann Thane, City of Amsterdam
Brian Tobin, City of Cortland
Lovely Warren, City of Rochester
Ron Woodward, City of Fulton
Joanne Yepsen, City of Saratoga Springs
Members of the public wishing to state their support for Governor Cuomo's proposal can do so at www.ny.gov/EnoughisEnough. They can also join the conversation online using #EnoughisEnough.
Governor Cuomo launched the "Enough is Enough" campaign last week to build support for his proposal for colleges and universities to implement uniform prevention and response measures to combat sexual assaults on campus. The Governor's proposal will extend the SUNY policy and protections to colleges statewide and ensure that the State's 1.2 million college students are protected with comprehensive and uniform procedures and guidelines, including affirmative consent and access to law enforcement. Once law, this policy will go far to protect more students in New York.
The "Enough is Enough" campaign includes a new State Police hotline -- 1-844-845-7269 -- dedicated to reporting sexual assaults on college and university campuses. Specially-trained members of the State Police will be on-call 24 hours a day to respond to sexual assault calls throughout the State. The campaign also has a video featuring students, advocates and elected officials supporting the Governor's policy to address sexual assault on college campuses.
To promote the campaign and the importance of passing the Governor's proposal, Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul has embarked on a statewide tour to bring "Enough is Enough" to college campuses across the State. She is meeting with members of the student body, faculty and administration as well as service providers and advocates for survivors of rape and sexual assault.
The Governor's on-campus sexual assault prevention proposal includes the following components:
- A statewide definition of affirmative consent, defining consent as a clear, unambiguous, and voluntary agreement between the participants to engage in specific sexual activity;
- A statewide amnesty policy, to ensure that students reporting incidents of sexual assault or other sexual violence are granted immunity for certain campus policy violations, such as drug and alcohol use;
- A Sexual Violence Victim/Survivor Bill of Rights, which campuses will be required to distribute to all students in order to specifically inform sexual violence victims of their legal rights and how they may access appropriate resources. The Bill of Rights clearly states that students are given the right to know they can report sexual assaults to outside law enforcement, including the State Police;
- Comprehensive training requirements for administrators, staff, and students, including at new student orientations.
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said, "It is everyone's responsibility to protect our youth from sexual violence, and I commend the Governor for his Enough is Enough campaign. As the Mayor of a city that is filled with colleges and universities, and a father of a college student and a high school senior, this issue is very important to me. Let's act now to educate, increase safety, and prevent sexual assaults in college campuses."
Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown said, "Buffalo is home to a number of SUNY schools that have already begun to implement this policy and, on behalf of the City of Buffalo, I support Governor Cuomo's Enough is Enough campaign to further protect students at all of our colleges. His policy will go far to help ensure all students are better protected while at school."
Albany Mayor Kathy Sheehan said, "I was proud to participate in the Governor's Enough is Enough video and am prouder still to formally announce my support for his campaign today. This is an important measure that will provide more information, resources and protections for our students so they can go to college feeling safer and their parents can rest assured they will be protected."
Yonkers Mayor Mike Spano said, "We must do everything in our power to combat sex assault on college and university campuses, and the Governor's Enough is Enough campaign is taking a bold step towards better protecting our students while they are away from home. During my time in the New York State Assembly, I led the Task Force on Sex Crimes Against Children and Women (SAVE New York), fought for the passage of Megan's Law, and fought for stiffer penalties for sex offenders as well as protections for their victims. It is crucial that this proposal passes without delay -- it is something we can all agree on, no matter our political affiliations."
Rochester Mayor Lovely Warren said, "Sex assault on college campuses has become a nationwide epidemic, and it is time that we say enough is enough. The Governor's proposal will make New York a leader in the fight against such horrific acts on our school campuses and I commend him for his leadership."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/city-mayors-across-state-join-governor-cuomos-enough-enough-campaign-combat-sexual-assault
