Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 11 More Companies Join Start-Up NY
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 4, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 11 more businesses plan to expand in or locate to New York State under the START-UP NY program. They will join the more than 70 companies already participating in the initiative, which creates tax-free areas associated with colleges and universities across the state in order to spur economic growth.
The 11 businesses will invest nearly $30 million, and have committed to create at least 158 new jobs over the next five years in tax-free areas sponsored by the University at Buffalo, Rochester Institute of Technology, Farmingdale State College, Morrisville State College, SUNY Brockport and Stony Brook University. This latest group of companies joining the program brings the total number of businesses participating in START-UP NY to 83, representing commitments to create more than 2,530 new jobs and invest more than $133 million in communities throughout the state.
"Under START-UP NY we are continuing to show businesses around the world that there is no better place to grow than New York," Governor Cuomo said. "This initiative is creating new opportunities and strengthening the economy by pairing our world-class colleges and universities with the workforce and tax-free environment that helps companies thrive. START-UP NY is generating great things for New York State, and I am pleased to welcome these businesses to the program."
These businesses will create jobs in several key industries, including research and development in biotechnology, physical engineering and life sciences, advanced manufacturing, beverages, information technology, and systems and software development.
The following businesses are approved for START-UP NY:
Adiabatic Solutions, LLC
C&M Robotics Co., Ltd.
ClearCove Systems, Inc.
Codagenix, Inc.
DaStrong Corp.
Empire Farmstead Brewery, Inc.
Joox America, LLC
K16 Corporation
Mitogenetics, LLC
Precision Optical Transceivers, Inc.
QB Sonic, Inc.
Empire State Development Acting President, CEO & Commissioner Howard Zemsky said, "START-UP NY is a game-changing initiative that is attracting thousands of jobs and millions in investment to New York State. We are growing our economy and training a highly skilled workforce to fill the great jobs that are being created by START-UP NY companies in a range of high-growth industries such as life sciences, biotechnology and advance manufacturing, among many others."


Source:
