Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Brings 'Fight For Fair Pay' Campaign to Syracuse
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 4, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today joined labor and community leaders in Syracuse to rally support for the passage of his proposal to raise the statewide minimum wage to $10.50 per hour. The "Fight for Fair Pay" campaign is a call to action to raise the minimum wage in New York this year. As part of the campaign, the Governor and members of his Cabinet will travel across the State to garner support for the Governor's proposal and make it a reality.
"New York has been a leader in protecting its workforce, and, by increasing the minimum wage, we will ensure that our workers are paid fairly and equitably," Governor Cuomo said. "A higher minimum wage begets a growing economy and stronger communities. At a time when our businesses are succeeding, we must also ensure that our workers can achieve success and greater opportunity -- this will keep New York moving in the right direction."
According to the New York State Department of Labor, in Central New York today there are 23,536 workers making the current state minimum wage of $8.75 per hour. An estimated total of55,827 Central New York workers currently making below $10.50 per hour would be affected by the proposed minimum wage hike to $10.50 per hour, under the Governor's proposal.
The State Department of Labor projects that the proposed increase in the minimum wage outside New York City will generate $1.5 billion annually in increased wages, with an economic impact of $105.5 million for Central New York.
The State's minimum wage, currently $8.75 per hour, has fallen far below the average hourly wage in the State. In 2012, the Governor signed legislation into law that increased the minimum wage from $7.25 to $9 incrementally by December 31, 2015 to better align with the cost of living across the State. However, as the cost of living in New York continues to rise, the Governor proposes to again increase the minimum wage to increase earnings for many wage earners in low-income households, which will also aid local economies. Business and labor organizations including the Retail Council of New York State, Hotel and Motel Trades Council, 1199 SEIU, 32BJ SEIU and others support the Governor's efforts to increase the minimum wage.
A reasonable minimum wage can help improve the standard of living for workers, reduce poverty, encourage fair and more efficient business practices, and ensure that the most vulnerable members of the workforce can contribute to the economy.
Key Statistics for Minimum Wage Workers in New York State
There are currently more than 594,000 minimum wage ($8.75) workers in New York State, 23,536 of which are in Central New York.
Raising the minimum wage will help adults:
55% of hourly workers earning $10.50 or less outside of NYC are over age 25.
34% of hourly workers earning $10.50 or less outside of NYC are over age 35.
Raising the minimum wage will help women: 57% of hourly workers earning $10.50 or less outside of NYC are female.
Raising the minimum wage to the level the Governor is proposing will lift more than 100,000 New Yorkers out of poverty.
More information about the facts related to raising the minimum wage in New York is available here.
The Governor's proposal to raise the minimum wage is part of 10-point plan to combat poverty and fight inequality included in his 2015 Opportunity Agenda:
1. Raise the minimum wage to $10.50 statewide and $11.50 in New York City.
2. Expand the Unemployment Strikeforce to the top ten highest areas of unemployment to help ensure every New Yorker who wants a job can find one.
3. Double the funding for the Urban Youth Jobs Program to combat the unacceptably high unemployment rates among inner-city youth in communities across New York.
4. Invest more than $486 million in housing for vulnerable New Yorkers.
5. Invest an additional $220 million in homeless services.
6. Invest $183 million to support NY/NY IV Housing Program to create additional supportive housing units for populations requiring a little more aid.
7. Commit $4.5 million to advance the Governor's Anti-Hunger Task Force.
8. Create a $50 million Nonprofit Infrastructure Capital Investment Program to improve the quality, efficiency, accessibility, and reach of nonprofit human services organizations that serve New Yorkers.
9. Increase MWBE opportunities to 30 percent.
10. Create the Get On Your Feet Loan Forgiveness Program to help eligible New York State residents who graduate from college and continue to live in the state pay nothing on their student loans for the first two years out of school.
Village of Solvay Mayor Ronald Benedetti said, "Increasing the minimum wage will be a boon to our community members and to the local economy. Providing our workers with a better livelihood will give them greater opportunities to succeed. This is an important proposal for all Solvay residents, and I hope to see it pass."
Ann Marie Talierco, President, UNITE HERE 150 and Central New York Area Labor Federation, said, "Increasing the minimum wage will act as a lifeline for so many of our struggling Central New Yorkers who will now be able to better support themselves and their loved ones. This is an important step towards ensuring all our workers make a living wage, and I am proud to support the Governor in this effort."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-brings-fight-fair-pay-campaign-syracuse
