Public Statements
Whoopi Goldberg Joins 'Enough Is Enough' Campaign to Combat Sexual Assault on College Campuses
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 4, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Whoopi Goldberg, comedian, actress, political activist, writer and host of ABC's The View, has added her voice to the "Enough is Enough" campaign to combat sexual violence on college and university campuses. The video calls for all college campuses to be safer and free from sexual assault. Whoopi Goldberg's support comes a day after a bipartisan group of 17 of 18 county executives statewide joined the campaign, adding their voices to fight sexual assault on college campuses.
"Whoopi Goldberg has been a tireless advocate for human rights throughout her career, and we are proud to have her support in our fight against sexual assault and rape on New York's colleges campuses," Governor Cuomo said. "By ensuring students have the strongest protections in the country, this year New York can become a national leader in the fight against on-campus sexual violence. To make that a reality, I urge all New Yorkers to join us in saying enough is enough."
Members of the public wishing to join the conversation online can do so using #EnoughisEnough.
Governor Cuomo launched the "Enough is Enough" campaign last week to build support for his proposal for colleges and universities to implement uniform prevention and response measures to combat sexual assaults on campus. The Governor's proposal extends the policy and protections already adopted by SUNY to ensure that the State's 1.2 million college students are protected with comprehensive and uniform procedures and guidelines, including affirmative consent and access to law enforcement. Once law, this policy will go far to protect more students in New York.
Last week, the New York State Police created a dedicated hotline for reporting sexual assaults on college and university campuses: 1-844-845-7269. Specially-trained members will be on-call 24 hours a day to respond to sexual assault calls throughout the State. Over the next several weeks, State Police will also develop response protocols and training courses to share with campus partners.
The Governor's on-campus sexual assault prevention proposal includes the following components:
- A statewide definition of affirmative consent, defining consent as a clear, unambiguous, and voluntary agreement between the participants to engage in specific sexual activity;
- A statewide amnesty policy, to ensure that students reporting incidents of sexual assault or other sexual violence are granted immunity for certain campus policy violations, such as drug and alcohol use;
- A Sexual Violence Victim/Survivor Bill of Rights, which campuses will be required to distribute to all students in order to specifically inform sexual violence victims of their legal rights and how they may access appropriate resources. The Bill of Rights clearly states that students are given the right to know they can report sexual assaults to outside law enforcement, including the State Police;
- Comprehensive training requirements for administrators, staff, and students, including at new student orientations.
To learn more, visit www.ny.gov/EnoughisEnough.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/whoopi-goldberg-joins-enough-enough-campaign-combat-sexual-assault-college-campuses
