Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Brings 'Fight For Fair Pay' Campaign to Rochester
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 4, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today joined labor and community leaders in Rochester to rally support for the passage of his proposal to raise the statewide minimum wage to $10.50 per hour. The "Fight for Fair Pay" campaign is a call to action to raise the minimum wage in New York this year. As part of the campaign, the Governor and members of his Cabinet will travel across the State to garner support for the Governor's proposal and make it a reality.
"Raising the minimum wage will provide New Yorkers with more opportunities to succeed," Governor Cuomo said. "Ensuring our workforce makes a decent wage will allow them to participate in the State's economy and keep it moving in the right direction. We must increase the minimum wage this year so that all New Yorkers are paid fairly, which will contribute to the State's ongoing economic growth."
According to the New York State Department of Labor, in the Finger Lakes region today there are 37,628 workers making the current state minimum wage of $8.75 per hour. An estimated total of 89,254 Finger Lakes workers currently making below $10.50 per hour would be affected by the proposed minimum wage hike to $10.50 per hour, under the Governor's proposal.
The State Department of Labor projects that the proposed increase in the minimum wage outside New York City will generate $1.5 billion annually in increased wages, with an economic impact of $168.7 million for the Finger Lakes region.
The State's minimum wage, currently $8.75 per hour, has fallen far below the average hourly wage in the State. In 2012, the Governor signed legislation into law that increased the minimum wage from $7.25 to $9 incrementally by December 31, 2015 to better align with the cost of living across the State. However, as the cost of living in New York continues to rise, the Governor proposes to again increase the minimum wage to increase earnings for many wage earners in low-income households, which will also aid local economies. Business and labor organizations including the Retail Council of New York State, Hotel and Motel Trades Council, 1199 SEIU, 32BJ SEIU and others support the Governor's efforts to increase the minimum wage.
A reasonable minimum wage can help improve the standard of living for workers, reduce poverty, encourage fair and more efficient business practices, and ensure that the most vulnerable members of the workforce can contribute to the economy.
Key Statistics for Minimum Wage Workers in New York State
There are currently more than 594,000 minimum wage ($8.75) workers in New York State, 37,628 of which are in the Finger Lakes region.
Raising the minimum wage will help adults:
55% of hourly workers earning $10.50 or less outside of NYC are over age 25.
34% of hourly workers earning $10.50 or less outside of NYC are over age 35.
Raising the minimum wage will help women: 57% of hourly workers earning $10.50 or less outside of NYC are female.
Raising the minimum wage to the level the Governor is proposing will lift more than 100,000 New Yorkers out of poverty.
More information about the facts related to raising the minimum wage in New York is available here.
The Governor's proposal to raise the minimum wage is part of 10-point plan to combat poverty and fight inequality included in his 2015 Opportunity Agenda:
1. Raise the minimum wage to $10.50 statewide and $11.50 in New York City.
2. Expand the Unemployment Strikeforce to the top ten highest areas of unemployment to help ensure every New Yorker who wants a job can find one.
3. Double the funding for the Urban Youth Jobs Program to combat the unacceptably high unemployment rates among inner-city youth in communities across New York.
4. Invest more than $486 million in housing for vulnerable New Yorkers.
5. Invest an additional $220 million in homeless services.
6. Invest $183 million to support NY/NY IV Housing Program to create additional supportive housing units for populations requiring a little more aid.
7. Commit $4.5 million to advance the Governor's Anti-Hunger Task Force.
8. Create a $50 million Nonprofit Infrastructure Capital Investment Program to improve the quality, efficiency, accessibility, and reach of nonprofit human services organizations that serve New Yorkers.
9. Increase MWBE opportunities to 30 percent.
10. Create the Get On Your Feet Loan Forgiveness Program to help eligible New York State residents who graduate from college and continue to live in the state pay nothing on their student loans for the first two years out of school.
Rochester Mayor Lovely Warren said, "I am proud to stand with the Governor in his efforts to lift people out of poverty, which is the best way to improve our neighborhoods, schools and job base. Many families will benefit and thus, New York will be an even greater place to live, work and raise a family.
Gary Bonadonna Sr., President of Workers United Rochester Regional Joint Board., said, "Our workers must be able to afford to live here, support their families and be active members of their communities. A hike in the minimum wage will make that possible. On behalf of Workers United, I support the Governor's proposal and hope it passes soon so our workers can begin to benefit immediately."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-brings-fight-fair-pay-campaign-rochester
