Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches "Fight For Fair Pay' Campaign
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 3, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today launched the "Fight for Fair Pay" campaign, a call to action to raise the minimum wage in New York this year. The campaign includes a website, www.ny.gov/FightForFairPay, which provides information and resources about the importance of raising the minimum wage in the State. The Governor proposes to raise the statewide minimum wage to $10.50 per hour and to $11.50 per hour in New York City. Today, the Governor joined labor and community leaders in Buffalo to rally for the increased minimum wage, which would enable more New Yorkers to better support themselves and their families. Over the next few weeks, the Governor and members of his cabinet will travel across the State to rally support for the Governor's proposal and make it a reality.
"The sweetest and healthiest success is one that enables everyone to do well together -- that is what community is all about," Governor Cuomo said. "As our economy recovers and our businesses add new jobs, we need to ensure our entire workforce has the opportunity to be part of the economic recovery and new momentum we are seeing in all corners of the State. New York has always been a leader in protecting our workers and building strong communities, and this year we must continue to move forward by fighting for fair pay and raising the minimum wage statewide."
The State's current minimum wage is $8.75 per hour, which has fallen far below the average hourly wage in the State. In 2012, the Governor signed legislation into law that increased the minimum wage from $7.25 to $9 incrementally by December 31, 2015 to better align with the cost of living across the State. However, as the cost of living in New York continues to rise, the Governor proposes to again increase the minimum wage to increase earnings for many wage earners in low-income households, which will also aid local economies. Business and labor organizations including the Retail Council of New York State, Hotel and Motel Trades Council, 1199 SEIU, 32BJ SEIU and others support the Governor's efforts to increase the minimum wage.
A reasonable minimum wage can help improve the standard of living for workers, reduce poverty, encourage fair and more efficient business practices, and ensure that the most vulnerable members of the workforce can contribute to the economy.











Source:
