Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Hiring Our Heroes Job Fair
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 3, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the New York National Guard will host a Hiring Our Heroes Veterans' Job Fair at the Division of Military and Naval Affairs Headquarters in Latham on Thursday, March 5. With over 70 employers and at least 350 jobs to fill, the United States Chamber of Commerce Foundation event is open to veterans, military spouses and members of the National Guard and Reserve.
"We must do everything we can to support these brave New Yorkers who have answered the call to serve and put their lives on the line," Governor Cuomo said. "After all they have done for this state and this nation, we must ensure that these men, women and their families succeed upon their return home. I encourage any veteran looking for a job to attend the job fair on Thursday."
The job fair starts at 10 a.m. and will run until 1 p.m. Participating companies include Global Foundries, CAP COM Federal Credit Union, Albany Molecular Research, Inc., Arnoff Moving & Storage of Albany, NAPA Auto Parts, and Bechtel Marine Propulsion Corporation.
Prior to the job fair, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation will conduct an employment workshop from 8:30 a.m. to 10 a.m., which will consist of a classroom session followed by one-on-one mentoring sessions with human resources professionals for all pre-registered participants. Mentoring sessions focus on resume building, resume writing and interviewing techniques for all job-seeking veteran and service member participants. Representatives from the Veterans Administration will also be on site to assist veterans with any questions they have about benefits and health care.
For registration and more information about the Job Fair, please visit: http://www.uschamberfoundation.org/event/latham-hiring-fair.
The Hiring Our Heroes Veterans Job Fair is one of a series of events being held across the country designed to match veterans, military spouses and Reserve and National Guard members with employers. Since its inception in 2011, more than 369,000 veterans and military spouses found jobs through the Hiring Our Heroes program, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation.
This event is sponsored by General Electric and co-sponsored locally by the New York National Guard, Albany-Colonie Regional Chamber of Commerce, Rensselaer County Regional Chamber of Commerce, NYS Department of Labor, the Employer Support of the Guard & Reserve, the U. S. Department of Labor Veterans Employment and Training Service, U. S. Department of Veterans Affairs, The American Legion and NBC News.
The New York National Guard's Job Zone Program will be part of the Hiring Fair as well. The New York National Guard's Employment Initiative Program helps New York National Guard Soldiers and Airmen refine their resumes while providing them with information on employers who want to hire veterans and Guard members. The Job Zone staff also works to help employers understand the skill-sets that veterans and Guard Soldiers and Airmen bring to their businesses.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-hiring-our-heroes-job-fair
