Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $2 Million to Modernize Oneida County Public Health Clinic
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 2, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a $2 million grant to support the total rehabilitation of the Oneida County Health Department's Public Health Clinic in Utica. The project will include upgrades to and the complete replacement of important infrastructure and equipment at the free health clinic, which will improve access and ensure it continues to provide quality health and medical services.
"The Oneida County Public Health Clinic provides first class healthcare to the people of this region, and its facilities must match the quality of the services offered," Governor Cuomo said. "We are proud to invest in the complete rehabilitation of this facility, which will ensure that these critical services remain available for years to come."
In order to ensure the Public Health Clinic is able to continue providing critical health and wellness services to the people of Oneida County, Governor Cuomo directed a $2 million grant from Empire State Development to assist with the planned total rehabilitation of the facility. The project will include a new ground-level entrance, state-of-the-art examination rooms, a new elevator and modern, more comfortable waiting rooms.
Since being established in the William Gibson Memorial as the City of Utica Health Department in the early 1930s, the Public Health Clinic has provided critical medical and wellness services to residents of the City of Utica and Oneida County. While the quality of care has remained exceptional throughout the years, other aspects of the clinic -- specifically the building in which it is housed -- are in need of repair or improvement.
Oneida County Executive Anthony Picente said, "I want to thank Governor Cuomo for his continued commitment to Oneida County and our region. The Oneida County Health Clinic provides those that need it the most with high quality, free health care and medical services while providing mandated core public health programs. Now, with this grant and the ability for Oneida County to make a financial commitment we will complete a total rehabilitation including a new entrance and state-of-the-art examination rooms. Finally the building will be equal to the care provided inside of it."
The Public Health Clinic provides Oneida County residents, many of whom are underserved, low-income families and individuals or seniors, with access to quality, free healthcare and medical services, including the mandated core public health programs of Immunizations, Sexually Transmitted Diseases, Tuberculosis and Communicable Diseases, and Maternal Child Health. In 2013, the clinic served or treated more than 5,500 patients and clients and completed nearly 3,400 investigations into reports of communicable diseases. Additionally, its federally funded Injury Prevention Program, which includes car seat and bicycle helmet distribution programs, provided 175 car seats to underserved, low-income residents and 516 children's helmets in 2013.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-2-million-modernize-oneida-county-public-health-clinic
