Public Statements
At University at Buffalo, Senator Gillibrand & Lieutenant Governor Hochul Meet With Students and Lead Organizing Effort to Combat Sexual Violence on College Campuses
Press Release
By: Kirsten Gillibrand Kathy Hochul Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 2, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

At a round table meeting at University at Buffalo, U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand and Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul were joined today by students and officials from University at Buffalo and other Western New York area colleges, as well as survivors, advocates, and law enforcement and discussed bolstering efforts to combat sexual violence on college campuses. According to data from the U.S. Department of Education, college campuses in New York reported 388 forcible sex offenses and over 5,000 offenses nationwide in 2013.
Last week Gillibrand reintroduced a strengthened version of her bipartisan bill The Campus Accountability and Safety Act (S.590) after receiving input from survivors, students, colleges and universities, law enforcement, and advocates. Gillibrand's legislation would flip the current incentives of a broken system to provide real accountability and transparency from higher education institutions. The legislation would professionalize the response to and reporting of sexual assaults that occur on campuses to better protect and empower survivors of campus sexual violence, while also protecting the rights of accused students.
The legislation would secure landmark reforms for how colleges and universities address and report incidents of sexual assault that occur on their campuses. It incorporates feedback from key stakeholders to strengthen how student surveys are conducted and strengthens newly required training standards. The provisions safeguard both survivors and accused students. It extends the amount of time survivors have to file a case with the Department of Education, and sets new notification requirements for both survivors and accused students involved in the campus disciplinary process.
"We all have a responsibility to help combat the culture of sexual assault and rape on college campuses," Governor Cuomo said. "Senator Gillibrand has been a leader in this fight in Washington, and I commend her for the important work she has done and continues to do on this critically important issue. In New York, we're fighting to enact the toughest and most comprehensive law in the nation to combat sexual assault on college campuses. Enough is Enough, and this year I urge all New Yorkers to join our fight in combatting sexual assault on college campuses."

Source:
