Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces the 30th New York Farm Show Returns to the State Fairgrounds Beginning February 26
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 25, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the 30th New York Farm Show, one of the largest farm shows in the Northeast, will return to the State Fairgrounds in Syracuse beginning Thursday, February 26 and ending on Saturday, February 28. Last year, more than 25,000 New Yorkers attended the Farm Show, which occupies more than 220,000 square feet of space in six buildings, and over 400 exhibitors.
"The New York Farm Show is one of the best of its kind -- giving people a glimpse into the most innovative agricultural developments of the day and bringing a major economic boost to the region," Governor Cuomo said. "This year's show promises to be one of the best yet, with visitors from across the Northeast experiencing all that our State's agricultural vendors and small business owners have to offer, and I look forward to seeing it get underway."
The New York Farm Show opens at 8:30 a.m. each day and runs until 4 p.m. Admission to the show is $5 for adults and children under 18 are free. In addition, tickets are available at any Northeast Equipment Dealership. Parking is free and shuttle buses will be available throughout the Fairgrounds. The show will be held in the Exhibit Center, Center of Progress Building, Horticulture Building, Science & Industry Building, International Building, and Art & Home Center. The show is co-sponsored by the Northeast Equipment Dealers Association and American Agriculturalist.
The Farm Show will feature the latest innovations in agricultural equipment, as well as services and products targeted specifically for farm operators of the Northeast. A Robotic Milking Seminar will be offered daily in the Art and Home Center, sponsored by Farm Credit East. A number of other organizations will be offering workshops and presentations including forest management workshops and an agricultural safety program.
On February 27 at 5 p.m., the annual Robert Watson Memorial Toy Auction will be held in the Empire Room of the Art and Home Center. Hundreds of farm toys will be sold to the highest bidder and all of the proceeds will go to the New York FFA.
State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball said, "The New York Farm Show is proof that the State Fairgrounds have unlimited potential beyond just playing host to the Great New York State Fair. This event is a great venue to talk to fellow farmers, see the latest innovations in farming equipment and get ready for spring, which is right around the corner."
More information about the 30th New York Farm Show is available at www.newyorkfarmshow.com
The New York State Fair, operated by the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets, runs from August 27 -- September 7, 2015. The Fair's mission, reflected in its theme, "Summer's Best in Show," is to showcase the best of New York agriculture while providing top-quality entertainment.
In addition to the annual New York State Fair, the Fairgrounds host dozens of agricultural events throughout the year, including some of the Northeast's most prestigious horse and livestock shows.
The home of the Great New York State Fair is a 375-acre exhibit and entertainment complex that operates all year. A year-round schedule of events is available on the Fair's website. Find The Great New York State Fair on Facebook, follow @NYSFair on Twitter, and enjoy photos from the Fair at Flickr.com/photos/nysfair. Also, New Yorkers are invited to send their ideas for the Great New York State Fair at statefairideas@agriculture.ny.gov.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-30th-new-york-farm-show-returns-state-fairgrounds-beginning-february
