Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Free Snowmobiling Weekend March 7-8
Press Release
By: Joseph Griffo Andrew Cuomo Kenneth Blankenbush Patty Ritchie
Date: Feb. 19, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew Cuomo made a number of announcements today geared toward boosting Upstate winter tourism, including a free snowmobiling weekend to be held in communities across New York on March 7 and 8 for all out-of-state and Canadian snowmobilers. Registration fees will be waived for properly registered and insured out-of-state snowmobiling enthusiasts wishing to explore New York's 10,400 miles of trails.
The Governor also announced that the 2015 Winter Challenge will be held the same weekend, on March 8.
"Boosting Upstate tourism has been a top priority for this administration, and this free snowmobiling weekend, Winter Challenge and ad campaign showcase all New York has to offer -- even in the Winter," Governor Cuomo said. "I encourage New Yorkers and out-of-towners to plan a trip and experience these beautiful trails, vistas and world renowned resorts for themselves."
Free Snowmobiling Weekend March 7-8
Currently out-of-state and Canadian snowmobilers are required to register their snowmobiles with New York State before hitting the State's trails, stretching from the Hudson Valley to the North Country to Western New York. Snowmobile registration costs $100, but is decreased to $45 if registered through a local snowmobile club. This fee will be waived for out-of-state and Canadian snowmobilers during the promotional March 7-8 weekend provided they are properly registered and insured in another state or Canada.
Town registration fees will also be waived March 7-8 for all in-state, out-of-state and Canadian snowmobilers, including in the town of Webb, in Herkimer County, and the town of Inlet, in Hamilton County.
For information on snowmobiling, including online registration for out-of-state snowmobilers, during non-promotional times, visit http://dmv.ny.gov/registration/register-snowmobile.
The State's snowmobiling community has a total economic impact of $868 million, according to a 2011 study by the State University at Potsdam. The promotional March 7-8 weekend is expected to provide a boost to local small businesses and promote the State's vast network of snowmobile trails, which are groomed and maintained by more than 230 local snowmobile clubs across the State. The State is also committed to holding a free snowmobiling weekend again next winter.
Rose Harvey, Commissioner of the Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation said, "Through the efforts of Governor Cuomo, more and more people are discovering how much New York has to offer to outdoor recreation enthusiasts. This promotional weekend will allow visitors to enjoy our wonderful state, park system and one of the most extensive snowmobile trail systems in the country at no cost."
New York State Snowmobiling Executive Director Dominic Jacangelo said, "New York has the largest trail system outside of Maine and some of the best trails in the Northeast. We applaud the Governor for designating a free weekend for riders from the surrounding states and Canada to show them what a great experience New York has to offer. From Chautauqua to Plattsburgh, New York is the "State of Opportunity' for snowmobilers. This effort will support the thousands of New Yorkers who depend on snowmobiling for their livelihood."
2015 Adirondack Winter Challenge
To further promote Upstate winter tourism, the Governor also announced that the 2015 Adirondack Winter Challenge will be held during the free snowmobiling weekend, on March 8th, in Lake Placid. During his 2014 Adirondack Winter Challenge, Governor Cuomo snowmobiled on Kushaqua Trail in Lake Placid. Last year's Challenge drew over 400 state and local elected officials, staff, and winter sports enthusiasts from across New York State.
Launch of New I LOVE NEW YORK Snowmobiling Ad
The Governor today also announced the launch of a new digital ad promoting the free snowmobiling weekend to visitors from Canada and New York's neighboring states. This ad builds on the State's existing $6.4 million I LOVE NEW YORK winter tourism campaign, which is currently seen on television, in key digital outlets, at transportation hubs and on buses, trains and subways. New York's snowmobiling activities and events are also featured on iloveny.com and the new I LOVE NEW YORK mobile app.
Last winter, the Governor traveled to Tug Hill in the North Country to launch I [Snowmobile] NY, part of a $4.5 million national winter tourism campaign to promote snowmobiling, skiing and other recreational activities in Upstate New York.
The State has much to offer travelers during the winter months, including premier skiing at Whiteface Mountain and nearly 100 other ski centers, winterized rental cabins in Allegany State Park, ice skating at Bear Mountain State Park, snowshoeing in the Adirondacks, and the Olympic Village in Lake Placid. More information is available at iloveny.com/winter and on the free I LOVE NEW YORK mobile app, available for download on the iTunes and Google Play app stores or at www.iloveny.com/mobile.
In June 2015, the International Snowmobile Congress, a gathering of 400 snowmobile industry leaders from the United States, Canada, Russia and Sweden, will be held in Niagara Falls.
$4 Million Grant for Snowmobile Trail Maintenance
This year, New York State Office of Parks, Recreation & Historic Preservation awarded more than $4 million in grants, generated from snowmobile registration, for snowmobile trail maintenance to 53 communities. The funding supports more than 10,400 miles of designated trails across the State for snowmobilers to enjoy. New York's comprehensive trail system and trail assistance program provides snowmobilers with updated information on groomed trails that are safe for travel.
For a safe and enjoyable snowmobiling experience, State Parks recommends: dressing for the conditions and wearing a snowmobile helmet; staying on the designated trails; avoiding lakes, rivers and ice that has moving water near or under it, as the ice in these areas may be thin and weak; not driving after consuming alcohol; and completing a snowmobile safety course. A leader in snowmobile education, New York State offers an operator training course for snowmobilers to ensure the safety of riders and other trail users. A list of courses offered throughout the state is updated weekly during the snowmobile season and can be found on the State Parks website.
I encourage New Yorkers and out-of-towners to plan a trip and experience these beautiful trails, vistas and world renowned resorts for themselves.
Governor Cuomo
Senator Betty Little said, "Once again, Governor Cuomo has made a commitment to promoting the great upstate tourism industry that countless communities and local economies depend on. With yet another push get more visitors to Upstate attractions, we will continue to showcase the best of the Adirondacks for years to come."
Senator Joseph A. Griffo said, "The North Country offers endless excitement and adventure -- and by bringing more people and more attention to our region, more visitors from across the globe come to see what this place is all about. Thanks to Governor Cuomo's unrelenting support of the North Country, tourism is booming and truly driving our economy forward and creating jobs."
Senator Patty Ritchie said, "As an avid snowmobiler, I know the sport isn't just a lot of fun--it's also a way of life and a large part of our economy in Upstate New York," said State Senator Patty Ritchie. "I'm pleased that the Governor is recognizing just how important snowmobiling is to our region. These efforts, combined with the work we've done in recent years to improve outdoor recreation, will help to better the experience for those who hit the trails, attract new people to the sport and in turn, will help to create jobs by providing a boost to local businesses."
Assemblymember Ken Blankenbush said, "Its vitally important that we promote every asset of our tourism industry that is critical to countless communities. I applaud Governor for continuing to attract more attention to the hidden gems of our region and the outdoor activities that will result in more tourists and more dollars to our local economies."
Michael Tabolt, Lewis County Board Chair, said, "I am excited to see the Governor's emphasis on winter tourism in our region. The more we can do to promote our attractions, the more our economy will continue to grow. This is a win-win for Lewis County."
Randall Schell, Lowville Town Supervisor, said, "Our snowmobiling trails are some of the best in the country, and we are proud to partner with the Governor and offer a free weekend of snowmobiling to out-of-towners. Our winter attractions are the lifeblood of our communities. This promotion is a great way to attract more people to check out all that our town has to offer."
Mike Farmer, Town of Webb Tourism/Publicity Director, said, "Governor Cuomo has spotlighted winter activities in the North Country, which are among the best in the country, if not the world. Additional funding and promotional materials will get out the word for more people to come and enjoy Upstate New York."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-free-snowmobiling-weekend-march-7-8
