Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Start of Construction to Replace I-87 Northway Bridges at Exit 4 in Colonie
Press Release
By: Phillip Steck Andrew Cuomo Neil Breslin Patricia Fahy
Date: Feb. 17, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that work will begin next Monday, Feb. 23 on a $22.3 million project to replace the highway bridges that carry the Adirondack Northway (Interstate 87) over Albany-Shaker Road in the town of Colonie. The two bridges, which were built as part of the original Northway construction in 1959, carry an average of 102,000 vehicles each day.
"This project will replace two aging bridges along one of the busiest stretches of the Northway, upgrading an interstate highway that is critically important not just to New York, but to the entire Northeast," said Governor Cuomo. "Infrastructure investments like this one will continue to grow our economy by facilitating the movement of goods to market, commuters to work and tourists to destinations in every corner of our state."
The project will build replacement bridges in between the existing northbound and southbound spans and partly on the footprint of the old spans. Once the new bridges are completed, the existing structures will be removed. Construction is expected to be finished by Oct. 31 of this year.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "Through the leadership of Governor Cuomo, we continue to make smart investments in our transportation infrastructure. This is a significant project for upstate New York and the Capital Region, connecting commuters and growing industries in Albany and Saratoga counties."
As part of Governor Cuomo's Driver's First initiative, the project plans were reviewed to ensure that construction will have the least possible impact to the traveling public. Northway traffic will continue to have access to three lanes in both directions during peak commuting hours. Some temporary lane closures will be required during off-peak hours; the Exit 4 ramps may also be closed for short durations, and detours will be provided.
The contractor for the work is a joint venture (L & T Construction) between Lancaster Development, Inc. of Richmondville, Schoharie County, and Tully Construction Co, Inc. of Flushing, Queens.
Senator Neil Breslin said, "It is vital to our local economy that we maintain a safe and sound infrastructure. These types of smart investments not only bring industries and communities together, but improve the quality of life for commuters and tourists alike. I applaud Governor Cuomo for his on-going efforts to improve our state's infrastructure."
Assemblyman Phil Steck said, "I strongly commend Governor Cuomo for recognizing the importance of this section of the Northway for the Capital Region. This project should go a long way toward improving access to Albany International Airport and businesses in the surrounding areas, as well as to provide a better overall traffic flow for travelers and residents driving through. The community and the Chamber of Commerce have been seeking improvements at this very busy exit, and I join them in looking forward to the completion of the new construction."
Assemblywoman Patricia A. Fahy said, "Exit 4 is a major connector to both our regional airport and one of the area's most vibrant retail corridors. I commend Governor Cuomo for recognizing the critical importance of updating this corridor to the long term economic vitality of the Capital Region."
Albany County Executive Daniel P. McCoy said, "I am pleased to see that Governor Cuomo and the DOT are moving forward with this needed infrastructure project. This area of the Northway serves as a vital gateway to Albany County which also serves as a crucial link to the state's capital city. It is important that we provide safe and modernized roadways and bridges for the travelling public."
Colonie Town Supervisor Paula A. Mahan said, "The Town of Colonie is very grateful to Governor Cuomo and NYSDOT for supporting this important project. It will not only greatly enhance Northway travel through Colonie, but it will also give a fresh, new look to the entire Exit 4 area, beautifying an important commercial sector of Town. Quite simply, we're thrilled!"
Follow New York State DOT on Twitter: @NYSDOT. Find us on Facebook at facebook.com/NYSDOT.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-start-construction-replace-i-87-northway-bridges-exit-4-colonie
