Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Urges Caution Amid Severe Cold and Winter Storm Conditions
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 14, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today urged all New Yorkers to exercise caution with winter storm conditions -- including some wind chills well below zero -- impacting communities across the state.
According to the National Weather Service, some areas of the state may experience their coldest temperatures in generations. The agency notes that temperatures at LaGuardia Airport in Queens may drop to their lowest since 1943, and Central Park may experience its lowest temperature since 1888.
"New Yorkers should take every appropriate precaution as subzero temperatures and blizzard-like conditions hit the State this weekend," Governor Cuomo said. "This weather can be extremely dangerous for everyone from children to the elderly, so I encourage people to stay indoors whenever possible and stay safe."
The New York State Department has 1,444 plows, 3,629 operators and supervisors, and 260,000 tons of road salt available statewide for this weekend's storm. In addition, the Department has supplemented its Long Island crews with 21 plows and 6 loaders from contractors. Towing contractors are also being deployed on Long Island to clear any cars that become stuck on State highways.
The New York State Thruway Authority has a total of 337 large and medium sized snow plows, 555 snow plow operators, 55 front-end loaders and 94,469 tons of salt deployed across New York State for storm response. The Thruway will continuously monitor the storm as it develops and is prepared to shift resources accordingly.
The American Red Cross Response Center for Public Information can be reached at 1-800-733-2767. The National Grid NY Electric Outage reporting number is 1-800-867-5222. Contact information for individual utilities can be found at the bottom of this release.
The latest statewide weather brief from the National Weather Service can be found below, followed by common safety tips that New Yorkers should be aware of:
NWS Albany
Today snow is likely, mainly after 1:00 p.m. Highs will be near 20, with wind chill values as low as -8. Total daytime snow accumulation of 1 to 2 inches possible. Overnight, snow is expected before 11:00 p.m., then snow with areas of blowing snow after 11:00 p.m. Lows will be around 10, with wind chill values as low as -6. Winds could gust as high as 25 mph and new snow accumulation of 1 to 3 inches possible. Sunday, snow is likely with areas of blowing snow before noon, and then a slight chance of snow between noon and 1:00 p.m. Highs will be near 10, with wind chill values as low as -13. Blustery northwest winds 20 to 22 mph are expected, with gusts as high as 37 mph. New snow accumulation of less than one inch is possible. Sunday night, areas of blowing snow are forecast, with a low around -11. Wind chill values as low as -32are likely. Blustery northwest winds 17 to 21 mph are expected, with gusts as high as 36 mph.
Snow rates will generally be a half inch or less per hour, with the possibility of brief periods of locally higher snowfall amounts. The forecast area will likely receive 2 to 4 inches of snowfall total from this storm system, with higher terrain areas in the Catskills and Taconics receiving up to 6 inches.
Winter Weather Advisory: Albany, Columbia, Dutchess, Greene, Rensselaer, Schenectady, Ulster, Hamilton, Montgomery, Fulton, Herkimer, Warren, Washington, Schoharie, and Saratoga County until Monday at 12:00 p.m.
Wind Chill Warning: Albany, Columbia, Dutchess, Greene, Rensselaer, Schenectady, Ulster, Hamilton, Montgomery, Fulton, Herkimer, Warren, Washington, Schoharie, and Saratoga County until Monday at 12:00 p.m.
NWS Binghamton
Today snow is forecast, heavy at times, with highs near 30. South winds 9 to 11 mph, with gusts as high as 21 mph. Total daytime snow accumulation of around 2 inches. Overnight, Snow with areas of blowing snow is expected before 11:00 p.m., then scattered snow after 2:00 a.m. The snow could be heavy at times, with lows around 2. Wind chill values as low as -12 are possible. Blustery southwest winds 5 to 10 mph are likely then becoming northwest 15 to 20 mph in the evening. Winds could gust as high as 44 mph. New snow accumulation of around 3 inches. Sunday, scattered snow showers are forecast before 10:00 a.m., then a chance for flurries. Temperatures will fall to around -4 by 5:00 p.m., with wind chill values as low as -26. Blustery northwest winds 17 to 22 mph are expected, with gusts as high as 43 mph. New snow accumulation of less than one inch possible. Sunday night, scattered flurries are forecast before midnight, with a low around -11. Wind chill values as low as -31 are possible. Northwest winds 13 to 16 mph are likely, with gusts as high as 34 mph.
This storm system is expected to produce 3 to 5 inches of snowfall over much of Central New York, with the Finger Lake region expecting up to 7 to 8 inches.
Winter Weather Advisory: Broome, Chemung, Chenango, Cortland, Delaware, Madison, Oneida, Onondaga, Otsego, Schuyler, Seneca, Cayuga, Steuben, Sullivan, Tioga, Tompkins and Yates County until Monday at 10:00 a.m.
Winter Weather Warning: Broome, Chemung, Chenango, Cortland, Delaware, Madison, Oneida, Onondaga, Otsego, Schuyler, Seneca, Cayuga, Steuben, Sullivan, Tioga, Tompkins and Yates County until Monday at 10:00 a.m.
NWS Buffalo
Today snow is forecast before 1:00 p.m., then a chance of snow after 4:00 p.m. Temperatures will fall to around 12 by 5:00 p.m., with wind chill values as low as -5. Southwest winds 11 to 16 mph becoming northwest 21 to 26 mph in the afternoon. Winds could gust as high as 38 mph. Total daytime snow accumulation of 1 to 3 inches possible. Overnight, snow showers likely, mainly after 10:00 p.m., with a low around -6. Wind chill values as low as -25 are possible. West wind 18 to 20 mph. New snow accumulation of 1 to 2 inches possible. Sunday, snow showers likely with widespread blowing snow before 10:00 a.m., then a chance of snow showers after 10:00 a.m. Highs will be near -5, with wind chill values as low as -30. West wind around 16 mph. New snow accumulation of less than one inch possible. Sunday night, a chance of snow showers, mainly before 9:00 p.m., with a low around -12. Wind chill values as low as -30 are possible. West wind 8 to 13 mph.
A storm total accumulation of 8 to 14 inches is forecast from Rochester toward Syracuse.
Travel Advisory: All of Erie County until further notice.
Winter Storm Advisory: Allegany, Jefferson and Lewis County until Monday at 10:00 a.m.
Winter Storm Warning: Monroe, Niagara, Cayuga, Orleans, Oswego, Wayne, Genesee, Livingston, Erie, Ontario, Wyoming, Cattaraugus, and Chautauqua County until Sunday at 6:00 p.m.
Wind Chill Warning: Allegany, Jefferson and Lewis County until Monday at 10:00 a.m.
NWS Burlington
Today snow showers are forecast, with a high near 15. Wind chill values as low as -10 are likely. Total daytime snow accumulation of 1 to 3 inches possible. Overnight, snow is expected before 8:00 p.m., with a low around -7. Wind chill values as low as -28 are likely. New snow accumulation of 1 to 3 inches possible. Sunday, a chance of snow showers, mainly before noon, then becoming mostly cloudy and cold, with temperatures falling to around -13 by 4:00 p.m. Wind chill values as low as -34. North wind 16 to 18 mph, with gusts as high as 31 mph. New snow accumulation of a half inch possible. Sunday night, mostly cloudy skies are expected, with a low around -27. Wind chill values as low as -50. Northwest wind 11 to 15 mph, with gusts as high as 25 mph.
Wind Chill Warning: Clinton, Essex, Franklin, and St. Lawrence County until Monday at 12:00 p.m.
NWS Upton
Today snow is likely; mainly after 4:00 p.m. Highs will be near 30, with wind chill values between 15 and 20. South wind 9 to 13 mph. Total daytime snow accumulation of less than one inch is possible. Overnight, snow is forecast with a low around 15. Wind chill values between -5 and 5 are likely. South wind 7 to 12 mph becoming west 24 to 34 mph. Winds could gust as high as 46 mph. New snow accumulation of 2 to 4 inches possible. Sunday, snow is likely, mainly before 11:00 a.m., with a high near 18. Wind chill values between -5 and zero are expected; with a northwest wind 30 to 37 mph. Gusts could be as high as 48 mph. New snow accumulation of less than one inch possible. Sunday night, clear skies are forecast, with a low around 2. Wind chill values between -10 and -20 are possible. Northwest wind 20 to 26 mph, with gusts as high as 38 mph.
Blizzard Warning: Suffolk County until Sunday at 1:00 p.m.
Wind Chill Watch: Westchester, Orange, Rockland, and Putnam County until Monday at 11:00 a.m.
Winter Weather Advisory: Bronx, Kings, New York, Nassau, Queens, Richmond, and Westchester County until Sunday at 1:00 p.m.
Winter Weather Advisory: Westchester, Orange, Rockland, and Putnam County until Monday at 11:00 a.m.
Wind Advisory: Bronx, Kings, New York, Nassau, Queens, Richmond, Westchester, Orange, Rockland, and Putnam County until Sunday at 6:00 p.m.
A wind chill warning is issued when the wind chill index is likely to fall to -25 degrees or colder for at least three hours. A wind chill index below -30 can bring about frostbite in as little as 10 minutes. Outdoor exposure should be limited. If you are heading outdoors, dress in layers and keep your hands and head covered to protect against frostbite.
A wind chill warning means the combination of very cold air and strong winds will create dangerously low wind chill values. This will result in frost bite and lead to hypothermia or death if precautions are not taken.
Safety tips:
To avoid frostbite, stay inside during severe cold. If you must go out, try to cover every part of your body: ears, nose, toes and fingers, etc. Mittens are better than gloves. Keep your skin dry. Stay out of the wind when possible. Drink plenty of fluids since hydration increases the blood's volume, which helps prevent frostbite. Avoid caffeine, alcohol and cigarettes. Caffeine constricts blood vessels, preventing warming of your extremities. Alcohol reduces shivering, which helps keep you warm. Cigarette use shuts off the blood flow to your hands.
Degrees of Frostbite
- First degree: ice crystals forming on your skin
- Second degree: Skin begins to feel warm, even though it is not yet defrosted.
- Third degree: Skin turns red, pale or white.
- Fourth degree: Pain lasts for more than a few hours and skin may develop dark blue or black. See a doctor immediately if these symptoms arise. Gangrene is a real threat.
Frostbite First Aid
Until you can get indoors:
- Don't rub or massage cold body parts.
- Put your hands in your armpits.
- Hold onto another person or animal.
- Drink warm liquids.
- Put on extra layers of clothes, blankets, etc.
- Remove rings, watches, and anything tight.
Once Indoors
- Don't walk on a frostbitten foot. You could cause more damage.
- Get in a warm, NOT hot, bath and wrap your face and ears in a moist, warm, NOT hot, towel.
- Don't get near a hot stove or heater or use a heating pad, hot water bottle, or a hair dryer. You may burn yourself before feeling returns.
- Frostbitten skin will become red and swollen and feel like it's on fire. You may develop blisters. Don't break the blisters. It could cause scarring.
- If your skin turns blue or gray, is very swollen, blistered or feels hard and numb even under the surface, go to a hospital immediately.
Hypothermia is caused by prolonged exposure to cold temperatures, especially in children and the elderly. Watch for the following symptoms: inability to concentrate, poor coordination, slurred speech, drowsiness, exhaustion, and/or uncontrollable shivering, following by a sudden lack of shivering. If a person's body temperature drops below 95 degrees Fahrenheit, get emergency medical assistance immediately. Remove wet clothing, wrap the victim in warm blankets, and give warm, non-alcoholic, non-caffeinated liquids until help arrives.
Prevent pipes from freezing by turning on both hot and cold water faucets slightly, preferably in a basement sink -- running water will not freeze as quickly. Open cabinet doors to allow more heat to get to non-insulated pipes under a sink or appliance near an outer wall. If you plan to leave your residence, drain and shut off the water system (except indoor sprinkler systems).
If your pipes burst, make sure you and your family knows how to shut off the water. Stopping water flow minimizes damage to your home. Call a plumber and contact your insurance agent. Never try to thaw a pipe with an open flame or torch. Always be careful of the potential for electric shock in and around standing water.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-urges-caution-amid-severe-cold-and-winter-storm-conditions
