Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 25 New York State Wineries to Participate at Boston Wine Expo 2015
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 13, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that, for the first time ever, 25 New York State wineries will participate in the Boston Wine Expo. The Expo, which is taking place on February 14 and 15, is one of the largest wine-related events in the Northeast and one of the premier wine trade and consumer shows in the country. Staff from the Governor's Taste NY initiative will also be on-hand to highlight New York State agriculture and help visitors learn more about how the Empire State was named "Wine Region of the Year" in October 2014 by Wine Enthusiast Magazine.
"This weekend, visitors to the Boston Wine Expo will be introduced to some of the finest wines in the world -- which are grown and produced right here in New York State," Governor Cuomo said. "The Taste NY program is continuing to raise the profile of New York's first-rate producers, and by participating in this event we're introducing some of our State's best wines to an entirely new audience."
The Taste NY team will be joining wineries in the Taste NY section to introduce Massachusetts residents and other visitors to the high quality wines produced in New York. Wineries will also be able to take advantage of a new Massachusetts state law that allows wineries from out of state to ship directly to Massachusetts. This new law provides a tremendous opportunity for New York wineries to expand their market to residents of a neighboring state.
Many wine expositions and shows are limited only to distributors. This event is unique because it also has a consumer feature, enabling visitors to sample wines from around the world, a great combination that will benefit the participating wineries. Jim Trezise, President of the New York Wine and Grape Foundation, will also provide a seminar for up to 45 Wine Expo participants titled "The New World of World Class Wines: New York." Trezise will showcase a range of New York State wines, all of which have won gold medals at major wine competitions.
State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball said, "The New York wine industry is gaining momentum and also worldwide recognition for its quality, and we couldn't be more pleased that Taste NY will be going to this huge wine expo in Boston this coming weekend. Our craft beverage sector continues to be a growing agricultural success story here in New York and with this event we are expanding opportunities for our wineries to gain new customers."
Jim Trezise, President of the New York Wine and Grape Foundation, said, "The Boston Wine Expo is one of the best trade and consumer shows in the country and will provide a great opportunity for New York wineries. We are very grateful to Governor Cuomo and the Taste NY program for making this happen."
The Boston Wine Expo will take place at the Seaport Hotel and World Trade Center in Boston, MA.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-25-new-york-state-wineries-participate-boston-wine-expo-2015
