Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $1 Million in Additional Funding For 43North
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 11, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced increased funding of $1 million, the creation of a nonprofit to oversee 43North, and a new executive director for the world's largest business idea competition. The executive director and the five new nonprofit board members will work to build on the tremendous success of 43North's inaugural competition.
"43North is all about bringing the best and brightest startup minds to Buffalo -- and last year's competition was such a success that we're increasing our investment for 2015," Governor Cuomo said. "With this additional funding and a first-rate team to oversee it, 43North will continue to attract innovative companies in industries like health sciences, social media and advanced manufacturing to Western New York. This initiative is another example of the State's commitment to the region, and I look forward to seeing the second round of the world's largest business competition this year."
Empire State Development is providing the additional funding toward future opportunities for companies from around the globe to compete against each other while pitching their most innovative concepts.
With the additional $1 million announced by the Governor today coming from the Buffalo Billion, 43North will receive a total of $7 million in funding from New York State for 2015 ($6 million was previously allocated in December 2014 from the Western New York Power Proceeds Allocation Board). As with the $5 million in funding for last year's 43North winners, the awards come from revenues obtained from the market sale of unutilized hydropower from New York Power Authority's (NYPA) Niagara Power Project, as provided for under 2012 legislation spearheaded by Governor Cuomo.
The 43North initiative was born out of the Buffalo Billion Investment Development Plan, as a unique way to attract entrepreneurial talent to Western New York and showcase the extraordinary assets Buffalo has to offer promising startups. During its inaugural year, the competition attracted more than 2,600 submissions from 96 countries and all 50 states, demonstrating that Buffalo is an attractive location for new business ventures. In its initial competition, 43North awarded $5 million in prizes to 11 winners who moved to Buffalo in January 2015.
The 43North incubator space is being created at the Thomas R. Beecher Jr. Innovation Center at 640 Ellicott Street on the Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus.
"This additional funding will help ensure 43North continues to both attract new competitors and nurture last year's winners as they begin their work in Buffalo," said Kenneth Adams, current Empire State Development President and CEO. "The incoming leadership will provide important direction and support for everyone involved in this exciting initiative, which is designed to generate new businesses and ultimately create jobs."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-1-million-additional-funding-43north
