Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Launch of $40 Million NY Prize Microgrid Competition
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 11, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the launch of the state's $40 million energy competition, NY Prize, which is now accepting proposals for microgrids that meet energy and resiliency needs of local communities. The prize money for the winning designs will be used to build microgrids across New York State to reduce customer costs and promote clean energy.
"Having a reliable source of power is crucial when extreme weather strikes -- and by launching this microgrid competition, we're encouraging the development of more resilient energy networks across the State," Governor Cuomo said. "Developing and implementing microgrids will mean that more New Yorkers can benefit from a cleaner and more efficient energy system that will also be more accessible when they need it most. This is another way that the State is stepping up to help local communities build back stronger in the face of severe weather events, and I encourage all interested parties to apply."
Microgrids are local energy networks that are able to separate from the larger electric grid during extreme weather events or emergencies, and provide power to the grid when needed. Building these systems in regions prone to storm outages helps reactions to extreme weather by increasing power resiliency and reliability and improving energy efficiency. Microgrid technology can combine solar, wind, hydro or combined heat and power systems for local power generation and as such, plays an important role in the Governor's Reforming the Energy Vision plan. Alongside the Governor's energy plan, microgrids expand customer choice, ensure reliability and preserve the environment.
Eligible parties for NY Prize include local governments, community organizations, non-profit entities and for-profit companies. Potential projects must be integrated into utility networks and serve multiple customers, including at least one "critical infrastructure" customer, such as a hospital, police station, fire station or water treatment facilities.

Source:
