Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Continued Opportunities For Coastal Flounder Fishing
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 10, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the successful 2014 management plan for summer flounder (fluke) fishing in New York was approved to continue for the 2015 season. Regional management of these sites that span to New Jersey and Connecticut significantly enhances opportunities for New York anglers to catch and keep fluke from coastal waters.
"This extension of last year's successful fluke management plan ensures that New York's fishermen are not put at an unnecessary disadvantage to their competitors in other states," Governor Cuomo said. "The fishing industry is crucial to Long Island's economy, and by continuing to use the common-sense model we fought for in the past, the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission has taken a positive stand that will support jobs and economic activity throughout the region. I am proud to see these reasonable quotas adopted once more, and I encourage New Yorkers to cast a line this year."
In September 2013, Governor Cuomo called on the U.S. Department of Commerce to undertake an immediate reassessment of regulations on the amount of fluke New York anglers can harvest each year. The Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission Summer Flounder, Scup and Black Sea Bass Management Board voted for regional measures for New York, Connecticut and New Jersey that require consistent size and possession limits among the three states and a 128-day season.
The Commission passed an addendum to the fishery management plan for fluke, keeping last year's rules in place. In 2014, the number of fluke caught on the coast stayed within the allowable harvest limit, giving confidence to the regional strategy. New York anglers largely benefitted by having the same rules as the neighboring states of New Jersey and Connecticut, and the Commission adopted a provision that would continue the same regional approach into 2016.
Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Joe Martens said, "Fluke fishing is a popular sport and this is great news for New York's recreational anglers, allowing them to harvest more fluke than under the traditional state system. For more than a decade, New York anglers were at a significant disadvantage in harvesting fluke, but thanks to the tireless efforts of Governor Cuomo, we can continue to have fair rules on fluke size and catch limits under this regional management system."
Prior to the new Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission regional management approach, the recreational fishery operated under state-specific harvest limits that were produced using an outdated system to allocate the catch among the coastal states. Because the old system could not account for changes in the fish population, New York was penalized as the fluke population grew and would have been forced to take a 15-percent reduction in 2014 under the previous state-specific approach.
Anglers are reminded to register with the Recreational Marine Fishing Registry, which is required for fishing in the Marine and Coastal District. No fee is required. Anglers should check the Department of Environmental Conservation's website for the most recent information on New York's fishing limits.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-continued-opportunities-coastal-flounder-fishing
