Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Record Support for Affordable Housing in New York
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 10, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State supported a record 9,363 affordable housing units in 2014. The Governor also announced $7.3 million in funding for the construction and rehabilitation of 19 affordable homeownership developments that represent more than 500 homes across the state. These milestones include units produced by the Governor's $1 billion House NY commitment, which is on track to finance more than 14,300 affordable housing units by 2018.
"Everyone deserves a safe and decent place to live, and today we take another step toward helping all New Yorkers find a home," Governor Cuomo said. "This is not just an investment in affordable housing -- it's an investment in the future of communities and neighborhoods all across New York."
The State awarded or leveraged more than $7 billion of public and private investment in affordable housing in 2014. An additional $486 million is committed in the 2015-16 budget.
Since 2011, New York has:
Created 13,458 units.
Preserved 13,326 units.
Returned more than 37,000 units to rent regulation.
To build on this success, the $7.3 million in funding announced today will be used to support the construction or rehabilitation of more than 500 homes across New York. Local governments and not-for-profits that demonstrated specific affordable housing needs within their communities were eligible to apply through the Affordable Housing Corporation; prospective homeowners can apply for the funding to those organizations.
Today's awards also leverage $12.5 million in funding from other federal, state, and local resources, including: the Community Development Block Grant program, Residential Emergency Services to Offer Repairs to the Elderly, local HOME funds, Urban Initiative funds and Weatherization Assistance Program funds.
The Governor's $1 billion House NY commitment is the largest investment in affordable housing in more than a decade. The program in part preserves thousands of Mitchell-Lama units, which were originally built as affordable housing for middle-income residents. To date, the State has refinanced 10 of the 35 developments included in House NY -- containing 2,798 units -- to extend their affordability for 40 more years. A total of $92 million in the 2015-16 budget will go to Mitchell-Lama preservation to continue this effort.
New York State Homes and Community Renewal Commissioner and CEO Darryl C. Towns said, "Thanks to the Governor's leadership, HCR closes out its most successful year ever -- creating and preserving the affordable housing that helps communities grow and prosper. The Governor has charged our agency to be innovative and proactive, to advance affordable housing as a critical driver of stability and economic opportunity. Thousands of New Yorkers, homeowners and renters, can continue living in their communities, sustaining and strengthening the bonds of community and regional identity, because they have greater access to affordable housing."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-record-support-affordable-housing-new-york
