Public Statements
Governor Cuomo, Congresswoman Lowey Announce Plan to Make $5 Million Federal Community Development Investments Available to Westchester County Communities
Press Release
By: Nita Lowey Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 9, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo and Congresswoman Nita Lowey today announced that local governments and non-profits in Westchester County will resume receiving affordable housing, community development and emergency shelter grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. As a result of their efforts, approximately $5 million in HUD funding will soon benefit local communities in Westchester.
"This funding is an important resource for local governments and non-profit organizations in Westchester County that provide everything from affordable housing to public works improvements for their communities," Governor Cuomo said. "Our administration is proud to be joining with Congresswoman Lowey to make this funding available once again to the groups that need it most."
"The Governor and I have found a creative solution so that going forward, HUD investments will once again be made in projects in Westchester," said Lowey.
HUD reallocated grants from three programs that should have gone to a consortium of Westchester local governments and non-profits because the County was ineligible to receive funding as a result of its non-compliance with a legal settlement. The consortium disbanded at the end of 2014. Under the Governor and Congresswoman's plan, communities that had previously been in the consortium will now be able to competitively apply to the State for funds, and approximately $5 million will be directed to projects in Westchester in 2015.
New York State Homes and Community Renewal will distribute approximately $3.3 million in Westchester County CDBG funds through a competitive application to allow the funding to be distributed quickly and fairly to the most effective initiatives proposed by local community nonprofit organizations and localities. The funding will be made available only to initiatives located in the areas formerly served by the Westchester County Consortium.
Activities eligible for this funding include housing improvements for rehabilitation, homeownership, residential water/wastewater projects, structural improvements to public facilities that will serve special-needs populations, and infrastructural improvements to public water/wastewater systems and public works such as sidewalks and streets. This funding will also create jobs through grants and loans that will foster small business development.
More than $600,000 will be available from Emergency Shelter Grants, which can fund the renovation of buildings used as emergency shelters or transitional housing for homeless families as well as maintenance, operation, rent, repair, security, food, and utilities. More than $900,000 will be available for the HOME Investment Partnerships Program, which can fund a wide range of activities including building, buying, and/or rehabilitating affordable housing for rent or homeownership.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-congresswoman-lowey-announce-plan-make-5-million-federal-community-development
