Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Confirmation of Leslie E. Stein and Eugene M. Fahey to Court of Appeals
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 9, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Leslie E. Stein and Eugene M. Fahey have been confirmed to serve on the New York State Court of Appeals -- the highest court in the State.
Governor Cuomo nominated Judge Stein on October 20, 2014 and nominated Judge Fahey on January 15, 2015. They were confirmed today by unanimous votes of the New York State Senate.
"Today's confirmation of Judge Stein and Judge Fahey to serve on our State's highest court is another important step forward for the principles of justice and equality under the law," Governor Cuomo said. "Both Judge Stein and Judge Fahey bring an extensive depth of knowledge and experience to their posts on the New York Court of Appeals, and their many years on the bench have made them uniquely qualified for these positions. I congratulate them on their confirmation, and look forward to their continued service on behalf of all New Yorkers."
Judge Stein said, "I am humbled and honored by this confirmation, and I am grateful to Governor Cuomo and to the New York State Senate for giving me the privilege and opportunity to serve the citizens of New York on the State's highest court."
Judge Fahey said, "I want to thank Governor Cuomo and the State Senate for this great opportunity and special privilege to serve the people of New York as a member of our highest court."
Judge Stein has served as a justice or judge on New York's courts for the last 17 years. Prior to today's confirmation, Judge Stein, an Albany County resident, most recently served as an Associate Justice of the Appellate Division (Third Department) of the New York State Supreme Court, a position she held since 2008. She was a judge on the trial bench of the New York State Supreme Court, during which she served as Presiding Judge of the Rensselaer County Integrated Domestic Part. She became Albany City Court Judge in 1997 and served as Acting Albany County Family Court Judge in 2001. Before becoming a judge, she worked in private practice from 1983 to 1996, specializing in matrimonial and family law.
Judge Stein received her B.A. from Macalester College (Phi Beta Kappa) and her J.D. from Albany Law School (Magna Cum Laude). In addition to her extensive legal career, she has been active in numerous civic groups, including those dedicated to advocating for women, families, and victims of domestic abuse.
Judge Fahey's confirmation follows 20 years of service as a New York State justice or judge. A lifelong resident of Buffalo, he most recently served as an Associate Justice of the Appellate Division (Fourth Judicial Department) of the New York State Supreme Court, a position he held since 2006. He was elected to the State Supreme Court in 1996 and re-elected in 2010. He also served as a Buffalo City Court Judge from 1994 to 1996. Before serving as a judge, Judge Fahey was a trial lawyer in private practice, specializing in negligence defense and appeals. He also served on the Buffalo Common Council before and after attending law school -- from 1978 to 1983 and again from 1988 to 1994, becoming Council Member at Large during both terms.
Judge Fahey has a B.A. in Political Science, a J.D., and an M.A. in European History, all from the State University of New York at Buffalo. He clerked in the Court of Claims under Judge Edgar NeMoyer in Buffalo.
Governor Cuomo previously nominated Judge Jenny Rivera and Judge Sheila Abdus-Salaam to serve on the Court of Appeals. They were both confirmed by the Senate in 2013.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-confirmation-leslie-e-stein-and-eugene-m-fahey-court-appeals
