Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces NY State of Health Hits Benchmark of Two Million Enrollees
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 4, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the New York State of Health (NYSOH) Marketplace has enrolled more than two million New Yorkers in affordable health insurance coverage. This is the latest record enrollment for New York's health exchange, and 89 percent of enrollees have reported that they had no coverage at the time they joined the Marketplace. New Yorkers who have enrolled in coverage through the Marketplace have overwhelmingly reported that they are satisfied with their health insurance (92 percent) and are using their coverage to access care (84 percent).
"Today, more than two million New Yorkers have access to quality, affordable healthcare due to the successful implementation of the New York State of Health Marketplace," Governor Cuomo said. "This is a tremendous milestone for the State's health exchange, and one that represents another important step toward ensuring that New York is a healthier state for all. These numbers are a testament to our progress in helping those without coverage find a plan that works for them -- and I encourage all other people who are thinking about enrolling to do so before the upcoming deadline."
"Thanks to the hard work and strong commitment of NY State of Health staff and our partners, the NYSOH Marketplace has reached a new high point," said NYSOH Executive Director Donna Frescatore. "With the open enrollment deadline right around the corner on February 15, we will be out in full force to ensure that families and individuals in all corners of the state know what's available."
This year's open enrollment began on November 15, 2014 and runs through February 15. Individuals who do not enroll on or before February 15 will have to wait until 2016 for coverage to begin unless they meet very limited requirements. Under federal law, individuals who are uninsured may be required to pay a federal tax penalty which will increase in 2015.
New tools that were developed to make it easier for customers to understand their health insurance options and the enrollment process continue to be well received by consumers. The NYSOH's website plan preview, or anonymous shopping tool, which allows individuals to shop for a health plan before starting an application, was used more than 2.6 million times during this period. Additionally, the NYSOH Customer Service Center has answered more than 945,134 calls since the start of open enrollment.
Given that past research has shown many individuals lacking insurance are unaware of the enrollment period and unaware that they may be eligible for financial assistance, NYSOH has continued to expand its outreach efforts to ensure that every New Yorker knows that affordable health care options are available. Nearly three-quarters of those who enrolled in private coverage in 2014 were eligible for tax credits to lower the cost of their coverage.
To help educate consumers, NYSOH has created a series of brief informational videos, in English and Spanish languages, with the latest explaining the value of having health insurance coverage and some targeted toward millennials. NYSOH's video library can be found at http://info.nystateofhealth.ny.gov/resources.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-ny-state-health-hits-benchmark-two-million-enrollees
