Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Opening of Expanded Finishing Trade Institute Training Facility
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 4, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the opening of an expanded, state-of-the-art workforce training facility in Erie County to support a growing demand for skilled workers in Western New York. The Finishing Trades Institute of Western & Central New York facility is expected to train a total of 800 workers this year, as well as generate a total of 120 apprentice jobs annually.
Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul participated in a ribbon-cutting ceremony today with the Finishing Trades Institute of Western & Central New York and members of the Western New York Regional Economic Development Council to officially open the expanded Cheektowaga facility.
"Upstate New York is in the midst of an economic revitalization, and preparing the workforce to meet the demands of a changing economy is essential to continuing this progress," Governor Cuomo said. "The expanded Finishing Trades Institute in Cheektowaga will build on the organization's success to strengthen and diversify job opportunities for New Yorkers for years to come."
"The Finishing Trades Institute of Western & Central New York will increase the level of building trades training for skilled jobs in our region's growing economy," said Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul. "With this important investment in local workers, today's ribbon cutting is another example of the exceptional work that Governor Cuomo's Regional Council initiative is spurring."
The new job training space increases the Finishing Trades Institute's existing capacity in Cheektowaga, which serves members of the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades District Council #4. The new facilities include classroom space, electrical fixtures, machinery and equipment to support job training and apprenticeships in priority fields. Trainees in the program become certified or skilled in disciplines such as abrasive and water blasting, drywall finishing, painting and decorating, glazing and coating applications. The training facility was designated a Western New York REDC priority project and awarded $500,000 in Round 2 of Regional Council initiative.

Source:
