Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Metro-North Railroad Will Resume Service on Harlem Line for AM Commute
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 4, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced tonight that Metro-North will resume train service on the Harlem Line tomorrow morning for the first time since Tuesday night's collision between a passenger train and a SUV near Valhalla Station.
Metro-North customers should expect delays as trains will have to slow down as they pass through the work zone at the site of the accident.
The first train to operate over the crossing will be the 4:26 a.m. departure from Southeast, which is due into Grand Central at 5:30 a.m.
Governor Cuomo said: "The MTA is working non-stop through the night to rebuild the damaged section of track and restore service in time for the morning commute. I want to thank everyone for their tireless efforts in the wake of this devastating accident. My thoughts and prayers remain with the family and friends of the victims of Tuesday night's tragedy during this painful time."
The accident had forced Metro-North to suspend service between Pleasantville and North White Plains relying on buses to successfully bridge the gap for thousands of customers while investigators from the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) conducted the initial on-site component of their investigation.
Late this afternoon, the NTSB gave Metro-North permission to clear the wreckage from the crash site and workers using a high-rail crane removed the damaged automobile at about 5:30 PM. A locomotive was then attached to the south end of the disabled M-7 train and the eight-car train was towed to the Metro-North yard in North White Plains.
Workers from Metro-North's Power, Track and Signal Departments then began the task of rebuilding some 500 feet of electrified third rail. Workers also had to repair damaged circuits, inspect the running rail and test signals damaged in the accident and subsequent fire.
Commerce Street will remain closed to vehicular traffic until the National Transportation Safety Board completes its investigation, which is expected to occur mid-afternoon Thursday.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-metro-north-railroad-will-resume-service-harlem-line-am-commute
