Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Completion of $4 Million Bridge Replacement in Ulster County
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 16, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the completion of a $4 million project to replace the Sawkill Road bridge over the New York State Thruway (I-87) in Ulster County. The project was completed on-time and on-budget and made critical upgrades to the safety and traffic flow on the highly trafficked bridge with a daily average of 9,415 vehicles.
"The on-time and on-budget completion of this major bridge replacement once again shows our commitment to ensuring minimal disruption to motorists and maximum efficiency during these vital infrastructure repairs," Governor Cuomo said. "Safe and resilient roads and bridges are key to a strong economy, and we are rebuilding critical infrastructure across the state to help drive economic growth in every region."
The new bridge design includes major safety improvements, including increased vertical clearance, improved approach pavement, relocated concrete substructures, and increased shoulder widths. The bridge also features two 11-foot wide travel lanes and six-foot wide left and right shoulders to provide adequate space for disabled vehicles, emergency responders and law enforcement vehicles.
The former Sawkill Road bridge was constructed along with the original Thruway system in 1953 and had received various corrective maintenance repairs throughout its more than 50-year service life. The replacement bridge has an expected service life of approximately 75 years without any major maintenance or repair. The new bridge utilizes a two-span steel plate girder design, supported by reinforcement concrete abutments.
Thruway Authority Acting Executive Director Bill Finch said, "The Thruway Authority is dedicated to ensuring that our roadway remains safe and up-to-date for the motorists that rely on it every day, and projects like this help us to achieve that goal. With the completion of the Sawkill Road bridge over I-87, we can be sure that the bridge will safely carry motorists over the Thruway in Ulster County for generations to come."

Source:
