Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Appointment of General Counsel of State Thruway Authority
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 29, 2015
Location: Unknown

"New perspectives in government are crucial to keeping the State moving forward, and the addition of Gordon Cuffy to my administration will continue to bring fresh ideas and energy into our second term," Governor Cuomo said. "Mr. Cuffy's legal experience in the public sector makes him uniquely qualified to serve as General Counsel for the State Thruway Authority. I am thrilled that he will continue his public service as a member of my administration."
"I would like to thank Governor Andrew Cuomo for the opportunity to serve at the New York State Thruway," Gordon Cuffy said. "Working as the Onondaga County Attorney has been a very rewarding experience, and I thank Onondaga County Executive Joanie Mahoney for the privilege. While I will miss the friends and colleagues I have worked with over the last seven years, I look forward to new challenges as I join the Thruway Authority."
Mr. Cuffy has been the County Attorney at the Onondaga County Department of Law since 2008. In this role, he is the sole legal advisor to all departments of the Onondaga County government, overseeing a staff of 28 attorneys who represent the county in both state and federal courts. The County Attorney's office represents Onondaga County in civil litigation, proceedings in family court, and the preparation of local laws and legislation.
Previously, Mr. Cuffy served as Assistant Deputy Attorney General for the New York State Office of the Attorney General in Syracuse, NY, where he was part of the Statewide Organized Crime Task Force, handling criminal prosecutions and investigations throughout the State of New York. He was also an Assistant Attorney General in the Syracuse Regional Office, handling civil litigation.
Mr. Cuffy was a Senior Assistant District Attorney at the Onondaga County District Attorney's Office for 11 years, from 1990 to 2001, and has been an adjunct professor at Syracuse University College of Law for 17 years.
Mr. Cuffy has a B.A. from Syracuse University and a J.D. from Brooklyn Law School.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-appointment-general-counsel-state-thruway-authority
