Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Major Progress in MTA Subway Station Enhancement Initiative
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 16, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced two major milestones in the initiative to create new and improved subway stations throughout the New York metropolitan area as a part of his plan to reimagine the MTA for the 21st century. The MTA will award a contract this month for the first three stations, all located on the R line in Brooklyn, and the Authority will issue a Request for Proposals this week for the second group of stations.
"New, modern subway stations across the system are an essential part of our efforts to rebuild and reimagine the MTA for the 21st Century," Governor Cuomo said. "These milestones demonstrate remarkable progress in the redesign and renovation process that will revamp these stations for current and future generations of New Yorkers."
Contract Award for First Three Station Enhancements: This month the MTA will award a contract for the first three stations in the initiative: Prospect Avenue, 53rd Street Station and Bay Ridge Avenue, which are on the R line in Brooklyn. The station enhancements include:
Enhanced lighting throughout the stations;
Improved signage for easier navigation, including digital, real-time updates on on-time performance at subway entrances, before customers even enter the station;
Inclusion of amenities, such as countdown clocks, improved cellular connectivity, Wi-Fi and new art, as well as security cameras;
Renovations will also consider the architectural legacy of each station, and remain sensitive to historical elements as the stations undergo redesign.
Design and pre-construction surveys of existing conditions will be conducted to support the modernization of the three stations. These are the first of the stations that will be renovated using a single-contractor, design-build method to cut time and save money. The MTA board approved the $72.1 million contract at the Authority's November meeting, awarding the work to Citnalta-Forte Joint Venture.
At the start of the projects, minor construction activities will be performed while the stations remain operational. However, in order to fast track the renovations, the stations will be temporarily closed, enabling the contractor to get in, get the work done, and get out in the shortest possible time frame. Contractors are incentivized to keep closures as short as possible. All major construction will be completed during the closures, with targeted closures of approximately 6 months at the Bay Ridge Avenue and 53rd Street stations, and Prospect Avenue station.
Work at all three stations is slated for completion within 12 months of the date of award.
The contract also includes concrete and steel repairs, new platform edges, waterproofing, upgraded electrical and communications systems, track wall and platform wall repairs, new stair finishes, and glass barriers in station mezzanines.
Request For Proposals for Second Group of Stations To Undergo Upgrades
This week MTA will issue a Request for Proposals for the second package of stations, located on the Astoria Line (W, N) in Queens, including Broadway, 30th Avenue, 36th Avenue, and 39thAvenue stations. As part of the process, the MTA will evaluate proposals considering full and partial station closures in order to ensure that renovations are completed as quickly as possible.
Among the top criteria for awarding the Request for Proposals will be how quickly the contractor can complete the entire renovation process, and their ability to shorten the amount of time that each station is closed. In addition, incentives will be offered to encourage early completion.
Thomas Prendergast, MTA Chairman and CEO, said, "Issuing the RFP for these four stations directly reflects the Governor's mandate for us to continue to build momentum for the program. We are determined to return new and improved stations that enhance the customer experience -- and this is another step in that exciting process."
Initial Announcement of Station Design Plan
Governor Cuomo unveiled the ambitious design plan for stations during a July event at the Transit Museum in Brooklyn, and the MTA issued a Request for Proposal for the first three stations in the program: Prospect Avenue Station, 53rd Street Station, and Bay Ridge Avenue Station. At the completion of the project, the station enhancements will be distributed across the five boroughs.
Design Build Contracts
At the direction of the Governor, the MTA is using design-build contracts for all of the stations. Design-build contracts place construction in the hands of private construction firms with the expertise to assure successful construction that is completed within the shortest possible time frame. The contractor assumes the risk for cost overruns and maintaining time schedules. The single team is responsible for both the design and construction of an entire project in order to ensure that coordination is seamless.
Design Consultants
In developing the standards for the reimagined stations the MTA worked with distinguished and world-renowned design consultants who possess extensive experience creating transit facilities. The lead designers, Grimshaw Architects, and Arup, program managers -- both with offices in London and New York -- spearheaded the stations' initiative.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-major-progress-mta-subway-station-enhancement-initiative
