Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New York State Parks Hosted 62 Million Visitors Last Year
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 28, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State parks and historic sites hosted 62 million visitors in 2014 -- a three-percent increase over 2013, and a nearly eight-percent increase since the Governor took office.
"New York's parks and outdoor spaces are among the best in the nation, and these latest numbers are proof that more and more people are taking notice," Governor Cuomo said. "When people visit New York's parks, they support tourism and economic activity in communities across the State. I am very excited to see another successful year for the State Parks system, and I encourage everyone to plan a trip of their own in 2015."
State Parks' 2014 attendance was up 1.9 million visitors from the 60.1 million visitors hosted in 2013, and up 4.5 million visitors since 2010, the year before the Governor took office, when 88 parks were threatened with closure. Additionally, overnight stays at campgrounds operated by State Parks was the highest on record. State Park campsites were occupied for 594,441 nights in 2014, up 2 percent from 2013's record of 583,015 overnight stays.
The Governor has made improving access to parks and outdoor recreation a focal point of his administration, including:
Implementing a statewide revitalization of the park system at the outset of his tenure. Last year, new facilities opened and revitalization projects were completed at parks across the state, including East River, Saratoga Springs and Seneca Lake State Parks; and Staatsburgh State Historic Site. The Governor's 2015 Opportunity Agenda continues his bold vision for New York State Parks. The NY Parks 2020 plan will leverage a broad range of public and private funding for a total investment of approximately $900 million in State Parks through 2020.
Launched New York's largest tourism campaign in decades, committing nearly $60 million in 2014 to grow the industry, create jobs and attract even more visitors to the Empire State. I Love New York tourism promotion campaigns prominently featured destinations such as Niagara Falls State Park, Minnewaska State Park Preserve and Olana State Historic Site.
Spearheaded a swift recovery to Superstorm Sandy, including parks and parkways. Long Island State Parks fully rebounded from Superstorm Sandy, with popular coastal parks such as Jones Beach and Robert Moses State Parks repaired and open for the full year.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-new-york-state-parks-hosted-62-million-visitors-last-year
