Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Declares State of Emergency for all Downstate Counties Throughout Hudson Valley, New York City and Long Island
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 26, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today declared a state of emergency for the following counties ahead of the extreme winter storm expected to bring heavy snowfall and high winds: Bronx, Dutchess, Kings, Nassau, New York, Orange, Putnam, Queens, Richmond, Rockland, Suffolk, Ulster and Westchester and contiguous counties. In addition, the Governor announced a tractor trailer ban will be in effect on major state highways beginning at 4:00 p.m., and the State is considering a full travel ban on roads and bridges as well as the potential closing of public transit networks in affected areas beginning at 11 p.m. Commuters should pay close attention to advisories as the day progresses and leave work early if possible.
The Governor has also directed all non-essential state employees in counties covered by the State of Emergency to leave work at 3:00 p.m. The Executive Order also includes provisions to help protect the health of New Yorkers by suspending certain regulatory measures in order to help ensure all patients receive their medications and care during this emergency.
"As New York State prepares for a major snowstorm, I am declaring a State of Emergency to ensure local governments have the tools and resources they need to respond quickly and effectively," Governor Cuomo said. "With forecasts showing a potentially historic blizzard for Long Island, New York City, and parts of the Hudson Valley, we are preparing for the worst and I urge all New Yorkers to do the same -- take this storm seriously and put safety first. If leaving work early is an option, I urge residents in downstate communities to do so and stay off roads and our public transit networks as we brace for the storm's impact."
The National Weather Service has issued a blizzard warning for the greater New York City metropolitan area effective today at 1 p.m. through Tuesday night. The National Weather Service forecasts snow accumulation of at least 1 ½ to 2 feet combined with wind gusts of up to 55 MPH. People in the region should closely monitor weather forecasts and advisories as the storm approaches the state.
The Governor has ordered the activation of the State's Emergency Operations Center today at noon. The following agencies will be providing liaisons: Agriculture and Markets, American Red Cross, Environmental Conservation, Military and Naval Affairs, Health and Health EMS, Transportation, Information Technology Services, Education, NYSERDA, State Police, Children and Family Services, Fire Prevention and Control, Interoperable Emergency Communications, Mental Health, Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation, People with Developmental Disabilities, Temporary and Disability Assistance, Public Service Commission, Thruway, General Services, Port Authority of NY and NJ, Salvation Army and SUNY.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-declares-state-emergency-all-downstate-counties-throughout-hudson-valley-new
