Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Urges Caution Due to Winter Weather
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 23, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today urged drivers in the Hudson Valley, New York City Metro area and Long Island to exercise caution in anticipation of a winter storm that is expected to drop up to six inches of snow in the New York City and Long Island areas, with up to eight inches in parts of the Hudson Valley. The storm is expected to start late tonight, and will impact road and air travel conditions throughout much of the day tomorrow.
"As another winter storm approaches, New Yorkers should take extra care when traveling, with several inches of snowfall and increasingly dangerous conditions expected tonight," Governor Cuomo said. "Staying alert when driving and being informed of departure times if flying will ensure we avoid needless accidents and frustration and allow storm response teams to prepare our facilities for safe use."
The National Weather Service has issued a Winter Storm Warning for Putnam County, and a Winter Weather Advisory for most of the Hudson Valley, eastern Catskills, New York City and most of Long Island. Forecasters predict five to eight inches of snow will fall in Putnam County, and up to six inches of snow in the rest of the Hudson Valley. New York City and Long Island could see two to four inches of accumulation. The snow will start just before midnight tonight, and will be followed by a changeover to sleet and freezing rain early Saturday morning, then to mostly rain by late morning. The precipitation could change back to snow late Saturday afternoon before ending.
State equipment ready for this storm includes 870 plows and 1,800 operators from the Department of Transportation, divided between the regions.
Port Authority
The Port Authority urges air and bus travelers to check with their carriers before going to the airport or bus terminals to confirm whether their plane or bus will depart at scheduled times.
In advance of the snow, the Port Authority is prepared to deploy extra personnel at all of its facilities, which is the normal course of operations during winter weather events. The airports, bridges, tunnels and PATH have snow desks where key personnel analyze weather reports and deploy staff and equipment. The agency also may impose speed restrictions on its crossings if weather conditions warrant.
The Port Authority has the following snow equipment and supplies ready at its major transportation facilities:
More than 200 pieces of snow equipment at its airports, including melters that can liquefy up to 500 tons of snow an hour and plows that can clear snow at 40 mph;
More than 60 pieces of snow equipment at its bridges and tunnels, including nearly two dozen plows and spreaders at the George Washington Bridge, the world's busiest vehicular crossing;
Thousands of tons of salt and sand for airport roads and parking lots, plus thousands of tons of salt for the bridges and tunnels;
Hundreds of thousands of gallons of liquid anti-icer chemicals at the airports, which prevent snow and ice from bonding to runways and taxiways, plus thousands of tons of solid de-icers, which break up snow and ice already on the ground;
Plow-equipped trains, liquid snow-melting agent trains and a "jet engine" plow to remove snow from PATH tracks, and snow blowers, plows and spreaders to clear station entrances, roads that serve PATH's 13 stations, and various support facilities; and
Approximately 1,000 staff members and contractors with years of specialized training and professional experience in handling severe winter weather at transportation facilities.
For up-to-the-minute updates on Port Authority crossings, airports and the PATH system, travelers are encouraged to sign up for Port Authority alerts at http://www.paalerts.com/. Travelers may also call 511 or visit 511NY.org or 511NJ.org for further information on highway conditions.
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA)
All MTA Bridges and Tunnels, Long Island Rail Road, Metro-North Railroad and the New York City Subway and Buses are operating, with crews ready to remove snow and from and salt the platforms, stairways, and parking lots.
New York State Thruway
The Thruway Authority has the following resources available in its New York and Albany Divisions, which include the areas expected to be most impacted by the storm:
298 plow operators and supervisors
166 plows
8 truck and tractor-mounted snow blowers
25 front end loaders
Just over 50,000 tons of salt, with more than adequate supplies in all locations
In anticipation of the storm, Thruway is relocating four large plow trucks from the Albany Division to the New York Division and two large plow trucks from the Syracuse Division to the Albany Division.
Thruway's New York and Albany Divisions have scheduled staff on all shifts on Saturday to ensure adequate personnel are available during the storm.
Thruway motorists are encouraged to sign up for TRANSalert e-mails which provide the latest traffic conditions along the Thruway. Motorists can sign up for TRANSalerts by following this link: http://www.thruway.ny.gov/tas/index.shtml. Thruway travelers can also get real-time updates by following @ThruwayTraffic on Twitter or by visiting http://www.thruway.ny.gov to see an interactive map showing traffic conditions for the Thruway and other New York State roadways.
New York State provides a travel advisory system that features real-time travel reports and road conditions, which can be accessed by dialing 511, online at www.511ny.org, and via a new mobile site at www.m.511ny.org. The web site features a color-coded map indicating which state roads are snow covered, ice covered, wet, dry, or closed to help travelers determine if travel is advisable. It also provides links to airport, rail and transit information.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-urges-caution-due-winter-weather-0
