Public Statements
2015 Opportunity Agenda: Restoring Economic Opportunity
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 18, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the fifth component of his "2015 Opportunity Agenda" -- a student loan forgiveness program that will make it easier for recent college graduates to live and work in New York State.
Although SUNY and CUNY offer among the lowest tuition in the nation, currently, the average New York student graduates college with a four-year degree saddled with more than $25,000 in student loans. In fact, 60 percent of students in New York graduate with student debt, with an average debt amount of $25,537. Mounting student debt makes it difficult for recent graduates to deal with the everyday costs of living, which often increases the amount of credit card and other debt they must take on in order to survive.
Graduating from college with unmanageable student loan debt forces graduates, especially low wage graduates, to be faced with difficult choices that can have lasting consequences for them, their families and the New York economy. Because of high student loan debt these graduates are forced to take on other high interest debt to make ends meet creating a vicious cycle where the student can never get out of debt. That, in turn, makes it more difficult to purchase a home, car or have other economic opportunity.
Studies show that students who graduate with debt are less likely to start small business or to purchase a home, and the consequences of defaulting on student loans can prevent a person from ever realizing their goals. Managing the burden in the first years out of college is crucial to starting out strong. In 2008, slightly more than 30% of 27-30 year olds had purchased a house, in 2014 that had fallen to 22%. Similarly, since 2008 the percentage of 27-30 olds who purchased a car has fallen by more than 6%. Helping students at the start can have lasting effects.
The Get on Your Feet Loan Forgiveness Program is designed to help eligible New York State residents who graduate from college and continue to live in the state to pay nothing on their student loans for the first two years out of school. This will supplement the federal Pay As You Earn (PAYE) income-based loan repayment program.




Source:
