Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Appoints Christine C. Quinn to Special Advisor
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 17, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the appointment of Christine C. Quinn as a Special Advisor. Quinn, joining an accomplished team, has long been committed to public service and will be an asset to the Governor as he expands on his agenda heading into his second term.
"Christine Quinn is a proven leader and champion of progressive causes, and I am proud to have her join our team," said Governor Andrew Cuomo. "I am confident that she will fight for the issues most important to New Yorkers just as she did as Speaker of the City Council and during her many years as a public servant and advocate."
"I can think of nothing more important than working to make New York State a more fair and just place for everyone to live and raise a family," said Quinn. "From Chelsea to Glen Cove and from Buffalo to Beacon, I look forward to the opportunity to serve New Yorkers in every part of the state. I am thankful to the Governor for his confidence."
Christine C. Quinn currently serves on the Board of Athlete Ally, an organization dedicated to ending homophobia and transphobia in sports, the Tyler Clementi Foundation, and NARAL Pro-Choice New York. She served as an advisor to Governor Cuomo's 2014 reelection campaign and the lead organizer of Women's Equality Party. She served as a member of the New York City council from 1999-2013 and, in 2006, was elected the first female and first LGBT Speaker of the New York City Council, making her the highest-ranking openly LGBT official in City history. As Speaker of the City Council she helped create thousands of new jobs in New York's five boroughs, passed living wage legislation, and enacted a series of tenant protection laws throughout the City. She was instrumental in working to see marriage equality pass in the New York State Legislature and has been a national leader in the marriage equality movement. Prior to serving in elected office she was the Chief of Staff to New York City Council member Tom Duane, and was Executive Director of the Anti-Violence Project, where she worked closely with the New York City Police Department to reduce hate crimes. Quinn was recently named a Harvard University Institute of Politics Spring 2015 Fellow.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-appoints-christine-c-quinn-special-advisor
