Public Statements
2015 Opportunity Agenda: Restoring Economic Opportunity
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 16, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

The Cuomo administration today outlined the third component of Governor Cuomo's "2015 State of Opportunity Agenda" -- a $1 billion broadband program that leverages both public and private resources to ensure every New Yorker has access to high-speed internet by 2019. This represents the largest and boldest state investment in universal broadband deployment in the country.
To accomplish this, Governor Cuomo will create the $500 million New NY Broadband Program utilizing capital funds from bank settlements to incentivize the private sector to expand high-speed broadband access in underserved and unserved areas. Broadband providers and communities will utilize this funding to deliver service in a given area, and must adhere to the following qualifications:
Matching private-sector investments. Broadband providers seeking to utilize this funding must provide at least a 1:1 financial match, which will push the size of the program above $1 billion. The State's investment will serve to stimulate competition in the broadband market where none or little exists; improving affordability and quality of service.
Unprecedented broadband speed. Broadband providers must provide internet speeds of at least 100 Mbps, with funding priority given to those delivering the highest speeds at the lowest cost. In certain limited cases, providers may offer 25 Mbps speeds to the most remote unserved and underserved areas of the state (more than three times the current standard) scalable to 100 Mbps or more - if this provides the best means of achieving universal broadband access to the region.
Local input to guide development. Building on the successful Connect NY model, each Regional Economic Development Council (REDC) will submit a comprehensive plan to the State that: 1) identifies unserved and underserved areas; 2) aggregates demand across residential, institutional and business sectors; 3) details the most cost-effective means to provide universal access; and 4) leverages state-owned assets where possible.
"Access to high-speed internet is critical to ensuring that all New Yorkers can reach their full potential in today's technology-driven world," Governor Cuomo said. "We're launching the largest state broadband investment in the nation in order to make that goal a reality. This is a truly bold undertaking that will improve the lives of New Yorkers in every corner of the State, and I am proud to make it a priority of our administration's second term agenda."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/2015-opportunity-agenda-restoring-economic-opportunity-1
