Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Grand Opening of Bak USA LLC's New Global Headquarters in Buffalo
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 15, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the grand opening of the new global headquarters of Bak USA LLC, one of the inaugural businesses to participate in START-UP NY, located on Buffalo's East Side. The high-tech company, which is one of the first American firms to produce its own-branded electronic tablets, is located at Compass East and covers 10,000 square feet of space on the top floor of the former site of Sheehan Memorial Hospital at 425 Michigan Avenue.
"Bak's decision to locate its global headquarters in Buffalo is another success story for this city and for START-UP NY," Governor Cuomo said. "Investments like Bak's add to Western New York's growth and development and keep the State moving in the right direction."
Kenneth Adams, Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner, said, "Today is a very exciting day for Buffalo as we celebrate the grand opening of the new global headquarters of Bak, one of the first businesses to join the Governor's ground-breaking START-UP NY initiative. Bak is helping us create jobs and grow our economy, goals that we have pursued from the beginning of our administration and that START-UP NY has succeeded in achieving in a very short time. "
Howard Zemsky, incoming President, CEO & Commissioner of Empire State Development said, "Governor Cuomo's economic development efforts, including the game-changing START-UP NY initiative, are delivering significant results in Buffalo and throughout New York. Bak's decision to open its new global headquarters here is the latest example of the Empire State's ability to attract businesses and jobs from around the region, country and world, and I look forward to the company's success in the Queen City."
Bak, which committed to creating 100 jobs in Buffalo in the next year, began training its first employees on December 1, 2014 and has already produced more than 500 electronic tablets to date. It expects to create 80,000 devices in 2015. The company currently produces two models of its tablet, ranging in price from $100 to $140. One model is Wi-Fi only, while the other utilizes 3G data connections; a 4G model is in development.

Source:
