Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Nearly $4 Million Awarded to Combat Motor Vehicle Theft and Insurance Fraud
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 8, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced more than $3.7 million in grant funding to fight against motor vehicle theft and insurance fraud. The grant awards will go to district attorneys' offices and police departments in seven counties and New York City, the Fire Department of New York, as well as to two training organizations, all of which will work to enhance their efforts in reducing these crimes.
"These grants will help protect New Yorkers from car theft, as well as higher car insurance rates," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding will go a long way to helping law enforcement and other agencies around the state continue to crack down on these crimes, and I am proud the state is supporting their efforts."
The selected agencies will continue their efforts to combat motor vehicle theft -- which has been steadily declining in New York. Law enforcement reported 15,451 thefts in 2013, a 10 percent decrease from 2012 and a 62 percent decrease since 2003. They will also target suspected motor vehicle insurance fraud.
The 17 organizations and agencies will receive grants and use them in a variety of ways to combat fraud, including funding either all or a portion of the salaries of assistant district attorneys and investigators specifically assigned to handle motor vehicle theft and insurance fraud cases, pay overtime for enhanced enforcement and sting operations and offer specialized training for prosecutors, police officers and investigators. The funding cycle for the grants aligns with the calendar year.
The grants are awarded by the state's Motor Vehicle Theft and Insurance Fraud Prevention program, which is overseen by a 12-member Board. Awardees were selected by the Board after reviewing applications submitted in response to a competitive request for proposal process that required a joint application from district attorneys' offices and police departments in their counties. New York City was exempt from that requirement: district attorneys in the five boroughs and New York Police Department each applied separately but committed to collaborative investigation, enforcement and prosecution efforts as part of the application process.

Source:
