Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Results from Latest Round of Crude Oil Rail Inspections
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 16, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced completion of the latest round of targeted crude oil tank car and rail inspections, which uncovered 100 defects, including eight critical safety defects that require immediate action. The inspections were the latest part of the Governor's push to protect New Yorkers from the potential dangers associated with the transport of crude oil by freight rail companies. State and federal teams examined 704 crude oil tank cars and approximately 95 miles of track in these inspections.
"We have sent inspection crews to check rail tracks and crude oil cars across New York and we continue to find critical safety defects that put New Yorkers at risk," Governor Cuomo said. "We will remain vigilant and will continue to use all available resources to ensure that crude oil transporters are held to the highest safety standards."
On Tuesday, December 9, inspection teams from the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) and the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) carried out track and crude oil tanker inspections at the CSX Corporation-owned Frontier Rail Yard in Buffalo and Dunkirk Rail Yard in Chautauqua County, and the Canadian Pacific Railway-owned Kenwood Rail Yard in Albany. The inspectors also examined the CSX mainline track between Schenectady and Selkirk and the CP mainline track between Albany and Whitehall, and between Plattsburgh and the Canadian border.
The inspections focused on track, track hardware and tank car mechanical safety equipment, including wheels and brakes. The teams also performed hazardous materials inspections to ensure that equipment is in line with regulations, including valves, valve closures, and placards that describe the cargo being shipped. They also checked tank car inspection and pressure test dates. A split rail, worn train car brakes and loose or missing bolts were among the defects identified.







Source:
