Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $26 Million For Aviation and Rail Safety, Security and Economic Development Projects
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 16, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that $26.8 million in State funding is being awarded to 38 rail and aviation safety, security and economic development projects across the State. This funding will generate approximately $36 million in new investments for transportation projects statewide.
"New York remains a vital transportation hub, as well as a tourism destination, and this funding will help ensure travel to and in this state is safer, more convenient and more reliable," Governor Cuomo said. "By investing in our transportation infrastructure, we are making long term improvements to our rail and aviation systems in order to better serve the people who use them, while also expanding economic opportunities throughout New York."
New York State awarded $17.8 million in funding from the State's Passenger and Freight Rail Assistance Program to 12 rail projects that will repair and replace 65 miles of track and ties, rehabilitate rail grade crossings and bridges, and construct new connections to improve safety and operations.
The State also awarded $9 million to 26 aviation projects through the Governor's Aviation Capital Grants Program. These investments will enhance airport safety and security, including taxi-lane striping and markings, runway and airfield maintenance, and installation of automatic weather observation stations. Other airport related improvements that will benefit from this funding include the construction and rehabilitation of new and existing airport terminals and aircraft hangars.
"Since taking office, Governor Cuomo has made investment in transportation infrastructure the cornerstone of the State's economic development blueprint," New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said. "Investments in the renewal of rail and airport infrastructure are essential for the State to remain economically competitive in an ever changing global market place."
The funding being allocated today was included in the State's 2014-15 budget. The projects that received the funding were selected through a competitive solicitation process and rated on established criteria, including project eligibility, consistency with state rail and aviation plans, regional economic benefits, and the ability to leverage additional investments.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-26-million-aviation-and-rail-safety-security-and-economic-development
