Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $7.2 Million For Supportive Housing Projects
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 11, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $7.2 million in funding for supportive housing projects in the Bronx and Buffalo. These projects will provide a total of 80 units of supportive housing for homeless individuals and families, including veterans and high-need Medicaid beneficiaries, with funding through the Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance's Homeless Housing and Assistance Program.
In the Bronx, Postgraduate Center for Mental Health is being awarded $5.5 million and, in Buffalo, HELP Development Corporation is being awarded $1.7 million.
"Increasing affordable housing options in New York is a top priority for our administration, and today we're taking an important step to help some of our most vulnerable residents," Governor Cuomo said. "I am proud that we are moving these projects forward and getting closer to ensuring that all New Yorkers have a safe, decent, and affordable place to call home."
Postgraduate Center for Mental Health's project calls for a newly-constructed, 100-unit building with affordable and supportive housing, to be known as the Marion Avenue Residence. It will include 50 units for single homeless adults living with serious mental illnesses who are high-cost Medicaid users and 15 two-bedroom units serving chronically homeless families, in which the head of household is chemically addicted or suffering from a serious mental illness. The total cost of the project is $46 million.
The State's $5.5 million for the Center includes more than $4.2 million from the State's Medicaid Redesign Team and nearly $1.3 million from the Homeless Housing and Assistance Program. The Medicaid Redesign Team has allocated $10 million to the Office of Temporary Disability Assistance for the development of housing projects specifically targeting homeless individuals who are also high-cost Medicaid users.

Source:
