Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Completion of Verrazano-Narrows Bridge Plaza Improvements
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 9, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) Bridges and Tunnels has completed a $50 million project to rebuild the Staten Island toll plaza of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, improving traffic flow from Staten Island approaches onto the bridge. The three-year project was completed on budget and seven months ahead of schedule.
"These toll plaza modifications are major improvements that will alleviate congestion and improve travel for everyone who uses the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge," Governor Cuomo said. "This project represented the most significant upgrades to the bridge's physical design in more than 40 years -- and I am proud to see it completed not only on-budget, but well ahead of schedule."
The MTA began this comprehensive project to improve Staten Island's bridge approaches in 2011. This included removing the last three unused Brooklyn-bound toll booths, which had required drivers to reduce speed even though they had not been used since the federal government mandated one-way tolling in 1986. With the booths removed, roadways that had been designed for stop-and-go traffic were rebuilt to accommodate vehicles traveling at highway speeds.
The project also constructed a new connector ramp for the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, providing an easier two-lane path for traffic to move directly onto the lower level and ensuring a more even distribution of traffic between the bridge's two levels.
The ramps leading to the bridge from Narrows Road South and Lily Pond Avenue in Staten Island were reconstructed with elevated fly-over ramps, resulting in markedly improved access to the upper level of the bridge for motorists, trucks and commuter buses. The ramp from Father Capodanno Boulevard was also completely rebuilt. All three ramps now meet current design standards, including having safety shoulders for the first time.
"Through careful planning and design, we were able to maintain the same number of lanes for vehicles throughout the project with no impact on traffic," said Verrazano-Narrows Facility Engineer David Riggs. "The improved traffic flow will be a benefit for all motorists heading to the bridge from across Staten Island."
The final roadway lane configuration was put in place on November 25th by contractor Restani Construction Corp., of Queens. While some minor roadway and electrical work remains, all of the major construction work is finished.
The MTA Bridges and Tunnels project was overseen by Verrazano-Narrows Project Engineer Piv Lim. It was also closely designed and coordinated with New York State Department of Transportation's Staten Island Expressway Access Improvement project, which will ultimately ensure greater mobility along the entire I-278 corridor.
The project met all minority- and women-owned business goal requirements, with significant electrical work performed by Windsor Electrical Co., a certified minority-owned business based in Jamaica, Queens.
The MTA has committed $887 million to improvements on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge since Bridges and Tunnels' first Capital Program in 1992, including $783 million for capital work and $104 million for security improvements.
The MTA's proposed 2015-2019 Capital Program includes $431 million to improve the bridge's structures, roadways and bridge decks, as well as painting the structure and rehabilitating the anchorages. The largest single element of that work is a $132.5 million project to replace the upper-level approach and anchorage deck.
The Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, which is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year, is the longest suspension bridge in North America and carries approximately 183,000 vehicles on an average weekday.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-completion-verrazano-narrows-bridge-plaza-improvements
