Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches New Effort to Boost Solar Implementation in Communities Across New York State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 5, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the launch of Community Solar NY, a new effort under the NY-Sun initiative to make implementing solar easier and more affordable for communities across the state. The program launched today supports community projects known as "Solarize" campaigns -- locally-organized community outreach efforts aimed at getting a critical mass of area homes and businesses to install solar.
"Transitioning to affordable and clean energy is a large part of our goal of building a better New York State -- and today we're taking another step forward to make that goal a reality," Governor Cuomo said. "By helping local communities implement solar technologies, we are providing residents throughout the State with greater access to clean energy without the burden of high costs. Community Solar NY is another initiative that will help us deliver on our promise to build a cleaner and greener Empire State, and I encourage all interested communities to join us by taking part in this effort."
Solarize campaigns bring together widespread community outreach and education, competitive installer selection, and a limited-time offer to bring more customers to solar and provide significant cost savings. Community Solar NY will support these campaigns by providing marketing materials, technical assistance and funding; and by sharing best practices to help community projects succeed.
John B. Rhodes, President and CEO of the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA), said, "Community Solar NY is an innovative approach to spur local communities to come together to install and encourage the installation of solar in homes, businesses and neighborhoods. A new component of Governor Cuomo's NY-Sun initiative, it is the latest piece of a comprehensive program to help the State advance toward installing 3,000 megawatts of solar by 2023."

Source:
