Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Next Phase of Plan to Modernize and Revitalize LaGuardia, JFK, Republic and Stewart Airports
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 2, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the next phase of the State's comprehensive plan to modernize and revitalize LaGuardia, John F. Kennedy International, Republic and Stewart International Airports. Applications are now available for plans to completely redesign LaGuardia and JFK airports, and a Request for Information has been issued to identify a new operator for Republic Airport. Additionally, the State is expanding the freight capacity at Stewart International in order to establish the airport as a regional cargo hub.
"Modern and accessible infrastructure is key to growing our state's economy, and with this plan we're bringing New York's outdated airports into the 21st century," Governor Cuomo said. "Our airports are responsible for tens of billions of dollars in economic activity and bringing millions of visitors to New York State every year. By reimagining them from the ground up, we're making an investment that will strengthen our state for years into the future."
LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy International
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey will host international design competitions to generate a vision on how to transform and modernize the New York Airports for the 21st Century. These competitions invite aviation experts, architects, designers, planners and others to submit visionary Master Plans for LaGuardia and/or John F. Kennedy International Airports that create 21st Century, state-of-the-art airports. The Master Plans should be bold and comprehensive, completely re-envisioning the passenger experience beyond 2050 including how passengers and their baggage get to, from and around the airports, while providing world-class customer service facilities and amenities. An Advisory Panel, selected by the Governor, will make recommendations to the Port Authority Board of Commissioners with respect to the Master Plan submissions.
Both the LaGuardia and JFK Master Plan Design Competitions will commence on December 2, 2014, with final submissions due January 30, 2015. The Port Authority requests that contestants provide a Letter of Intent to register as a contestant by December 15, 2014. Initial Draft Submissions, including images of the airport as proposed to be modernized, are due on December 31, 2014. If a contestant does not provide an Initial Draft Submission by the December 31 deadline, their proposal will not be considered.
Following the Final Submission date of January 30, three finalists will be identified to make public presentations and compete for the Design Prize in the Master Plan Competition. The three selected plans will present their final submissions to the Governor and the Port Authority after finalists have been announced. Each of these finalists will receive up to $500,000 to further develop their plan for final consideration.
With 112.5 million passengers in 2013, the Port Authority airport system is the largest in the United States. LGA and JFK account for 27 million and 50.4 million passengers, respectively. These airports are also vital economic engines, employing nearly 50,000 people and generating $53 billion in economic activity each year.
Republic Airport
The New York State Department of Transportation has issued a Request for Information (RFI) in conjunction with Empire State Development to identify parties interested in serving as a new operator for Republic Airport. The airport currently has nearly 100 acres of available space, including hangar, office, restaurant and land vacancy. In order to induce economic development on more than 50 acres of State land in and around the airport, the Governor has also proposed creating a tax-free STARTUP NY Zone at Republic Airport, with the goal of growing upon the economic success of the airport that supports more than 1,300 jobs on Long Island today.
Stewart International Airport
As directed by Governor Cuomo, the Port Authority will produce a plan in conjunction with Empire State Development to design a regional cargo distribution hub to be established at Stewart Airport by growing its current cargo capacity. To maximize and promote expanding distribution, the State will also propose creating a tax-free START-UP NY Zone at Stewart Airport that allows companies to move back-office manufacturing into one, connected major distribution center.
This plan will entail a review of underutilized State land both on and adjacent to the airport, in order to maximize private investment in the vicinity. This review will take into consideration the availability and condition of utilities and infrastructure, existing environmental conditions, transportation access and land use restrictions.
Stewart International Airport currently contributes roughly $450 million in economic activity to its region, generating approximately 3,300 jobs and more than $160 million in annual wages and salaries.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-next-phase-plan-modernize-and-revitalize-laguardia-jfk-republic-and
