Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces SUNY Adopts a Comprehensive System-Wide Uniform Sexual Assault Policy for All 64 Campuses
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 2, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the State University of New York (SUNY) has adopted a uniform sexual assault prevention and response policy for SUNY campuses. The comprehensive policy, which applies to more than 463,000 students attending all SUNY colleges and universities, is being disseminated today to each campus president and chief student affairs officers for implementation.
The policy is one of the first of its kind in the nation and will create a safer learning and living environment for students by outlining specific and consistent expectations of safety and responsibility.
"Today, SUNY is taking a critical step toward combating the epidemic of sexual violence and misconduct on our college campuses," Governor Cuomo said. "By implementing a uniform sexual assault prevention policy, we are better protecting our students and our communities and setting an example for other states and schools to follow. I applaud the SUNY Board and Chancellor Zimpher for their leadership on this issue and their continued commitment to fighting for New York's students."
The uniform SUNY sexual assault policy is a result of a resolution passed by the SUNY Board of Trustees on October 2, 2014 response to Governor Cuomo's request to create a comprehensive system-wide uniform set of practices to combat sexual assaults on college campuses. The policy was drafted over the past two months in consultation with SUNY leadership and working groups of internal and external stakeholders.
In addition to announcing the policy, the Governor also today launched a new website that provides important information regarding sexual assault prevention and response on college campuses in a user-friendly format for students, parents, administrators and law enforcement. Specifically, the website provides resources for students to learn how they can protect themselves and seek help when necessary, and access data regarding all sexual assault and violent crimes reported on all college campuses that operate in the State of New York. The data is reported to the United States Department of Education. The website can be accessed at http://www.campuscrime.ny.gov.
SUNY Board Chairman H. Carl McCall said, "The State University of New York now has the most comprehensive, victim-centered set of sexual assault policies at any college campus or system of higher education in the country. Thank you to our stakeholders on campuses and in communities across New York who informed our discussions and ultimately shaped the final policies and victim/survivor Bill of Rights. I am confident that this will enhance SUNY's capacity to more effectively address incidents of sexual assault and ensure the safety of our students."
SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher said, "SUNY's top priority is to protect our students and foster safe learning environments on our college and university campuses. These new SUNY policies are sound, consensus-driven, and comprehensive, and I commend Governor Cuomo and the Board of Trustees for setting SUNY on the important task of redefining its sexual assault policies and positioning our system to set a model for colleges and universities nationally."
Lori Mould, President of the SUNY Student Assembly and a member of the Board of Trustees, said "SUNY students applaud the expeditious and comprehensive response by Governor Cuomo, the SUNY Board of Trustees, and Chancellor Zimpher in addressing the need for revised sexual assault policies that will span our campuses across the state. These policies were drafted not only with students in mind but with student input every step of the process. We are proud that SUNY will lead the way nationally in protecting students from what has become an all too often occurrence. I thank the Governor for working with SUNY to ensure these safeguards were put in place for our students so that we can focus on learning and becoming better prepared citizens for our state."
Laura Dunn, J.D., Executive Director of SurvJustice, said, "As a victim and a lawyer, I am thoroughly impressed with the new SUNY policies regarding campus sexual assault. These policies are both compassionate towards survivors and compliant with federal law -- a balance that too few college systems have struck to date. I anticipate these policies being a model for many college and university campuses moving forward."
SUNY Potsdam President Kristin G. Esterberg said, "The SUNY Potsdam community is very proud of Governor Cuomo's announcement today that the State University of New York has established its first comprehensive statewide policy to combat college sexual assault. I am so honored to have been asked to serve on the working group alongside SUNY Potsdam senior Ryan Minsker, one of many Potsdam students who have stepped up to raise awareness about campus sexual assault. Student leadership and engagement will continue to be essential to implementation of these groundbreaking measures on every campus throughout the SUNY System."
Dr. Steve Tyrell, President of North Country Community College and a member of the Working Group, said, "Higher education has made great strides in advancing best practices in policy development and effective implementation of procedures to address sexual violence over the past decade. Many of these practices reside at our colleges today. The policies and procedures developed by the working group reflects these best practices and that their future implementation will go far to advance the safety and well-being of our students across SUNY."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-suny-adopts-comprehensive-system-wide-uniform-sexual-assault-policy
