Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Significant Progress to Better Protect New Yorkers from Crude Oil Rail Transport Incidents
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 1, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today received a status report outlining the significant progress that has been made by multiple State agencies to better protect New York's communities and environment from the potential risks associated with the transport of crude oil. After being directed by the Governor to evaluate New York's capacity to prevent and address crude oil accidents, State agencies have implemented 66 actions to strengthen standards, regulations and procedures to make the transport of crude oil by rail and water in New York safer, and to improve spill preparedness and response.
"Over the past six months, our administration has taken swift and decisive action to increase the State's preparedness and better protect New Yorkers from the possibility of a crude oil disaster," Governor Cuomo said. "Now it is time for our federal partners to do the same. The federal government plays a vital role in regulating this industry, and Washington must step up in order to expedite the implementation of safer policies and rules for crude oil transport."
Earlier this year, state agencies conducted a coordinated review of safety procedures and emergency response preparedness related to shipments of volatile crude oil from the Bakken oil fields of North Dakota across nearly 1,000 miles of New York State. The agencies issued a report in April 2014 containing 27 recommendations for state government, federal government and industry to take to reduce risks and increase public safety in the transport of crude oil. The status report released today highlights the state's actions to implement recommendations of that comprehensive, multi-state agency evaluation.
To date, state agencies have started to implement all 12 state government recommendations and have completed five. Specifically, New York State has taken 66 actions to better prepare state and local responders in the event of a crude oil incident. New York State will continue to work to fully implement all 12 recommendations.

Source:
