Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Encourages New Yorkers to Support Local Businesses This Holiday Shopping Season
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 26, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today proclaimed November 29 as "Small Business Saturday" in New York State to encourage all New Yorkers to support their local businesses. Small Business Saturday celebrates the entrepreneurial spirit of small business owners and encourages shoppers to visit local companies at the beginning of the busy holiday shopping season. Small businesses account for the vast majority of companies and support millions of jobs in New York State.
"Small businesses are not only an important part of New York's economy, they are the lifeblood of our communities," Governor Cuomo said. "Their success is our success and with the holiday shopping season upon us, I encourage all New Yorkers to buy local and support their neighborhood small businesses."
The small business sector contributes significantly to the framework of New York's economy, accounting for 98 percent of all businesses in the state and employing more than 40 percent of its private sector workforce. New York State has more than 516,000 small business proprietors that employ more than 3 million people.
"Small businesses are truly the backbone of our state's economy and deserve to be supported year-round and celebrated on Small Business Saturday," said Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Kenneth Adams. "Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, we have worked tirelessly to improve the business climate and help companies grow, which has resulted in new jobs and new small businesses, and further strengthened our economic recovery."
"Small businesses play a critical role in growing our state's economy," said State Labor Commissioner Peter M. Rivera. "When we support local small businesses, that money goes back to our own communities. I encourage everyone to shop local on Small Business Saturday and support small businesses near them year round."
Whether a business is just starting up, expanding, or looking to fill a few vacancies, New York State Business Service Team members are available to help businesses:
List their jobs;
Find the right candidates;
Access hiring and training incentives;
Obtain business tax credits and incentives;
Secure business capital;
Learn about small business training and counseling;
Become Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise (MWBE) certified;
Access HR services and technical assistance; and
Find layoff aversion resources.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-encourages-new-yorkers-support-local-businesses-holiday-shopping-season
