Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Urges Motorists to be Safe and Consider Potentially Hazardous Conditions When Planning Holiday Travel
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 25, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today urged motorists to be safe and adjust plans if possible ahead of potentially hazardous winter weather conditions this holiday week. The National Weather Service has issued Winter Weather Watches and Warnings in and around New York State, with heavy and drifting snow predicted to move south to north beginning early Wednesday and continue through Thanksgiving on Thursday. At this time, predicted snowfall amounts vary from 7 to 16 inches throughout the Mohawk and Hudson Valleys, including the Capital District. The New York City Area is currently under a Winter Storm Watch and could see 4 to 8 inches of accumulation. While the storm is not predicted to become severe at this time, the State is actively monitoring the storm and taking all precautions necessary to prepare.
"This is one of the busiest travel weekends of the year, and with winter weather expected to impact much of the state, I urge all travelers to plan ahead and exercise caution," Governor Cuomo said. "I've directed State agencies to be on heightened alert as this storm develops, and we are taking all necessary precautions to address potentially hazardous conditions. We're hoping for the best, but planning for the worst in order to keep New Yorkers safe."
The Governor is urging those traveling -- either by road, rail or air -- to travel today, Tuesday, if possible in order to avoid congestion and delays tomorrow, and to call 5-1-1 for the latest transportation information before heading out.
In response to the lake effect snow emergency and threat of flooding in Western New York, Governor Cuomo last week requested municipalities across New York send snow removal equipment and personnel to the region. In anticipation of this week's downstate storm, the Governor has already directed non-vital equipment to return to their downstate bases.
The Wednesday before Thanksgiving is traditionally one of the busiest travel days of the year. State road crews are prepared with salt and plows, and are actively monitoring weather reports and road conditions to ensure safe travels. However, in the event of any precipitation, motorists should expect longer travel times due to reduced speeds and longer wait times at exits and toll booths with the added volume of travelers over the holiday.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-urges-motorists-be-safe-and-consider-potentially-hazardous-conditions-when
