Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Visits Flood-Prone Communities in Western New York, Reminds Residents and Local Governments of Resources Available to Respond to Potential Flooding
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 24, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today visited West Seneca and Lancaster to view equipment staged in preparation for potential flooding and reminded residents and local officials of resources available should flooding, power outages, or other emergency situations occur following the recent major snowstorm in Western New York.
"We are continuing to hope that the worst has passed and flooding or strong winds do not cause any problem here in Western New York," Governor Cuomo said. "However, the State and our local partners are still continuing to take every precaution to keep New Yorkers safe amid the possibility that flooding could occur and heavy winds could cause more destruction, and I urge residents to do the same and be prepared."
The possibility of flooding is a result of unusually high seasonal temperatures in the high 50s and low 60s, as well as the call for heavy rain on top of the recently-accumulated snow in the region. Every effort is being made to impede any flooding. There is also a possibility of power outages in the region; a high-wind warning remains in effect through 4 a.m. Tuesday with gusts up to 70 miles per hour, which could result in downed trees on and around power lines.
The State is operating a facility in Hamburg, New York to strategically deploy resources and personnel as needed throughout the region. The facility will fulfill localities' emergency requests for sandbags, pumps and swift water rescue teams in preparation for the possibility of flooding across Western New York, as well as coordinate the distribution of generators, utility personnel and other emergency measures in cases of power outages.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-visits-flood-prone-communities-western-new-york-reminds-residents-and-local
