Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Warns New Yorkers of Significant Flooding Possibility
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 21, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today warned that rising temperatures over the weekend will contribute to a strong possibility of significant flooding in Western New York. Although the State is taking every precaution to prepare for a large amount of flooding, the specifics are not predictable, and homeowners should be ready for significant snow melt.
"New York is preparing for the worst-case scenario with these floods, and safety is our top priority," Governor Cuomo said. "Over the coming days, the warming weather will bring melting, which will bring rain, and water on top of so much snow will bring floods. I urge all New Yorkers to inform themselves and take every precaution to stay safe."
In anticipation of this flooding, the Governor has instructed state agencies to take every precaution with our local partners to prevent damage. New York is immediately bringing the following equipment to the area:
425 pumps and generators
55 boats and crew
3 helicopters
29 high-axle vehicles
180,000+ sandbags
Residents and businesses clearing sidewalks and driveways are encouraged to remove snow from street drains to enable runoff into storm sewers. Additionally, the state is repositioning its existing equipment in the region to help local partners with snow removal. This includes:
538 plows
149 dump trucks
107 front loaders
27 snow blowers
A Flood Watch is in effect from Sunday afternoon through Wednesday morning for the counties of Erie, Genesee and Wyoming. Smaller streams and creeks will be prone to flooding from snow melt, including creeks that flow through the Buffalo Metro area. Towns that received significant amounts of snow will also have potential for urban flooding from the snow melt.
The State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) is using FEMA flood plain maps to identify flood prone areas, including creeks and streams, where snow melt and rain could cause damaging flooding. DEC, in conjunction with the National Weather service, will monitor flood gages on creeks, streams and rivers in Western New York to assess flooding risks. DEC is also monitoring 13 wastewater treatment plants in Erie County and one in Wyoming County, based on risk conditions. Trained Environmental Conservation Officers are on hand to respond to emergencies.
The State Emergency Operations Center, which has been monitoring the storm since the Governor activated it on Monday evening, is staffed by a multitude of state agencies including the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services (with staff from the Office of Emergency Management as well as the Office of Fire Prevention and Control), Department of Transportation, Department of Environmental Conservation, New York State Thruway, State Police, Public Service Commission and the Division of Military and Naval Affairs, and Office of General Services.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-warns-new-yorkers-significant-flooding-possibility
