Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Issues Update On Winter Storm Conditions in Western New York
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 21, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today held a storm briefing in Western New York on the current winter storm conditions, where in some areas there are seven feet of lake effect snow already on the ground after several days of extreme weather. The Thruway and other roads will have a limited reopening at 3pm, for essential travel only, so that vehicles can move out of the region, ensure that necessary supplies can be delivered, and snow machinery can do its work. Recovery efforts are underway, with the state enlisting a larger collection of snow removal equipment in the region than ever before.
"We have gone through the worst in terms of snowfall, and now we are turning to snow removal. To remove the snow, we have to remove vehicles, which need a place to go. Therefore, we are going to start lifting driving bans for essential purposes only," Governor Cuomo said. "When we are lifting these bans, we are not signifying that all is fine. The opening is to move vehicles that are blocking the roads. If at all possible, please stay in your homes."
The Governor also discussed the consequences of the warm weather coming to the area in the next few days, which make the region especially prone to significant flooding due to the extremely large amount of snow. While the specifics of this are not predictable, the State is taking every precaution to prepare for such a case.
The Governor declared a State of Emergency Tuesday night for affected counties so that residents can receive as much assistance as possible. He also instructed the National Guard, the New York State Police, and all state agencies help affected residents and roadways. State offices remain closed in Cattaraugus, Chautauqua, Erie, Franklin, Genesee, Herkimer, Jefferson, Lewis, Oswego, and Wyoming counties.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-issues-update-winter-storm-conditions-western-new-york-0
