Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Briefs Media on Western New York Storm Conditions
Press Conference
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 19, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo was today joined by Erie County Executive Mark Poloncarz, Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown, and other local, county and State officials for a comprehensive briefing of the ongoing lake effect snow storm in Western New York.
Rush Transcript of Governor Cuomo's Remarks:
"Thank you very much -- Mother Nature is showing us who is boss, once again. A couple of weeks ago I was chatting with some friends in Buffalo and we were talking about how, over the past few years, western new York was really spared any more storm or major weather event. We've had an eventful few years across the state: Hurricane Irene, Hurricane Lee, and Hurricane Sandy across downstate New York. But Western New York was spared and we said as soon as those words came out of my mouth -- I said we spoke too fast."
"And this is an historic event. I believe when all is said and done this snowfall may break all sorts of records, and that's saying something in Western New York and in Buffalo. I want to applaud the leaders that you have here in Western New York and Buffalo, starting with County Executive Mark Poloncarz and Mayor Byron Brown who have done extraordinary work. Buffalo itself -- known as a city of neighbors -- has come together and shown a real sense of community and neighbor-helping-neighbor, which is always good to see."
"As you heard from General Murphy in the National Guard and Commissioner McDonald from the Department of Transportation, we're bringing in hundreds of pieces of equipment from all throughout the state. We've asked neighboring states for equipment to supplement what we're going to be bringing in from across the state. We've brought in hundreds of National Guard personnel, and we will be bringing in more to impart, supplement, but also to relieve the existing personnel. This is going to be a multi-day event, given the weather pattern, so we're planning a four/five day workload and we're adjusting accordingly."

Source:
