Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Whiteface and Gore Mountains to Open Sunday
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 14, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced today that the 2014-15 skiing and riding season will begin this weekend at Gore and Whiteface Mountains. Gore Mountain, located in North Creek, N.Y, and Whiteface Mountain, located in Wilmington, N.Y., will open for business on Sunday, Nov. 16.
"New York is the proud home of some of the best skiing and snowboarding trails and facilities in the entire Northeast," Governor Cuomo said. "Whether you're an expert skier or snowboarder, or someone who's always wanted to try, there is no time like the present to get out and experience more of what New York has to offer. As Gore and Whiteface Mountains officially kick off the 2014-15 season, I encourage all New Yorkers to plan a trip to one of our State's world-class mountains."
Gore has been making snow since Wednesday, Nov. 12, and with almost two miles of continuous skiing and riding serviced by the high-speed Northwoods Gondola, guests should look for a route combining Foxlair, Sunway, Quicksilver, 3B and Jamboree to the Base Area. Some terrain park elements will be available as well.
Meanwhile, snowmaking at Whiteface has been taking place since the evening of Friday, Nov. 7. This in combination with natural snowfall means that at least three trails will be open at the resort for Sunday's skiing and riding.
Whiteface Mountain is adding more than 100 low-energy, high-efficiency snowguns to its fleet this season, and has widened both the Upper Valley and Wilmington intermediate trails. Additionally, the base lodge's outdoor ticket booth was removed to make way for a new locker and changing area with direct access to the Mixing Bowl trail, the Cloudsplitter Gondola or the Facelift quad chair. The new space accommodates 40 to 50 additional skiers and riders.
Gore is presently completing construction of "Adirondack Express II," a new high-speed quad. Skiers and riders should look for other improvements including new tower guns and snowmaking efficiencies, two new grooming tractors and four fresh glades on the trail map.
When purchasing lift tickets at Gore, visitors can double their discount to $20 off already-reduced early season prices by donating two non-perishable food items at the ticket window. Accounting for this donation to support area food banks, Sunday's prices are $37 for adults, $25 for teens and seniors, and $12 for juniors.
At Whiteface, tickets are $40 for adults, $35 for teens and seniors and $30 for juniors. After this weekend, both resorts will close Sunday, at 4 p.m., and re-open Saturday, Nov. 22. Full-time operations are slated to begin on Friday, Nov. 28.
Operations at Belleayre, in Highmount, N.Y., begin Nov. 28, conditions and weather permitting.
This winter all three New York State Olympic Regional Development Authority (ORDA) managed resorts will be leading the way in bringing new winter enthusiasts to the ski slopes with their trademarked Parallel from the Start learn to ski program. This all-inclusive program guarantees that participants will be at the top of the mountain within three days, and at just $169, it's an ideal approach to learning how to ski.
The program, specifically geared toward those ages 13+ looking to get into the sport, is about confidence and quick advancement. The combination of instruction and shorter skis allow beginners to feel comfortable from their very first minute on snow and immediately builds confidence for a fun experience.
For more information about Parallel from the Start, visit www.nyski3.com or ORDA's mountain websites: www.whitefacelakeplacid.com, www.goremountain.com, and www.belleayre.com

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-whiteface-and-gore-mountains-open-sunday
