Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Citibank, JPMorgan Chase, M&T Bank and Valley National Bank to use DFS Database to Help Protect Consumers from Illegal, Online Payday Lending
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 13, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced today that four additional banks have agreed to use a new database created by the State's Department of Financial Services to help identify and stop illegal, online payday lending in New York. The banks -- Citibank, JPMorgan Chase, M&T Bank and Valley National Bank -- will utilize a database containing information on companies that have been subject to actions by DFS based on evidence of illegal payday lending. This tool provides a powerful due diligence resource for financial institutions to protect consumers and help ensure that electronic payment and debit networks are not used to transmit or collect on illegal, online payday loans to New Yorkers. Earlier this year, Bank of America became the first financial institution to agree to use this DFS database.
"Our administration will not tolerate illegal payday lending in New York -- plain and simple," Governor Cuomo said. "By working together with the private sector, we are forcefully combatting illegal payday lenders and helping to stamp out illicit loans that trap New Yorkers in destructive cycles of debt. I commend these financial institutions for doing the right thing by joining us to protect consumers."
Benjamin M. Lawsky, Superintendent of Financial Services, said: "Many online payday lending companies traffic in financial misery and seek to profit by trapping consumers in crushing cycles of debt from which they cannot escape. We thank Citibank, JPMorgan Chase, M&T Bank, and Valley National Bank for partnering with DFS as industry leaders to help stop illegal, predatory lending in New York. We are continuing to reach out to other financial institutions -- asking that they work alongside us in this effort. We expect to announce additional partnerships in the weeks and months to come."
"New York State is leading the nation in holding the line against illegal, short-term payday loans, which ensnare borrowers in a dangerous cycle of recurring debt," said Chuck Bell, programs director for Consumers Union. "Consumers Union applauds Governor Andrew Cuomo and the Department of Financial Services for creating this new database to protect consumers and communities against the scourge of illegal payday loans. These loans can carry astonishingly high interest rates, as high as 500 percent or 1,000 percent APR, which flagrantly violate state law. We are also greatly encouraged that major state and national financial services companies are joining the fight to help protect New Yorkers against predatory lending."

Source:
