Public Statements
Statement from Governor Andrew M. Cuomo on Veterans Day
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 11, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

"Veterans Day is an important opportunity for us to pause and recognize the sacrifices made by the men and women of our armed forces. By answering the call of duty, our Veterans put the needs of others before their own and built this state and nation into the land of liberty and opportunity that we know today.
"Earlier this year, I had the privilege of meeting with members of New York's 10th Mountain Division in Afghanistan, along with wounded soldiers at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany. I was inspired by their courage, their dedication to one another, and their commitment to the American principles of freedom and justice for all. As we continue to honor and support our Veterans here in New York, we also hope and pray for the safe return of the many active servicemembers who are currently serving around the globe. Those servicemembers and the nearly 900,000 Veterans who call New York home have earned our deepest gratitude, and our administration will continue to make this the most Veteran-supportive state in the nation."
Governor Cuomo today announced the launch of a statewide "Strike Force" to expedite federal disability claims for New York State Veterans and their family members. The Strike Force -- discussed as part of the Summit on Veterans and Military Families -- was established in response to statistics that show on average, Veterans in New York wait close to 500 days for a decision on their VA disability claims, and many of the more than 10,000 pending VA disability claims cases are more than two years old.
Today the Governor announced that New York's new "Strike Force" is up and running, helping New York's Veterans and their family members escape this backlog. NYS employees have already been placed in VA Regional Offices to focus on attacking backlogged claims, and more will be placed by the year's end.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/statement-governor-andrew-m-cuomo-veterans-day-1
