Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New Online Hiring Resource For Veterans
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 10, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the launch of a new online portal that will provide veterans the tools they need to connect with temporary employment opportunities offered by New York State. The website enables job seekers to upload resumes and designate geographic preferences, which State agencies then use to identify and consider candidates for open positions throughout New York.
"We owe all of our Veterans a tremendous debt of gratitude for their service, and helping them find employment is an important way to support them here at home," Governor Cuomo said. "By connecting Veterans with job opportunities in their area, this new online portal will help the men and women of the armed forces leverage their skills and experiences and ultimately grow their careers. This is another example of how New York State is working to put Veterans first, and I want to thank Senator Ball and Assemblyman Benedetto for their work in making this new resource possible."
The Veterans Temporary Hiring Program offers opportunities for temporary employment in positions such as a disaster assistance representative, transportation construction inspector and highway maintenance worker, as well as seasonal positions, such as a lifeguard and tax information aide. The online portal can be accessed through the Department of Civil Service's website here.
Civil Service Commissioner Jerry Boone said, "Interested veterans seeking temporary employment are encouraged to utilize this convenient employment resource. Temporary jobs provide valuable experience our veterans can leverage to improve their employment opportunities both inside and outside state government."
Director of Veterans Affairs Eric Hesse said, "This is another significant program for servicemembers to use to their advantage. I think it will be especially useful as servicemembers transition from the service helping them to discover new opportunities in a competitive job market. The Governor's continued leadership on Veterans' issues is making a difference for all Veterans."
The online portal is a result of a chapter amendment to the Veterans Employment Act sponsored by Senator Greg Ball and Assemblyman Michael Benedetto.
Senator Greg Ball, Chairman of the Senate Veterans, Homeland Security and Military Affairs Committee, said, "We jump through hoops to prepare young men and women to enter into the military, but once they finish their service there is often very little transition back into civilian life. Many of our servicemen and women find this transition very difficult and often times can't find meaningful employment upon their return. This new law will help lead our unemployed veterans into the workforce. I would like to thank the Governor for his support of this legislation to help put our veterans back to work."
Assemblyman Michael Benedetto said, "Providing veterans with the opportunity to access temporary employment opportunities offered by New York State is a common sense way to allow our jobless vets a way to re-enter the workforce and have the State benefit from their skills and expertise. I applaud the Governor for launching this site."
Eligibility for the Veterans Temporary Hiring Program is limited to veterans with a Department of Defense Form 214. In general, applicants must have served on active duty in the United States Air Force, Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Coast Guard or the Reserve Components of the Armed Forces of the United States, or served in active military service of the United States as a member of the Army National Guard, or Air National Guard. Veterans serving in the State's volunteer New York Guard or New York Naval Militia who have a DD Form 214 are also eligible. Applicants with a DD Form 214 must have been released from service after September 11, 2001. Applicants with a dishonorable discharge are not eligible.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-new-online-hiring-resource-veterans
