Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Invites New Yorkers to Visit State Parks and Historic Sites in Honor of Veterans Day
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 7, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today invited New Yorkers and visitors to celebrate Veterans Day at New York's many historic sites where veterans helped shaped state and national history. The Governor's Path Through History initiative, which highlights historically and culturally significant sites and events throughout New York State, enables sightseers to learn about and visit historic battlefields and museums honoring the contributions made by our nation's veterans.
"It is a privilege to have so many historic sites in New York. I encourage residents and visitors alike to honor the service, the bravery and the sacrifices made by our nation's veterans by visiting one of the state's many heritage sites this Veterans Day," Governor Cuomo said.
"Many of our state historic sites and others found along the Path Through History honor and preserve the stories of veterans who served our nation with distinction," State Parks Commissioner Rose Harvey said. "Learning about the accomplishments and sacrifices of these men and women in our history is an excellent way to celebrate Veterans Day."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
In addition to the above list, museums like the New York State Military Museum, forts and battlefields like Fort Stanwix, and the U.S. Military Academy at West Point allow members of the public to visit and commemorate veterans. Information on these and other sites can be found on the Path Through History website, http://www.iloveny.com/paththroughhistory.
Path Through History was created by Governor Cuomo in 2012 and builds on New York's already robust heritage tourism attractions. The initiative, which is part of the State's I LOVE NEW YORK tourism campaign, is focused on thirteen themes: Arts & Culture, Canals & Transportation, Civil Rights, Colonial History, Immigration, Innovation & Commerce, Native Americans, Natural History, the Revolutionary War, Sports History, U.S. Presidents, the War of 1812 and Women's Rights. Important heritage sites and events across the state were selected for inclusion in Path Through History with input from leading historians.

Source:
