Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Home Energy Assistance Available Beginning November 17
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 6, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that households needing heating assistance can begin applying for New York's Home Energy Assistance Program on Monday, November 17. Eligible households can receive a one-time benefit of up to $625 this winter from the program, which is federally-funded.
Again this winter, anyone living outside of New York City can apply for a regular Home Energy Assistance Program benefit online at myBenefits.ny.gov. Last year, more than 35,000 households applied through the myBenefits site.
"As another cold winter season approaches, we are reminding New Yorkers that help is available to keep their homes warm as temperatures drop," Governor Cuomo said. "Starting on November 17, eligible residents from all across the State can apply for funding to help meet their home heating costs through the coming winter months. I encourage all residents who need this assistance to apply."
The program, which is overseen by the New York State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, can assist eligible applicants regardless of whether they own their home or rent. Eligibility is determined by income and how many people live in the household. The maximum regular benefit a household can receive for the 2014-15 heating season is $625.
Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance Commissioner Kristin M. Proud said, "Though the economic recovery continues, we know many households are struggling financially. I encourage anyone planning to seek assistance through the Home Energy Assistance Program to do so as soon as possible. The easiest way to do so, for households outside of New York City, is to visit myBenefits.ny.gov."
Eligible households can receive one regular benefit per season and could also be eligible for an emergency benefit if they are in danger of running out of heating fuel or having their utility service shut off. Applications for emergency benefits will be accepted beginning Friday, January 2, 2015. Households in an energy emergency situation should call their local department of social services for assistance.
Anyone can apply for the program with their local department of social services. Last winter, more than 1.5 million households throughout New York State received Home Energy Assistance Program benefits.
For more information about the Home Energy Assistance Program, go to http://otda.ny.gov/programs/heap/. New Yorkers can find contact information for their county department of social services at http://otda.ny.gov/programs/heap/HEAP-contacts.pdf.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-home-energy-assistance-available-beginning-november-17
