Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Discusses Election Day Security Preparations in New York State
Interview
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 4, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Earlier today at an event in Brooklyn, Governor Cuomo discussed the actions New York has taken to ensure the safety of New Yorkers as they prepare for Election Day on November 8.
A rush transcript of Governor Cuomo's comments to reporters is below:
Reporter: Governor, FBI sources are saying that there is a possibility of a terror threat from al-Qaida to disrupt the elections. I guess, they're trying to strike the day before the election, in either New York, Texas or Virginia. Your reaction, and what are you doing?
Governor Cuomo: Well, I don't want to confirm any FBI reports, but obviously we're in total coordination and consultation with the Federal Authorities, and we are already on a state of high alert for Election Day, so we have more state police, more national guard, more soldiers on duty than ever before. We're coordinating with the NYPD, so, there's bad news and good news. Bad news is that New York is often a threat, the good news is that we've been living with this now for a decade, and we got prepared for it, and drilled for it, we take every threat seriously, so we'll be prepared and we'll be ready.
Reporter: What do you think about the idea of a terrorists seeking to influence the American election, the Presidential Election, but also the election for House and Senate?
Governor Cuomo: You know, Marcia, I think this is the world that we live in now. It was different twenty years ago, it was different thirty years ago, but New York today, you are an international target, you have these terrorists groups that are hate groups and they're working 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. I think that's a new reality, and if they have an opportunity to create chaos, they will. They're looking for those types of opportunities -- Election Day -- even better, holidays, even better, Boston Race Day, even better. These periods of high significance for the country present especially appetizing and appealing targets for the hate groups, and we understand that and we respond accordingly.
Reporter: This election, there seems to have been all types of attempts by foreign groups to try {inaudible} charges that Russians were hacking into various computers, trying to release things that were a part of the Democratic Party, influence how the election went, how do you feel about this as a tactic {inaudible}?
Governor Cuomo: I think it's a different tactic for the same strategy. What they really want to do is disrupt the democracy in this country. That's what's driving them crazy, that's what really offends them is our functioning democracy. Whenever they can disrupt democracy, that's their ultimate goal. Election Day -- the exercise of that Democracy, the high holiday of that democracy -- of course is going to present a target for them, and of course, we're going to be ready.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-discusses-election-day-security-preparations-new-york-state
