Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Strategic Fuel Reserve in Upstate New York to Help Prepare for Future Severe Storms, Possible Fuel Emergencies
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 29, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the establishment of a strategic fuel reserve at six key locations in Upstate New York to help ensure that gasoline and diesel fuels are available to emergency responders in the event of an emergency, including future severe storms. The reserve terminals are positioned to rapidly provide service to all areas of Upstate New York in the event of a declared emergency. Establishing an Upstate fuel reserve is a key component of Fuel NY, the Governor's statewide fuel infrastructure protection initiative developed in direct response to disruptions caused by Superstorm Sandy.

"The strategic Upstate fuel reserve will enable emergency responders to continue their vitally important jobs, even in the event of a prolonged disaster, and addresses vulnerabilities discovered in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy," Governor Cuomo said. "This addition to New York's fuel infrastructure plan makes it the strongest of any state in the nation, and is one more way that we are building back better."

Approximately 2.5 million gallons of gasoline and ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel will be housed in the strategic fuel reserve, and will be supplied to first responders during a declared emergency in the event that their own fuel supplies are disrupted. The six key reserve terminals that will provide service to all of Upstate New York are located in:

-Rensselaer
-Brewerton
-Rochester
-Marcy
-Vestal
-Buffalo

The Upstate Strategic Fuel Reserve Program is administered by the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority with $10 million in funding provided by the New York Power Authority. The fuel is owned by New York State, and the reserves are managed by Buckeye Terminals, LLC. Suppliers will be able to pre-register with the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority to facilitate distribution of fuel upon declaration of an emergency and release of the strategic fuel reserve in their region.

Fuel NY is the nation's strongest program for meeting the backup electricity requirements of gas stations to be better prepared for a declared emergency. Today, more than half of all gas stations in New York City, Long Island and Westchester and Rockland Counties are required to have back-up power in the event of an emergency. Additionally, Fuel NY has established the first-in-the-nation State Strategic Gasoline Reserve on Long Island.

New York State Energy Research and Development Authority President and CEO John B. Rhodes said, "Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, New York State is developing a resilient and reliable energy infrastructure, and the Upstate Strategic Fuel Reserve Program is an important piece of that solution. This reserve will ensure that critical first responders like police, ambulance, fire department, and other emergency personnel have fuel to assist New Yorkers and aide in the recovery efforts during severe weather events."
New York Power Authority President and CEO Gil C. Quiniones said, "The Upstate Strategic Fuel Reserve will provide the New York Power Authority, other utilities in the state and first responders with added assurance that their transmission and repair crews will have the necessary fuel supplies for their bucket trucks and other vehicles for restoring power after major storms. The fuel reserve is a vital emergency-preparedness initiative for lessening the disruptive impacts of future storms."

Buckeye Partners, L.P. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Clark C. Smith said, "Buckeye is pleased to be partnering with the State of New York to provide a strategic refined petroleum products reserve for the Upstate New York markets. Buckeye's success in quickly and safely re-starting operations after the Superstorm Sandy landfall in 2012 demonstrated our commitment to minimizing disruptions in the markets we supply. Buckeye is very proud to be a part of the storage and distribution option for first responders should there be another emergency event in the future."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/10292014upstate-fuel-reserves
