Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Outlines State Response to Positive Test for Ebola in Patient in New York City
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 23, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today outlined New York State's response to a positive test for Ebola in a patient at Bellevue Hospital in New York City -- in order to ensure public health and safety and contain the disease. Bellevue Hospital is one of the eight hospitals statewide that Governor Cuomo specially designated earlier this month to treat Ebola patients as part of the State's Ebola Preparedness Plan. Bellevue has been prepared and equipped for the isolation, identification and treatment of Ebola patients. As part of Governor Cuomo's Ebola Preparedness Plan, New York State health, public safety, and transportation officials have been in engaging in an ongoing series of training exercises and drills to be ready for just such a potential Ebola case.

State health officials noted that Ebola is spread by directly touching the bodily fluids of an infected person. Ebola is not spread through the air or by water -- or simply by being near an infected person.

"As we learn about the first positive Ebola Case in New York City, I want to assure New Yorkers that we are prepared," Governor Cuomo said. "Over the past few weeks we have undertaken a thorough and coordinated effort alongside all relevant partners, from healthcare workers to the local and federal governments, in order to implement the appropriate precautions. My thoughts and prayers go out to Dr. Spencer as well as his family and friends, and I hope for his quick recovery."

The New York State Department of Health (NYS DOH) is working closely with the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, and the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The patient who tested positive has been interviewed regarding their close contacts, activities, and travel. New York State, New York City and the Federal Government are also taking steps to:

-Ensure the patient remains isolated and is receiving treatment;
-Identify, quarantine, and monitor those who had close contact with the patient;
-Ensure all medical personnel treating the patient follow appropriate protocols, including by monitoring the use of personal protective equipment; and by monitoring the health status of medical personnel who treat the patient

At Governor Cuomo's direction, Dr. Howard Zucker, Acting Commissioner of the NYS DOH has been onsite at Bellevue monitoring the situation. In addition, NYS DOH has sent personnel to Bellevue to monitor the use of personal protective equipment to ensure that health care workers are following protocols to protect themselves.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/10232014-ebola-response
