Public Statements
Wall Street Journal - Cuomo, Astorino Trade Punches at Debate
News Article
By: Andrew Cuomo Robert Astorino
Date: Oct. 22, 2014
Location: Buffalo, NY

By Erica Orden and Mara Gay
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo went on the attack against his Republican challenger Rob Astorino during a debate on Wednesday, in jarring clashes on taxes, racial discrimination and Albany corruption.
The Democratic governor, after months of mostly refusing to mention his opponent by name, went hard after Mr. Astorino, accusing the Westchester County Executive of promoting discriminatory policies against women, minorities, immigrants and gays.
"The ultraconservative philosophy that is being put forth by Mr. Astorino I think disrespects women because it takes away a woman's right to choose. I think it disrespects minorities," Mr. Cuomo said. "I think it disrespects immigrantsI think it disrespects gays by being against marriage equality."
"That's not who New Yorkers are," Mr. Cuomo said.
In turn, Mr. Astorino accused the governor of "pulling the race card" and reminded voters of the federal investigation into whether the Cuomo administration interfered with the Moreland Commission to Investigate Public Corruption, a panel launched in July 2013 and disbanded this spring by Mr. Cuomo.
"There's only one person here that has a criminal defense team," Mr. Astorino said.
The hourlong debate, held in Buffalo, was broadcast statewide on public television and sponsored by the Buffalo News, WNED-TV and WBFO radio. Two other candidates joined Messrs. Cuomo and Astorino: Howie Hawkins of the Green Party and the Libertarian Party's Michael McDermott. It is the gubernatorial election's only debate.
Going into the debate, the governor wielded considerable advantages. The most recent poll, released Wednesday by Siena College, showed him with a 21-point lead over Mr. Astorino, 54% to 33%. Mr. Hawkins picked up 9%. As of the campaign's most recent filings with the state Board of Elections, Mr. Cuomo's war chest ($23.7 million in cash on hand) dwarfed that of Mr. Astorino ($1.3 million).
On Wednesday night, the governor bucked the conventional wisdom that he would play it safe, skewering Mr. Astorino rather than simply defending his own record.
The harsh clashes surprised some political observers.
"I've seen dozens of gubernatorial debates, and I can't remember another in which the major party candidates attacked each other with such harsh language," said Lawrence Levy, executive dean of the National Center for Suburban Studies at Hofstra University. "I expected Astorino to come out swinging because he's fairly far behind but I was surprised that Cuomo responded in kind."
Of Mr. Cuomo's performance, he said: "It didn't strike me as a strategy so much as an instinctive reaction to punch back when somebody's punching at you."
A frequent theme for Mr. Cuomo was that Mr. Astorino was engaging in housing policies that discriminate against minorities, referencing a long-running dispute that predated the Republican's term in Westchester. The federal government contends Mr. Astorino isn't complying with a court-imposed settlement requiring certain amounts of affordable housing be set aside in parts of Westchester.
The governor accused Mr. Astorino of engaging in housing discriminating against blacks and Latinos. "The federal government is suing one county executive out of 3,000 in the nation and it's Mr. Astorino," Mr. Cuomo said.
Mr. Astorino said he never engaged in discrimination, calling the federal lawsuit an overreach into local zoning issues. "Don't listen to his nonsense, when he throws out the race card it's because he has no ideas," he said.
Mr. Astorino went on the attack himself, pointing at Mr. Cuomo, who sat to his left, while the governor stared down at his notepad, making occasional marks on it but never glancing over at his opponent.
Mr. Astorino accused Mr. Cuomo of "disrespecting women" for not denouncing Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver while a sexual-harassment scandal played out.
In a particularly testy exchange over taxes, Mr. Astorino gave himself credit for lowering Mr. Cuomo's taxes, since the governor lives in Westchester.
"He should be thanking me," Mr. Astorino said, smiling.
Mr. Cuomo didn't agree. "The taxes didn't go down in Westchester County," he said.
Asked about their views on the natural-gas extraction technique known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, Mr. Astorino said he supported it as a way to bring jobs to upstate New York.
Mr. Cuomo, who has yet to make a decision on allowing hydrofracking as he awaits a Department of Health study, demurred. "Whatever the experts say is right that's what I will do. Frankly, it's too complicated for a layman," he said.
After the debate, Mr. Astorino said voters saw "the very angry Andrew."
In response, Mr. Cuomo said he was "not at all" angry.
"I had fun," he declared afterward. "I think he was angry."

Source: http://online.wsj.com/articles/cuomo-astorino-trade-punches-at-debate-1414032268
