Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $17.6 Million to Protect 6,440 Acres of Farmland Across New York State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 20, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $17.6 million to protect more than 6,400 acres of farmland across New York State, which will maintain the land's use for agricultural purposes and keep the land free from future development. The funds, which are made available through the Farmland Protection Implementation Program, will help preserve 21 farms in 12 counties across the state, and bring the total acreage under the program to approximately 59,000 acres.

"Farming supports jobs, businesses and economic activity in communities across New York, making it a major part of this state's economy, as well a rich part of our heritage," Governor Cuomo said. "As interest in our New York grown food and beverages continues to rise, this funding will ensure that this farmland will be preserved and a part of this critically important industry for generations to come."

The Farmland Protection Implementation Program provides funds to protect viable farmland from conversion to non-farm uses through the use of perpetual conservation easements or shorter-term lease of development rights. Since 1996, New York has awarded nearly $195 million for farmland protection projects, assisting 223 projects with local partners in 29 counties.

Funds for the Farmland Protection Implementation Program are administered by the State Department of Agriculture and Markets. Municipalities, counties, soil and water conservation districts and not-for-profit conservation organizations, or land trusts, were eligible to apply for individual grants under the Round 13 Farmland Protection Implementation Grants competitive Request for Proposals. Farms protected under the program remain taxable.

Senate Agriculture Chair Senator Patty Ritchie, said "According to the USDA, roughly 500,000 acres of farmland were lost to development in New York over the past decade. One of the biggest components to ensuring the agriculture industry continues to grow, is making sure there is available land for our state's hardworking farmers, as well as young farmers who are looking to pursue agricultural careers. I applaud the Governor for his ongoing commitment to New York's agriculture industry, as well as this most recent investment in the protection of farmlands across our state."

Assemblyman Bill Magee, Chair of the State Assembly Agriculture Committee, said "Preservation of farmland is a crucial step in supporting agriculture as an economic engine for New York State. Governor Cuomo's commitment to our farms through The Farmland Protection Implementation Program will help to contribute to the supply of locally sourced farm products, ensuring the continuance of the local agricultural industry, while preserving a crucial resource for New York State."

State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball said, "Farmland protection is important because New York is home to some of the best agricultural land in the country. When people drive by a working farm they are not only looking at beautiful scenery, but also economic development at its core. Farms are teeming with economic activity and it's imperative that we protect the state's farmland for the next generation of New Yorkers. Today's announcement by Governor Cuomo is a huge step in preserving the most valuable resource that exists for farmers."

State Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Joe Martens said, "Farms play a vital role in preserving lands that may otherwise be developed, and agricultural lands serve as an important buffer for wildlife habitat and natural resources, as well as providing stopover sites for migratory birds. This significant investment to preserve thousands of acres of farmland reflects Governor Cuomo's commitment to our state's agricultural community and will also achieve critical environmental goals."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/10202014-farmland
