Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Modernization and Revitalization Plan for LaGuardia, JFK, Republic and Stewart Airports
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 20, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today hosted Vice President Joe Biden at an event to unveil the Governor's comprehensive plan to modernize and revitalize LaGuardia, John F. Kennedy International, Republic and Stewart International Airports -- bringing them up to 21st Century standards for service, access and amenities. In January 2014, Governor Cuomo announced in his State of the State Address that the State would assume management responsibility for construction at LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy International Airports to help break gridlock and make necessary improvements. The Governor's plan expands on this initiative by announcing Master Plan Design Competitions for LaGuardia and JFK to revitalize those two major airports and help ensure that state-of-the-art facility upgrades proceed in a comprehensive, forward-looking manner. Additionally, the Governor's plan will leverage the unique regional economic development opportunities at Republic and Stewart International Airports to further support job creation and growth in New York.

"The number one job of government is to promote economic growth and prosperity, and one of the best ways to drive commerce is by investing in infrastructure that connects New York with local, national and international markets," Governor Cuomo said. "This is more important for New York than ever before, which is why the State is ambitiously investing in roads, bridges and tunnels on a scale that we haven't seen in decades. Our airport modernization plan not only enhances how our individual airports look and act in the 21st Century -- but addresses how they must fundamentally work together to strategically grow New York's economy."

LaGuardia Airport in New York City -- Master Plan Design Competition
The Master Plan Design Competition will call on designers from across the globe to strategically envision the complete package of what LaGuardia Airport will look like and how it will function in the 21st Century. The enhancements and design competition should include: improving transportation to the airport, including possible high-speed ferries and improved rail service; a redesigned airport layout to increase access, including a potential ferry terminal at the airport; state-of-the-art amenities to offer best-in-class customer service and a diverse food and retail experience; and more resilient infrastructure in order to prepare the airport's facilities to meet increasing and extreme weather threats. Additionally, the Governor will work with federal partners to make New York's air space more efficient by expediting the implementation of new air traffic technology in the area.

John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City -- Master Plan Design Competition













Source:
