Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $40 Million in Supportive Housing Awards
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 9, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced more than $40 million in funding for supportive housing projects to help homeless and low-income New Yorkers. The projects will provide a total of 276 units of supportive housing for homeless individuals and families, including survivors of domestic violence, veterans, youth, and adults with disabling mental health conditions.

"These organizations provide a vital public service and these grants will help them fulfill their incredibly important mission of helping homeless New Yorkers rebuild their lives," Governor Cuomo said. "The supportive housing programs offered by these groups are a proven way to bring stability and security to some of our most vulnerable residents and families and help to build stronger communities all across New York."

Eleven grants are being awarded to support projects in Monroe, Kings, Niagara, Cayuga, Bronx, Cattaraugus, Westchester, Suffolk and Richmond counties. The funds are available through the New York State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance's (OTDA) Homeless Housing and Assistance Program (HHAP).

OTDA Commissioner Kristin M. Proud said, "New York State, under Governor Cuomo, has made a strong commitment to supportive housing by substantially increasing the funding being made available for HHAP to $63 million this State Fiscal Year. HHAP projects respond to demonstrated community housing needs and exhibit a high degree of collaboration with other state and local agencies."

HHAP meets a distinct need in New York by providing funding to develop housing for various special needs populations. The program is designed to help families and individuals move out of homelessness and poverty, allowing them to achieve the highest level of independence possible.

In addition to the HHAP appropriation, $10 million was allocated by the State's Medicaid Redesign Team to OTDA for the development of housing projects targeted specifically to homeless persons with disabilities who are also high-cost users of Medicaid.

The awards were made through an open Request for Proposals process, in which applications are considered on an ongoing basis provided funding is still available. Applications for funding are still being accepted for HHAP and MRT-eligible projects.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/10092014-supportivehousing
