Public Statements
Time Warner Cable News - Two Republican County Executives Endorse Gov. Cuomo
News Article
By: Andrew Cuomo Howie Hawkins
Date: Oct. 7, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

By Nick Reisman
Governor Andrew Cuomo's play for the moderate middle in the race for governor netted him the endorsements of two Republican county executives: Joanie Mahoney of Onondaga County and Nassau County's Ed Mangano. Both Mahoney and Mangano gave their nod to Cuomo in a pair of TV ads released Tuesday by Cuomo's re-election campaign.
For Cuomo, it's all part of a broader strategy to win over moderate Republicans and independent voters, padding his lead over the GOP nominee, Rob Astorino.
"I'm reaching out to Democrats, but I'm going to campaign the way I govern. I'm also reaching out to moderate Republicans," said Gov. Cuomo, D-New York.
In doing so, Cuomo points to his record on the state budget, which includes limited spending increases, but he's also pushed heavily on liberal-friendly issues such as same-sex marriage and gun control. It is in this position of fiscal prudence and social liberalism that the governor feels he is with most New Yorkers.
"Our fiscal stewardship was moderate, responsible, but socially progressive," Cuomo said.
Polls show Cuomo has the backing of most liberals and Democratic voters for re-election, though support on the left has dropped since he took office more than three years ago.
Among liberals, Cuomo's re-election is supported by 65 percent. Among moderates, 57 percent. When it comes to enrolled Democrats, 68 percent back his re-election. Among independent voters, 45 percent. Cuomo gets support from more than a third of Republicans.
Cuomo still has some work to do on his left flank, however. He faced a surprisingly strong challenge from little-known Fordham Law School professor Zephyr Teachout, and Green Party candidate Howie Hawkins faults him for not doing more on school funding.
"When Cuomo says we spend more per capita, the fact is a lot of school districts are grossly underfunded," Hawkins said.
Hawkins said he would seek to increases taxes, especially on the wealthy, to help fund education.
"What we would do is restore full funding, the full foundation aid that is court ordered and constitutionally mandated by this state and we would do it be restoring progressive taxation," said Hawkins.

Source: http://albany.twcnews.com/content/775372/two-republican-county-executives-endorse-gov--cuomo/
