Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Launch of Build NY Initiative to Redefine State's Approach to Upgrading Vital Infrastructure
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 6, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the launch of Build NY, a new initiative to redefine the State's approach to strengthening vital infrastructure under the design-build model. Design-build is a project delivery tool that allows complex projects to combine design and construction into one bid and contract, thereby reducing procurement time and cost, as well as bringing private sector innovation and efficiency to public sector projects. The Governor also welcomed the I Lift NY super crane to the New NY Bridge site, where the giant floating crane, one of the world's largest, will be used in the construction of the new bridge to replace the Tappan Zee, one of the most significant transportation infrastructure projects in North America.

"The New NY Bridge project is a symbol of partnership and progress -- it is tactile proof that the new New York is here, with a government that works more efficiently and tackles problems more affordably," Governor Cuomo said. "The I Lift NY super crane will speed up construction time and it is one of the factors that helped save the State more than one billion dollars compared to early estimates. This is proof that the design-build method works -- and in the interests of the State and its taxpayers, now is the time to expand it."

The New NY Bridge will be completed under a single design-build fixed-price contract with Tappan Zee Constructors. Under design-build, Tappan Zee Constructors' use of I Lift NY was one of the factors that saved more than a billion dollars from early estimates. A total of ten project contracts have been awarded as design-build since 2011, saving the State an estimated $1.575 billion and 258 months of time.

Recognizing the success of this approach, the Governor today announced the launch of Build NY, a new initiative to strengthen and redefine the State's approach to upgrading vital infrastructure. As part of the Build NY initiative to expand opportunities for taxpayers to realize the benefits of using design-build contracts, the State will:

-Propose authorizing innovative delivery mechanisms to save tax dollars and speed the completion of projects by expanding design-build authority to all State agencies.

























Source:
