Public Statements
Poughkeepsie Journal - Cuomo Heads Out on Bus Tour; Astorino to Follow
News Article
By: Andrew Cuomo Robert Astorino
Date: Oct. 3, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

By Joseph Spector
Gov. Andrew Cuomo and running mate Kathy Hochul will visit three upstate cities Saturday on the "Women's Equality Express," a bus tour to highlight their support of a 10-point women's rights agenda.
Republican gubernatorial candidate Rob Astorino's campaign said it won't be far behind. It will have the "Shelly Silver Express" to knock Cuomo for not calling for the resignation of Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, who has been criticized for the handling of sexual-harassment cases in the chamber.
Cuomo's bus tour starts Saturday morning in Albany, heads to Syracuse and then concludes at 4 p.m. in Rochester at the United Workers Hall, 750 East Ave.
"This rally will be a great opportunity for our community to come out and demonstrate our strong support of Governor Cuomo and the Women's Equality Agenda," Assembly Majority Leader Joseph Morelle, D-Irondequoit, Monroe County, said in an email to supporters Thursday afternoon.
Cuomo, a Democrat, has done little campaigning in advance of Election Day, Nov. 4, but he's expected to ramp up his efforts in the coming weeks.
"We're going to be doing these bus tours quite often between now and the end of the election," Cuomo said Friday on "The Capitol Pressroom," a public radio show.
He has also offered few details about his platform for a second term, focusing largely on his record since he took office in 2011.
Cuomo said he will be rolling out more policy positions before Election Day, saying he's started to do some. He's talked about various ways the state could use a $4 billion windfall from bank settlements, increased the state's goal for minority-owned business and announced Thursday new policies to address sexual abuse on SUNY campuses.
In 2010, Cuomo put out 10 policy books about his plans if elected.
"I think if you look at these events as we've been going on, we are articulating the policy goals of the next administration -- one at a time," Cuomo told reporters Thursday. "Have we put out the book like we did in the first campaign? No. Because I learned a little bit: Nobody ever read the book."
Cuomo held a commanding 29 percentage-point lead over Astorino, the Westchester County executive, a Siena College poll last week showed.
On Friday, Astorino showed little money in his campaign account to air ads against Cuomo in the final weeks of the race.
He had nearly $1.3 million in the bank after spending $2.6 million on campaign expenses since July, mainly on his first ad last month. Cuomo had $35 million in his coffers in July and had $23.7 million left Friday, his campaign said.
Cuomo introduced the 10-point Women's Equality Agenda in January 2013, but it has stalled in the Senate, where Republicans have balked at a provision that would strengthen abortion rights in New York.
Democrats and Cuomo are seeking to capitalize on the issue during the campaign in a state with twice as many Democrats than Republicans, and Cuomo has a line on the ballot for a "Women's Equality Party."
Astorino, who is pro-life, has knocked the abortion piece of the agenda, saying it would lead to an expansion of abortion in New York. He charged Friday that it's hypocritical of Cuomo to promote women's rights when he didn't call for Silver's ouster amid a number of sexual-harassment complaints against Assembly Democrats.
Green Party candidate Howie Hawkins said he'll hold his own event when Cuomo comes to Syracuse and "offer to give Cuomo a pedal-powered tour of his Syracuse neighborhood to see first hand how Cuomo's policies are exasperating inequality."
The Republicans' van will have a sign that reads: "Ask Andrew Cuomo why he let Sheldon Silver off the hook in Albany sex assault scandals."
In 2012, Silver quietly settled two sexual harassment complaints against disgraced Assemblyman Vito Lopez, D-Brooklyn, for about $103,000. In January, Assemblyman Dennis Gabryszak, D-Cheektowaga, Erie County, resigned amid sexual-harassment charges.
Republicans called for Silver's ouster, including Astorino, but Cuomo never turned on Silver, saying in April 2013, "It is wholly up to the legislative bodies to select a leader."
Silver, first elected speaker in 1994, has since implemented new policies, and Assembly Democrats have stuck by him.
"Sheldon Silver survived as speaker because Andrew Cuomo protected him," Astorino said in a statement. "Mr. Cuomo showed zero regard for the victims of these sex crimes."
Cuomo's bus tour comes on the same day as Yom Kippur, the Jewish holiday. Cuomo said there will other opportunities to participate in his events before Election Day.
"I am highly respectful and wish everyone who's celebrating a joyous holiday, and people who can't come because of the holiday, I totally understand that," Cuomo said in the radio interview.

Source: http://www.poughkeepsiejournal.com/story/news/local/new-york/2014/10/03/cuomo-heads-bus-tour-astorino-follow/16686413/
