Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces First-Ever Statewide, Uniform Policy to Combat Sexual Assault on New York College Campuses
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 2, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the State University of New York (SUNY) will put in place a comprehensive system-wide uniform set of practices to combat sexual assaults on SUNY campuses.

The Governor attended today's meeting of the SUNY Board of Trustees, and at his urging the Board passed a resolution to establish a set of policies that will be adopted by every SUNY campus regarding sexual assault prevention and response. The resolution includes implementing a uniform, system-wide definition of consent that is required between participants before engaging in sexual activity; an immunity policy to protect students coming forward to report sexual assault; a statewide training program for campus police and administrators regarding how to address sexual assault incidents; a public campaign to increase awareness among students and parents; and a uniform Sexual Assault Victims' Bill of Rights that will, in clear and specific language, inform a student of his or her rights following an attack including the option of approaching State Police.

Today's SUNY resolution is the first in a series of steps outlined by the Governor to combat sexual assault on college campuses. The Governor announced he will work to adopt the same standards legislatively for all of New York's private colleges.

"There has been an epidemic of sexual violence in this country that is truly disturbing and it is plaguing our college campuses," Governor Cuomo said. "It is time for New York to take what is a difficult, uncomfortable topic and lead the way, and that is exactly what this resolution passed by the SUNY Board of Trustees today will do. This is not just a SUNY problem, but SUNY can lead and SUNY can reform on campus safety so we can better protect our students, and make our university communities a safer place for our children."

SUNY Board Chairman H. Carl McCall said, "Keeping our students safe is SUNY's number one priority, and we are grateful for Governor Cuomo's ongoing support as we uphold our promises of safety and security on each of our 64 campuses. Establishing a comprehensive set of sexual assault prevention and response practices that is consistent across SUNY will ensure that our system continues to be a national leader not only in compliance but also in providing effective, quality support for all students."

SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher said, "SUNY is committed to providing the best tools, resources, and services for students to protect them from sexual assault and support them in the event that an incident does occur. Governor Cuomo has helped us develop a comprehensive plan for increased awareness and police training that will complement our existing efforts and enhance our national leadership role in combating sexual assault and violence. We are proud to implement this new policy in partnership with the governor and the presidents at each of our 64 college and university campuses across New York State."

Lori Mould, President of the SUNY Student Assembly and SUNY Trustee, said, "SUNY students support Governor Cuomo in his efforts to end sexual violence on campus. By securing a safe campus environment, the Governor and SUNY are helping to ensure that we as students can focus on our education and a successful future. We are fortunate to be part of a higher education system that has taken such a strong stance on this issue, and applaud the Governor in his decision to take the best practices found at our institutions to scale across the state."

New York Civil Liberties Union Executive Director Donna Lieberman said, "Sexual assault is an assault on individual dignity and autonomy. Governor Cuomo's proposal sends a clear message to college and university officials that they must ensure the safety and safeguard the rights of students who suffer sexual assault on campus. This new resolution will give officials the tools they need to help survivors regain control of their lives."

The Governor today also announced that the SUNY Board, upon his recommendation, has appointed Linda Fairstein to serve as a special adviser for the implementation of the sexual assault response and prevention policy. Linda Fairstein is one of America's foremost legal experts on crimes of sexual assault and domestic violence. She led the Sex Crimes Unit of the District Attorney's Office in Manhattan for twenty-five years. Currently a Fellow at the American College of Trial Lawyers, she is a graduate of Vassar College and the University of Virginia School of Law.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/10022014-uniform-policy-combat-sexual-assault
