Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Latest Round of Rail Inspections
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 31, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the successful completion of another round of targeted crude oil tank car and rail inspections intended to reduce potential dangers associated with the transport of crude oil across New York State. Inspection teams examined 15 crude oil tank cars, approximately 97 miles of track and 77 switches. Overall, state and federal teams uncovered and addressed six critical defects and 36 non-critical defects.
"Protecting public safety remains our top priority and we will continue conducting inspections to detect unsafe rail tracks and tank cars, and have them repaired before they cause a problem," Governor Cuomo said. "We must hold rail companies to the highest possible safety standard to protect communities and ensure oil is transported safely throughout this state."
An inspection team from the New York State Department of Transportation carried out crude oil tanker inspections at the Buffalo & Pittsburgh Railroad-owned Tift Street Rail Yard in Buffalo, Erie County; no additional crude oil tank cars were available for inspection at other rail yards across the state. Inspectors also examined CSX mainline track between Milton (Ulster County) and Kingston (Ulster County); between Selkirk (Albany) and Rotterdam (Schenectady County); between Syracuse (Onondaga County) and Canastota (Madison County); and between Buffalo and Niagara Falls (Niagara County). Inspectors also evaluated track at the CSX-owned Selkirk Rail Yard. Canadian Pacific-owned mainline track was examined between Whitehall (Washington County) and Fort Edward (Washington County).
The inspections focused on track, track hardware and tank car mechanical safety equipment, including wheels, brakes and couplers.
During the inspections, two types of defects are identified: critical and non-critical. Critical defects identify important maintenance issues that must be addressed immediately, but do not necessarily indicate safety lapses. Non-critical rail defects must be repaired within 30 days. All tank car defects must be fixed before the train departs the yard. If that is not possible, the affected car must be pulled from the train to await repair.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-latest-round-rail-inspections-9
