Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Arrives in Afghanistan With Bipartisan Delegation of Governors
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 27, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today arrived in Afghanistan with a bipartisan delegation of governors at the invitation of the U.S. Department of Defense, which is sponsoring the visit. During the trip, Governor Cuomo is receiving a series of briefings from senior U.S. Department of Defense officials on counterterrorism issues, the evolving global threats that affect New York's security at home, and other matters. Governor Cuomo will also meet with New York and other American troops who are currently stationed in Afghanistan -- including those from Fort Drum, New York's 10th Mountain Division -- to thank them for their service.

"During a period of heightened security concerns, we are working closely with our federal partners to increase preparedness at home in New York and protect our citizens from the threat of global terrorism. At the same time, we must never forget the continuing courage and sacrifice of the members of our military serving overseas, who have dedicated their lives to defending our country," said Governor Cuomo. "It is a deep honor to deliver a message of support first hand to our men and women in uniform abroad: New York stands behind you."

Governor Cuomo is joined as part of the bipartisan delegation to Afghanistan by Under Secretary of the Army Brad Carson, Governor William E. Haslam (Tennessee), Governor Jeremiah W. Nixon (Missouri), Governor Brian E. Sandoval (Nevada), and other Department of Defense officials.

Governor Cuomo was invited to visit Afghanistan by Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel. Due to security issues, the trip could not be disclosed publicly in advance.

Approximately 270 members of the New York National Guard are currently deployed in Afghanistan -- the bulk of which are based in the Hudson Valley and New York City. Additionally, approximately 900 members of Fort Drum's 10th Mountain Division are stationed in Afghanistan.

On Friday evening, September 26, Governor Cuomo arrived in Washington, DC from New York. That evening, he received security briefings from U.S. Department of Defense officials before departing from Andrews Air Force Base and traveling to Ramstein Air Base in Germany en route to Afghanistan.

Governor Cuomo arrived in Germany on Saturday, September 27. While in Germany, Governor Cuomo visited Landstuhl Regional Medical Center, where he met with hosptial staff and wounded servicemembers. (Photos of Governor Cuomo's visit to Landstuhl Regional Medical Center are available here.) Governor Cuomo then traveled from Ramstein Air Base to Afghanistan -- arriving in Afghanistan Saturday evening local time (Afghanistan is 8:30 hours ahead of New York time).

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/09272014Afghanistan
