Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $94 Million Awarded for Solar Projects Across the State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 26, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced NY-Sun awards for large solar electric projects that will increase the solar capacity in New York State by more than 214 megawatts, a 68 percent increase over the amount of solar installed and in the pipeline at the end of 2013. The competitive awards further advance the scale-up of solar and move the State closer to a sustainable, self-sufficient solar industry.

"Today we are making another long-term investment in our clean energy economy -- with nearly $100 million in funding that will dramatically increase our capacity to generate and utilize solar energy across the state," Governor Cuomo said. "New York is quickly becoming a national leader in renewable energy by building a competitive solar industry, and today's award recipients are an example of how that progress continues to grow. As we recognize Climate Week, this is a significant step forward in our goal of creating a better place for New Yorkers to live and work, and I look forward to seeing these projects contribute to a cleaner environment."

The new capacity, which is planned for 142 project sites, was obtained through the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority's Competitive PV program, which has been working to stimulate the market for systems larger than 200 kilowatts for four years. A total of $94 million in renewable funding for these projects leverages private investment of $375 million in new PV power infrastructure projects.

A total of 50 project sites are located at businesses; 41 at schools and school districts; 36 at municipal and other government facilities; and 15 at nonprofits, health care institutions and colleges.

"The results of this solicitation highlight the success of Governor Cuomo's NY-Sun initiative in driving a significant increase in solar power in the State, and the large interest from school districts is an indicator of the success we can expect from NY-Sun's new K-Solar program, which focuses specifically on solar projects at schools," said John B. Rhodes, President and CEO, New York State Energy Research and Development Authority. "NY-Sun is mobilizing private investment in this clean renewable resource as New York State continues to build clean energy systems that are resilient, reliable and affordable."

The responses to this solicitation demonstrate that New York State has become an increasingly attractive solar market. A total of 49 developers submitted proposals, a marked increase over the previous two solicitations. The latest bids included large solar developers that have previously focused on other states, regions and countries, and that submitted bids to New York State for the first time.

In addition, proposed average project sizes continued to increase steeply, more than doubling from 750 kilowatts a year ago to more than 1.8 megawatts with the latest solicitation. Aggregate bid prices for awarded projects declined sharply from about a year ago -- from $1 per watt to 55 cents per watt in Con Edison territory and from 68 cents per watt to 41 cents per watt in the rest of the state. This will result in 1.6 times more solar energy generated per ratepayer dollar than about a year ago.

Strong response from developers has continued with projects in strategic locations where the installation of new solar systems is expected to provide benefits to the electric distribution system. Five awarded projects went beyond solar, integrating energy efficiency and energy storage into their bids, an option available for the first time.

Many of the sites receiving awards will use remote net metering, which allows eligible renewable energy system owners that produce more energy than they consume at one location annually to accrue credits that can be used to offset other electric accounts under their name.

"The NY-Sun awards announced by Governor Cuomo underscore the tremendous strides that are being made to greatly increase the amount of clean solar electricity capacity in New York State," said Gil C. Quiniones, President and Chief Executive Officer of New York Power Authority. "The competitive photovoltaic program leading to these awards also reflects a strategic approach for lowering solar power costs and spurring the private sector's investments in this clean renewable power source."

The New York Power Authority continues to work closely with the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority to bring about further integration of solar power through initiatives to reduce solar costs. This includes a newly introduced K-Solar Program, in partnership with the New York State Education Department.

Under the NY-Sun Competitive PV Program, installers submit proposals for funding based on commitments from companies interested in having PV installed at their sites and the proposed incentive for each PV project.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

This is expected to be the final solicitation under the Competitive PV program. Plans are under development to incorporate projects larger 200 MW into the recently announced statewide NY-Sun Incentive Program starting in 2015 through a proven MW block system approach that is responsive to changing market conditions, allowing the solar market in each region of the state to grow at its own pace. The NY-Sun Incentive Program strategically deploys public funds to drive industry to scale and reduce burdens on ratepayers.

NY-Sun is part of Governor Cuomo's commitment to protect the environment, grow the clean energy economy and lower energy costs for all New Yorkers. It is a dynamic public-private partnership to drive growth in the solar industry and make solar technology more affordable. Since Governor Cuomo launched NY-Sun in 2012, a total of 316 MW of solar electric has been installed or is under contract, more than was installed in the entire prior decade. The NY-Sun initiative brings together and expands existing programs administered by the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, Long Island Power Authority, PSEG Long Island, and the New York Power Authority, to ensure a coordinated, well-funded solar energy expansion plan and a transition to a sustainable, self-sufficient solar industry.

With this initiative, New York's role as a leader and first mover in shaping the future of energy remains firmly in place. By developing innovative market solutions, the State is delivering on Governor Cuomo's commitment to transform the energy industry into a more resilient, clean, cost-effective and dynamic system. Working with State, citizen and industry stakeholders, New York's energy policy is moving to a more market-based, decentralized approach. This means preserving the environment, decreasing energy costs, and creating opportunities for economic growth for current and future generations of New Yorkers. In advancing these new energy systems and solutions, New Yorkers will have improved energy affordability and efficiency without sacrificing the ability to live in a cleaner, resilient and more sustainable environment.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/09262014-solar-projects-funding
