Public Statements
Governors Cuomo And Christie Sign Bi-State Memorandum Of Understanding To Increase Security For New York And New Jersey
Press Release
By: Chris Christie Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 24, 2014
Location: Trenton, NJ

Amid new global responses to the threat of international terrorism, Governor Chris Christie and Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today adopted protocols under which New Jersey and New York will immediately begin coordinating intelligence-gathering and information-sharing to defend our residents and bi-state transit infrastructures against acts of terrorism. A Memorandum of Understanding signed by the Governors comes nine days after they held a top-level security meeting in New York with national, state and local law enforcement and security heads to begin mapping out an improved, coordinated anti-terrorism plan.

The bi-state agreement to substantially increase security at transportation hubs and critical infrastructure in the metropolitan area is effective immediately. Over the next 100 days, law enforcement and military personnel will join forces within the metropolitan area to engage in counterterrorism operations by increasing visibility, inspections and surveillance on and at trains and train stations, airports, landmarks, and bridges and tunnels. Additionally, New York and New Jersey will participate in a joint emergency exercise in the coming months and continue to evaluate methods for increased intelligence and emergency coordination.

The Governors said the MOU sets the path for delivery, within 30 days, of a classified analysis and coordination plan between New York and New Jersey, as they first announced on September 15 with the heads of NJ/NY State Police, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the States' Homeland Security Advisors, FBI, Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio.

"Global events this week bring the threat into acutely sharp focus," said Governor Christie. "We know that our people and assets remain a target in the minds of depraved individuals around the globe, even in the homeland, and we are gravely committed to protecting and defending ourselves against the threat."

"The New York City area has always been a top target for terrorists wishing to spread hatred and fear, and we would be in a state of denial to say that what is going on internationally has not raised that danger," Governor Cuomo said. "That is why New York and New Jersey are increasing our level of partnership and cooperation - because public safety is paramount and joining together is the best way to defend against any possible dangers. Our residents should rest assured that we are doing everything necessary to keep the region safe."

The MOU signed by the Governors addresses three primary areas of coordination: Enhanced intelligence gathering and information sharing; critical transit infrastructure protection; and reciprocal law enforcement powers between New Jersey and New York.

Among other things outlined in the MOU:





Source:
