Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Legislation to Protect Young Children From Harmful Chemical Found in Consumer Products
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 18, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed legislation that protects young children by expanding the ban on the sale of products containing TRIS, a cancer-causing chemical used as a flame retardant.

"No parent should have to second guess whether the toy or car seat they buy for their child is safe," Governor Cuomo said. "This new law will not only provide additional protections for young children, it gives peace of mind to parents who will now know that common childcare products purchased in New York will not contain this dangerous chemical."

This new law, (A4741/S3703-B), expands the definition of TRIS to include an additional chemical, TDCPP (Tris (1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate), from being used in consumer child care products, including baby products, toys, car seats, nursing pillows, crib mattresses, strollers and other items intended for use by children under three years of age.

Alternative flame retardants are available as a substitute for TRIS, ensuring that these products can remain essentially the same but with reduced children's exposure to the chemical.

Senator Mark Grisanti said, "Protecting the youngest New Yorkers who are more susceptible to ingesting dangerous chemicals is important for them to lead healthy, active lives. I am proud to have sponsored this legislation, which will give parents more confidence that when they buy products for their children, they are doing so without dangerous chemicals like TRIS. I thank Governor Cuomo for signing this bill today and my colleagues in the legislature for their work on this important issue."

Assemblyman Bob Sweeney, Chair, New York State Assembly Standing Committee on Environmental Conservation, said, "Children are more sensitive to and are at increased risk from chemical exposure. The passage of this legislation is an important step to protect children from unnecessary health risks caused by chemicals found in products designed for young children. There are safer alternatives to TRIS that do not have the same health concerns."

The new law builds upon legislation Governor Cuomo signed in 2011, which expanded the number of prohibited flame retardant chemicals.

Source:
