Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces More Than $1.9 Billion in Federal Storm Resiliency Funding
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 17, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State expects to receive $1.915 billion in storm resiliency funding from the federal government. The funding from the Federal Transit Administration will support the Governor's goal of improving the State's storm resiliency and building back better in the aftermath of major storms.

"Adjusting to the new reality of extreme weather is a collaborative effort, and the more than $1.9 billion awarded today by the federal government will help us build a stronger and more resilient New York," Governor Cuomo said. "Superstorm Sandy taught us the importance of preparing for the worst and the need to reimagine our state to meet the challenges of a changing climate. Over the past few years we've focused on everything from storm-proofing homes and electrical stations to protecting subway entrances and other vital infrastructure from the effects of major flooding. This funding will ensure that our State has the resources it needs to continue building back stronger and better than ever before."

Of the $1.915 billion in funding from the Federal Transit Administration, approximately $1.6 billion supports projects managed by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and approximately $212 million supports projects managed by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. The New York City Department of Transportation is also expected to approximately $200 million.

MTA Chairman and CEO Thomas Prendergast said, "With each passing day, the MTA puts Superstorm Sandy further behind us as we restore service and repair our infrastructure. But we also know that similar events are ahead, so we are building back better, making our transportation network stronger, more resistant to major storms and thus more resilient. This is a new way of thinking at the MTA and one which must become a permanent feature of how we plan the future of the transportation system that is the backbone of our regional and state economy."

Port Authority Executive Director Pat Foye said, "Under Governor Cuomo's leadership the Port Authority has committed to building back better and more resilient in the face of extreme weather events. Today's FTA Tier 3 awards allow us to move forward on critical resiliency projects at the WTC Transportation Hub and Moynihan Station, both vitally important to the regional transportation network and the New York State economy. I thank Governor Cuomo for his steadfast commitment to protecting New York and the region from future super storms."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/09172014federal-storm-resiliency-funding
