Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Awards $55 Million Through NYSUNY 2020 Challenge Grant Program
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 16, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced an additional $55 million in funding for five innovative economic development projects as part of the third round of the competitive NYSUNY 2020 Challenge Grant Program. The program incentivizes bottom-up economic development projects that advance research opportunities around the State's colleges and universities while also leveraging private sector investments and job creation. The projects being awarded funding today are located in Western New York, the Southern Tier, Central New York, the North County and the Mid-Hudson Valley.

"In today's world, colleges and universities are more than just classrooms -- they're economic engines that are creating jobs and training the workforce of tomorrow," Governor Cuomo said. "We launched the SUNY 2020 program to support advanced research opportunities and tap into this potential for growth, and the five projects receiving funding today are an example of how this strategy is creating new opportunities across the State. Today's SUNY 2020 awards are an investment in our State's future, and I look forward to seeing each of these innovative projects grow the economy for years to come."

The Governor announced this round of grant funding during visits to the Syracuse Inner Harbor Boathouse in Onondaga County and SUNY New Paltz in Ulster County.

SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher said, "Three consecutive years of unprecedented SUNY 2020 funding exemplifies Governor Cuomo's commitment to executing a strategic economic development plan that links SUNY with the private sector to create jobs and produce the skilled workforce New York needs. SUNY 2020 awards and START UP NY are building SUNY's research infrastructure, improving the business climate, and producing unparalleled educational and career opportunities for our students."

Empire State Development President, CEO and Commissioner Kenneth Adams said, "The NYSUNY 2020 initiative is an innovative partnership that unites the world-class SUNY system with New York State's economic development goals. These investments are creating great jobs for New Yorkers and enhancing the State's higher education curriculum through advanced training and research programs. Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, the SUNY 2020 initiative will continue to be a major driver of economic and academic growth across the State as round three of the program enables these five important projects to move forward.

Senator Kenneth LaValle, Chair of the Senate Committee on Higher Education, said, "New York's public colleges and universities are truly some of the best in the world, and as today's grant recipients demonstrate, they are also economic engines that play vital roles in our economy."

Assemblymember Deborah Glick, Chair of the Assembly Committee on Higher Education, said, "I am very gratified by the continuing support for the State University System by Governor Cuomo. Both SUNY and CUNY are vital to the future of New York State and I'm pleased Governor Cuomo recognizes and supports our public higher education systems."

Governor Cuomo first unveiled the NYSUNY 2020 Challenge Grant program in May 2011, and he signed NYSUNY 2020 bill into law in August of that year. The program provides a rational tuition policy for the SUNY and CUNY systems, maintenance of State funding invested into each system, and capital funding for SUNY's four university centers. Round two of the program was announced by the Governor in his 2012 State of the State address with a $60 million appropriation enacted as part of the 2012-13 State Budget. The $55 million released as part of this announcement is from the third round of NYSUNY 2020 announced in the 2013 State of the State and included in the 2013-14 Budget.

The five projects funded are as follows:
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/91614-nysuny-2020-grant
