Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Major Progress in Offshore Wind Development
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 27, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority has been selected by the federal government to compete for the right to develop a new wind energy site off the coast of Long Island. NYSERDA's selection represents not only a major advancement in the development of offshore wind energy, but also in the state's ambitious effort to responsibly secure 50 percent of its electricity supply from renewable sources by 2030.
"The development of Long Island's vast offshore wind resources will further strengthen New York's place at the forefront of the clean energy revolution," Governor Cuomo said. "NYSERDA's selection as a qualified bidder for the development of these resources is a testament to our efforts to not only effectively provide residents with clean, affordable energy, but also build a thriving economy off the development of that power."
The 79,000-acre wind energy site sits approximately 12 miles south of Long Island, off the Rockaway Peninsula. The site's developer will be selected through a lease auction on December 15 that will be administered by the U.S. Department of Interior's Bureau of Ocean Energy Management. If NYSERDA is selected as the developer, the area will be fully studied and characterized and then bundled with a power purchase mechanism with a project developer selected through a competitive process. New York has successfully used competition to develop 2,000 megawatts of large scale renewables cost effectively and a similar competition for offshore wind development will yield the lowest costs.
NYSERDA will ensure any offshore wind in New York is developed at the lowest possible cost for consumers, while at the same time actively protecting the environment and considering and communicating with various other ocean stakeholders such as the fishing and maritime industries. Additionally, it will establish a balanced development of considerations, minimize project risks and visual impacts, accelerate timelines, incorporate robust stakeholder outreach and provide developers with certainty to secure financing for their projects.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-major-progress-offshore-wind-development
