Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Completion of $46 Million Renovation of Affordable Housing on Staten Island
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 16, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the completion of a $46 million revitalization of Terrace Gardens, a low-income community development located on Staten Island. The acquisition and renovation of Terrace Gardens includes state-of the art energy efficiency and infrastructure upgrades, and historic financing will allow the 198-unit complex to remain affordable for at least three more decades.

"Every New Yorker deserves a safe, decent and affordable place to live, and with these renovations, dozens of Staten Island residents and families will have just that," Governor Cuomo said. "Our $1 billion House New York program -- along with investment in community projects like Terrace Gardens --is part of this administration's strong and unwavering commitment to create and preserve high-quality affordable housing across New York."

Located at 195 and 231 Steuben Street on northern Staten Island, Terrace Gardens consists of two adjacent multi-family buildings with 198 units that had not been renovated since first opening in the 1970's. The developer, Arker Companies, accomplished a top-to-bottom refitting and refurbishing that incorporates Art Deco design elements with renovations that included kitchens, bathrooms, all common areas, roofs, electrical fixtures, insulation, repairs to brick-pointing, interior wall and doors and landscaping. In addition, parking lots were repaved, sidewalks were repaired, a new security system was installed and a new cogeneration plant was built to reduce energy operating costs and further enhance affordability. Having suffered persistent and chronic breakdowns in recent years, Terrace Gardens' elevators have also been outfitted with new cabs and machinery.

Darryl C. Towns, Commissioner and CEO of Homes and Community Renewal, said, "Working together with our government and private partners, we were able to accomplish a magnificent aesthetic and functional turnaround for Terrace Gardens' tenants. Under the Governor's leadership, in just one year, these renovations yanked this vital affordable enclave out of the 1970's and into 2014. These Staten Island families deserve working elevators, deserve light and airy communal spaces, and deserve to come home to a beautiful and safe affordable home."

The project's total development cost is $45.9 million, which was financed by $27 million in tax exempt bonds through Homes and Community Renewal and purchased by Citibank in the first-ever affordable private placement in New York; $1.3 million in a Homes and Community Renewal annual allocation of tax credits syndicated through Wells Fargo; $396,000 for two combined heat and power systems provided by the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority and $198,000 for energy efficiency measures through the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority Multifamily Performance Program; and a 20-year Project Based Section 8 HAP contract from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development will provide a tax exemption that will extend the affordability of Terrace Gardens for an additional 30 years.

Teresa Bainton, Housing and Urban Development New York Regional Director for Multifamily Housing, said, "HUD is both pleased and honored to be part of this wonderful ribbon cutting that celebrates the preservation of almost 200-units of affordable housing. The restoration of Terrace Gardens truly represents the very core of HUD's mission, which is to provide our citizens with decent, safe and affordable housing and to create strong and vibrant communities. It is no secret that too many New York City residents are rent burdened, devoting almost 50 percent of their income for rent. That is why the preservation of Terrace Gardens is so important and why today matters. So we salute our partners, HPD, Homes and Community Renewal, the Arker Companies, Wells Fargo, Citibank and the many elected officials here today for their dedication and commitment to affordable housing, and for the vital role they played in the rebirth of Terrace Gardens."

Senator Diane Savino said, "Every affordable unit is precious -- it means that a family will have a roof over their heads, a door they can close and feel safe and a community they are an important part of. The preservation of affordable housing on Staten Island is intrinsic to keeping our communities intact, and Staten Island growing, and that is why I am so gratified that Governor Cuomo made this project an important part of his housing agenda."

Assemblyman Matthew Titone said, "Today is a celebration of the people and communities of Staten Island. The preservation of Terrace Gardens shows the working mechanism of public and private sector partnerships and how they can revitalize communities. I congratulate Arker Companies, HCR, HPD, HUD and especially Governor Cuomo for committing to such a worthy project for Staten Island and the State of New York."

Councilmember Debi Rose said, "It is so important to share our community's happier moments with our partners. Terrace Gardens shows how critical community projects can come together -- because we truly are all in this together to improve housing for our residents, families, communities and neighborhoods. More than 200 Staten Islanders now have a safer home that is beautiful, welcoming and, most importantly, affordable. I offer my thanks to Governor Cuomo and Commissioner Towns on helping make it possible and to Allan Arker and the Arker Companies for their foresight and commitment to invest in what was once a faltering property."

Julie Walpert, Assistant Commissioner of Housing Supervision of New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development, said, "Our affordable housing stock is a critical resource to tens of thousands of hardworking New Yorkers throughout the City. It is important that we find ways to preserve the affordability of these developments so that they will continue to meet the needs of their residents for years to come. On behalf Of HPD, I'd like to acknowledge the efforts of HUD, HCR, The Arker Companies, Wells Fargo, Citibank, and all of our partners in this preservation deal. It is through these partnerships that we are able to extend affordability and keep families in their affordable homes."

John B. Rhodes, President and CEO of the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, said, "Terrace Gardens exemplifies how public-private partnerships can assist in meeting Governor Cuomo's goal of reducing energy costs throughout the State's building stock. Energy efficiency improvements in multi-family buildings provide excellent opportunities to make housing more comfortable and affordable."

Daniel Moritz, Principal of The Arker Companies, said, "The Arker Companies are thrilled to continue our commitment to the preservation of affordable housing and to the communities of Staten Island. This project required a public private partnership at every level, with dedicated resources from Federal, State and City government. We'd like to thank HCR, HUD, HPD, Wells Fargo, Citibank and our elected officials for their support."

New York State Homes and Community Renewal consists of all of the State's major housing and community renewal agencies, including the Affordable Housing Corporation, the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the Housing Finance Agency, State of New York Mortgage Agency, Housing Trust Fund Corporation and others.

Homes and Community Renewal is in the second year of the $1 billion House New York program, which creates thousands of new units over five years, and is the largest investment in affordable housing in at least 15 years. House New York will also preserve thousands of Mitchell-Lama units, extending affordability for 40 years. The House New York initiative builds on the successes of unprecedented efforts to protect more than two million rent-regulated tenants, with the greatest strengthening of the State's rent laws in 30 years, and the creation of the Tenant Protection Unit which proactively audits and investigates landlord wrongdoing.

About The Arker Companies

The Arker Companies has been building projects in New York City for more than 30 years. Located in Floral Park on Long Island, the development company contracts, owns and manages multi-family and single-family housing, and retail and office projects. It is one of the leading developers of affordable housing in New York in its building of more than 5700 units, for rent and for sale. Arker Companies also develops market-rate, commercial and mixed-used projects. Company principals are Sol, Allan and Alex Arker and Daniel Moritz.

Source:
