Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Legislation to Create Onondaga Lake Amphitheater
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 15, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed legislation that will allow for a new performing arts center, the Onondaga Lake Amphitheater, to be built on the western shore of Onondaga Lake in the Town of Geddes. In order to meet an aggressive construction schedule, Onondaga County requested permission to have design-build authority. The bill grants them this ability, which allows the same party to both design and construct the theater.

"Building this performance arts space on Onondaga Lake will showcase the area's natural strengths and create a new destination to draw more tourism, create jobs and spur economic activity," Governor Cuomo said. "By granting this project design-build authority, the amphitheater will be able to be built faster, cheaper and more efficiently."

The project is part of the Onondaga Lake Revitalization program, announced by the Governor in January this year. The first phase of the program includes projects totaling $100.3 million with $30 million in funding from New York State, as well as resources from the federal government and local funds including a portion of Oneida casino payments.

Senator David Valesky said, "I was pleased to sponsor this legislation on behalf of Onondaga County. In addition to allowing a design-build concept which saves money and increases efficiency, the legislation guarantees fair wages and encourages the use of MWBE contractors. I commend Governor Cuomo and County Executive Joanie Mahoney for their leadership on this issue."

Assemblyman Bill Magnarelli said, "Building a new amphitheater right on Onondaga Lake will create a space that brings culture, arts, jobs and tourism dollars. I thank Governor Cuomo for signing this legislation that will continue all the revitalization efforts we have taken so far in the community. I am happy to have sponsored this legislation and look forward to seeing the constructed theater."

Onondaga County Executive Joanie Mahoney said, "Thank you Governor Cuomo for signing this legislation which will allow Onondaga County to proceed in real time so we will get the project completed as soon as possible. We are thrilled with the opportunity to build the new Onondaga Lake Amphitheater and by allowing us to use design-build, we can now move forward in the most effective and efficient way."

Geddes Town Supervisor Manny Falcone, Jr. said, "On behalf of myself and the Geddes Town Board Councilors, we are excited and happy to hear that the Amphitheater Legislation was signed today by Governor Cuomo. The Town of Geddes is looking forward to the near future when we can enjoy the events offered by this amphitheater and what it will bring to our Community."

In his 2014-15 Executive Budget, the Governor proposed $30 million in state funding to support economic development and infrastructure improvements for the communities surrounding Onondaga Lake, which includes brownfield remediation projects, infrastructure investments to encourage new housing and business opportunities, and enhancements to the Onondaga lakefront that will increase access and provide new recreational opportunities for New Yorkers and visitors.

This law passed both houses of the legislature as S.7745 and A.9964, respectively.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/91514-onondaga-lake-amphitheater
