Public Statements
Governor Cuomo and More than 250 First Responders from Across New York Participate in 9/11 Memorial Motorcycle Ride
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 11, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today was joined by more than 250 first responders representing fire and police stations across New York State as part of the 9/11 Memorial Motorcycle Ride. The 9/11 Memorial Motorcycle Ride is designed to pay tribute to the strength, courage, and heroism of the police and fire department personnel who led the response and recovery efforts following the September 11th terrorist attacks.

The riders started this morning in Albany and Long Island, meeting at the Rescue 1 Firehouse in New York City, before traveling down the West Side highway to the Ground Zero site. The riders were then invited to visit the September 11 Memorial and Museum.

"On September 11 2001, the men and women of our police and fire departments showed to the entire world that strength and courage will always conquer weakness and cowardice," Governor Cuomo said. "Today's Memorial Motorcycle Ride paid tribute to New York's first responders, and honored the sacrifice so many made on that tragic day thirteen years ago. We will never forget their heroism and courage, and their memory will live in our hearts forever."

9/11 Memorial President Joe Daniels said, "As we remember those we lost on 9/11, let us also honor and recognize the bravery of those men and women who rushed in to save others, many of them sacrificing their own lives. Rescue 1, like so many firehouses and police precincts that suffered such deep losses on September 11, exemplifies the courage and dedication of our first responders."

New York State Police Superintendent Joseph A. D'Amico said, "Thirteen years ago, first responders from across New York City and New York State showed true bravery as they rushed toward danger to help others on September 11, 2001. It is that heroism and strength that members of law enforcement and firefighters honor today in the 9/11 Memorial Motorcycle Ride. Each day, we will make sure their legacy lives on, as we protect and serve the people of New York."

Port Authority Executive Director Pat Foye said, "While 13 years have passed since that terrible day in September, the passage of time has not diminished the memory of the courage, spirit and resilience of our first responders. We will never forget the 37 members of the PAPD who perished that day alongside thousands of others including active and retired members of the FDNY and the NYPD, and I am honored to join Governor Cuomo in paying tribute to their heroism."

Patrolmen's Benevolent Association President Patrick J. Lynch said, "Those of us who were here in uniform 13 years ago were not so crisply dressed. Our shoes were not shined and the air was acrid and thick. Today, we honor those who died that terrible day and all of those who have passed since from toxic exposure during the rescue, recovery and cleanup. I am honored to join all of you and Governor Cuomo on this important day at this sacred site."

Uniformed Firefighters Association of Greater New York President Steve Cassidy said, "September 11 is a day that will live with us forever, and is etched in the history of this great nation. While we reflect today as New Yorkers, we remember the heroes who ran toward danger to rescue countless lives -- heroes who will live on to inspire generations of firefighters and emergency responders to come. I am honored to participate in today's remembrance ceremony with Governor Cuomo, and police and fire personnel from across the state."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/09112014-memorial-motorcycle-ride
