Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Work Begins in Lake George on $6.3 Million Improvement Project
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 8, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced work will begin on the $6.3 million Lake George Beach Improvement Project to improve water quality protections and increase recreational access to the Lake. The project includes repaving the beach parking lot, installing infrastructure to better manage stormwater, rerouting Beach Road and constructing a boat launch on the eastern end of the beach with a nearby boat washing station. NY Works and state Department of Environmental Conservation capital funds will pay for the project.

"Lake George is an iconic New York landmark and a major driver of tourism in the region," Governor Cuomo said. "These improvements will protect one of New York's most beautiful natural features and one of Upstate's most popular attractions, while also making it more accessible to all."

A boat launch with the capacity for 26 boats will be built on the east side of Lake George Beach and will have significant operational and structural improvements. The boat launch, which will replace the existing one on the west side of the beach, will operate throughout the boating season and provide needed distance from the bathing area and local residences. Larger boats will be able to use the new location as access will no longer be through the tunnel under Beach Road. A boat washing station will be constructed within the car and trailer parking area to prevent the spread of aquatic invasive species.

Additional improvements to the boating site include:
-Safer configuration of walkways and roads with the road rerouted around the facility;
-A roundabout at the western end of the parking lot providing entrance to the beach parking area;
-A new multiuse path through the facility, so bikers and walkers can utilize the whole distance along the south end of the lake;
-Paving the overflow and boat launch parking lots with asphalt; and
-Easier and safer access for people with disabilities.

The beach and the boat launch are scheduled to be open to the public by Memorial Day Weekend in 2015.

Improvements to the 348-space parking lot will include use of a porous asphalt system in much of the area, which will protect water quality on the mile-long stretch of road on the southern shoreline. Stormwater management infrastructure will complement the work already done on Beach Road during the first two phases of the project.

In 2013, the New York State Department of Transportation, Warren County Department of Public Works and the Town of Lake George completed rebuilding of two sections of road on either side of the Department of Environmental Conservation's Lake George Beach facility using porous asphalt and installing stormwater management infrastructure. The Department of Environmental Conservation completed the same rebuilding effort in 2014 on the section of the road it maintains.

The new road and parking lot systems decrease the amount of sedimentation and the pollutants attached to them, decrease the amount of salt and sand needed to keep the roads safe during winter weather and significantly decreases the frequency and depth of flooding of the road and parking lots.

Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Joe Martens said, "This project once again demonstrates Governor Cuomo's commitment to improving water quality and recreational access. The new boat launch location will lead to a safer and more enjoyable experience. DEC worked in partnership with local officials to develop the project that is most beneficial to the community, visitors and water quality."

Senator Betty Little said, "This project is about improved access, aesthetics, safety and, most importantly, the water quality of Lake George. It's a great collaboration among state and local officials and the community members most concerned about the long-term health of the lake's ecosystem."

Assemblyman Dan Stec said, "Today is particularly significant to me as I see the work to improve Lake George's water quality and recreational access continue. Protecting the lake while improving access is a win-win for the environment and the region's economy."

Supervisor of the Town of Lake George Dennis Dickinson said, "This project will be a great asset to the Lake George region. Working with Regional Director Bob Stegeman and the DEC staff was very rewarding. We all look forward to completion of the project and many years of pleasure it will provide."

Mayor of the Village of Lake George Robert Blais said, "This is another great investment in Lake George by Governor Cuomo and the Department of Environmental Conservation. The Lake George Beach has been a popular and important attraction for the area since it was first built in 1955. These improvements will ensure a viable tourism economy for Lake George that continues into the future. I particularly pleased with the new boat launch and the increased access it will provide for boaters and anglers."

Chairman of the Warren County Board of Supervisors Kevin Geraghty said, "Warren County is pleased to see the investment made by New York State to the Million Dollar Beach. These improvements will enhance the area and make our visitor's experience better. This is all done while continuing to watch out for the health of the lake."

Bruce Young of the Lake George Park Commission said, "The Beach Improvement Project is without a doubt one of the most significant steps ever taken to improve the protection of Lake George. When coupled with the West Brook Project and the recently installed Mandatory Boat Inspection Program we have made tremendous strides in maintaining the quality of the lake. DEC and the Governor are to be commended for their efforts."

Executive Director of the Lake George Association Walt Lender said, "The addition of porous pavement and better stormwater management infrastructure for Million Dollar Beach is an enormous benefit to Lake George's water quality. This, along with an adjacent Warren County roadway project, is a great demonstration project for properly dealing with a large paved area near the Lake. We're very excited that New York State has decided to invest in this project to protect Lake George."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/09082014-lake-george-improvements
