Public Statements
Governor Cuomo and Legislative Leaders Brief Jewish Community Representatives on New York State Unity Delegation's Visit to Israel
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 2, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today joined the other members of the New York State-Israel Unity Delegation to brief leaders of the national Jewish community on the success of the Delegation's recent trip to Israel. While in Israel, members of the Delegation met with Israeli leaders and citizens to affirm New York's continued support of Israel during escalated tensions and attacks by Hamas and other Gaza terrorist organizations. The visit took place from August 12-14.

Governor Cuomo also announced that New York State is launching a new initiative to pursue partnership opportunities with the Israeli government that will drive tourism, commerce, and private sector investments, ultimately growing both economies. The initiative is designed to strengthen the special bond between Israel and New York, which are home to the two largest Jewish populations in the world and is part of the State's Global NY initiative introduced in Governor Cuomo's 2014 State of the State Address to attract international investment and jobs to New York. The Governor intends to explore the possibility of hosting a joint tech summit to benefit New York State and Israel.

Additionally, the State will pursue the first global Path Through History initiative with Israel, to promote historic sites and tourism in Israel and New York through a joint marketing effort. This provides an opportunity to build appreciation for the rich history and culture of both New York State and Israel, as well as the rich history we share.

"New York is fortunate to have a long-standing bond with Israel, and today I am proud to announce that we are working to make this partnership the strongest it has ever been," Governor Cuomo said. "Our state stands shoulder to shoulder with Israel, and it is more important now than ever to make this commitment clear. From our recent Unity trip to the launch of this new initiative, we are affirming the deep cultural, social and economic relationships that connect our two regions. We are also showing the world that friends stand together in times of crisis, and I am confident that this new partnership will strengthen the ties between New York and Israel for years to come."

In the coming weeks, Israeli and New York State officials will meet to explore ways to expand opportunities for local job seekers and businesses in a variety of industries including tourism, technology, energy and agriculture. Representatives of Empire State Development, New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, the Department of Agriculture and Markets, as well as members of the Governor's administration and others, will convene with their Israeli counterparts to analyze potential agreements that may be established.

Senate Majority Co-Leader Dean Skelos said, "This joint partnership between New York State and the state of Israel will boost tourism and enhance the unique ties between our people. The cooperation that led to this partnership builds upon the success of the state's bipartisan Unity Delegation that traveled to Israel for an intense and fascinating tour at a critical moment in Israel's history. With the emergence of ISIS and uncertainty around the world, I thank Governor Cuomo, and both Speaker Silver and Senate Co-Leader Klein, for joining with us to support Israel's right to defend itself against brutal terrorist attacks by Hamas so all of its citizens can live in peace."

Senate Majority Co-Leader Jeff Klein said, "I was honored to travel to Israel earlier this month as part of the NYS Unity Delegation alongside Governor Cuomo and my colleagues in the Legislature, Senator Skelos and Speaker Silver. The trip was a transformative experience, which has stayed with me since our return. Speaking with Israeli leaders and citizens during our travels made it clear that the support and special relationship that we New Yorkers share was a source of strength for them. I look forward to working with the Governor and the Israeli government on this new partnership to promote each region's unique resources and offerings."

Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said, "Having been to this incredible country many times in the past, I am always amazed at the beauty and the power of the Jewish homeland. This recent trip, coming as it did during a period of fear and uncertainty, was no exception. I am more determined than ever to make sure that Israelis and New Yorkers understand -- the ties that bind us together are as strong as they have ever been and will not be broken. I commend Governor Cuomo for standing strong with Israel and his work to further strengthen these ties. It is truly meaningful for Israel's citizens to know that we as New Yorkers stand in solidarity with them. May this beautiful country endure, prosper, and stay strong for all of eternity."

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

New York is home to more than 1.7 million Jews, representing the largest Jewish community outside of Israel in the world. This visit was Governor Cuomo's fourth trip to Israel.

Source:
