Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $5.9 Million in Second Round of AmeriCorps Grants
Press Release
By: Richard Hanna Jerry Nadler Chris Gibson Nita Lowey Nydia Velázquez Carolyn Maloney Charlie Rangel Dan Maffei Tom Reed II Brian Higgins Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 20, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State has received nearly $6 million in competitive AmeriCorps funding from the Corporation for National and Community Service, which will support more than 460 AmeriCorps members Statewide that serve in nearly two dozen organizations to combat challenges facing New Yorkers. An additional $10 million was awarded in May, bringing the total amount of funding in 2014 to approximately $16 million.

"From responding to the major storms of the past few years to helping neighbors in need, New Yorkers have demonstrated what it means to stand up for one's community," Governor Cuomo said. "The AmeriCorps program is the perfect example of that spirit of service and selflessness, and I am proud that our administration is able to support these volunteers in their work. Together we can build a stronger, safer and healthier state for generations to come."

The New York State Commission on National & Community Service -- New Yorkers Volunteer, a Governor-appointed commission, uses the power of AmeriCorps to address some of the State's most challenging issues, and encourages citizens to make a difference in the lives of others. The State's AmeriCorps members improve schools and increase educational opportunities, fight poverty, come to the aid of the sick, prepare communities for disasters and rebuild following severe weather events, preserve the environment and support veterans and military families. Since 1994, more than 72,000 AmeriCorps members in New York have completed more than 110 million hours of service.

New Yorkers Volunteer Executive Director Linda Cohen said, "AmeriCorps members generously devote months and years of their lives to give back, and this round of grants will help to provide more resources for them to improve the lives of people around the State, accomplish their goals, and have a positive influence on their communities. I am thankful for their dedication, and for the funding that will allow AmeriCorps members to do what they do best: serving others who may not have found such help without them."

The 2014 competition prioritized investments in economic opportunity, education, veterans and military families and disaster services. Below is a listing of the second round of 2014 AmeriCorps grants in New York:

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT



























Source:
