Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Directs Flood Damage Assessment in Long Island Areas Impacted by Heavy Rain and Flash Floods
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 14, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today directed the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services to coordinate with local officials on flood damage assessments in Long Island following this week's heavy rains and flash flooding. He additionally extended the hours and expanded the locations that the Department of Financial Services' Mobile Command Center will be available to provide insurance help to residents affected by the flooding.

"Long Islanders have had more than their fair share of extreme weather, but this week's rainfall was literally without precedent," Governor Cuomo said. "We're committed to doing everything we can to help in Long Island's recovery and to ensure that those affected by the flooding that followed this record-breaking rainfall receive the help they need."

Under Governor Cuomo's direction, the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services (DHSES) is coordinating with local officials to determine the extent of the damages in the hardest hit areas. Following the assessment, officials will determine what needs residents have and the programs that may be available to meet those needs.

In addition, New York State will be sponsoring a multi-agency Disaster Assistance Service Center at the Islip Town Complex, 401 Main Street, with various organizations and agencies including: American Red Cross; Office of Mental Health; Department of Health; Local Social Services; Office of Children and Family Services; Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance; and Department of Financial Services. This center is a "one-stop shop" that provides information and resources for disaster survivors.

The Center will be open beginning Friday, August 15 from noon to 7 p.m. The Center will also be open this weekend 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., and next Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. The hours and days of operation are subject to change.

DHSES Commissioner Jerome M. Hauer said, "The amount of rain that has been dumped on Long Island is incredible. Many of these communities have just begun to achieve a sense of normalcy after the devastating effects of Superstorm Sandy. Our recovery staff will be coordinating on damage assessments with County officials and we have contacted FEMA to update them on the situation in Long Island."

Governor Cuomo has also announced the deployment of the Mobile Command Center (MCC) to additional sites on Long Island to continue providing insurance assistance to those affected by recent flooding. Today, the MCC had serviced more than 300 people, and will continue to be on-site until 8 p.m.

Benjamin M. Lawsky, Superintendent of Financial Services, said, "There are a number steps homeowners and business owners can take to help expedite the insurance claims process. DFS will continue to work to help make sure people receive the relief to which they are entitled from their insurers."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/08142014-DFS-LI-floods
