Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Second Round of Public-Private Partnership to Prepare Students for High-Skill Jobs
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 7, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a new round of funding available to continue the nationally recognized P-TECH model, which prepares students for highly-skilled jobs by bringing together public school districts, major employers, and institutions of higher education. Through partnerships created by this program, high school students study under an industry aligned curriculum, earn an associate degree at no cost to their families, and are first in line for jobs with participating companies upon graduation.

"Through New York's P-TECH program, we are giving today's students a world-class education that prepares them for the jobs of tomorrow," Governor Cuomo said. "This approach puts students on the path to success from an early age, allowing them to earn a college degree and prepare for their future careers even before they graduate from high school. I am proud that New York is becoming a national leader in working with the private sector on this innovative model, and I look forward to seeing these partnerships provide new opportunities to students and businesses across the state."

The second round of the NYS Pathways in Technology Early College High School (P-TECH) program will select winning partnerships through a highly competitive process in regions across the state. It links education to regional economic development needs through industry partners and creates a pipeline to higher education for underrepresented populations through participating colleges and universities. Modeled after the nationally recognized IBM partnership in New York City, they will supply regions with a robust talent pipeline driving local economic development.

State Education Commissioner John King said, "Thanks to the leadership of Governor Cuomo and the Board of Regents the P-Tech engine is powering up the future throughout New York State. In areas ranging from clean technologies to agribusiness, and from information technology to advanced manufacturing, students from across the State will graduate high school ready for success at the next level because of strong partnerships between P-12 school districts, higher education, and business. P-Tech graduates with a high school diploma and Associate's degree will be first-in-line for the jobs that offer them and New York's economy a place in a vital and enduring future."

SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher said, "SUNY is proud to partner with Governor Cuomo as well as educators and employers across the state to bring the opportunity of P-TECH to more of today's youth. New York's commitment to educating more children and educating them better, from cradle to career, is making a difference not only for students of all ages but for the state's communities and economy. With the continued expansion of P-TECH throughout New York, more students will be prepared for college, and for the 21st-century challenges that await them in today's competitive job market."

James B, Milliken, Chancellor of The City University of New York said, "We are very pleased that Governor Cuomo is initiating a new round of competition for funding to help support schools that connect students to careers as they pursue higher levels of educational advancement. We look forward to participating in the process."

Heather C. Briccetti, President and CEO of The Business Council of New York State, said, "Our members across the state have jobs for skilled workers to grow their businesses and drive the local economy. NYS P-TECH's public-private partnership model ensures quality education for students and a highly-skilled labor force for employers."

Stanley S. Litow, IBM's Vice President of Corporate Citizenship & Corporate Affairs and President of the company's International Foundation, said,"We applaud the Governor's leadership and vision in deepening its commitment to the P-TECH education model that IBM helped pioneer. The P-TECH grades 9 -14 model can be a real boon to students and employers, creating a clear pathway from school to career all across New York State."

The first 16 schools funded in the first round of NYS P-TECH awards will open in September, preparing to serve more than 6,000 young adults throughout the state. This second round of NYS P-TECH schools are funded at the amount of $4 million as part of the 2014-15 enacted budget, resulting in a planned $28 million in awards over a 7 year period. Up to 10 awards will be granted across the State with priority towards the goal of at least 2 P-TECH schools in each region. Applications are due by September 12, 2014 and can be found at http://www.highered.nysed.gov/kiap.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/08072014-public-private-partnership-for-students
