Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Partnership With China Southern Airlines to Promote New York State as a Global Tourism Destination
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 6, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced Asia's largest airline, China Southern Airlines, and I LOVE NEW YORK are launching a marketing partnership to promote New York State as a global tourism and business destination. The promotion officially kicked off today with China Southern Airlines celebrating its inaugural direct flight from Guangzhou, China to JFK International Airport, which was their first-ever direct flight to the East Coast. The partnership is an result of the Governor's Global Tourism initiative announced at his second tourism summit.

"By partnering with China Southern Airlines, I LOVE NEW YORK is taking a giant step forward to promote the best place in the world to travel -- New York State," Governor Cuomo said. "Collaborating with Asia's largest airline will make everything that we have to offer more accessible to China's bustling market, quite literally providing a gateway to the iconic Empire State. New York is experiencing record levels of tourism in both New York City and Upstate New York, and our administration will continue to foster this surge so that spending by visitors and investment by businesses can continue to grow local economies."

The new partnership consists of a multi-pronged marketing approach which includes training of key China Southern Airlines sales staff on New York State tourism highlights, enabling tour operators to offer New York State vacation travel options, identifying and developing joint promotions with China Southern Airlines' marketing partners in China, and collaborating on public relations efforts to co-promote New York State.

China Southern Airlines Chairman Si Xianmin said, "We are thrilled to launch our direct route to New York City and partner with the Governor in his initiative to promote Chinese tourism in New York, a state not only garnered in part with epic skyscrapers but also one endowed with natural beauty and resources and one that harbors a culturally diverse and friendly people."

Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Kenneth Adams said, "This new marketing partnership with China Southern Airlines furthers our efforts to promote tourism across the State. There is so much to see and do in New York and we look forward to welcoming the visitors from China to experience all of New York State's rich history and culture."

Since Governor Cuomo announced the new Global Tourism initiative, I LOVE NEW YORK has been working to expand its global outreach to include representation and partnerships in China. The Division of Tourism established a China office earlier this year, and representatives from the program's Global Tourism initiative participated in the tourism summit. I LOVE NEW YORK is represented in four of China's cities: Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Chengdu. Together, the offices reach trade, media and consumers more than 20 other cities, help create awareness to consumers and travel trade abroad, and generate excitement about the best that New York State has to offer.

Last month, the Division of Tourism also offered "Becoming China Ready" workshops to service the Chinese tourism market. Three well-attended workshops were held across the State in Albany, Utica and Rochester to educate the private sector, government agencies and other tourism and hospitality organizations on how to understand and promote themselves to the Chinese market.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/08062014-china-southern-airlines
