Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Bill Authorizing Culinary Institute of America to Manufacture & Sell Alcoholic Beverages
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 5, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed a bill allowing the Culinary Institute of America to manufacture and sell alcoholic beverages, clearing the way for the College to develop a small brewery on its Hyde Park campus. The brewery has been donated by and will be operated in conjunction with Brooklyn Brewery and is expected to open to the public in the summer of 2015. It will complement the Culinary Institute of America's teaching restaurants that attract tourists from around the world, and serve as the means for adding courses in craft beer making.

"Today's action clears the way for a truly innovative partnership between the Culinary Institute of America and Brooklyn Brewery," Governor Cuomo said. "By enabling this internationally renowned educational institution to combine forces with one of New York's most iconic breweries, we will be able to further strengthen the mid-Hudson Valley's tourism industry today, and also bring the state's burgeoning craft beer industry to new heights by training the brewers of tomorrow."

Senator Terry Gipson, sponsor of the bill, said, "The addition of a craft brewing program on the Culinary Institute of America's campus in Hyde Park will be a welcomed attraction to our tourism industry in the Hudson Valley. Most importantly, students will have the opportunity to experience this booming industry firsthand right here in Dutchess County. I thank Governor Cuomo and Assembly Member Barrett for their support of this bill."

Assembly Member Didi Barrett, sponsor of the bill, said, "The Culinary Institute of America is one of the top culinary schools in the country and craft beer making is a fast-growing sector of our state's economy. Giving the CIA the opportunity to develop a craft brewery, and partner with an industry leader such as Brooklyn Brewery to develop a first rate curriculum, will enhance the Hudson Valley's role as a leader in craft beverage production with its outstanding breweries, distilleries, cideries and wineries. Partnerships like this provide knowledge and expertise to a new generation of farmers and entrepreneurs, strengthening our local economy and attracting new visitors to our region."

The addition of craft beer making will enrich the experience at the Culinary Institute of America for both students and patrons alike. Founded as the first and only school of its kind in the United States, the Culinary Institute of America is today the world's premier culinary college, and has consistently garnered praise for its innovative work in culinary education, research, and industry service. The campus has long been an important destination for both New Yorkers and visitors from all parts of the world, who love to dine at the incredible restaurants that are part of the Hyde Park campus and enjoy the beauty of the Hudson Valley.

Waldy Malouf, Senior Director of Food and Beverage Operations at the Culinary Institute of America, said, "The microbrewery at The Culinary Institute of America will be an integral part of the college's curriculum. With the collaboration of Brooklyn Brewery, this facility will teach students about fermentation, using grains in brewing, food pairings, as well as the management of a 'brewpub' hospitality operation. As a bonus, Hudson Valley residents and visitors will be able to sample the work of the students in all of our restaurants on campus. The entire CIA family appreciates the Governor's efforts to help make this unique educational opportunity come to fruition."

Steve Hindy, Founder and Chairman of Brooklyn Brewery, said, "We are grateful to Governor Cuomo and the legislature for making it possible for us to donate a brewery and help develop a brewing program at CIA. CIA is the premier culinary school in the country and it makes sense for them to have a brewing class in their excellent curriculum."

The number of restaurant brewers in New York has increased 200 percent, from 10 in 2011 to 30 today, excluding the one that this bill authorizes the establishment of. Additionally, the Empire State is now home to 103 microbreweries, which is a 156 percent increase from 40 in 2011.

In July 2012, Governor Cuomo signed legislation creating a farm brewery license to promote the use of local ingredients in craft beers. Since that law took effect in January 2013, 53 new Farm Breweries have opened up across the State. Like Farm Wineries, Farm Breweries craft "New York" beer with specific levels of locally grown ingredients, gradually increasing from 20 percent to 90 percent by 2024. Farm Breweries enjoy similar privileges to Farm Wineries, including the ability to operate up to five offsite branch locations, open restaurants, conduct tastings and sell related products that may include souvenirs, food to complement beer tastings and equipment and supplies.

For more information about New York's growing beer, wine, spirits and cider industries, visit the One Stop Shop and http://www.taste.ny.gov.

This law passed the State Senate as S7621 and passed the Assembly as A9846.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/08052014-culinary-institute-of-america
