Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $3 Million in State Funding to Enable North Shore Project in Canandaigua to Move Forward
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 5, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today traveled to Canandaigua to announce the long-awaited kick off of the North Shore project, a local lakeshore development initiative that will transform 21 acres of dilapidated property into residential, retail and commercial space. The Governor today announced $1.5 million in additional state assistance -- on top of $1.5 million designated through the 2013 Regional Economic Development Council process -- enabling Phase 1 of the $120 million project to begin this year. The project is expected to create 175 permanent jobs and 400 construction jobs.

"For many years, this property on the north shore of Canandaigua Lake has been vacant but now we are taking the first step to launch an exciting new development that will create jobs and leverage private investment in the Finger Lakes," Governor Cuomo said. "Getting this development project off the ground will help transform an eyesore into an economic attraction in the Canandaigua community. With targeted investments such as the one the state is making today, communities across Upstate New York are seeing new jobs, private investments, and a renewed energy for the future."

Located on 21 acres across from Kershaw Park in Canandaigua, the prominent lakeshore property will offer residential, retail and commercial space with opportunities for area residents, visitors and tourists to shop, live, dine and enjoy the unique characteristics of Canandaigua Lake. In addition to cleaning up a brownfield site, the $120 million North Shore project will contribute substantially to the local economy, increasing the community's tax base by an estimated 8 to 10 percent and creating 175 permanent jobs and 400 construction jobs.

Richard Sands, Constellation Brands chairman of the board and member of the CADC (Canandaigua Area Development Corporation), said, "Revitalizing this property was a priority for the CADC, and we wouldn't be able to make this happen without the support of Governor Cuomo and the community. Those of us on the CADC board have lifelong family ties to Canandaigua and share a personal passion and commitment to ensure that the development of the lakefront aligns with the overall economic development plan for Canandaigua. We want to protect the natural beauty and integrity of the area for generations to come."

Of the $3 million outlined by the Governor today, $1.5 million is new funding to support the North Shore project, in addition to the $1.5 million awarded as part of Round III of the Regional Economic Development Council initiative. In 2013, the North Shore project was named a priority project by the Finger Lakes Regional Economic Development Council.

"Morgan-LeChase is committed to fulfilling this long-standing vision for the city's lakefront," said Bill Goodrich, co-owner of Morgan-LeChase and CEO of LeChase Construction. "I am excited to see this project come to fruition and thank our partners and the community for their support on the success of the North Shore."

The $120-million project was announced by Morgan-LeChase in June 2013, in conjunction with Hanlon Architects, a local firm. Local leaders sought to redevelop the north end of the lake for more than a decade before the Canandaigua Area Development Corporation (CADC), a nonprofit organization that acts as a conduit for local development and has been the driving force behind this revitalization, attracted Morgan-LeChase to the site.

The North Shore project has passed significant milestones in recent months, with Canandaigua City Council approving site plans and the Ontario County Board of Supervisors approving a payment-in-lieu-of-taxes (PILOT) agreement in April. Earlier this year, PILOT Increment Financing (PIF) was approved by the Canandaigua City School Board of Education.

"As a Finger Lakes Regional Economic Development Council transformative priority project, we recognize that the North Shore project will have a lasting economic impact on both Canandaigua and the region as a whole," said Finger Lakes Regional Economic Development Council Co-Chairs University of Rochester President Joel Seligman and Wegmans Food Markets CEO Danny Wegman. "This project will strengthen a community and further the Finger Lakes' reputation as an exceptional place to live, work and play. The City of Canandaigua, Morgan-LeChase and Governor Cuomo are all to be commended for their commitment to the project."

Two buildings--Building A and Building B--are included in Phase 1 construction, set to begin this year. Building A will feature approximately 18,000 square feet of commercial space on two floors, while Building B will have approximately 10,000 square feet of commercial space on the first floor with approximately 135 apartments on the other four floors.

A two-story public space will be a feature attraction for the area. Morgan-LeChase is also in talks with various organizations and businesses to develop a unique shopping and culinary destination.

Phases 2 and 3 will be mixed-use buildings, while Phase 4 will be townhomes. The final stage, Phase 5, will be commercial property.

Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Kenneth Adams said, "The North Shore project will have a significant impact not only on Canandaigua, but on the entire Finger Lakes region. This development will create a new hub of economic activity by reconnecting the City of Canandaigua with the lake's north shore and accelerating job growth by supporting key private-public partnerships in communities across the state."

Senator Michael Nozzolio said, "The Finger Lakes region is an incredible area for both residents and tourists, yet the north shore of Canandaigua Lake has sat nearly vacant and under-utilized for many years. It was a pleasure to work with Mayor Ellen Polimeni, Supervisor Pamela Helming and Governor Cuomo on behalf of the City and Town of Canandaigua's number one priority project. The beautiful lakefront area will create many new opportunities for jobs, businesses, and residential living."

Assemblyman Brian Kolb said, "Transforming this vacant land into a unique destination for living, shopping and dining is a tremendous win for the City of Canandaigua. The North Shore project offers numerous benefits to the local economy and will be a draw for businesses, residents and tourists."

City of Canandaigua Mayor Ellen Polimeni said, "The City of Canandaigua is so excited to see this project come to life and I appreciate David Genecco's foresight to hold onto this property for the right opportunity. Morgan-LeChase has done a remarkable job working with City Council. This project will breathe new life into our beautiful lake area and enhance the long-standing charm of our community."

Ontario County Board of Supervisors Chairman Jack Marren said, "Canandaigua Lake is a jewel of the Finger Lakes. A consortium of agencies has worked together, including Ontario County who is supporting this project with a PILOT agreement, to breathe new life into property so that residents and visitors can enjoy this unique treasure. Jobs -- including 175 permanent and 400 construction as well as private investment will follow creating a positive economic impact for Ontario County."

Valerie Knoblauch, President of Finger Lakes Visitors Connection, Ontario County's tourism agency, said, "A positive, contemporary presentation of the waterfront areas across Ontario County is critical to the growth and development of tourism and our ability to lure tourists to our destination. The lakefront is a trademark of our area. People that visit and see an improved, revitalized Canandaigua Lakefront are more likely to return, stay longer, and spend more money in our area. This type of investment takes leadership and partnership. We applaud all the agencies who are working together to accomplish this important revitalization."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/08042014-canandaigua-north-shore-project
