Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New York's Emergency Management Personnel to Assist in Florida's Hurricane Matthew Response
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 7, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York will be dispatching emergency management personnel to help Florida recover in the wake of Hurricane Matthew. A team from the state Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services will begin a 14-day deployment on Sunday morning at Florida's Emergency Operations Center in Tallahassee and provide command and general staff assistance. Additional personnel and resources are prepared to be dispatched as they are requested by states dealing with the hurricane.
"New Yorkers know full well the devastation Mother Nature can cause and just how difficult the aftermath can be," Governor Cuomo said. "In the wake of Hurricane Matthew, I have directed the state's Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services to send a team of our emergency management experts to assist Florida with their recovery. New York stands by its neighbors in their time of need and we will continue to help those impacted by this storm recover and rebuild."
New York has a long history of helping other states following natural disasters. In addition to sending similar assistance to Florida following Hurricanes Frances, Ivan, and Dennis, New York dispatched a multi-agency team of more than 300 individuals to assist Louisiana following Hurricane Katrina, as well as another 18-member team after Hurricane Gustav. Additionally, New York has sent crews of firefighters west many times to assist with containing wildfires.
Hurricane Matthew is currently a Category 3 hurricane. The storm is forecasted to weaken somewhat as it continues up Florida's east coast today. By Saturday, it is expected to be near or over the coasts of Georgia and South Carolina.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-new-yorks-emergency-management-personnel-assist-floridas-hurricane
