Public Statements
Rangel Touts Completion of $38 Million Renovation of Senior Housing in Upper Manhattan
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo Charlie Rangel
Date: July 31, 2014
Location: Washington, DC

Congressman Charles B. Rangel applauded Governor Andrew M. Cuomo's announcement of the completion of rehabilitation and modernization of Philip's Senior House, a fourteen-story Mitchell Lama building with 200 units in Central Harlem, which will remain affordable for low- and moderate-income seniors for forty years.
"I am proud of Governor Cuomo's dedicated effort to provide affordable housing for those who need it most. The livelihood of seniors who have very little or no income depend on such well-deserved support, as they have given so much to society and to the development of our communities. The funding will be instrumental in promoting healthier and more independent living for those who reside at the Philip's Senior House," said Rangel.
First opened in 1974, Philip's Senior House has undergone a top-to-bottom refitting of new heating and hot water systems, along with thermostatic controls on all radiators. The scope of the rehabilitation also included: replacement of the roof; repointing of the entire façade; new windows; new air conditioner sleeves; new intercom system; refurbishing the two passenger elevators; and a new security camera system. All of the units were also renovated with new kitchens and bathrooms; and new plumbing, fixtures, lighting fixtures, and Energy-Star appliances. The common areas, indoors and out, were also turned into welcoming community spaces to encourage social interaction and engagement among the residents and their visitors. Additionally, in partnership with GrowNYC, tenants will learn about healthy living habits by working on a new community garden, planting and harvesting fresh vegetables.
"Upgrading Mitchell-Lama developments like the Philip's Senior House is a central part of our strategy to provide better affordable housing options to New Yorkers," Governor Cuomo said. "By completely restoring this building, we have provided a more vibrant and welcoming place for hundreds of senior citizens. This ambitious project has been further supplemented by our $1 billion House New York program -- the state's largest investment in affordable housing in more than a decade -- allowing us to create more vibrant communities across the state."
Before the renovation, the Philip's Senior House complex at 220 West 133rd Street sat nearly 50 percent vacant, having suffered years of severe deferred maintenance. In 2012, New York State Homes and Community Renewal (HCR) provided more than $22.6 million in tax exempt bonds, $1.8 million in subsidy and $1.19 million in an annual allocation of low-income housing tax credits for the Philip's Senior House refinancing and revitalization, allowing for all units in the complex to be upgraded.
HCR is in the second year of Governor Cuomo's $1 billion House New York program, which creates thousands of new units over five years, and is the largest investment in affordable housing in at least 15 years. House New York will also preserve thousands of Mitchell-Lama units, extending affordability for 40 years. The House New York initiative builds on the successes of unprecedented efforts to protect more than two million rent-regulated tenants, with the greatest strengthening of the state's rent laws in 30 years, and the creation of the Tenant Protection Unit which proactively audits and investigates landlord wrongdoing.
HCR consists of all the State's major housing and community renewal agencies, including the Affordable Housing Corporation, the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the Housing Finance Agency, State of New York Mortgage Agency, Housing Trust Fund Corporation and others. The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) provided $124,500 in energy efficient incentives. Total development costs for the renovation were $38.9 million. The project was completed by Blue Sea Development, LLC.
New York State's Mitchell-Lama Housing Program was first proposed by State Senator MacNeil Mitchell and Assemblyman Alfred Lama and was signed into law in 1955 by Governor William Averell Harriman. Under the state's Private Housing Finance Law, the program provided for the creation of affordable housing, both rental and co-operatively owned, for middle-income residents. Developers received tax abatements and low-interest mortgages, subsidized by the federal, state, or New York City government. In total, 269 housing developments with 105,000 units were developed with State aid under the Mitchell-Lama Program.

Source: http://rangel.house.gov/press-release/rangel-touts-completion-38-million-renovation-senior-housing-upper-manhattan
