Public Statements
Statement from Governor Andrew M. Cuomo Regarding Federal Action to Improve Safety along Crude Oil Rail Transit Corridor
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 23, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

"I applaud President Obama and U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx's efforts to move quickly to address the concerns raised by New York as well as other states about the movement of crude oil by rail. We are encouraged to see that the proposal put forward today reflects a number of the concerns raised by New York State including phasing out older, unreliable tank cars, lowering speed limits and other measures to adapt federal regulations to the heightened risk accompanying the transport of volatile crude oil from the Bakken region.

"We are reviewing the proposed regulations to ensure they address the critical deficiencies that New York State identified. We remain committed to ensuring the public health and safety of our residents, and look forward to working constructively with the U.S. Department of Transportation and other federal agencies to better protect New Yorkers and all Americans."

Background:

A series of out-of-state disasters involving the transport of crude oil from the Bakken oil fields in North Dakota, including one incident that killed 47 people and destroyed a community, have raised considerable safety concerns in localities along the rail corridor that transports the petroleum product. Communities in 22 New York counties, including Buffalo, Syracuse, Utica, Albany and Plattsburgh and nearly all of the state's major waterways are home to this network. Over the past months, Governor Cuomo has taken a series of actions to put New York on the forefront of nationwide efforts to improve safety along the crude oil transportation network.

In January, Governor Cuomo issued an Executive Order directing five state agencies to undertake a comprehensive review of safety procedures and emergency response. Since that time, the State has taken aggressive action, including:







Source:
