Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Statewide MWBE Utilization Rate Increases to 25 Percent
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 6, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the utilization rate for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprises participating in State contracts increased to 25 percent for the 2015-16 Fiscal Year, with MWBEs securing approximately $2 billion in State contracts. The Governor also announced the first annual Carey Gabay Excellence and Innovation Awards for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprises, which recognizes a select number of MWBEs for their entrepreneurial spirit and achievement in State contracting. In addition, the Governor launched a statewide Mentor-Protégé Program to facilitate long-term relationships between MWBEs and prime contractors.
"New York leads the nation in growing opportunities for minority and women owned businesses, and this year's Forum builds on this success," Governor Cuomo said. "Carey Gabay represented the very best among us, and by naming these awards in his honor, we continue the advances and legacy Carey worked tirelessly to secure and celebrate the vast achievements of our strong and diverse small business community."
"As I travel across the State, I convene small women- and minority-owned businesses to help identify their barriers to success," Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul said. "I'm very proud that here in the State of New York, we have played a major role in helping businesses by setting a high bar and achieving $2 billion in state contract dollars annually."
This year, a record-breaking 2,200 businesses, entrepreneurs, and government officials registered for the Forum -- New York's largest annual business event. The Forum's theme, "Transformation 2016," is designed to inform MWBEs of the strategies and resources necessary to win State contracts. This year's Forum also marks the unveiling of a first-of-its-kind, statewide Mentor-Protégé program and continues the tradition of providing opportunities for MWBEs to meet state agency and authority decision makers as they pursue billions of dollars in State contracts.
MWBE Utilization Rate
Key to the success of the MWBE program is increasing the utilization of MWBE firms in state contracting. Governor Cuomo has set the nation's highest goal for MWBE contracts at 30 percent. Under the Governor's leadership, the rate has increased nearly every year since 2011. For the most recent fiscal year, the 2015-2016 Fiscal Year, the rate of MWBEs participating in State contracts increased to 25 percent, totaling approximately $2 billion -- nearly 50 percent of MWBE utilization resulted from construction projects and 30 percent from professional services.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-statewide-mwbe-utilization-rate-increases-25-percent
