Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces SEMATECH and IBM to Join $500 Million Partnership with State to Develop Next-Generation Power Electronics, Creating Thousands of Jobs in Rochester and Upstate
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 16, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the State will partner with over 100 private companies, led by SEMATECH and IBM, to launch the New York Power Electronics Manufacturing Consortium. The Consortium will invest over $500 million and create thousands of high-skilled, high-paying jobs in Upstate New York over the next five years -- including at least 500 in Rochester-- focusing on the development and manufacture of the next generation of materials used on semiconductors.

"This partnership in Rochester will continue the success of the nanotechnology industry which has put the Upstate economy on a much different trajectory and is making a real difference in our communities," Governor Cuomo said. "Nanotechnology is no longer just a child of the Capital Region--the revolution has spread all across New York, advancing our capacity to compete on an international scale and bring jobs and investment to this state. To keep businesses here we must continue to stay ahead of the curve, and this investment in Rochester is doing exactly that--building, maintaining, and attracting the workforce and companies of tomorrow."

The New York Power Electronics Manufacturing Consortium (NY-PEMC) is a public-private partnership that will help develop the next generation of materials used on semiconductors at State-owned R&D facilities. Managed through the newly merged SUNY College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering (CNSE)/SUNY Institute of Technology (SUNYIT), this next generation of semiconductors will enable power devices to get smaller, faster and more efficient as the current material, silicon, has reached its entitlement.

Lieutenant Governor Robert J. Duffy said, "New York is an attractive place to do business for companies across the globe, and this partnership is another example of the Governor's commitment to excelling in this industry. Thanks to Governor Cuomo, New York State is at the forefront of innovation in technology and manufacturing, bringing with it the quality, high-skill jobs that are increasingly in demand in today's economy. I anticipate a bright future for NY-PEMC, and thank all our partners in transforming this partnership to reality."

Ronald D. Goldblatt, Ph.D., President and CEO of SEMATECH said, "Thanks to Governor Cuomo's foresight and keen understanding on how best to leverage the tremendous assets we have in New York State -- world-class colleges and universities, leading edge private sector businesses and an excellent statewide workforce -- the Power Electronics Manufacturing Consortium is a compelling and groundbreaking effort that will further solidify New York State's continuing leadership in high tech R&D and manufacturing. In order to rise to the challenges now and ahead, we must thoroughly re-examine our priorities and redefine ourselves as a performance- and goal-oriented culture, which is precisely what the Governor is doing and he has undeniably laid a solid foundation for growth and prosperity by making New York open for business."

The site will act as a global "open-innovation" user-shared facility, which will enable the expansion and growth of major corporate partners, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises (SME's) with a particular emphasis on MWBE firms and enterprises.

Dr. Alain Kaloyeros, Chief Executive Officer and Officer in Charge, SUNY CNSE/SUNYIT, said, "Governor Cuomo is committed to making the necessary strategic investments that have made New York State a leader in high tech R&D and commercialization, which has transformed the State's business landscape. Power electronics is one of the fastest growing global markets and New York is now poised to lead the way in their continued refinement. Partnering CNSE's world-class research and development resources with the combined expertise of our corporate and university partners will provide tremendous advances for the business, technology and academic communities. We thank the Governor and are very optimistic about the success of the NY-PEMC."

SEMATECH and IBM will be the lead partners in the Rochester fab, which will research and develop next generation technology for gallium nitride (GaN) devices. This is in addition to the Governor' announcement yesterday that GE will lead the Albany facility in developing and producing low cost, high performance 6" silicon carbide (SiC) wafers. Both the GaN based devices that will be developed in Rochester and the SiC devices in Albany outperform pure silicon (Si) in areas including power density, performance, reliability and efficiency. There are countless applications for GaN, including climate control and management of high value infrastructure (such as data centers and automated manufacturing plants), backup and support of mission critical facilities (hospitals, fire departments, governmental buildings, etc.), green energy development, electric vehicles, passenger rail, commercial and military aircraft and ships, and smart power grid design.

Assembly Majority Leader Joseph D. Morelle said, "Using the success of Albany's model, Rochester has seen a great amount of development, investment and job creation in the nano-driven technology sector. This combination of innovation and target partnerships will only continue to grow this already booming industry. I thank the Governor for his commitment to Rochester, as well as our corporate partners and CNSE for coming together and putting New York further in terms of both industry leadership and job creation."

Senator Joe Robach said, "We live in a 21st century New York, and with great thanks to the Governor, we are at the forefront of developing modern technology. This partnership will not only create jobs for Rochester, but will act as a catalyst for more industry growth and a continued momentum of high-tech development in the region. I commend the Governor, our private partners, and CNSE for their dedication and success in making high-tech innovation once again something the people of New York can be proud of."

The partnership is enabled by the START-UP NY tax free initiative, in addition to $135 million in New York State funds provided to CNSE for the establishment of the NY-PEMC facilities, which will attract $365 million in private funds and know-how to support personnel, equipment and process flow, tool installation, facilities and materials for a total 5-year investment of $500 million. Collaboration with CNSE will enable the expansion and growth of both major corporate partners and small and medium-sized enterprises within a vibrant power electronics device and systems integration eco-system.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/07162014-sematech-ibm-partnership
