Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $3.6 Million in Job Training Funding
Press Release
By: Nydia Velázquez Eliot Engel Bill Owens Andrew Cuomo José Serrano Louise Slaughter Yvette Clarke Chris Gibson Paul Tonko Brian Higgins Nita Lowey Charlie Rangel Sean Maloney
Date: July 15, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $3.6 million to support education and job-training programs that help low-income workers find employment in sectors with significant demand for skilled labor. Made available through the Career Pathways Program, this funding furthers efforts to provide participants with a clear and reliable course of action for acquiring new technical skills, securing opportunities to earn higher wages over time and progressing in their careers.

"By giving workers a boost in the job market and ensuring that Empire State businesses have access to our world-class labor force, we are growing the economy while creating new opportunities for New Yorkers," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding supports programs that empower hard-working men and women to further their careers in growing industries, and unlocks the potential for growth in some of our most vibrant sectors of business. I am pleased to be announcing this funding today, and I look forward to seeing it benefit communities around the state for years to come."

More than $3.6 million has been awarded by the New York State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance (OTDA) to 14 community-based organizations around the state to operate Career Pathways Programs.

The Career Pathways Programs are organized as a series of steps that lead participants toward job placement and increased earnings opportunities. By providing industry-recognized credentials, certificates and/or licenses when appropriate, the Career Pathways Programs provide proof of experience that makes workers attractive to potential employers.

The industry sectors are identified locally and include those that need skilled workers and that are vital to the economic health of the region.

"Career Pathways links basic education to occupational training, combined with integrated support services, enabling individuals to advance over time to higher-wage jobs," said OTDA Commissioner Kristin M. Proud. "This approach often leads to higher wages and benefits."

Individuals eligible for the program include unemployed young adults between the ages of 18 and 24 and individuals receiving public assistance. Targeted sectors include health care, construction, manufacturing, hospitality and business services.























Source:
