Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces the Great New York State Fair and I Love New York Partner to Boost Tourism in Central NY This Summer
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 14, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the Great New York State Fair will be prominently featured in I LOVE NEW YORK's summer tourism campaign to attract more people from across the state to this year's 12-day celebration of everything New York. The Fair, taking place August 21 -- September 1, will be a main part of I LOVE NEW YORK's direct marketing, advertising, and media promotions. Additionally, respected travel advisor Fodor's recently named the Fair one of the top 10 state fairs in the nation, making it the fifth expert source to place it among the country's best.

"The Great New York State Fair is one of our state's most popular attractions, and by marketing it through the I LOVE NEW YORK campaign we are promoting it to the largest audience yet," Governor Cuomo said. "From concerts and games to fine food and beverages that showcase our world-class agricultural industry, the Fair offers visitors a variety of experiences for all ages -- and since it was just rated as one of the ten best State Fairs in the nation, the time has never been better to see more of what New York has to offer. I encourage all New Yorkers to get out and enjoy the Great State Fair this summer."

Through the partnership, I LOVE NEW YORK will be on the ground and on the web helping to build attendance and create awareness about the Great New York State Fair. The marketing campaign includes promotion through digital channels, including widely followed social media platforms, the newly launched ILoveNY.com website, as well as the distribution of brochures and fliers at events leading up to the Fair. In addition, the I LOVE NEW YORK team will work with Fair officials and the New York State Department of Agriculture & Markets to promote and broaden the reach of the "Dairy Cow Birthing Center," one of the Fair's most popular live exhibits, to all New Yorkers online.

Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Kenneth Adams said, "The I LOVE NEW YORK summer campaign is in high gear, with special events and partnerships, such as the partnership with the State Fair, planned to highlight the unique and exciting attractions across New York State and drive tourism. By using a creative marketing approach and through our digital channels, we're successfully extending our outreach to residents and visitors to increase awareness and generate a buzz about one of New York's greatest treasures, the Great New York State Fair in Central New York."

Taste NY Wine, Beer and Spirits Bar at the Colonnade

The Governor also announced that as a follow-up to this year's Wine, Beer, Spirits and Cider Summit, the brand new "Taste NY Wine, Beer and Spirits Bar" will premiere at the Colonnade at this year's Fair. This will be the first time New York wines will be served in many years and the first time ever that New York craft beers and spirits will be served on the Colonnade.

The farm-based beverage industry's move to the Colonnade is one that is years in the making. A few years ago, the New York Wine Village was moved from the heavily-trafficked Colonnade area at the Fair to a location near the Horticulture Building. This issue was raised as a concern by the industry during the Governor's initial Wine, Beer and Spirits Summit, with stakeholders noting that the change in location negatively impacted their sales.

At the 2014 Fair, as a direct result of feedback from the industry, the Wine Village will return to the Colonnade along with other farm-based beverage products under the Taste NY banner. Also of note, in 2013, the New York State Brew Pub and Distillery premiered at the New York State Fair, and this establishment will return to the International Building in 2014.

State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball said, "The Taste NY Wine, Beer and Spirits Bar at the Colonnade is just one more way that the 2014 Great New York State Fair will be one that puts agriculture first. Governor Cuomo has put a focus on our industry and this is just the latest example of how agriculture will be on full display for nearly a million visitors to see at the 2014 Fair."

Acting New York State Fair Director Troy Waffner said, "The single largest request I've received during my time at the Fair is to move the Wine Village back to the Colonnade. This year we're doing that and more. With funding from the Governor's NY Works program, we're also restoring our infrastructure in the barns and throughout the fairgrounds to enhance the overall experience for visitors. The 2014 Fair is already shaping up to be a great one."

Jim Trezise, President of the New York Wine and Grape Foundation, said, "We applaud Governor Cuomo, Commissioner Ball, and Acting Fair Director Waffner for relocating the Wine Village to the Colonnade area where it used to be, and also for adding our colleagues from the New York craft beer, spirits, and cider communities to the general area. New York wine, beer, spirit and cider producers begin with different raw materials and end with different products, but they are all supporting New York agriculture and offering New York consumers a wide array of local, handcrafted, quality products."

Nicole Austin, President of the New York State Distillers Guild, said, "The fair is a celebration of all things New York, and New York distillers are thrilled to have the opportunity to champion the innovation and quality of New York craft spirits along with beer, cider and wine in the colonnade this year. The New York State Fair is an important economic opportunity for our young and growing craft distilling industry. Many thanks to Governor Cuomo and the Department of Agriculture & Markets for their hard work to make the New York State Fair about New York products, New York businesses and New York quality."

Paul Leone, Executive Director of the New York State Brewers Association, said, "The New York State Fair is a great way to not only see the best in what New York has to offer, but also taste the best the state has to offer. With that, we are so happy that even more New York State craft breweries will be represented at this year's fair, giving everyone a chance to taste what the brewers in this state are doingbrewing some of the best beer in the country."


One of the 10 Best Fairs in the Nation:

Another expert is telling the world what New Yorkers already know -- the Great New York State Fair stands as one of the very best in the nation. Respected travel advisor Fodor's, a company which produces guide books and website guides trusted by millions of travelers, gave New York this distinction.

In its listing of the top 10 state fairs in America, Fodors writes the Great New York State Fair "balances the urban modernity of the Big Apple with the commerce and agriculture of the rest of the state.Seek out the New York Wine & Cheese Seminars in the cool air-conditioning for the opportunity to sample varieties of local wine and cheese. For those seeking cute critters, head over to the baby rabbit and cavy exhibit, where newborns are on display."

The article tips people to enjoy the burger cooking competition on Beef Day, being held Tuesday, Aug. 26.

This is the fifth expert source to place the Fair among the nation's very best.

Yahoo Travel listed the Fair in its top 10 for its "celebration of homegrown agriculture" and the Wine & Cheese seminars.

Travel site Hopper.com ranked the Fair at #1 because "the real variety of grounds entertainment makes it one of the most accessible and family friendly fairs."

Travel guide Bustle.com put the Fair at #3 for featuring a multitude of New York State wines. Not only that, but "It's cheap -- two dollars for a five-ounce glass -- and you're allowed to walk around the fairgrounds with it," the guide said.

Real estate and relocation website Movoto.com twice wrote about the Fair this summer, noting that the Fair was a great reason to move to New York State because "New York's State Fair Makes Yours Look Like A Baby," while also noting in an article listing reasons to move to Syracuse that ours is a "State Fair To End All State Fairs."


About the Great New York State Fair

The New York State Fair, operated by the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets, runs from August 21 -- September 1, 2014. The Fair's mission, reflected in its 2014 theme, "Summer's Best in Show," is to showcase the best of New York agriculture while providing top-quality entertainment.

In addition to the annual New York State Fair, the Fairgrounds host dozens of agricultural events throughout the year, including some of the Northeast's most prestigious horse and livestock shows.

The home of the Great New York State Fair is a 375-acre exhibit and entertainment complex that operates all year. A year-round schedule of events is available on the Fair's website. Find The Great New York State Fair on Facebook, follow @NYSFair on Twitter, and enjoy photos from the Fair at Flickr.com/photos/nysfair. New Yorkers are invited to send their ideas for the Great New York State Fair at statefairideas@agriculture.ny.gov.

About New York State/I LOVE NEW YORK

New York State features 11 beautiful vacation regions. New York's attractions feature landmarks such as Niagara Falls, the largest park in the continental U.S. in the Adirondacks and treasures such as the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown and the Corning Museum of Glass. New York State offers diverse activities for all: outdoor fun - fishing, hiking and boating, year-round festivals and exploring the rich history and culture of one of the 13 original colonies. Visitors also enjoy the fine cuisine, beverage trails and farm-to-table fresh foods. For more information, visit http://www.iloveny.com.

Follow the I LOVE NY social media channels for news on tourism in New York State. From NYC to Niagara Falls and all points in between, there's so much to love to LOVE in NY! Check out I LOVE NEW YORK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram for great ideas for your next getaway.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/07142014-great-nys-fair
