Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Phase One Federal Approval for Seawall Stabilization Project in the City of Troy
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 7, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the City of Troy has received Phase I Approval under FEMA's Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP) for its Seawall Stabilization project. The project was advanced by New York State for federal approval in February. Phase I will consist of the design and engineering of the project and is the first step to determine if construction under Phase II approval is cost effective. If approved, Phase II will be funded up to $8.25 million.

"This project is another example of how we are working alongside local and federal partners to reimagine our state for the new reality of extreme weather," Governor Cuomo said. "The City of Troy has proposed a well-designed project that will improve resiliency in the face of future flooding and keep residents safe. I am proud that we are continuing to build back better, stronger, and smarter than ever before, and I look forward to seeing this visionary project take shape."

Last year, Governor Cuomo called for government and non-profit organizations across New York State to submit HMGP applications to rebuild smarter, stronger, more sustainable communities in the wake of recent natural disasters.

The City of Troy's existing protective bulkhead wall is known as the "seawall" due to its location within the tidal zone on the Hudson River. The seawall protects the City from flooding. The seawall exhibits varying degrees of damage due to ice floes, high velocity flooding and large debris traveling downstream during intense storm events. The risk of damage to the seawall is exacerbated by the wall's age and the increasing frequency of unusual weather patterns. Funding will be used to rebuild the wall and shore up eroded portions of the riverbank to provide long-term protection against flooding and, where possible, an improved interface with the river for the community's residents.

DHSES Commissioner Jerome M. Hauer said, "The damage from severe winters, flooding and erosion has made the rebuilding of the Hudson River Seawall bulkhead a necessity. I am pleased that the City of Troy was able to submit a cost-effective, progressive plan to FEMA and that the design and engineering phase will move forward."

Congressman Paul Tonko said, "Strengthening the resiliency of our infrastructure, coupled with a proactive approach to the clear and present danger of climate change, keeps properties safe for homeowners and small businesses while making the area more attractive for job growth. I thank Mayor Rosamilia and his team for the hard work put into this project, as well as Governor Cuomo, who continues to identify and act upon key projects in Capital Region communities that have the potential to move our entire state forward."

City of Troy Mayor Lou Rosamilia said, "This is welcome news for the residents of this city who live near the banks of the Hudson and have seen firsthand the effects of flooding and rising waters on their communities. The City has worked long and hard to adopt a long term approach to disaster prevention and these funds will help the City of Troy deal with future storms in a proactive way."

During the recovery and reconstruction process following a federally declared disaster, such as Hurricane Irene, Tropical Storm Lee and Superstorm Sandy, FEMA provides HMGP funds for states to administer grant programs that mitigate the vulnerability of life and property to future disasters.

The grant program is aimed at increasing the State's resiliency, mitigating the risks of loss and damage associated with future disasters, and reducing hardship. FEMA funds provide 75 percent reimbursement of eligible project costs.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/07072014-seawall-stabilization-project
