Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Welcomes 150 Immigrants Sworn in as U.S. Citizens
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 2, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today congratulated 150 immigrants who were sworn in as U.S. citizens this morning at the New York Public Library's landmark Stephen A. Schwarzman Building and welcomed another 60 immigrants who will be sworn in during various naturalization ceremonies throughout the rest of New York State.

"This Fourth of July holiday is a fitting time to welcome New Americans to our nation, and celebrate the New York's legacy as a place that welcomes people from all over the world and from all walks of life," said Governor Cuomo. "I'd like to congratulate these New Americans on becoming this country's newest citizens. We welcome them into the family of New York and are pleased they now call this nation, and this State, their home."

"As we recognize 150 new U.S. citizens today, we are reminded of our rich past as Americans and the different nationalities that have made our nation, and New York State, the inclusive and wildly diverse place it is today," said Lieutenant Governor Duffy. "With nearly 50 different countries represented here, these individuals have come from every corner of the globe to the Empire State, each bringing with them their unique cultural perspective and traditions. As we celebrate the Fourth of July this weekend, I am honored to welcome these New Americans as they follow in our founding father's vision of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."

Individuals from all over the world are being sworn in as New American citizens with ceremonies being held to commemorate and celebrate the unique diversity that makes the Empire State the world's cultural and economic center.

The 150 citizenship candidates from today's New York City ceremony originate from the following 47 countries: Albania (3), Argentina, Bangladesh (8), Brazil (2), Bulgaria, Canada, People's Republic of China (11), Colombia (2), Cuba, Dominican Republic (49), Ecuador (5), Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Ghana (4), Guinea (3), Guyana (2), Honduras, Hungary, India (2), Ireland, Israel (4), Italy (2), Jamaica (10), Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mali (2), Mauritania , Mexico (2), Montenegro, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Poland, Republic of Serbia, Russia (2), South Africa (2), South Korea, Sweden, Trinidad and Tobago (2), Tunisia, Turkey (2), United Kingdom (4), Venezuela, and Yemen (2).

Additional Ceremonies taking place on July 4th include:
Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza, Albany, NY - July 4, 2014 -- 3p.m. (10 Citizenship Candidates)
Saratoga National Historical Park, Stillwater, NY -- July 4, 2014 -- 10a.m. (20 Citizen Candidates)
Genesee Country Village and Museum, Mumford, NY -- July 4, 2014 -- 11a.m. (30 Citizen Candidates)

These celebrations build on the State's efforts to help immigrants fully participate in New York's civic and economic life. In 2011, the State suspended participation in the federal Secure Communities program due to concerns about the implementation of the program as well as its impact on families, immigrant communities and law enforcement in New York. In 2013, the Governor launched the New York State Office for New Americans the first statewide office with a sole focus to assist our state's immigrants in their efforts to contribute to the economy and become a part of the family of the New York. In addition, Governor Cuomo issued Executive Order 23 requiring State agencies that provide direct public services to offer free interpretation and translation services to members of the public for vital forms and instructions. Governor Cuomo also issued Executive Order 8 raising the State's minority and woman-owned business enterprise contracting goal to 20 percent. Recently, the State announced a major settlement agreement that helps make communities more just and affordable by ending the reported harassment and intimidation of mainly Spanish-speaking immigrant tenants in nearly 1,800 apartments within 49 buildings in Harlem, Washington Heights, Brooklyn and the South Bronx.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/07022014-new-americans
