Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Partners With 100 Chambers of Commerce Across the State to Promote Free Business Support Services
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 1, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a major outreach project between the Department of Labor and more than 100 regional chambers of commerce throughout New York State as part of strategic approach to provide free services and help businesses access capital incentives, grow their workforce and manage their operations. Combined, the chambers of commerce will relay the no-cost business support services to over 50,000 businesses across the state.

"By partnering with more than 100 chambers of commerce, we are increasing the spotlight on the many ways that the state can help businesses thrive," Governor Cuomo said. "From managing day-to-day operations to finding the right employees, our administration offers a variety of services that can open doors to a more competitive future for any company. I am proud that the state is partnering with these regional organizations and I encourage all business leaders to explore how New York can help them grow."

The State Department of Labor and Empire State Development are partnering with businesses to tailor services for them in each region of the state. Since February, the Department of Labor has completed a series of more than 60 meetings with more than 100 chambers of commerce to outline the benefits of using the state's no-cost services for businesses. A complete list of services can be found below.

"In every one of our presentations so far, businesses in attendance have been surprised by the breadth of new and updated services the state offers," said State Labor Commissioner Peter M. Rivera. "We tailor our services to businesses' needs and I invite every business to contact us to learn more."

Using state services saves businesses time and money. The amount of cost savings for businesses depends on the services used.

Job fairs and customized recruitment services

Job fairs and recruitments can be tailored to the requirements of a business to assist in their hiring needs. Department of Labor Business Services Team members will help businesses review applicants, set up and schedule events and match candidates based on skills and applicable hiring and training incentives. Events can be held at a worksite, an off-site location or in one of 96 New York State Career Centers.

Businesses can save up to $12,000 on a staff-assisted recruitment event and up to $20,000 on a customized job fair.

Post job vacancies on Jobs Express

Jobs Express (www.jobs.ny.gov) is Governor Cuomo's online jobs database, which currently lists more than 95,000 available positions. Businesses can save up to $6,000 per year on job postings. Between May 2013 and May 2014, more than 8,200 businesses posted jobs using Jobs Express.

Businesses get their own service manager for one-on-one help to find workers. Staff will also help identify applicable hiring and training incentives including for youth, veterans and minimum wage workers.

Tax credits for hiring youth

The New York Youth Works Program encourages businesses to hire unemployed, disadvantaged youth, ages 16 to 24, who live in 13 designated cities and towns. Businesses can earn up to $5,000 in tax credits per youth.

Human Resource Consultation

The Department of Labor can complement or act as a company's Human Resources team with its no-cost Human Resource Consultation. This includes choosing candidates, writing job postings and writing an employee handbook.

Shared Work - the layoff alternative

Shared Work allows businesses to enroll a percentage of their workforce in partial unemployment benefits to avoid layoffs.

Health and safety consultations

No-cost on-site health and safety consultations offer ways to improve safety conditions and can save businesses up to $4,500 for an initial visit and up to $1,400 for follow-up visits. Each year, the agency helps businesses avoid millions of dollars in possible fines.

Labor law Seminars

Labor Law Seminars help businesses avoid penalties down the road and provide ongoing savings in prevented fines.

"Thanks to Governor Cuomo's leadership, businesses are growing in New York State and so are the number of high quality services that state government is providing to business owners and entrepreneurs," said Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Kenneth Adams. "Every day, we are helping new businesses to open their doors and helping established companies expand and create new jobs, and all at no cost to them."

The Department of Labor is now working with chambers of commerce around the state to survey their members and then distribute data collected about the needs of their member businesses. This information will complement the industry and jobs data already collected through federal surveys, which is available on the agency's website, and will be a powerful tool to help shape workforce development in the region. Business leaders offered their support for these strategic outreach efforts:

Capital Region

Susan Rank, CFO of the Schenectady County Chamber of Commerce, said: "The Chamber of Schenectady County has a longstanding relationship with the State Department of Labor and has partnered on many events, such as economic development panel discussions, job fairs and business presentations. Most recently, the Department of Labor presented information on business services to members of the Schenectady and Fulton-Montgomery Chambers. The information was well received and informative to both groups. The many no-cost, workforce-related services such as the Jobs Express job bank and Human Resources Consultation Services are valued services to our membership."

Central Region

Robert Simpson, president of CenterState CEO in Syracuse, said: "Through the Department of Labor and Empire State Development, New York State is now offering a broad range of initiatives to assist the segment of our economy that is creating the most jobs -- small business. These programs help small business access valuable services such as talent and business development, financing assistance and incentives for businesses hiring new employees, just to name a few. We are pleased to partner with Governor Cuomo's office to help bring these services to our 2,000 member businesses."

Finger Lakes

Alison Grems, President of the Canandaigua Chamber of Commerce, said: "Partnering with the Department of Labor to spread the word about their important services to businesses is really beneficial to our members. The recruitment events, job matching services and tax incentives that the state offers are of value to our chamber members."

Long Island

Lionel J. Chitty, Chamber President for the Hicksville Chamber of Commerce, said: "I feel that it was a great idea for the New York State Department of Labor Business Services Division to do outreach to the chambers and foster a great working relationship with us. Our chamber's members needed to be informed of all the valuable services available to them. As President of the Hicksville Chamber of Commerce, I could definitely tell you that our members received vital information on the following: Job Posting, Talent Bank, Customized Recruitments, Human Resource Consulting, Tax Credits and On-the-Job Training, to name a few. In addition, the Hicksville Chamber of Commerce will be participating in a business survey to further assist our members. Thank you to New York State Department of Labor Business Services Division for your excellent presentation and commitment to the business communities throughout Long Island."

Bob Bontempi, Executive Board Member of the Huntington Township Chamber of Commerce, said: "I'm confident this milestone partnership between the Huntington Township Chamber of Commerce and the New York State Department of Labor will be a model to help local chambers identify unmet needs among their members to help support them in creating additional opportunities to grow their businesses."

Mid-Hudson Region

Ellen Daley, of the Orange County Chamber of Commerce, said: "The no-cost services made available to our members by the Business Services representatives from the Department of Labor will help our businesses thrive and contribute favorably to economic development in Orange County. The representatives were approachable, informative and easy to work with. We would encourage other chamber members throughout the state to contact their local business service reps to get acquainted with these free services and the opportunities for growth they present."

Deb Milone, Executive Director of the Hudson Valley Gateway Chamber of Commerce, said: "The State Department of Labor's no-cost services are of incredible value to our member businesses. We encourage businesses across our region to save time and money by using the Department of Labor's services to help their business thrive. I thank the Department of Labor for their outreach and add that working with their reps has been a pleasure.

Becky Adams, Vice President of Programs for the Mid-Hudson Human Resource Association, said: "The State Department of Labor's services are invaluable to our member businesses. The representatives are quick to respond to requests and are knowledgeable about the many services that the Department of Labor has to offer. I use the Department of Labor's job posting service and have found many qualified applicants with their help. The Department of Labor offers great services, from recruitment events to on-site consultations, that can help businesses grow and thrive."

Cathy Paty, President and CEO of the Sullivan County Chamber of Commerce, said: "From recruitment events to on-site consultations to educational trainings, State Department of Labor services really help our member and non-member businesses. We encourage businesses across the state to partner, as we did, with the Department of Labor to let businesses know how they can save time and money through using the Department's free services to help their business thrive. Their representatives are knowledgeable and friendly and have created a true public-private partnership that will stimulate business growth and economic development. We thank them for their outreach and also their collaboration with the Sullivan County Chamber of Commerce on our business survey."

Mohawk Valley

John Scarano, Executive Director of the Herkimer Chamber of Commerce, said: "Each and everyone in attendance had positive comments about the seminar information that they definitely could bring back to their employer or use in their own small business. All agreed that the State Department of Labor is a source that can be used in the future. The Chamber will most likely call upon this group for another presentation in the future."

New York City

Ryan Gleason, Government Affairs Director for the Staten Island Chamber of Commerce, said: "Over the last couple of years, the Staten Island Chamber of Commerce has developed a good working relationship with the New York State Department of Labor. Earlier this year, the Department of Labor hosted a presentation with the Chamber on its programs to connect employers and employees in new and innovative ways. This includes utilizing new technology to provide greater resources to companies and job seekers. The Staten Island Chamber of Commerce looks to continue building its relationship with the Department of Labor to help provide information on compliance, hiring and workforce development. Together, we can help grow Staten Island's economy and provide greater opportunities for more New Yorkers."

North Country

Michelle A. Carpenter, Director of Chamber Events for the Greater Watertown Chamber of Commerce, said: "I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Department of Labor for providing updates on the various services available to area businesses. We really appreciate the high level of customer service that staff has provided by keeping us updated on these latest developments at the Department, including how to post jobs online and how to apply for available funding opportunities. I would encourage all small businesses to reach out to the Department of Labor to learn more about the great programs and services they offer."

Susan Matton, Vice President for Economic Development at the North Country Chamber of Commerce - Plattsburgh, said: "Working together, the New York State Department of Labor and the North Country Chamber of Commerce have initiated an effort to improve knowledge and awareness of the Department's valuable employer services and identify the workforce issues facing North Country businesses. Following a recent briefing by Department of Labor staff, the Chamber and the Department developed a survey to send to area employers. The results will help the Department of Labor connect businesses with job seekers.

Western New York Region

Jeff Joy, Chairperson for Breakfast Network Connections, West Seneca Chamber of Commerce, said: "It was great to hear about the multitude of services offered by the New York State Department of Labor to businesses not only here in West Seneca and Erie County but likewise to every business operating throughout New York State. We intend to encourage our partner chambers throughout Western New York to consider inviting the New York State Department of Labor to present available business services at chamber informational and networking events."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/07012014-partners-with-chambers-of-commerce
