Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New York State's Formal Objection to Federal Plan for Dredging Disposal Site in Eastern Long Island Sound Estuary
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 4, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State has formally objected to the Environmental Protection Agency's proposed plan to designate one or more dredged material disposal sites in the Eastern Long Island Sound. Following an examination of the plan by the state's Department of State, New York has found that the EPA's plan is inconsistent with New York State coastal policies. This formal objection is the latest in a long line of efforts to ultimately end the practice of disposing dredged material in Long Island Sound.
"The Long Island Sound is a treasured natural resource and a vital component of New York's economy," said Governor Cuomo. "We are fully committed to safeguarding this cherished body of water and we will take all necessary steps to protect it for future generations."
In 2005, New York State called for, and EPA agreed to, establish a goal of reducing or eliminating dredged material disposal in the open waters of the Long Island Sound. The EPA's plan to allow new dumping sites in eastern Long Island Sound contradicts this agreement.
According to the Department of State's examination, the EPA has not sufficiently considered the cumulative effects of dumping dredged materials into the Sound, does not prioritize alternatives to open water dumping, and didn't go far enough in analyzing other existing and available disposal sites.
New York also maintains that increasing open-water disposal of dredged materials is inconsistent with public investment and policies that are already in place aimed at restoring the Long Island Sound. Further, the EPA has not been responsive to the State's concern about the agency's testing and its reliability and has made no assurances that the dredge material will not have a negative impact on the environment.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-new-york-states-formal-objection-federal-plan-dredging-disposal-site
