Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Legislation to Combat Heroin, Opioid and Prescription Drug Abuse Epidemic
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 24, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed legislation designed to combat the growing heroin and opioid epidemic in communities across the State. Last week, the Governor and legislative leaders reached an agreement on multiple bills that include new programs and insurance reforms to improve treatment options for individuals suffering from heroin and opioid addiction; measures to strengthen penalties and put in place additional tools for law enforcement to crack down on the distribution of illegal drugs; provisions to ensure the proper and safe use of naloxone, an overdose antidote; and support for enhanced public awareness campaigns to prevent drug abuse. Governor Cuomo signed the legislation -- which also builds on administrative actions being taken by the State to combat heroin -- during an event at the Burchfield Penney Arts Center in Buffalo, New York.

In addition, the Governor today signed legislation granting "Good Samaritan" protections to individuals who administer an opioid antagonist like naloxone, which can reverse the effects of a heroin overdose. The bill also ensures that health care professionals can now prescribe naloxone by non-patient-specific prescription, which means that every police officer or other first responder will have greater access to this life saving medicine. Pharmacists, using their professional expertise, will also be able to dispense naloxone to anyone who needs it.

"Communities across and beyond New York are struggling with the epidemic of heroin abuse, but today we are taking a stand to combat this public health crisis," Governor Cuomo said. "This legislation combats the rise of heroin by reinforcing our laws, improving treatment options, instituting tougher penalties for traffickers, and training first responders and other emergency or law enforcement personnel in how to use life-saving anti-overdose medication. Tackling New York's heroin epidemic requires a thorough and comprehensive approach, and this legislation is crucial to that -- I thank the many advocates, family members and legislators who made it a reality and I am proud to sign it into law today. We know that this is an issue impacting families across the state, and today we are doing something about it."

Earlier this month, Governor Cuomo announced a series of new initiatives including the addition of 100 experienced investigators to the State Police Community Narcotics Enforcement Team; new efforts to make supplies of naloxone available to all first responder units in the State; and the launch of a targeted awareness campaign that will take place on all public college and university campuses. As part of that campaign, SUNY and CUNY personnel will be working alongside State Police to raise awareness about the dangers of heroin and opioid abuse. In 2011, the Governor signed the "Good Samaritan 911 law" to protect individuals who seek medical assistance for a person experiencing a drug overdose or other life-threatening medical emergency from prosecution and arrest for certain drug crimes.

Heroin and opioid addiction has become an increasingly alarming problem in communities across the State and nation, with a particularly significant impact among younger individuals. Between 2004 and 2013, Erie County saw an increase in the number of heroin and prescription opioid treatment admissions from 2,152 to 4,793, representing a 123 percent jump. Individuals between the ages of 25 and 34 in Erie County seeking treatment for heroin and prescription opioid addiction increased 227 percent during that time period (from 595 in 2004 to 1,944 in 2013). Within the 18-24 age group, those treatment admissions increased by 251 percent (from 438 in 2004 to 1,537 in 2013). Statewide, there were more than 89,000 heroin and prescription opioid treatment admissions in 2013, up from 64,000 in 2004.

Senate Majority Co-Leader Dean Skelos said, "These new laws will bring our state one step closer to putting an end to the scourge of heroin and helping those struggling with addiction. I commend Senator Boyle, who led the Senate's efforts to highlight this issue in his role as Chairman of the Senate's Joint Task Force on Heroin and Opioid Addiction, and appreciate the input of all the members and hundreds of participants at the 18 forums conducted throughout state. With their help, New York is taking swift and decisive action to ensure treatment for those affected and to give law enforcement the tools they need to get heroin and opioids off our streets."

Senate Majority Co-Leader Jeffrey D. Klein said, "Under these new laws we provide individuals and families struggling with this dark substance the support they need and take aggressive, important action to crackdown on the epidemic of heroin use and abuse throughout New York State. I applaud Governor Cuomo for recognizing that New York needed to take a mindful, comprehensive approach in order to stem the tide of more pain and destruction as we serve as a model for other states battling this substance that robs our young people, families and communities."

Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said, "We must do all we can to end the scourge of heroin and opioid addiction. It is devastating to families. It weakens communities and it is taking an enormous toll on our state. By signing this legislation today, Governor Cuomo is sending the message that New York is fighting back against heroin and opioid abuse. Earlier this year the Assembly held a series of roundtables that brought together a wide range of advocates and stakeholders to explore the issues surrounding addiction and abuse and to discuss solutions. Today's comprehensive legislative package being signed into law incorporates extensive education and awareness efforts to stop substance abuse before it starts and provides the necessary tools to make a much-needed difference for families and our communities."

Senator George Maziarz said, "We must go after this dangerous epidemic from multiple directions. Law enforcement, doctors and our schools all need to be given the tools necessary to save lives. As a member of our special Senate task force, we made this comprehensive approach a priority. By signing this legislation Governor Cuomo is signaling it is time to fight back and start reversing this killer epidemic through education and providing services to those working toward recovery."

Senator Phil Boyle, Chairman of the Senate's Joint Task Force on Heroin and Opioid Addiction, said, "Today's bill signing demonstrates what government can do when working together to confront a crisis. And, there is no greater crisis facing the State of New York than the devastation that's been wrought by this heroin and opioid epidemic."

Senator Kemp Hannon, Chairman of the Senate Health Committee, said, "I am proud to join with Governor Cuomo in taking a proactive step forward in the fight against heroin. The bills that my colleagues and I passed -- including my bill to ensure that antidotes for heroin overdose are more available than ever before -- will save lives. Along with new treatment protocols, insurance protections and educational campaigns, these measures are a great asset in our battle with the deadly heroin epidemic."

Assemblywoman Crystal Peoples-Stokes said, "The personal stories that have been shared with me about how heroin is ruining the lives of young people are an indication that this devastating drug must be put in check or the destruction will continue. This comprehensive legislation provides SUNY schools with the additional tools needed to fight dangerous drugs and keep our students and campuses safe. By signing this bill at Buffalo State College, Governor Cuomo is sending a message that he is making the health and safety of New York's students a top priority."

Assembly Member Steven Cymbrowitz, Chair of the Assembly Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Committee said, "The alarming rise in heroin and opiate abuse we're seeing in New York State demands the kind of collaborative and multi-level response we're delivering today. This is a war we're waging against an insidious enemy, and we've seen too many casualties to sit back and let the heartbreak continue. Hard work went into crafting this package, and it will take additional hard work and continued vigilance to ensure that we meet our obligation to address the heroin and opiate crisis from all angles and with appropriate treatment for all who need it."

Assemblyman Jeffrey Dinowitz said, "The bills that Governor Cuomo has signed today represent an important advancement toward eradicating heroin from our communities. I am especially pleased that the Governor has signed my bill to increase the availability of overdose antidotes like naloxone and protect those who administer it in order to save another persons' life. This is a tremendous step to ensure the safety and health of our families and our communities, and I am proud to see it come to fruition."

Erie County Commissioner of Health Dr. Gale R. Burstein said, "This legislation is a tremendous step forward in the standardization of reimbursement for care for persons struggling with addictions. In addition, this legislation ensures that appropriate care is determined by medical need and healthcare providers, eliminating the differences in insurance coverage for these types of services. Furthermore, primary prevention, being one of the core functions of public health, will be strengthened by the expanded public awareness and education campaign."

Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown said, "I applaud the quick work of Governor Cuomo and the State Legislature in addressing a serious public health and safety issue that affects families in Buffalo and in cities across our great state and country. This new legislation to fight heroin abuse is yet another way we can come together to save lives and further protect more and more of our young people from this devastating addiction."

"This comprehensive legislation coordinates and bolsters the state's resources and gives SUNY colleges and universities across New York additional tools to fight dangerous drugs and keep our students and campuses safe," said SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher. "By signing this bill at Binghamton University, Governor Cuomo signals once again that the health and safety of New York's students is a top priority, and we are grateful for his leadership."

Heroin is a highly addictive narcotic, with users representing a variety of ages, races and other backgrounds. Fatal overdose, the contraction of Hepatitis C and/or HIV and addiction and dependence are among a plethora of negative side effects that can result from heroin use. In addition to physical danger, heroin use threatens a user's social ties -- often straining family bonds, friendships and professional relationships.

Across the nation, heroin abuse has been increasing at dangerously high rates in recent years. In 2013, there were 89,269 cases of heroin and prescription opiate treatment admissions in New York State alone, an increase from 63,793 in 2004. During this same time period, the drug also disproportionately impacted New Yorkers ranging in age from 18 to 24. Nationally, as many as 467,000 people were reportedly abusing heroin or suffering from heroin dependence in 2012.

The package of bills includes the following provisions:








Source:
