Public Statements
Video, Photos & Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Inspects Indian Point Nuclear Facility by Boat and Provides Update on Oil Spill
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 2, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today inspected Indian Point Nuclear Facility by boat and provided an update on the State's response to an oil spill reported at the facility.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks delivered at today's event is available below:
Governor Cuomo: Pleasure to be joined with Commissioner Seggos of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. We have Matt Franklin, who's the director of our Emergency Management for DEC. Dave Traver who's the head of Region 3 for DEC, which is this region, and he's also in charge of responses for spills, such as oil spills. Lieutenant Michael Buckley and Lieutenant Meg Filmer and Mr. Martin from the State Police. I thank them all for their time today.
On Friday there was a situation at Indian Point, where there was an apparent problem with one of the heat transfer mechanisms, and it discharged oil. Exactly how much oil we are not sure. At that time, the Indian Point company, Entergy, placed booms in the discharge canal to try to contain the oil. The question we were interested in today was, did we see oil getting past that discharge canal and oil entering the Hudson River. We did not see any oil apparently being discharged into the Hudson River, so that is the good news. But there are two questions here. What is the discharge of the oil? The second is the difficulty in the cooling mechanism for the turbine, which can be a more serious problem. That cooling mechanism has been taken offline, and that turbine is now operating with a secondary cooling mechanism until they find out what happened with the first one to cause the discharge of the oil. We did notice a number of abnormalities that Commissioner Seggos will speak to you about in a moment.
In general, this plant, since 2011, there have been over 40 extraordinary incidents. Since 2011, 40 extraordinary incidents. We have had tritium leaks. We have had steam leaks. We have had a fire in a transformer. We've had turbine failures, pump failures, weld failures, high levels of radioactivity in groundwater, so this plant is no stranger to dangerous situations, and that's why we take each and every one as seriously as we do. These are dangerous times. It seems like every week there's another emergency. There's another unthinkable event. We had the train crash in Hoboken last week. Week before that, we had the bombing in Chelsea, so we have our hands full, and there is no doubt that there is a series of dangerous events. Indian Point, if we ever had a major problem at Indian Point, that might be a problem that we could not solve, so my only answer to it is total vigilance, and when we hear of any problem on the plant, we respond and we respond directly and we respond expeditiously. Frankly I take more comfort in seeing the situation with my own eyes. I live in Westchester. I raised three children in Westchester, and there are many nights where I thought what would ever happen, God forbid, if something really went wrong at Indian Point, so we take nothing for granted. With that, let me turn it over to Commissioner Basil Seggos and then whatever questions you have, we will answer.

Source:
