Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Agreement with Legislative Leaders on Bill to Support Veterans, Servicemembers and Military Families
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 14, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced an agreement with legislative leaders on a bill to advance educational and professional opportunities for Veterans, active servicemembers and their families. Delivering on priority issues identified during the Governor's Veterans and Military Families Summit, the bill eases the transition to a new school for children of military families that relocate as a result of change of duty station, lowers the cost of higher education for Veterans receiving benefits under the GI bills, and offers military family members greater flexibility with professional licenses received from other states or jurisdictions. The bill also strengthens the supplemental burial assistance provided by the state to military families when a servicemember dies in combat or as a result of injuries sustained on the battlefield.

"In New York, our goal is not just to honor and support our veterans and their families one day a year, but truly every day," Governor Cuomo said. "In March we held the state's first ever Veterans and Military Families Summit to find new ways that we can support those who serve and their families year-round, and today we have reached an agreement that delivers on that promise. This bill helps children of military families succeed in school, eases the stress of relocating for family members whose jobs rely on their professional licenses, and takes the promise of the G.I. bill further than ever before in New York. This package honors the ultimate sacrifice of those who give their lives in the service of our country. I applaud the leaders of the Senate and Assembly for agreeing on this bill, which will further ensure that our Veterans, servicemembers and their families are supported and recognized each and every day."

Senate Majority Coalition Co-Leader Dean Skelos said, "It's critically important that we do everything possible in New York to make life a little easier for members of the military and their families. The heroic courage of these families is on display every single day, whether they are being deployed overseas to defend democracy, marching into battle or helping their son or daughter transition to a new school. This legislation, the result of the hard work of Senator Ranzenhofer, builds on our new law to extend additional opportunities to returning disabled veterans who own small businesses in New York State, and I am proud to join my partners in government in supporting it."

Senate Majority Coalition Co-Leader Jeffrey D. Klein said, "It's our duty to provide for our active duty service members, veterans and military families who sacrifice so much for our country. We value and honor their service and this bill ensures that our military families and returning service members are supported, whether it be keeping school transitions smooth for young children or making college tuition more affordable. Under this bill we also commit much needed financial assistance for the burial costs of service members in recognition to the families whose loved one paid the ultimate sacrifice for our country."

Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said, "We owe those who serve our country a huge debt of gratitude for their service and sacrifice. The Assembly, led by our Veteran's Affairs Committee Chairman Michael Benedetto, is committed to ensuring that veterans, active members of the military, and their families have the resources and services they need in order to do their jobs effectively. I thank the Governor for focusing on these issues and look forward to working with him and our partners in the Senate to help improve the lives of New York's military members and their families."

Protecting Educational Opportunities












Source:
