Public Statements
Maloney, Cuomo and Local Officials Announce Hudson Valley Safety Projects
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo Sean Maloney
Date: June 10, 2014
Location: Newburgh, NY

Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Governor Andrew Cuomo and local officials announced $6 million in federal Highway Safety Improvement Program funding for three major Hudson Valley projects including $2 million for Route 302 in Crawford.
"Strengthening vital infrastructure across the State is critically important to ensuring the safety of our communities, both today and for future generations," Governor Cuomo said. "With these projects we are providing modern safety improvements that benefit everyone on the road, from drivers to bicyclists and pedestrians. Working alongside our partners in the federal government, our administration will continue to upgrade essential transportation networks in every corner of the State in order to make our communities safer for all."
"These investments in our infrastructure across the Hudson Valley will make our sidewalks and streets safer for my neighbors while creating jobs and growing our local economy. Route 302 has been the site of too many accidents, and for years resident and local officials have called for safety improvements - working together, we're finally making the necessary safety improvement to protect students and families," said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney.
"The Lower Hudson Valley is a crossroads of commerce, and we need to ensure that all travelers -- no matter their means of transportation -- can get to their destinations safely throughout our community. These federal funds will support safety enhancements for pedestrians and drivers alike so that they can better share the road when approaching busy intersections. I will continue to work hard in Congress to bring home more commonsense infrastructure investments to New York," said Rep. Nita Lowey.
"It's a long time coming for safety improvements on Route 302. Our concern is keeping our residents safe and this critical federal investments will help this dangerous situation. I would like to thank the many officials who have finally made this important project possible," said Town of Crawford Supervisor Charles E. Carnes.
"Since I have been in office, repairing Route 302 has been the top concern of folks in Crawford, and my first priority. I am so grateful that now we can finally begin working on the parts of Route 302 that have been a danger to our friends and families for far too long," said Legislator Roseanne Sullivan, Orange County District 18.
Specifically, $2 million was awarded to improve pedestrian crossings at 235 locations in the Hudson Valley, installing pedestrian countdown timers at traffic signals that have crosswalks and/or pedestrian crossing phases and $2 million to improve safety along the Route 302 corridor in the Town of Crawford, Orange County. The project will resurface the roadway, install center-line rumble strips (CARDS) and new pavement markings, guiderails, signs and improve culverts. In addition, $2 million was awarded to realign the intersection of State Routes 172 and 117 in Mount Kisco, Westchester County, and add pedestrian signals and facilities at all four crosswalks. Federal funding was made available to the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT), which administers the Highway Safety Improvement Program. Projects for this highway safety funding are selected through a competitive process designed to support initiatives that have the greatest ability to reduce traffic fatalities and severe injuries.
In January, Maloney announced $611,029 for pedestrian safety improvements in the Town of Crawford for new sidewalks along Boniface Drive and Route 302, connecting the downtown area to the Pine Bush High School and town government center.
$2 Million for Resurfacing and Safety Improvements to Route 302 in Crawford

Source: http://seanmaloney.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/maloney-cuomo-and-local-officials-announce-hudson-valley-safety-projects
