Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Spring and Summer Farmers' Markets, Nursery Growers and Greenhouses Now Available on Open Data Website
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 5, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the locations of more than 450 spring and summer farmers' markets across the state as well as locations of licensed nursery growers and greenhouses are now available on the state's open data website, found at www.data.ny.gov. This comprehensive data website provides New Yorkers in the market for locally grown products with a user-friendly avenue to find them quickly in their area.

"Buying locally grown products is an easy way to support area farmers and businesses, and through our open data website it is easier than ever for New Yorkers to find farmers' markets and greenhouses in their area," Governor Cuomo said. "The Empire State is home to some of the most nutritious, highest quality home-grown products in the world, and I encourage all New Yorkers to check out data.ny.gov this summer and explore all that our State's agricultural sector has to offer."

The Governor's Open NY initiative is aimed at increasing citizen engagement with their government, and encourages New Yorkers to visit the State's comprehensive data transparency website, Data.NY.Gov, which highlights an array of resources and services for New Yorkers. With the summer tourism season rapidly approaching, some of the great things that can be found on the website include top fishing spots; wineries, breweries, cideries and distilleries; and places of historic significance.

The Farmers' Market Dataset includes information detailing the hours of operation and location of markets as well as the name and phone number of the market manager.
State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball said, "Governor Cuomo's support for New York's agriculture industry is helping to open up new markets and create new customers for locally grown products. Using the state's open data website, it's now easier than ever to find the farmers' market, nursery or greenhouse nearest you."

The State Department of Agriculture and Markets will continue to provide updated information on farmers' market locations for the website as they continue to arise throughout the summer. To confirm the hours and location before traveling, please contact the local market.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/06062014-farmers-markets-greenhouses
