Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Wager with California Governor Jerry Brown on Rangers-Kings Stanley Cup
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 3, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced an interstate wager with California Governor Jerry Brown on the matchup between the New York Rangers and the Los Angeles Kings in the 2014 Stanley Cup Final, which begins Wednesday, June 4.

If the Rangers win, Governor Brown will send Governor Cuomo:
"California: A History" by Kevin Starr.
Lundberg Organic Brown Rice Cakes, Lightly Salted.

If the Kings win, Governor Cuomo will send Governor Brown:
A Taste NY Gift Basket, featuring products from local businesses across the Empire State.
A commemorative hockey puck from the 2013 "Hat Trick" of three on-time budgets in a row.

Governor Cuomo said, "While 2014 is already a banner year for New York State hockey teams with Union College and Clarkson University as national college champions, the true icing on the cake would be a triumphant return of the Stanley Cup to the Empire State. Both the Rangers and the Kings have put forward spectacular championship runs and hockey enthusiasts from the East Coast to the West Coast can surely look forward to a hard fought series. However, given the tough, New York-resilient spirit with which the Rangers have advanced through the playoffs so far, I am wagering big on the Broadway Blueshirts with a Taste NY Basket of some of New York's finest products. Together with one of New York's biggest Rangers fans, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, we look forward to receiving the proceeds of Governor Brown's wager."

Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said, "Ice hockey is a way of life in the Empire State, part of a winter tradition that has been battled on lakes, ponds and rinks from Lake Placid to Long Island to Lake Erie for generations. In 1994, Governor Mario Cuomo and the New York Rangers delivered the Stanley Cup to New Yorkers. In 2014, Governor Andrew Cuomo and the Rangers will return the Cup to its rightful place, the great State of New York."

The Taste NY Gift Basket will include:
Original Anchor Bar Buffalo Wing Sauce, Erie County
Two award winning Ice Wines: The 2011 Vidal Blanc Ice Wine from the Leonard Oakes Estate Winery in Orleans County and the 2012 Vidal Blanc Ice Wine from the Hazlitt 1852 Vineyards in Schuyler County
Lupo's Spiedie Marinade, key ingredient for Binghamton's famous Spiedie Sandwich, Broome County
Gianelli Hot Italian Sausage, Onondaga County
Sammy and Annie Food's Chicken Riggie Pasta Sauce Starter, Oneida County
Parker's Pure New York Maple Syrup, Parker Family Maple Farm, Clinton County
America's First Kettle Chip, Saratoga Chips, Saratoga County
Apples from Fishkill Farms, Dutchess County
Red velvet cupcakes from Make My Cake, Harlem, Manhattan
Oysters harvested off of Long Island's shore, Braun Seafood Company, Suffolk County

The first game of the best-of-seven 2014 Stanley Cup Finals will be played Wednesday, June 4 at 8:00PM EST, in Los Angeles.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/06032014-cuomo-stanley-cup-wager
