Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Taste NY to Co-Sponsor Rare Beer Fest at the Brooklyn Brewery on June 5
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 16, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Taste NY will partner with the New York State Brewers Association on the Craft New York Rare Beer Fest on Thursday, June 5. The Rare Beer Fest will bring together 26 breweries from across the state featuring over 50 rare, unique, and award winning beers paired with a variety of locally sourced foods.

"Taste NY is bringing together 26 of the State's best craft breweries to showcase New York's craft beverage industry unique products," Governor Cuomo said. "Highlighting the world-class beer and food from our local brewers and growers is another way that we can raise the profile of small businesses across the State. I encourage New Yorkers to check out this great event and taste what our craft breweries have to offer."

The event will take place on Thursday, June 5, from 6-10 p.m. at The Brooklyn Brewery, 79 N. 11th St, Brooklyn, N.Y. Tickets can be purchased online or at the door.

The more than 25 craft breweries pouring rare and unique beers will come from every region of New York State. For example:

Schmaltz Brewing Company of Clifton Park will offer a 15th anniversary release aged in tequila barrels for a year.
Empire Brewing Company of Syracuse will offer Golden Dragon craft beer aged in Tuthilltown Rye barrels.
Crossroads Brewing Company of Athens will offer a full flavored stout with roasted malt notes and hints of chocolate, espresso, and dark caramel balanced by a firm hop bitterness. This was the 2014 World Beer Cup Gold Award winner for Foreign style Stout.

State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball said, "The rise in craft brewing operations across New York has resulted in a significant increase in agricultural entities to support these growing operations. Once again, Taste NY is working with industry to put on a marquee event where we are able to not only highlight the incredible beer, but the great local food available in the largest appetite in the world -- New York City."

Paul Leone, Executive Director of the New York State Brewers Association, said, "With so many beer festivals hitting the state, we thought we would hold an event that only the New York State Brewers Association and Taste NY could pull off, a rare beer festival with a local food element mixed in. It's important to us that we highlight as much "local' as possible at our events so New Yorkers can get a true taste of what's available to them in their state and region."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/05162014-rare-beer-fest
