Public Statements
Rus Transcript: Governor Cuomo Speaks with Media Before Departing for Israel
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 29, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Today, Governor Cuomo spoke with the media before departing for Israel to attend former President Shimon Peres' funeral.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is available below:
Good morning, good morning. First, we're just getting reports of a train accident in Hoboken. We'll get more information as the morning goes on. We've dispatched people and crews there to do anything they can and to be helpful in any way they can.
I'm leaving for the airport now. I'm going to the funeral of Shimon Peres. This is a sad, sad day. Many New Yorkers knew Shimon Peres. Many more should have. He was a great fan and friend to the State of New York. He was an extraordinary man. This is a man who started a public service career at 29 years old. He was a favorite of Ben-Gurion. He had almost every position in government that you could have. Served as President and Prime Minister. He won the Nobel Peace Prize, and he was all about peace. His spirit, his confidence was all about peace and bringing peace.
When you were in his presence, you felt that you were in the presence of a great man and a peaceful force. I had the good fortune to know him for many years. He was friends with my father who was the Governor of New York earlier on, and I worked with him when I was in the federal government in the Clinton administration. Bill Clinton was working to bring peace in the Middle East. I was doing my part to help as a cabinet minister and Shimon Peres was a very big part of that. He has given me the best personal advice in my life, the best political advice in my life. He talked about how terrorism was going to come to the United States, it was a matter of time, and that Israel was faced with so much terrorism because they were proximate to the terrorists, but that there would come a time where the distance would be transcended by the terrorists and that's where we are now. The internet has closed the gap between the Middle East and the United States and what he said is exactly coming true. The relationship with Israel is more important than ever before, because with what's happening in the Middle East, we have to remember -- Israel is our friend, and if we have a friend in that region it is Israel, and we also have a very strong cultural bond with Israel. We have more Jewish people in this state than any other place on the globe besides Israel. I have Jewish brothers-in-law in my family like so many other New York families. So on a cultural level, political level and personal level I feel this is the appropriate thing to do.
I don't like to leave the State of New York. I take very seriously that I am the Governor, and people expect me to be there, and if there's a snowstorm, they expect me to shovel their snow, and if there's a fire, they expect me to be there with a hose. That's how my father did his job before me and that's how I do the job. I don't like to leave the state, but I think this is the right exception and I'll be representing the state. I'm going to fly there and do the funeral and I'll be right back, so I won't be gone long.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-speaks-media-departing-israel
