Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $1.9 Million to Make Buildings More Energy Efficient
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 8, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 11 companies have been awarded a total of $1.9 million in funding to explore new technologies to increase energy efficiency in New York State buildings while helping to grow business in the building construction sector.

"Our state's position as a leader in clean energy depends on coming up with new innovative programs that make New Yorker greener," Governor Cuomo said. "Projects like these help reduce energy usage across the state in both commercial and residential buildings, pushing for increased efficiency and resiliency in our infrastructure. The partnerships announced today will address all stages of the product development process, helping to grow business while reducing fossil fuel use."

This is the third of six rounds of funding under the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority's (NYSERDA) Advanced Buildings Program, which will provide a total of $25 million through 2015. Through the program, NYSERDA is partnering with manufacturers, research scientists, building owners and property managers interested in developing and applying new and emerging energy-efficient technologies.

This competitive program seeks to accelerate the commercialization of new technologies that offer improved energy and environmental performance. Funding will be available through all stages of the product development process, from concept to commercialization, field installation and evaluation.

President and CEO of NYSERDA John B. Rhodes said, "These building research and development projects will spur energy savings in new and existing buildings. These innovative projects support Governor Cuomo's agenda for growing business and creating new jobs while reducing energy consumption in New York State."

Proposals awarded funding ranged from studies and proof-of-concept work to product development and demonstration projects. Specific areas of interest included construction materials and strategies, heating and cooling systems, solid-state lighting, demand response and smart buildings.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/05062014-buildings-energy-efficient
