Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches Scholarship Program to Encourage Top High School Students to Pursue STEM Careers in New York
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 6, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the launch of the New York State Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Incentive Program, which will encourage the best and brightest high school students to pursue high-demand, high-tech careers and build their future in New York. The program provides a full SUNY or CUNY tuition scholarship to the top ten percent of students in every New York high school if they major in a STEM field and work in a STEM job in New York State for five years after graduation.

"By helping New York's best and brightest students launch their careers in-state and in STEM fields, we are laying the foundation for a truly world-class workforce," Governor Cuomo said. "This program offers a tremendous step forward to the top ten percent of our high school students, and it will open doors not just for them but for our State as a whole. I am proud to launch the STEM Incentive Program this year, and I encourage all eligible students to apply today."

"Across New York, STEM careers are growing 2.5 times faster than those in any other field, and the Governor's incentive program is a valuable opportunity for the next generation to fill the gap," said SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher. "The program gives top-of-their-class students a world-class education in high-need fields while creating a pipeline of elite talent for the state where our workforce and economy need it the most. At SUNY, we are looking forward to getting this innovative program up and running."

"Innovative programs like the STEM Incentive Awards will help students compete in academic fields essential to the future of our state and nation," said CUNY Interim Chancellor William P. Kelly.

"Through this program, New York State is helping to foster a connection between a student's interest in STEM and their ability to successfully pursue a STEM career," said Elsa Magee, Acting President of New York State Higher Education Services Corporation (HESC), the state agency that will administer the program. "These awards will encourage more of our most talented students to pursue their love of science, technology, engineering and math in New York State, which benefits our State economy directly and the global economy, generally."

To be eligible for a STEM award, a student must be attending a New York State high school and be ranked in the top ten percent of his/her graduating class (beginning with the 2014 graduating class), and enroll in full-time study at a SUNY or CUNY college in the fall term following high school graduation. Award details and applications are available at the New York State Higher Education Services (HESC) website at HESC.ny.gov. Applications are due August 15, 2014.

About HESC: HESC is New York State's student financial aid agency that helps people pay for college and a national leader in providing need based grant and scholarship award money to college-going students. At HESC's core are programs like the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP), numerous state scholarships, federal college access grants and a highly successful College Savings program. HESC puts college within the reach of hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers each year through programs like these and through the guidance it provides to students, families and counselors. In 2012-13, HESC helped more than 342,000 students achieve their college dreams by providing more than $979.4 million in grants, scholarships and loan forgiveness benefits, including $931 million awarded through the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP).

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/05062014-scholarship-stem-careers
