Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $90 Million to Improve State Parks and Historic Sites Across the State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 22, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced New York State will advance 69 projects to improve and repair 53 State parks and historic sites. The projects are part of a $90 million statewide commitment funded in the 2014-15 State Budget, marking the third year of the New York Works initiative to revitalize New York's State park system, which will help connect our residents to nature, support recreational and tourism opportunities and demonstrate responsible stewardship of our celebrated state park system.

"As we celebrate Earth Day, we continue to invest in our parks and historic sites statewide," Governor Cuomo said. "New York is proud to have the nation's oldest State park system, and we will continue to do all that we can to preserve and guard these natural resources so that they can be enjoyed for generations to come."

Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation Commissioner Rose Harvey said, "Not only will this investment continue to make much needed repairs in cherished State Parks large and small, the Governor's 21st century transformation of our park system will enhance our environment, preserve our heritage, connect people with healthy, active outdoor recreation, and rev the engines of local economies."

The initiative provides renewed stewardship of New York State's flagship State Parks, which highlight the State's most unique natural treasures and are significant tourism destinations. This year's funding will launch a multi-year $65 million plan to restore the historic and aesthetic grandeur of Jones Beach State Park on the Long Island Coast; continue a $50 million revitalization of Niagara Falls State Park, the oldest State Park in the nation; and build a nature center at Letchworth State Park to enhance visits to the spectacular gorge known as "the Grand Canyon of the East."

This is the third year of a sustained commitment to revitalize the State park system launched by Governor Cuomo's New York Works program. The first two rounds of New York Works leveraged a $265 million investment in the park system, making improvements at 81 State parks and sites.

Senator Betty Little said, "It's fitting that we celebrate Earth Day by celebrating New York State's spectacular park system. These capital dollars are breathing new life into beloved state parks and historic sites, supporting tourism, and helping improve the quality of life in communities across the state."

Assemblywoman Margaret Markey said, "All New Yorkers will be delighted to see this continuing investment in our public parks and historic sites. I am proud we in the Assembly have helped insure that Governor Cuomo's New York Works program continues to improve and revitalize our precious natural treasures and recreational resources."

"Thanks to Governor Cuomo and the legislature, New York's state parks are benefiting from one of the greatest periods of investment in their history," said Erik Kulleseid, executive director of the Open Space Institute's Alliance for New York State Parks. "On behalf of the more than 60 million people who visit state parks each year, we are grateful for the sustained commitment to a fully‐restored, vibrant and inviting state park system."

The New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation oversees 179 state parks and 35 historic sites, which are visited by 60 million people annually. A recent study commissioned by Parks & Trails New York found that New York State Parks generates $1.9 billion in economic activity annually and supports 20,000 jobs.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/04222014State-Parks-Historic-Sites
