Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Encourages Shoppers to Use the Pride of NY Website to Search for Made in New York Items for Easter This Weekend
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 16, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today encouraged New Yorkers to purchase products made in New York for their Easter gift giving by utilizing the Pride of NY website and looking for the "Pride of NY" label when shopping for foods and beverages.
"As families gather this weekend to celebrate the Easter Holiday, I urge New Yorkers to take advantage of the many first-rate products grown and made here in the Empire State," Governor Cuomo said. "When shopping this weekend, I encourage New Yorkers to consider selecting products with the "Pride of NY' label, and support our State's small businesses, farms, and local communities."
The state's revamped Pride of NY website, located at www.prideofny.com, enables New Yorkers to search for the best in locally grown and produced New York State food and beverage products. You will find everything from the wines of Casa Larga in Fairport and award-winning craft beers from Brown's Brewing Co. in Troy, to eggs from Stewart's Shops that are ideal for an Easter egg hunt, to maple candy products that will go perfect in a child's Easter basket.
The website allows consumers to conduct specific searches of databases from the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets in a user friendly format. Searchers first choose from among the main categories, such as Baked Goods, Dairy, Meat and Poultry, and Seafood. They can then choose the type of business they're looking for, whether it's a retail outlet, a restaurant, a farm, a manufacturer, or several other classifications. They then give their zip code and choose how far they're willing to travel. There is an additional option for those who would like directions to the location.
The website also features a map and list showing various search results, which include addresses and contact information of each establishment. There are more than 3,000 members of the "Pride of New York" program listed in this database along with numerous other agribusinesses.
Acting State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball said, "Some of the best agricultural producers in the state are members of our Pride of New York program. There are many delicious foods to choose from under this program that are perfect for the coming Easter holiday, so check out the website, check out the products, and show support for New York agriculture through Pride of NY today."
"Pride of New York" is the state's branding program for the promotion of New York food, beverage and agricultural products. It is an important component of Governor Cuomo's Taste NY initiative, which is dedicated to bringing to New Yorkers the best products grown and made in the state. In October 2013 Governor Cuomo unveiled the "Pride of New York" Pledge, a new initiative that encourages restaurants and chefs across the state to increase their use of New York products by 10 percent or more.
To find out more about the Pride of NY program, call 1-800-554-4501 or visit www.prideofny.com. To join the Pride of NY program, visit: https://www.prideofny.com/PONY/pdfs/PrideGenApp.pdf

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/04162014Pride-of-NY
