Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Final Approval of $8 Billion MRT Waiver to Protect and Transform New York's Health Care System
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 14, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York has finalized terms and conditions with the federal government for a groundbreaking waiver that will allow the state to reinvest $8 billion in federal savings generated by Medicaid Redesign Team (MRT) reforms. The MRT waiver amendment will transform the state's health care system, bend the Medicaid cost curve, and ensure access to quality care for all Medicaid members.
"We will finally be able use the billions in savings we generated by reforming the state's Medicaid system to protect and improve health care services for millions of New Yorkers," said Governor Cuomo. "In 2011, New York did what people said couldn't be done: we overhauled our Medicaid system to save taxpayers billions while delivering better health care. This waiver amendment allows us to invest these savings in keeping Brooklyn's hospitals open, providing new community based primary care clinics in neighborhoods that need them and preserving health care services across our state."
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said, "Today's announcement is a major milestone that will help break the vicious cycle of heedless hospital closures across our city. With this funding, we can pivot from reacting to crises to proactively transforming our healthcare system for the long-term. Our administration is proud to have worked alongside Governor Cuomo to ensure New York received what it deserved. Thanks to the Governor's leadership, and the collaboration of Senator Schumer and Secretary Sebelius, we can reinvest in our community hospitals--particularly those threatened in Brooklyn--and deepen our commitment to neighborhood healthcare. The City stands ready to work with our State partners to ensure we invest these resources wisely and make the most of this historic opportunity."
The Medicaid 1115 waiver amendment will enable New York to fully implement the MRT action plan, facilitate innovation, lower health care costs over the long term, and save scores of essential safety net providers from financial ruin. The waiver allows the state to reinvest over a five-year period $8 billion of the $17.1 billion in federal savings generated by MRT reforms.
The waiver amendment dollars will address critical issues throughout the state and allow for comprehensive reform through a Delivery System Reform Incentive Payment (DSRIP) program. The DSRIP program will promote community-level collaborations and focus on system reform, specifically a goal to achieve a 25 percent reduction in avoidable hospital use over five years. Safety net providers will be required to collaborate to implement innovative projects focusing on system transformation, clinical improvement and population health improvement. Single providers will be ineligible to apply. All DSRIP funds will be based on performance linked to achievement of project milestones.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/04142014-mrt-waiver
