Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Selection of 215 Additional New York State Master Teachers
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 14, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the selection of 215 educators from all ten regions of the state to expand the first cohort of New York State Master Teachers. These educators join the 104 Master Teachers announced in October 2013, bringing the total number of Master Teachers in New York to 319.
"The Master Teacher Program creates a community of teacher experts dedicated to providing a first-rate learning experience for students across New York, and contributes to our efforts to attract and retain the best and the brightest in our STEM classrooms," Governor Cuomo said. "Investing in our teachers is investing in our students, and I am pleased to welcome and congratulate 215 additional outstanding teachers to this program, who have already proven to be some of the highest-performing professionals in their field."
SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher said, "The Master Teacher Program allows for our brightest STEM educators to share their experience and knowledge with their colleagues, furthering student success and helping to improve college readiness across the state. This program complements the newly established STEM scholarship program that will provide full tuition scholarships to any SUNY college or university to New York's best high school graduates if they pursue a STEM career and work in New York for five years. The University's continued partnership with Governor Cuomo is helping contribute to the STEM workforce that will keep New York competitive in the 21st century global innovation economy."
These 215 Master Teachers will become part of the inaugural cohort of the Master Teacher Program, which has engaged Master Teachers in the Central NY, Western NY, Mid-Hudson, and North Country regions in content-rich professional development activities since the fall of 2013. At SUNY campuses in every region, STEM and Education leadership and faculty work to lead the transformation of STEM teaching and learning in New York.
The newly named Master Teachers have over 2,700 years of combined full-time teaching experience. Subjects of expertise include calculus, algebra, physics, earth science, chemistry, engineering design and development, and genetics. The Master Teachers already fulfill various leadership roles within their school districts--such as department chairs, curriculum development leaders, and STEM club sponsors--and contribute to their communities as active members of professional associations, technology innovators, and athletics coaches.
On August 15, 2014, all Master Teachers are invited to attend the first annual Master Teacher Program professional development conference, "New York State Master Teachers: Inspiring the Next Generation of STEM Leaders." This dynamic event will allow for these outstanding educators to design, lead, and participate in enriching professional development workshops.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/04142014-nys-master-teachers
