Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Nearly $2.6 Million in Nursing Faculty Scholarships Available
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 11, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the 2014 scholarship competition for the Patricia K. McGee Nursing Faculty Scholarship Program, administered by the New York State Higher Education Services Corporation, which encourages nurses to continue their education, become nurse-educators, and live and work in New York State.
"Nurses are the backbone of our healthcare system," Governor Cuomo said. "As the U.S. continues to grapple with a critical nursing shortage, we're making important investments to train the next generation of qualified nurses. These scholarships will help keep nurses here in New York, ensuring our state's medical system continues to be among the best in the nation."
The McGee Nursing Faculty Scholarship, named in memory of the late state Senator Patricia K. McGee, who worked tirelessly to address the shortage of nursing faculty in New York, covers the cost of attendance up to $20,000 annually for three academic years of graduate study, or the average cost of attendance at a SUNY college, whichever is less. Awards are made on a competitive basis to RNs enrolling in a graduate program that will qualify them as nursing faculty or adjunct clinical faculty. Successful applicants will be required to fulfill a four-year agreement to provide teaching service at an institution in New York State.
Acting President of HESC Elsa Magee said, "According to one report, statewide, 2,900 qualified nursing students were denied admission to RN programs in 2012, largely due to enrollment limits at on-site nursing schools, caused by a shortage of nursing faculty. These nursing faculty scholarships will help to ensure that we have enough faculty to train those who want to provide direct care."
Last year, 89 awards were made to nurses who are continuing their education to become nursing faculty. More scholarships are available.
Details and an online application are available on the HESC website at hesc.ny.gov; deadline to apply for the 2014 series is June 15, 2014.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/04112014-nursing-faculty-scholarship
