Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Hosts Second New York State Wine, Beer, Spirits and Cider Summit
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 8, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today hosted the second New York State Wine, Beer, Spirits and Cider Summit, where he announced that the State will be launching a $6 million marketing and promotional commitment to raise the profile of New York's beverage producers, a dramatic increase from the campaign launched at the first summit in 2012. Today's summit brought the farm-based beverage sector together with agricultural producers and government officials in an effort to accelerate and prolong the rapid growth exhibited by the State's beverage industry.
Under the new marketing and promotional commitment announced by the Governor, the State will commit $2 million in direct spending to support the industry's growth via a $1 million targeted advertising campaign and $1 million in tourism promotion funding. Additionally, Empire State Development (ESD) will launch a $2 million grant program that matches $2 million in industry contributions for the marketing and promotion of wine, beer, spirits and cider produced in New York State. Entities deemed eligible for this grant funding will include not-for-profit organizations whose primary purpose and mission is the promotion and marketing of New York State produced wine, beer, spirits and cider.
"Agriculture and tourism have the potential for tremendous growth in New York, and over the past few years we have seen that our investments in the farm-based beverage industry are resulting in new opportunities for small business owners throughout the State," Governor Cuomo said. "The proposals and actions announced today will make it easier than ever before to start a farm-based beverage business, raise the profile of producers across the State, and open up new markets where our entrepreneurs can succeed. Today's summit was all about creating jobs and stimulating the economy, and I am confident that by working alongside our partners in the private sector our producers will be able to thrive and compete anywhere in the world."
Since the first summit, legislation has been enacted and initiatives have been launched to help the beverage industry open new markets and expand its visibility across the globe. This in turn has helped create thriving new businesses, increase agritourism opportunities and grow jobs in every region of the state. Since the first quarter of 2011, State actions that support agricultural producers have contributed to an 83 percent growth in farm-based beverage licenses.
Senate Majority Coalition Co-Leader Dean G. Skelos said, "New York has a host of businesses and products that put our state on the map as a leader in agriculture-based beverages, including our award-winning craft breweries and wineries that stretch from the Finger Lakes to Long Island, as well as the small, artisanal distilleries and cider-makers that are just starting up. The initiatives Governor Cuomo is proposing to bolster New York State's beverage industry will help to ensure that small businesses can continue to grow. Not only do these proposals encourage entrepreneurship, but they help businesses succeed and stay here in New York."
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said, "Agriculture is one of New York State's most powerful competitive advantages and a building block for economic development. Our burgeoning wine, beer, spirits and cider production industry is incredibly valuable to our state and local economies, creating jobs and opportunities from the Hudson Valley to the shores of Lake Erie. The Assembly Majority is eager to continue our work with the vintners, brewers, distillers, farmers and other stakeholders to further nurture this growing industry and to help make these "Made in New York' products the very best in the world."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/04082014-second-wbsc-summit
