Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Over 2,400 Jobs Supported by Latest Round of ReCharge NY Power Allocations
Press Release
By: Amy Paulin George Maziarz Joseph Griffo Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 25, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the New York Power Authority (NYPA) Board of Trustees has approved another round of low-cost power allocations under the statewide ReCharge NY program. Approximately 5.8 megawatts (MW) of low-cost power will be distributed among 14 businesses in Western New York, the Finger Lakes, Mid-Hudson area, New York City and Long Island and are expected to leverage in excess of $207 million in capital investment commitments. Of the more than 2,400 jobs supported by this round of allocations, about 670 jobs are being newly created.
"ReCharge NY is one of the strongest tools in the Empire State's economic development arsenal," Governor Cuomo said. "Low-cost power for businesses has helped create thousands of high-impact jobs in local communities, and its ripple effect of ReCharge NY can be felt statewide. Innovative initiatives like ReCharge NY continue to establish New York as a great place for businesses to thrive and grow."
This is the eighth round of power allocations under the ReCharge NY program, which is administered by NYPA and designed to spur economic development by providing lower-cost power to businesses and other entities that agree to retain or create jobs.
NYPA Chairman John Koelmel said, "With today's action, more than a dozen companies can now be added to the growing list of ReCharge NY recipients. These businesses will all be afforded impactful savings on their monthly energy bills, granting them the latitude to prioritize other business needs."
NYPA President and CEO Gil Quiniones said, "NYPA has been diligent in working to allocate lower-cost ReCharge NY power to every region in the state. This latest round of allocations will not only support thousands of jobs, but it will also facilitate the investment of hundreds of millions of dollars into communities all over the state."

Source:
