Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Support from More Than 250 Local Elected Officials in Push to Cut Property Taxes
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 25, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced support from more than 250 local elected officials for his plan to cut property taxes. The Governor also detailed his proposal to cut property taxes and encourage local governments to reduce costs earlier today at the Dewitt Community Room in Onondaga County.
"New York State cannot afford to be the tax capital of the nation any longer -- our homeowners need real property tax relief," Governor Cuomo said. "Building on the success of the property tax cap, this year's budget includes more than $1 billion in property tax relief for New York's homeowners. It also addresses the root cause of property tax growth by encouraging local governments to share services and reduce their financial impact on the taxpayer. Over the past few weeks we have heard from hundreds of local officials all across the State who recognize the need for property tax reform and have made their voices heard in support of this agenda. I urge the State legislature to stand with them by cutting property taxes this year, so that we can take the next step toward a more affordable and more prosperous New York."
The Governor was joined at today's event by Chris Haywood, an 11-year resident of Onondaga County.
Chris Haywood said, "As an 11-year resident of Onondaga County and a resident of Oneida County before that, I know firsthand how property taxes are impacting the budgets of working- and middle-class families in Upstate New York. This out-of-control tax burden cuts into how much my wife and I are able to spend on basic essentials like groceries, school supplies, and college funds for our four children. That is why I'm supporting the Governor's proposal to cut property taxes. It will mean hundreds of dollars in savings to families like mine, and is something that the legislature needs to pass this year."
Onondaga County Executive Joanie Mahoney said, "We share the Governor's concern that New York's high property taxes are hindering growth in our community. We support Governor Cuomo's focus on bringing real property tax relief by encouraging government modernization."
Dewitt Town Supervisor Ed Michalenko said, "High property taxes are one of the leading reasons that people are being forced to leave the region and the state, and we must do something about them this year. The Governor's plan to cut property taxes would help families in Central New York save hundreds of dollars on their tax bills, and it is something I fully support. Homeowners in Central New York should not be burdened by these excessively high tax rates any longer, and I stand with the Governor in calling on the State legislature to pass property tax reform this year."
Onondaga County Legislator Danny Liedka said, "Like many other regions of the State, high property taxes in Onondaga County have stifled businesses and hurt our families, ultimately encouraging people to leave the State for lower-tax alternatives. We can't allow this to continue, and that's why I support the Governor's plan to cut property taxes while incentivizing local governments to cut costs. His approach encourages local governments to reduce their impact on the taxpayer by reforming and shrinking the bureaucracy, and it will deliver badly needed tax relief to our property owners. The legislature must pass this proposal this year so we can continue rebuilding the economy and making Upstate New York affordable again."
The Governor's plan would freeze property taxes for two years in communities where the local government also takes steps to consolidate and share services, and would provide relief based on an individual homeowner's ability to pay. During year two of the Governor's freeze proposal, approximately 207,000 Central New York homeowners could benefit, with total savings of as much as $44 million and an average benefit of $215. Under the circuit breaker proposal, approximately 129,000 households will qualify for an average real property personal income tax credit of $375, totaling $48 million in savings to Central New York residents.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/03252014-cut-property-taxes
