Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces "Bridge to Success" Loan Program for Minority and Women Contractors
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 24, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the launch of the Bridge to Success loan program, now available through participating lenders committing at least $20 million to expand access to short-term bridge loans for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprises (MWBEs). The program will provide qualified MWBEs with the short-term resources they need to participate in up to $1 billion in contracting opportunities with New York State.
"Small businesses are the engine of New York's economy, but because of their size they have a harder time getting the capital they need to compete for state contracts," Governor Cuomo said. "To encourage their full participation in rebuilding our economy, the Bridge to Success program will help more small businesses access short-term loans so they can do business with New York's agencies and authorities. Supporting MWBEs is one more way we're expanding economic opportunity for all New Yorkers."
Empire State Development (ESD) is providing $2.73 million under the Bridge to Success program in loan loss reserves to five participating lenders who will make $20 million available in much needed, short-term, working capital loans to qualifying MWBEs. ESD's support stimulates increased lending in this area and enables participating lenders to mitigate risk.
Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Kenneth Adams said, "By partnering with high capacity lenders around the state, we are dramatically increasing the lending opportunities for MWBEs looking to work with the State. Many banks are reluctant to provide credit to these firms given the short-term nature of their capital need and the size and experience of many of these companies, despite a good idea or track record. The Governor's Bridge to Success Program levels the playing field and opens the door for businesses that face challenges using traditional funding sources."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/03242014-bridge-to-success
