Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces that New York State Office for New Americans has Assisted more than 34,000 Immigrants in First Year
Press Release
By: Cesar Perales Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 21, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that more than 34,000 immigrants were assisted by the New York State Office for New Americans (ONA) during its first year of operations. The Governor launched ONA in March 2013 to assist newcomers in the State who are eager to contribute to our economy and become part of the family of New York. ONA is the first office of its kind to create a direct service provision infrastructure of centers focused on immigrant integration.
"New York has a proud history of welcoming and supporting immigrants seeking greater opportunity for themselves and their families" said Governor Cuomo. "Our recently established Office of the New Americans is continuing that legacy by giving tens of thousands of new residents in our state the help and support they need to realize their hopes."
Immigrants are vital contributors to New York State's economy with their significant purchasing power and capacity to generate new jobs. Today, 4.2 million immigrants live in New York State, and one in four New Yorkers of working age are foreign- born. According to the Immigration Policy Center, in 2010, 31.2 percent of all business owners in New York State were foreign-born. That number rises to 36 percent in the New York City metropolitan area. These businesses had a total net business income of $12.6 billion, representing 22.6 percent of all net business income in the state. New York's immigrants are responsible for $229 billion in annual economic output annually.
"I applaud Governor Cuomo for his dedication to helping immigrants in New York State succeed," said New York Secretary of State Cesar A. Perales, who oversees the Office for New Americans for Governor Cuomo. "The New York State Office for New Americans enhances our State's historic role as leader on immigrant issues in New York."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/03212014-immigrant-assistance
