Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Encourages New Yorkers to Celebrate Women's History Month
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 14, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today encouraged residents and visitors alike to learn about New York women's contributions to history, culture and society and celebrate in Women's History Month. Through the Governor's Path Through History initiative, New Yorkers can explore women's heritage sites and key events like the nation's first women's rights convention that took place in 1848 in Seneca Falls or the "First Lady of the World" Eleanor Roosevelt's home in Hyde Park.

"New York State has been inspired by the great contributions of New York women for over two centuries," said Governor Cuomo. "The Path Through History gets visitors started on a journey back in time to discover and celebrate the diverse people whose accomplishments made our state great. I encourage all New Yorkers to learn more about these extraordinary women who helped transform our culture and society."

Women's Rights is one of 13 themes used to organize 500-plus heritage sites across the state through the Path Through History initiative. Those looking to celebrate Women's History Month in March can learn about the important role women played in the women's suffrage and civil rights movement, but also about New York women in various fields from education to entertainment at museums and historic sites around the state. Visitors can locate sites by looking for the Path Through History marker on major state highways as well as additional local signage. In addition, the Path Through History web page--www.paththroughhistory.ny.gov-- provides a list of sites.

"New York led the way in establishing women's rights and that long journey can be traced and recounted by visiting historical sites and museums all across the state," said Senator Betty Little, chair of the Senate Cultural Affairs, Tourism, Parks and Recreation Committee. "Path Through History encourages an interactive approach to learning about our past and developing a deeper understanding of the dedication of those who came before us and fought so hard. It's enriching tourism and something I hope many people take advantage of this month."

Assemblywoman Margaret Markey, Chair of the Assembly Tourism, Parks, Arts and Sports Development Committee, said, "New York women had a vital role in the nationwide suffrage movement that led to the adoption of the 19th Amendment. They still provide the same inspiration and determination as the struggle for equal rights for women continues in our times. All New Yorkers should take pride in the "Path Through History" program that spotlights important sites that reflect the spirit of these pioneering women."

"Governor Cuomo's Path Through History initiative was created to connect historically and culturally significant locations throughout the state to attract visitors and boost the economy," said Empire State Development Division of Tourism Executive Director Gavin Landry. "The hundreds of Path Through History sites identify historical assets and provide a platform to recognize and honor both the struggles and achievements of great New York women in our nation's history."

Several of the key Women's Rights sites along the Path Through History are highlighted below, as well as other locales honoring the contributions of women.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/03142014Celebrate-Womens-History-Month
