Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Additional Legislation to Strengthen New York State's Craft Beverage Industry
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 13, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed two measures to further modernize New York's archaic 80-year-old Alcoholic Beverage Control Law.
These bills (S.5707-A/A.7960-A, S. 5341/A.5580) allow farm wineries, breweries and cideries to sell any New York-made farm alcoholic beverage by the glass at their production facility or off-site branch store. Under current law, farm manufacturers are limited to selling only products by the glass they produce on site.
"These new laws further break down artificial barriers and help increase exposure to New York's world class beer, wine, cider and spirits, which will help this already booming industry grow further," Governor Cuomo said. "As I've said many times, when New Yorkers buy and support New York products, everyone wins."
Today's signing comes on the heels of the Governor's recent visit to the Genesee Brew House in Rochester, where he signed additional legislation to modernize the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law by allowing for the sale of alcoholic beverages at on-premises establishments before noon on Sunday. Video of the event is available here and photos are available here.
These new laws will provide for increased sales of New York State homegrown manufactured products and further support New York's thriving manufacturing business, providing more consumers the opportunity to sample the best New York has to offer. By removing this archaic provision to the law, this legislation expands a major revenue source for both established manufacturers and new businesses entering the market.
New York State farm-based alcohol beverage manufacturers, who have more than doubled in number since 2011 and have seen a 13 percent increase in the last year alone, provide local communities where they operate with increased tax revenue, job opportunities, increased demand for farm products, and a bolstered tourism impact for the state.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-signs-additional-legislation-strengthen-new-york-states-craft-beverage-industry
