Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces First Payments of Landmark Agreement to Madison and Oneida Counties
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 11, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo and the Oneida Nation of New York today marked the formal approval of a milestone settlement by initiating the first of substantial dedicated payments to Madison and Oneida counties. Governor Cuomo and Oneida Nation Representative Ray Halbritter today announced the transfer of $11 million to Madison County to settle tax claims. Madison will also soon begin benefitting from annual payments of $3.5 million from the state pursuant to the agreement with the Oneida Nation. Annually, Oneida County will begin receiving payments next month of approximately $10-$12 million from the state's share of revenue from the Oneida Nation net win from slot machines. Additionally, the state will provide Oneida County with an additional $2.5 million for the next 19 and ¼ years to cover tax claims.

Last week, U.S. District Court Judge Lawrence E. Kahn accepted the New York State and Oneida agreement settling decades of dispute and putting to rest outstanding land claim, gaming, tobacco taxation and revenue sharing issues. The Court's approval was the final step in putting the full agreement into effect, as it was previously ratified by the New York State Legislature, Madison County and Oneida County, the U.S. Department of Interior and the New York State Attorney General.

"Today is a great step forward that ends decades of litigation and centuries of dispute that will allow investment, economic development and aid in the creation of jobs throughout the region," Governor Cuomo said. "As these payments signify, we now embark on a new chapter of partnership and mutual respect where all involved communities can benefit and prosper. It took leadership to make this happen and I thank Oneida Representative Halbritter and our leaders in Madison and Oneida counties for working so hard to bring this agreement to fruition and I look forward to continuing our partnership."

Ray Halbritter, Oneida Indian Nation Representative, said, "The Oneida Nation is honored to be a part of this agreement, which represents a commitment to mutual respect, equal partnership and shared prosperity. Governor Cuomo's focus, integrity and willingness to negotiate a fair agreement helped make this historic accomplishment possible. With New York State, Oneida and Madison counties now as full partners, we have ensured a sustainable economic engine for the entire region for generations to come."

John M. Becker, Chairman of the Madison County Board of Supervisors, said, "On behalf of Madison County, we thank Governor Cuomo for his steadfast leadership in bringing 20 years of dispute to a close. These substantial payments are more than a fiscal boost for the county -- they are a signal that working together and finding common ground can lead to positive change."

Anthony J. Picente Jr., Oneida County Executive, said, "I want to thank Governor Cuomo for his leadership during this process. Governor Cuomo, Nation Representative Halbritter and Chairman Becker showed the effort and continued willingness to get this agreement done, I thank them for it. Today is a good day for our region. I have said, my entire time in office, we needed to come to the table and jointly work out our differences. I was honored to be a part of reaching this agreement, and am grateful to see it come to fruition today. The commencement of annual revenue sharing brings with it increased fiscal stability and a positive outlook for everyone. We move on together as partners in prosperity."

The settlement reached last year ends decades of litigation over property tax, land and reservation issues. The agreement grants the Oneida Nation exclusive rights to casino gaming in Central New York in exchange for sharing a portion of gaming revenues with the state and local governments. In addition, the agreement ends legal disputes over land claims by setting a cap of approximately 25,000 acres on land that could be under the Nation's sovereignty. Further, the agreement ends unfair competition by requiring the Nation to adhere to minimum pricing standards and charge a sales-tax equivalent for cigarette sales to non-Indian customers.

Prior to the agreement, New York State and the Oneida Nation had ongoing disputes since 1795. The Nation, the State and the counties had been in litigation since 1970 and there had been multiple failed attempts to resolve the disputes.

The agreement is detailed below:

Tribal Revenue Sharing with State and Local Governments and Gaming Exclusivity

Under the agreement, the Oneida Nation has exclusive rights to casino gaming in a ten county region of Central New York (Cayuga, Chenango, Cortland, Herkimer, Lewis, Madison, Oneida, Onondaga, Oswego, and Otsego counties). Vernon Downs is authorized to continue its existing harness racing and video lottery facility. In exchange, the Nation is devoting 25 percent of its net gaming revenue from its slot machines to the State of New York, which is estimated to be at $40-$50 million annually.

In addition to today's $11 million to Madison County to settle past tax claims, the state share of revenue from the Nation is distributed as follows:

Madison County will receive $3.5 million per year from the New York State share.
Oneida County, as the host county, will receive 25 percent of the state's payment (approximately $10-$12 million) annually and in addition will receive a $2.5 million for the next 19 and ¼ years to cover tax claims.

Settling Land Claims

Under the settlement, the Oneida Nation has agreed to a permanent cap of approximately 25,000 acres of land which may be taken into trust by the Department of Interior as Nation land. Oneida and Madison County will drop their legal claims concerning land disputes against the Oneida Nation and the State of New York will withdraw its support for those legal claims. The Nation expressly waives its rights of sovereignty over any land over the cap amount.

Ending Unfair Competition

The settlement requires the Oneida Nation to impose a Nation sales tax that equals or exceeds the State's and counties' sales, use and occupancy taxes.

Under the agreement:

The Nation sales tax will apply to all cigarettes, motor fuel, and all other sales by Indian retailers to non-Indians.
The Nation will adhere to minimum pricing standards for cigarette products.
The Nation will use sales tax revenues only for the same types of governmental programs to which the State and Counties devote their tax revenues.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/03112014Landmark-Agreement
