Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Unveils New Hunting, Fishing, Hiking and Recreational Projects
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 7, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today unveiled 50 proposed new outdoor access projects to connect hunters, anglers, bird watchers and other outdoor enthusiasts to 380,000 acres of untapped State-owned lands across New York. The new access points will allow for more than $6 million in projects for access to hunting and fishing, boat launches, and new hiking opportunities.

"Expanding access to more of the beautiful lands that New York has to offer will open recreational opportunities that for too long have not been available to our residents and tourists," Governor Cuomo said. "These projects will enrich the outdoor activity offerings, improve the quality of life in our communities, and position New York State as a recreation destination."

The universally designed projects will provide people of all ages and abilities access to a variety of beautiful natural areas and a range of activities and experiences. In addition to hunting access, boat launches, fishing platforms and hiking trails, there will be improved access to existing recreational trails, additional parking areas, trail maps, signage and kiosks. Many projects will make trails and launches available to persons with disabilities for the first time.

These plans also support the NY Open for Fishing and Hunting Initiative, which aims to boost tourism opportunities throughout the state by improving recreational activities for in-state and out-of-state sportsmen and sportswomen. This includes the streamlining of hunting and fishing licensing, reducing license fees, and improving access for fishing and hunting opportunities at various sites across the state.

Additional actions intended to help make New York a world-class destination for year-round recreation include:

Unveiling the new NYS Adventure License to allow outdoor enthusiasts, boaters, anglers and hunters to consolidate their recreation licenses and benefits onto their New York State Driver's License (please visit the NYS License Center website for more information on licensing or to apply for an outdoor recreational license);
Debuting the Lifetime Empire Passport, which offers visitors to State Parks the option of paying a one-time fee to experience all that New York State Parks has to offer throughout their lifetime;
Introducing New York State Adventure License Plates, featuring nine plate designs available for free to those buying new lifetime hunting, fishing or park licenses in 2014; and
Proposing to limit the liability of landowners who allow recreational activities on their properties, which could open up vast, untapped resources for additional hunting, fishing and many other recreational pursuits;
Proposing to allow crossbow hunting once again in New York State.

Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Joe Martens said, "For generations, New Yorkers and visitors to our state have enjoyed recreational activities in our spectacular forests and scenic trails, and on pristine lakes and rivers. Governor Cuomo's commitment to expanding outdoor access and recreational opportunities builds on New York's rich outdoor heritage and will be benefit hunters, anglers and people of all ages."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/03072014-new-recreational-projects
