Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Unveils New and Improved DMV Website
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 28, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today unveiled dmv.ny.gov, a new, redesigned website for the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) that will allow customers to order replacement driver licenses and renew registration on mobile devices, make online reservations for DMV visits, as well as more easily utilize 35 other DMV services online. Additionally, users can sign up for mobile alerts to be reminded when registration and vehicle inspection deadlines approach.

"This new website is a one stop shop for DMV resources - updated to match the ever changing ways New Yorkers use technology to access information in the 21st century," Governor Cuomo said. "This redesign is another step in the state's effort to make government more innovative, efficient and available to the people it serves."

The new website improves two of the most popular online customer service transactions, registration renewal and replacement driver license, learner permit or non-driver ID cards, which now have an optimized look and feel for use on mobile devices. It also lets users more easily find specific online transactions and make a reservation at any state-run DMV office.

DMV will release a new design for a third mobile transaction, renewing a driver license or non-driver ID, in March. DMV ultimately plans to add more features for use on mobile devices, and to use the responsive design for all online transactions.

In 2013, New Yorkers completed a combined total of 2,189,498 of the three most popular online transactions. Of those, 1,840,407 were registration renewals, 220,979 were driver license, learner permit, or non-driver ID replacements and 128,112 were driver license and non-driver ID renewals.

Commissioner of Department of Motor Vehicles Barbara J. Fiala said, "The goal of our Customer Service Initiative is to make DMV's entire operation fast, easy and convenient. This redesign is a big step in that direction, making it as easy to conduct transactions on a smart phone or tablet as it is on a desktop or laptop computer."

With DMV transactions enhanced for use on mobile devices, Governor Cuomo encourages New Yorkers to keep their hands on the wheel and eyes on the road, in the continued effort to reduce the deadly consequences of distracted driving.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/02282014-new-dmv-website
