Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Inspection Blitz to Protect New Yorkers From Potential Accidents Involving Volatile Crude Oil
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 28, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that state officials have launched a series of inspections to safeguard New York's residents, communities, waterways and lands from potential serious incidents involving the shipment of volatile crude oil by rail throughout the state. Working with federal authorities throughout this week, the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) participated in a series of inspections at the Port of Albany and its adjacent rail yard, as well as inspections in Albany and Buffalo along rail tracks and in rail cars. In addition, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) is conducting inspections today at the Port of Albany.

"We are taking action to safeguard our communities from the potential risk of crude oil shipments by launching more aggressive and enhanced enforcement of rail safety," said Governor Cuomo. "This inspection blitz has resulted in immediate improvements to some of the State's busiest rail sites. In addition to performing these and other inspections with our federal partners, my administration will continue to urge Washington to enact improved rail and port safety practices that are both mandatory and enforceable."

NYSDOT Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "I want to thank the Federal Railroad Administration for partnering with us to develop this important initiative. Under the direction of Governor Cuomo, we are responding to the increased shipment of crude oil by rail with a rigorous, coordinated enforcement effort along our rail lines. The safety of New Yorkers and our communities is our top priority."

DEC Commissioner Joe Martens said, "DEC is committed to protecting public health and the environment in the communities near rail and water transport operations and oil storage facilities. Inspections are critical tools to ensure facilities comply with stringent safety regulations. Governor Cuomo is a leading advocate in calling for improved safety of crude oil transport and DEC will continue to work with state, federal and local partners to protect communities and New York's air, land and waters."

These inspections stem from the growing concern regarding the volatility of crude oil from the Bakken oil fields in North Dakota and its significantly increased shipment by rail throughout New York State. Just last month, Governor Cuomo issued an executive order directing several State agencies to do a top-to-bottom review of safety procedures and emergency response preparedness related to shipments of rail, ship and barge shipments of crude oil following several severe accidents, including the deaths of dozens of people, the evacuation of thousands and devastation of entire communities. This review is due by April 30. Governor Cuomo's Executive Order also directed agencies to work with federal partners to enhance preparedness and oversight. The federal government has nearly exclusive regulatory authority over railroad transportation.

The first round of inspection efforts concludes just one week after Cuomo Administration officials traveled to Washington D.C. to meet with federal transportation authorities to express their concerns about the safety of New York State communities due to the increased transport of Bakken crude oil throughout the state. On Friday, Feb. 21, state environment and transportation officials met with the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT), FRA and the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, resulting in an agreement to coordinate and increase federal and state efforts to inspect rail and port facilities to safeguard the surrounding communities and the environment from oil spills.

This inspection initiative will continue in the weeks and months to come and will also serve to help inform the state's ongoing review, as directed in Governor Cuomo's executive order.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/02282014-volatile-crude-oil
