Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Legislation to Provide Enhanced Disability Retirement Benefits For New York City Firefighters
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 8, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed legislation to provide enhanced disability retirement benefits for Tier 3 and Tier 6 New York City firefighters. Once the law takes effect, all New York City firefighters who become disabled while in the line of duty are eligible for disability equal to three-quarters of their pension. Governor Cuomo signed the bill accompanied by Uniformed Firefighters Association President Steve Cassidy and state and local elected officials today in New York City.
"Firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep New Yorkers safe, and we must do everything we can to support them and their families," Governor Cuomo said. "By restoring the three-quarter pension retirement plan, we are providing our heroes with the financial stability that they need and deserve. This legislation corrects an inequality against New York City's Bravest that has gone on for far too long, and I am proud to sign it into law today."
Currently, the vast majority of municipal fire departments in New York State provide disability benefits equal to three-quarters of the individual's pension to firefighters who become disabled from line of duty injuries. New York City firefighters were among those with benefits equal to 75 percent of the pension until 2009 when a state law was not renewed, and thus the eligibility for new hires was reduced to 50 percent of the pension.
This legislation signed today restores three-quarters pension benefits for New York City firefighters who become disabled from line of duty injuries. The legislation affects firefighters hired since 2009 as well as new hires -- both groups who would otherwise only be eligible for 50 percent. The legislation includes the following provisions, which provide:
75 percent accidental disability retirement with a lung disease presumption.
Accidental disability retirement and ordinary disability retirements benefits are based on a five-year final average salary, without any reduction for Social Security benefits, and with cost of living adjustments.
Members will make 2-3 percent contributions for these benefits in addition to the current 3 percent member contributions that are already required.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-signs-legislation-provide-enhanced-disability-retirement-benefits-new-york-city
