Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Funding for All Phases of I-390 Reconstruction in Rochester
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 20, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that funding has been secured to build the final phases of the Interstate 390 Southern Corridor transportation improvement projects in the area of East Henrietta Road and West Henrietta Road in the town of Brighton and city of Rochester, Monroe County. The first phases have already begun on the overall estimated $70 million project, which will improve safety and mobility and set the stage for major economic projects that will create thousands of jobs and boost the region's profile.

"The I-390 reconstruction project is a major investment in New York's transportation infrastructure," Governor Cuomo said. "This project will improve safety and mobility on a busy corridor so that we can meet modern traffic needs by residents, visitors and businesses in the Rochester area. Strengthening this vital piece of infrastructure supports economic growth and job creation throughout the Finger Lakes for years to come."

The I-390 improvement project is a 2011 priority project identified by Governor Cuomo's Finger Lakes Regional Economic Development Council (FLREDC). I-390 is a gateway for significant growth in the community, including large projects planned by the University of Rochester, Monroe Community College and Rochester Institute of Technology campuses, which will lead to thousands of new jobs in the local economy generated by university growth. At the University of Rochester, those plans feature expansions of its campus, hospital and research facilities. The University of Rochester is the largest employer in the Rochester area and the sixth largest employer in New York State. These improvements will help support the continued growth of the University and the surrounding area.

The series of projects will improve access between I-390 and the adjacent roads, including Kendrick Road, East River Road, West Henrietta Road (Route 15) and East Henrietta Road (Route 15A). The project was split into four phases, the first of which has already been completed, with the second phase currently underway.

New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "The four phases of this I-390 improvement project are each critical to improving access in this area and helping traffic flow more smoothly. In addition to making the area safer for motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians, the work will accommodate future planned growth that will facilitate job creation and economic activity."

"As the top infrastructure priority for the Finger Lakes region, the reconfigured I-390 corridor is vital to our region's future job growth and expansion," said FLREDC Co-Chairs, University at Rochester President Joel Seligman and Wegmans Food Market CEO Danny Wegman. "Today's historic announcement clears the way for removing bottlenecks in the surrounding road network that threatened to limit the almost $350 million in private development that is currently under way in close proximity to the project. We thank the Governor for his leadership and partnership in moving this transformational project forward."

The third phase, which can now move forward, will improve travel in the area of the Route 15 (West Henrietta Road) interchange with I-390. A highlight of the project includes a new loop ramp from Route 15 northbound to I-390 northbound. Work is expected to begin this summer and be completed by the end of 2015.

The fourth and final contract will focus on improving travel in the area of the Route 15A (East Henrietta Road) interchange with I-390. This phase of the project will feature replacement of the East Henrietta Road bridge over I-390 and the Erie Canal. Construction is expected to begin by early 2015 and be completed in the spring of 2017.

The first phase of the project began in the fall of 2012 and was completed in the fall of 2013. Work as part of the $8.2 million phase included:

Construction of a modern roundabout at Kendrick Road and East River Road to replace the existing signalized intersection;
Improvement of access to I-390 southbound through the construction of a new entrance ramp from E. River Road;
Reconstruction and relocation of the existing off-ramp from I-390 southbound to E. River Road; and
Construction of a new auxiliary lane at the divergence of I-390 southbound and I-590 northbound near Route 15A in the town of Brighton.

The second contract in the series of I-390 improvements includes the construction of a new ramp from Kendrick Road to I-390 northbound. Work on the $14.8 million phase began last summer and is scheduled to be complete this fall. Piers for the new ramp have been constructed and steel is expected to be set into place in the coming weeks. It is being constructed through the design-build method, which allows for the combining of design and construction services into a single contract to help expedite repair work to vital infrastructure and save taxpayer money.

This new connection to I-390, along with the direct access from E. River Road, will help improve safety, reduce congestion and provide the access necessary for the University of Rochester to move ahead with expansion plans.

The first two phases were included in Governor Cuomo's innovative NY Works initiative to expedite critical repairs and upgrades to the transportation system across New York State.

"I am grateful to Governor Cuomo for his continued commitment to the completion of the I-390 project," said Assembly Majority Leader Joseph D. Morelle. "By rebuilding I-390 interchange, we are supporting the infrastructure needs of the community and laying the groundwork for major economic development projects that will create thousands of new jobs throughout Rochester. Thanks to the Governor's leadership the funding for the final phases of the interchange is now in place. I applaud all of the local stakeholders for coming together in support of this important project and I look forward to the completion of the final phase."

Senator Joe Robach said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo for following through and securing the funds needed to complete this crucial transportation improvement project. The reconstruction of this section of I-390 will not only improve traffic safety for drivers, it will allow better access to the University of Rochester, RIT and MCC, which are not only key academic institutions, but also major employers for our region."

Assemblyman David F. Gantt said, "By investing in the reconstruction of I-390, Governor Cuomo and the Rochester community have made a direct investment in the economic future of the region. The I-390 improvement project will not only upgrade the safety and quality of travel in the area, but will spur the growth of the surrounding businesses and universities."

Rochester Mayor Lovely A. Warren said, "Interstate 390 is rapidly becoming a major transportation corridor in Rochester's new innovation economy. It provides a critical link between our new job creators. I want to thank Governor Cuomo for recognizing the importance of this project and securing the funding to complete it."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/02202014-I-390-reconstruction
