Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Promotes NYS Lifetime Adventure License Series for Hunting, Fishing and Visiting NY State Parks
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 12, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today introduced the New York State Adventure License Series, providing New Yorkers and visitors the opportunity to purchase lifetime licenses to fish, hunt and visit New York State Parks, as part of his efforts to enhance sporting and recreational opportunities, support outdoor enthusiasts and boost tourism throughout the state. As part of this promotional effort, the Governor unveiled New York's Outdoor Adventure License Plates, which features nine new plate designs -- including the I [love] NY HUNTING, I [love] NY FISHING, and I [love] NY PARKS license plates -- available for free exclusively to those buying new lifetime hunting, fishing, or parks licenses in 2014.

In addition, New York residents who secure lifetime licenses will have the opportunity to receive an Adventure License, which allows them the option of consolidating all their recreation licenses and benefits onto their New York State Driver's License, an initiative first introduced by the Governor during his State of the State address last month. The Adventure License and plates are available on the state's revamped online licensing portal: www.licensecenter.ny.gov.

To promote these latest offers, the State will launch a direct mail campaign and send one million letters to notify current short term recreational license holders.

"As part of our ongoing efforts to promote New York as a top destination for outdoor enthusiasts and sportsmen, we are launching the NYS Lifetime Adventure License Series that will allow New Yorkers to hunt, fish and enjoy our vast state parks for the rest of their lives," Governor Cuomo said. "Under this program, we are creating the new Adventure License to make it easier for New Yorkers who hold these lifetime passes to travel and enjoy outdoor activities across the state, as well as new special Adventure License Plates available free to anyone who signs up for a lifetime hunting, fishing or parks license this year. With this initiative, we are growing the state's tourism industry even further and creating jobs for communities statewide. And most of all, we are excited to offer New Yorkers and visitors the opportunity to enjoy and explore the Empire State's great outdoors for a lifetime."

"People who enjoy being outdoors often participate in multiple sporting activities such as hunting and fishing," Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Joe Martens said. "The Adventure License allows new lifetime hunting, fishing and trapping license holders to get outside with the simplicity of bringing their driver's license rather than multiple documents. This is just the latest example of Governor Cuomo's commitment to making it easier for tourists and New Yorkers to recreate and enjoy the great outdoors."

"With so much to do across our wonderful park system, the Empire Passport offers a lifetime of enjoyment that allows families and friends to build memories forever," said Rose Harvey, Commissioner, Office of Parks, Recreation and Historical Preservation. "One investment now and the 335,000 acres, 2,000 miles of trails, beaches, nature centers and other park opportunities are yours to experience and enjoy forever. Lifetime Empire Passport members will have the option to escape alone or bring family and friends along for the experience."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/02122014-lifetime-adventure-license
