Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Calls For Aggressive New Water Quality Protections
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 7, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today called for aggressive new water quality protections to protect New Yorkers and ensure clean drinking water.
In a letter to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy, Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Basil Seggos and Department of Health Commissioner Howard Zucker urged the EPA to close a loophole in federal oversight that exempts public water systems that serve less than 10,000 people from its Unregulated Contaminant Monitoring Rule program. Under the status quo, public water systems serving some 2.5 million New York State residents are not required to be tested for these contaminants.
Combined with those who use private wells for drinking water, 6.5 million people -- one-third of all New Yorkers and nearly 60 percent of residents outside of New York City -- rely on water systems that do not require the testing of emerging contaminants such as perflurooctanoic acid (PFOA).
Governor Cuomo will also be advancing legislation to address the EPA's failure to provide oversight of private wells by requiring testing for contaminants by homeowners prior to the sale of a home and mandating that landlords test their properties and share those results with tenants.
"We firmly believe that the health and safety of our residents should not depend on the size of the town in which they live," Commissioner Zucker said. "The EPA's current testing requirements leave millions of New Yorkers in the dark about the quality of their water simply because they are not part of large water systems. If the EPA fails to act, we will move new legislation to mandate the testing of unregulated contaminants in the 9,000 public water systems across the state. The administration is also advancing legislation to require the testing of private wells -- which currently have no federal oversight whatsoever. We urge the legislature to join us in supporting these critical actions."
"At DEC, we work to remediate pollution in communities of all sizes. By only requiring testing of water systems that serve 10,000 residents or more, the EPA's current program does not reflect the reality of drinking water in our state and across the country," Commissioner Seggos said. "I strongly urge the EPA to reform their inadequate, subjective threshold for the requirement of testing of unregulated contaminants in public water systems. In addition, I encourage the Legislature to back our proposal to require testing of private wells. Whether you're buying a home or renting an apartment, you should have access to information about the quality of water you are drinking."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-calls-aggressive-new-water-quality-protections
