Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Delta Air Lines Agrees to Improve Contract Worker Terms Requested by Port Authority
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 7, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Delta Air Lines is the first major airline to agree to terms requested by the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey to increase wages and provide holiday pay for its contract employees at JFK and LaGuardia airports in New York City.

"New York should have world-class airports that we as a state can be proud of -- and the only way that is possible is if employees who keep our two busiest airports running are compensated fairly," Governor Cuomo said. "Two weeks ago, the Port Authority reached out to major airlines to immediately address the issue of workers who have been paid too little for too long. Today, I am pleased to announce that Delta Air Lines has stepped up and agreed to our requests, leading the way for other major airlines to follow suit. This is great news for thousands of workers at JFK and LaGuardia."

Leslie Scott, Delta Air Lines Corporate Communications, said, "As the largest airline in New York, we work hand in hand with the Port Authority, the Governor's office and many partners. The people that work at the airport are our neighbors, friends and members of our community. We value their contributions to our operation."

On January 27, Port Authority Executive Director Patrick Foye sent a letter to the CEOs of four major airlines -- Delta, JetBlue, American and United airlines -- that operate in JFK and LaGuardia airports requesting an immediate improved wage and benefits package for their contract employees.

The agreement reached with Delta fulfills all the requests outlined by Executive Director Foye, benefiting more than 2,000 Delta contract workers. Under the terms of the agreement, Delta will raise hourly wages by $1 for those employees making $8 to $9 an hour, and will over time raise the wage to $10.10 an hour. In addition, Delta will make Martin Luther King Jr. Day a paid holiday for all contract workers and provide retroactive pay for last month's holiday. Delta will also continue to work with the Cuomo administration to further improve worker wages and benefits at the two airports.

"We commend Delta Air Lines for taking the important step of increasing wages and honoring M.L.K. Day as a paid holiday to their contract employees at JFK and LaGuardia Airports," said Bill Rudin, Chairman of the Association for a Better New York. "By partnering with Governor Cuomo and the Port Authority, Delta Air Lines is helping to improve conditions at our city's airports for workers and passengers alike."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/02072014-delta-air-lines
