Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Opening of the 2014 Black History Month Exhibit at the State Capitol
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 6, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the 2014 Black History Month exhibit entitled, "The Transformative Power of the Narrative," will be open tomorrow, February 7. The exhibit, located in the War Room, is part of the State's ongoing effort to create museum quality displays for public viewing at the State Capitol. Visit the Hall of Governors website to learn more about exhibits at the Capitol.

"In honor of Black History Month this year, New York State is pleased to celebrate the work of five storytellers who have made a lasting impact on American literature, media and society," Governor Cuomo said. "From Solomon Northrup to Toni Morrison, these individuals were and continue to be pioneers in the fight for equality and justice in this country, and they continue to inspire people all around the world through literature, film and television today. During Black History Month, we are proud to celebrate the countless invaluable contributions of the black community that have made New York a stronger and more progressive state. I encourage New Yorkers to visit the exhibit at the Capitol this month to honor the work of these five icons."

This year's exhibit focuses on the often overlooked power of personal narrative, showing that the transformation of an individual's story of struggle and perseverance into a movement can impact whole societies. Visitors to the exhibit will have the opportunity to learn about the lives of five extraordinary storytellers who helped shape black history in the United States through their literary contributions. The exhibit also showcases the history and evolution of the black press in New York and the role of black actors, actresses, writers and directors in American film and television.

In addition to the featured biographies and historical narrative, the exhibit will also display relevant artifacts from the time contributed by the New York State Library.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/020614-bmh-exhibit
