Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces the Launch of America's Largest Business Plan Competition
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 5, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the launch of the largest business competition in the United States. Details for the Buffalo, New York competition, as well as its new brand, 43North (www.43North.org), were revealed at a press conference at One Canalside, a newly rehabilitated building overlooking the transformative new construction along Buffalo's waterfront. Lieutenant Governor Robert J. Duffy was on site to make the announcement. The competition--named after the latitudinal line that runs through Western New York--features $5 million in cash prizes, with a top prize of $1 million, and is part of Governor Cuomo's Buffalo Billion initiative, which is driving new economic opportunities throughout Buffalo and Western New York.

"As the next step of the Buffalo Billion investment, we are launching an exciting business competition that will be the largest in the nation to attract promising start-up ventures and innovators from around the world to Western New York," Governor Cuomo said. "We are calling entrepreneurs to pitch their business plan to us, and in response, we will provide mentoring and other services to help turn their idea into what can potentially be a real business. 43North is a win-win for both aspiring entrepreneurs and the region, providing important capital to winners of the competition and creating new economic opportunities for Western New York."

"A few short months ago, we were here in Buffalo to announce the completion of this beautifully redeveloped former state office building," Lieutenant Governor Duffy said. "Today, we are seeing huge news for Buffalo: the biggest business competition in the nation, right here at One Canalside. I applaud Governor Cuomo's commitment to Western New York, and look forward to seeing Buffalo's continued growth and success that stems from this initiative."

"For the past decade, Buffalo has slowly and steadily been on the move -- you can see it in our skyline, in new, burgeoning neighborhoods like the Medical Campus and Larkinville, and in the organic growth of our business community with exemplary leadership from Eric Reich of Campus Labs, George Chamoun of Synacor and Ashok Subramanian of Liazon," said 43North Steering Committee Chairman Jordan Levy. "Our city is ready for the next phase in growth and development. I'm excited to be part of the movement that is bringing entrepreneurs to our community and making Buffalo a place where startups are welcomed and encouraged."

43North is designed to systematically generate new business ventures in Western New York, while providing mentoring and other aid for aspiring entrepreneurs; supporting early-stage firm growth; and attracting additional venture funding. The objective of this bold and proven approach is to position Upstate New York and the Greater Buffalo Niagara region squarely on the map of America's newest innovation and entrepreneurship hotbeds.

In addition to the top cash prize of $1 million, 43North will award six $500,000 prizes and four $250,000 prizes. Winners also receive free incubator space for a year, guidance from mentors related to their field and access to other exciting incentive programs, like Start-Up NY.

43North is open to applicants ages 18 and over from anywhere in the world in any industry, with the exception of retail and hospitality. Winners must agree to operate their business in Buffalo, New York for a minimum of one year.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/02052014-43north-business-plan-competition
