Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces CRC Polymer Systems, Inc. Expanding to Create Economic Opportunity in Wayne County
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 5, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that CRC Polymer Systems, Inc., a plastics compounding company, will expand in Sodus, New York, adding 27 new jobs and creating new economic opportunities at the former Garlock Facility, which had been idled for a decade. The new location will incorporate advanced material development, compounding and distribution of product from bulk railcar as well as packaged goods. CRC's business office and main compounding operation will be centralized in one location in Wayne County.

"The growth of CRC Polymer Systems is just another example of the progress we are making to grow business and create new economic opportunities in Upstate New York," said Governor Cuomo. "All across the state we are seeing the rehabilitation of dilapidated, abandoned factories that are coming back to life, just like the one CRC will be using. This expansion, like so many others across the state, will create stable, good paying jobs in Wayne County and help grow the region's local economy for generations to come."

"We are excited to establish our new manufacturing and distribution facility in Sodus, NY," said CRC Co-Owners Todd Ewing and Dave Saldo. "The support of Empire State Development, Wayne County Industrial Development Agency and the Town of Sodus, were all instrumental in making this effort come to fruition. The entire community has been very supportive and we look forward to bringing new jobs into Wayne County. We also want to give thanks to First Niagara Bank for having the vision to support this expansion. They worked closely with the state, county and town to structure financing to make this a reality."

New York State, through Empire State Development, will provide a $40,000 capital grant and up to $160,000 in performance-based Excelsior Jobs Program tax credits in return for CRC's proposed investment and job creation commitments. Locally, the Wayne County Industrial Development Agency has provided $120,000 in financial assistance toward the $910,000 project.

The facility, which has been dormant for nearly 10 years and will require renovations and maintenance, will bring several advantages, including rail siding for bulk product access, adequate electrical service and space for expansion. The facility will be a higher end compounding operation that will have five to seven extruders and multiple blending systems. Extruders will melt and mix different types of plastic materials and then pelletize them forming value added products. The company will engage in the advancement of new materials, setting up a development lab for the characterization of compounds made specifically for new applications.

New York State Senator Michael F. Nozzolio said, "The job expansion of CRC Polymer at the former Garlock Facility in Sodus is great news for our local economy. These new jobs will add to the local tax base and are part of our efforts to create new economic opportunities in Wayne County. The growth of local businesses like CRC Polymer is another example of New York's continuing efforts to strengthen our job-producing businesses. It has been a pleasure to work with Governor Cuomo, and other State and local officials to encourage this expansion, that has CRC Polymer bringing new jobs and innovation to our region."

New York State Assemblyman Robert C. Oaks said, "The CRC Polymer Systems, Inc. expansion in Wayne County shows what positive results can be attained when state, county and town governments work cooperatively to meet the needs of local manufacturers. The announcement of the creation of 27 new jobs is fantastic news for Sodus, Wayne County and the entire Rochester region."

Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Kenneth Adams said, "Manufacturing and distribution continues to be a staple of the Upstate New York economy. At its new home in Sodus, New York, CRC Polymer Systems will manufacture and distribute the best performing material system for specific applications. I am pleased Empire State Development could help bring this innovative company to New York State."

Wayne County IDA CEO and Director of the Economic Development and Planning Department Bob McNary said, "Wayne County provides an attractive manufacturing environment for such companies looking at the greater Rochester Region," said "CRC's access to a rail-served property will assist their production efforts."

Wayne County Industrial Development Agency Executive Director Peg Churchill said, "This is a great example of teamwork- the company, the local municipalities, the IDA and state agencies all worked together to make sure this happened."

Wayne County Board of Supervisors Chairman James Hoffman said, "The CRC project brings some new energy to the northeast quadrant of our county. The company is upgrading and re-using a manufacturing facility that has been empty for over a decade. It will have a positive impact on our region and we are extremely pleased to have them coming to Wayne County."

Sodus Mayor Kelley Allen said, "This is a win-win situation announcement for Sodus. CRC Polymer Systems is both expanding in a previously vacant space and adding dozens of jobs. We want to thank Governor Cuomo for his support for this project which will definitely have a positive impact on our community."

Steve LeRoy, Supervisor of the Town of Sodus, said, "The Town of Sodus is thrilled to have this former manufacturing facility re-born and put to good-use by CRC. This company is energetic, focused and pro-active---just what we all like to see. I am glad they have come to the great Town of Sodus and am sure that our assets will help them continue to grow."

CRC Polymer Systems, Inc. is a New York corporation that evaluates application requirements to determine a complete Polymer System of Compounds, Resin and Color for specific applications. It is co-owned by David Saldo and Todd Ewing.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/02052014-crc-polymer-systems
