Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Record-Breaking $851 Million in Medicaid Recoveries
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 3, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the largest single year of recoveries of taxpayer dollars in the history of the Office of the Medicaid Inspector General (OMIG). Preliminary calculations show the administration recovered more than $851 million dollars for 2013. This brings the three-year total under Governor Cuomo to more than $1.73 billion recovered from Medicaid providers who inappropriately billed Medicaid and individuals who received services to which they were not entitled. This is a 34 percent increase over the previous three years. OMIG's recoveries are the highest on record for any state Medicaid program integrity unit.

"With more than $851 million recovered from Medicaid abuses in 2013 alone -- the most in the State's history -- New York is truly leading the nation in fighting fraud and protecting taxpayer dollars," Governor Cuomo said. "Our focus on cleaning up the Medicaid program is showing record-breaking results, and OMIG's efforts serve as a role model for other states to follow. Eliminating this kind of waste is vital to transforming New York's healthcare system, and this year's tremendous amount of recoveries shows that we are well on our way to building a healthier and fairer New York."

"Fighting Medicaid fraud is a cornerstone of our efforts, and anyone who steals from Medicaid should know that we will find them. OMIG is proud of this record result," said Medicaid Inspector General James C. Cox. "This is an extraordinary accomplishment, and an historical achievement. Through dedication and perseverance, our staff not only met but exceeded all expectations in recoveries for the year. Governor Cuomo's support was crucial to our efforts."

These results reflect the administration's focus on eliminating or preventing fraud, waste, and abuse, particularly in the Medicaid program. OMIG has worked to eliminate fraud through aggressive responses to allegations of fraud in social adult day care, excluding unscrupulous providers, and focusing on ineligible individuals. Among the improvements in fraud and abuse prevention established under the Cuomo administration are the creation of pre-claim reviews -- specialized reviews of home health claims and inventory reports -- improved practices for reviewing pharmacy operations, and strong data sharing and coordination with federal, state, and local partners.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/02032014-medicaid-recoveries
