Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 72 Percent Increase in Taste NY Farm-Based Beverage Licenses Since 2011
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 3, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the number of New York's farm-based beverage licenses for distilleries, wineries, breweries and cideries has risen 72% since 2011. Since Governor Cuomo took office, legislation has been enacted to help these businesses open new markets across the state, and additional agricultural businesses have been created as a result of new licenses signed into law by the Governor. Existing farm-based beverage businesses have also grown exponentially as a result of policies and initiatives put in place by the Administration at the request of industry leaders.

"The tremendous growth in the farm-based beverage industry over the past three years is a testament to how state government is creating new economic opportunities for local businesses to grow and thrive," Governor Cuomo said. "With our help, New York's beverage producers are creating jobs on farms and in communities all throughout the state, as well as providing a significant boost to the State's agricultural and tourism industries. The Taste NY initiative has been a vital part of this success, helping to raise the profile of our home-grown businesses and spreading the word that New York's beer, wine, cider and spirits are truly among the best in the world."

In October 2012, the Governor hosted the State's first ever Wine, Beer and Spirits Summit to identify ways that New York State could encourage growth in the industry. Summit participants asked for assistance from the State with their marketing efforts. As a result of these requests, Governor Cuomo launched Taste NY to further open markets for New York's food and beverage industries. Part of Governor Cuomo's efforts to promote agribusiness across the state, Taste NY is being marketed through a range of promotional efforts, including Taste NY tents at important events, Taste NY stores in transportation hubs and a dedicated website, http://www.taste.ny.gov.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/02032014/increase-taste-ny-farm-licenses
