Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Funding for Smart Grid Projects to Reimagine New York's Electric Grid for a New Reality
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 3, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo today announced $4.3 million in awards to researchers seeking to develop or research new techniques that add resiliency and efficiency to the state's electric grid as part of the State's efforts to reimagine New York's vital infrastructure for a new reality. These "Smart Grid" technologies will help re-engineer the State's electric grid by providing innovative methods to add clean energy to the grid, enhance grid performance, reduce environmental impacts and energy consumption, and lower costs of transporting power to customers.

"The major storms over the past few years taught us the importance of improving the performance of utilities and strengthening the resiliency of our electric grid for the future," Governor Cuomo said. "As part of our efforts to reimagine the State's vital infrastructure for a changing climate, we are investing in smart grid projects to advance new and emerging technologies that will help make New York's electric grid more resilient and efficient. These improvements move our state one step closer in our effort to provide more reliable and affordable services and further reimagine New York's electric grid for a new reality."

The projects were awarded funding from the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority's (NYSERDA) Electric Power Transmission and Distribution Smart Grid Program.

In order to qualify for funding, recipients had to propose projects that improve the reliability, efficiency, quality, and overall performance of the electric power delivery system in New York State. Proposals were required to demonstrate significant statewide public benefit and quantify all energy, environmental and economic impacts.

"These technologically-advanced projects will further the state's effort to modernize the electric grid and reduce the cost of delivering power in New York State," said Richard Kauffman, Chairman of Energy and Finance for New York State and Chairman of NYSERDA. "By fostering innovative smart grid projects today, the state will help New Yorkers meet the energy and resiliency needs of tomorrow."

"New York is a hub for research and development, and these projects are all examples of how innovation can improve power transmission technology, as called for by Governor Cuomo," said John B. Rhodes, President and CEO, NYSERDA. "These projects will help make the grid stronger and more efficient while reducing the cost of energy."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/02032014-smart-grid-projects
