Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Highlights Economic Benefits of Super Bowl XLVIII
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 1, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today highlighted some of the economic benefits to New York State of Super Bowl XLVIII. Empire State Development (ESD) estimated that 1.5 million people visited Super Bowl Boulevard during four days and that spending by visitors will generate an estimated $280-300 million in economic activity in New York State. The majority of Super Bowl events and the accompanying visitor spending will occur primarily within New York and the revenue generated will benefit the entire state.

"No matter which team wins Super Bowl XLVIII, the big game is an economic victory for New York State," said Governor Cuomo. "New York was proud to serve as co-hosts for what, by all accounts, will have been the biggest Super Bowl ever. This week has been a real opportunity to showcase the best of what the Empire State has to offer, from our world-class vacation destinations and tourist attractions to home grown and made in New York products. I hope every single visitor enjoyed their New York experience and will come back in the future."

As the co-host Governor of Super Bowl XLVIII, Governor Cuomo used the international event as an opportunity to promote "Taste NY" products and tourism in Upstate New York. New York products were prominently featured at Super Bowl events throughout the week leading up to the game. More than 3,000 local, national and international media and over 400,000 attendees had the opportunity to taste the best products New York has to offer and were introduced to New York's wealth of tourist attractions, especially in Upstate. In total, nearly 100 New York vendors were featured across all the Super Bowl Host Committee events. In the 2013-2014 Executive Budget, Governor Cuomo allocated a $5 million grant to be used for the cost of services and expenses in New York State related to the National Football League ("NFL") Super Bowl XLVIII.

Out of 50 total Super Bowl-related corporate events, 45 took place in New York in the week leading up to the Super Bowl. The NFL issued 6,300 credentials this year, the most in Super Bowl history and the game will be broadcast in 180 countries and territories around the world.

New York hosted an estimated 230,000 out-of-town visitors during Super Bowl week, including more than 100,000 who stayed an average of three to four nights in approximately 35,000 New York hotel rooms, generating over $12 million in spending on hotel rooms alone. There was also an estimated 2,500 participating Super Bowl team personnel and family and approximately 3,000 out-of-town national and international media in New York State.

Overall, more than 400,000 visitors are estimated to attend non-game day events (e.g., Super Bowl Boulevard, New York restaurants, Broadway shows, museums, tourist destinations, etc.) and spend an average of $150 (day travelers) or $205 (overnight travelers) per day on food, lodging, shopping, and other purchases, which will increase local and State tax revenues by nearly $14 million.

Additionally, Super Bowl XLVIII is estimated to generate more than 2,400 full- time equivalent jobs, which will generate millions of dollars in tax revenue for New York State.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/02012014Economic-Benefits-Super-Bowl
