Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Reimbursement to Village of Gowanda for Storm Damage
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 30, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State will provide $700,954 to the Village of Gowanda for reimbursement of costs incurred by the village following the impact of a severe storm and flooding in the summer of 2009. Costs incurred by the Village were for labor, equipment and expenses related to damaged mechanical and infrastructure systems in the Village Town Hall and at the Point Peter Brook Reservoir, as well as related debris removal.

"This funding will go a long way to offset recovery costs incurred by the Village of Gowanda when it was struck by severe flooding in August 2009," Governor Cuomo said. "After several years of advocating for FEMA to release this funding, I am pleased that the Village is receiving this long-overdue and deserved support. This will allow Gowanda to move on from the damage that was incurred and continue to reimagine their community for the new reality of extreme weather."

Senator Catharine Young said, "Our people suffered a great deal of hardship and heartache because of the devastating 2009 flood, and they should not have to shoulder the heavy financial burden of repairing the village's basic infrastructure. This release of long overdue FEMA dollars not only helps to heal these wounds, but it allows the village to move forward towards a brighter future. I commend Governor Cuomo and everyone who worked together to cut through bureaucratic red tape so that this progress finally could be made. It has a very positive effect on many lives."

Assemblyman Joseph M. Giglio said, "The Gowanda community was significantly impacted by the severe flood of August 2009. Since that time, Village officials and officials from many other agencies worked vigorously to replace and repair badly damaged infrastructure. In doing so, the Village incurred significant cost, much of which was reimbursable by FEMA. I'm pleased with today's announcement that the Village will be receiving approximately $700,000 in FEMA reimbursement."

DHSES Commissioner Jerome M. Hauer said, "New York State, who acts as the grantee for these Federal funds, worked tirelessly to wade through the application and appeal process to ensure that every dime that Gowanda was entitled to will be delivered."

The Village of Gowanda, located along the Cattaraugus Creek near the Cattaraugus-Erie County line, was inundated with nearly four feet of flood waters that swept away cars and mobile homes, damaged home foundations and businesses and caused extensive property and structural damage. Receding waters uncovered scenes of devastation the community was unprepared for. As a result, Cattaraugus, Chautauqua, and Erie Counties were declared as state disaster sites and a Federal disaster declaration was issued on September 1, 2009.

The federal disaster declaration made Public Assistance (PA) funding available to the counties of Allegany, Cattaraugus, Chautauqua, Chenango, Cortland, and Erie; Individual Assistance (IA) was available to three of those counties: Cattaraugus, Chautauqua, and Erie. The Seneca Nation of Indians was also approved for both IA and PA. Public Assistance -- aid that helps rebuild public infrastructure -- will top $40 million once completed.

Public Assistance funds are available to state and local governments to respond to and recover from natural or man-made disasters. PA funds may be provided to reimburse costs incurred for emergency actions taken during and immediately after a disaster to protect life and property, to conduct debris removal and to restore disaster-damaged infrastructure.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/01302014-reimburse-gowanda-storm
