Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Releases Final Report From The New NY Education Reform Commission to Continue to Transform New York's Schools
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 14, 2014
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today released the final report from the New NY Education Reform Commission, which contains a comprehensive set of recommendations for continuing to transform New York's schools by breaking down barriers to student achievement and improving the quality of education for all students. The Commission was chaired by Richard Parsons, Senior Advisor, Providence Equity Partners, LLC and former Chairman of Citigroup.

"A quality education is arguably the most important tool we can provide our students with to prepare them for success in today's global economy," Governor Cuomo said. "In order to make our schools the best in the nation, I challenged the New NY Education Reform Commission to identify ways to strengthen the public education system, improve access to programs that work and provide new opportunities for students to learn and grow. The Commission's final report is a compelling blueprint for moving New York forward, and I commend its members for their hard work and vision. The report contains smart recommendations like rewarding our best and brightest educators for high-performance, and increasing the availability of technology in high-needs schools. These are some of the essential steps that we must take to provide New York's children with the education they deserve, and I look forward to implementing them in the future."

Commission Chair Richard Parsons said, "With this final action plan, the members of the New NY Education Reform Commission have identified and assembled a comprehensive set of actionable reforms that will strengthen and make more effective the public education system in New York State. This report is a roadmap for improving our schools in ways that will positively impact countless students, families and communities across the state. Every year $75 billion is spent on education in New York State, which is more than the total budgets of 47 states. We clearly can do a better job in terms of how we use these resources to educate our kids. We need to make smarter choices about where we allocate precious resources, create incentives for higher teacher and student achievement, and streamline and better coordinate the delivery of educational services within the state. The Commission's Final Report forcefully addresses all of these matters. We are grateful to Governor Cuomo for allowing us the opportunity to address these critical issues and to help shape the agenda for change going forward."

Source:
