Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Second Round of Funding to Increase Use of Locally Grown Foods in New York Schools
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 1, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the second round of funding is available through the state's Farm to School Program. The program helps school districts across New York State establish stronger relationships with local growers and producers and increase their use of homegrown specialty crops. Building on the success of 2015, $500,000 in grants is available for projects that help Kindergarten through Grade 12 schools buy and serve healthy, locally grown foods on school menus.
"This program is a win-win that connects students in need of healthy meals with New York grown products that are some of the best in the world," Governor Cuomo said. "I urge all qualified districts to participate in this program and help New York students succeed and New York farms thrive."
The Farm to School program is aimed at developing and strengthening connections between the more than 700 school districts in New York State and the farmers in their communities to grow the agricultural economy and to provide a greater and more diverse selection of specialty crops during school lunches. The program also looks to educate students about locally produced specialty crops and increase their preference for these healthy meal options. New York State produces a wide range of specialty crops, such as fruits and vegetables, nuts, dried fruits, herbs and spices, which rank highly in the nation in terms of both production and economic value.
Projects eligible for this funding must increase the volume and variety of local specialty crops procured by schools/districts for inclusion in school meal programs. Applicants may include Kindergarten through Grade 12 school food authorities, charter schools, not-for-profit schools, other entities participating in the National School Lunch or Breakfast Programs and/or operating Summer Food Service Programs, and Indian Tribal Organizations. All applicants must register and apply through the Grants Gateway portal here. The deadline to apply is 4:30 pm on October 5. For more information on the Farm to School Grant program, please click here.
Last year, six Farm to School programs were awarded, benefitting 45 school districts from Western New York, Mohawk Valley, Capital Region, North Country, Finger Lakes and Southern Tier. The funding helped the districts employ local or regional Farm to School coordinators, purchase supplies and equipment needed to increase the capacity of the school kitchen and food service staff to prepare and serve locally produced specialty crops, and to make capital improvements to better transport and/or store those crops.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-second-round-funding-increase-use-locally-grown-foods-new-york-schoo-0
