Public Statements
Issue Position: Transportation
Issue Position
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Improving Our State's Transportation System
A strong economy needs a strong transportation system. To achieve that end, the Governor created the New York Works Task Force, composed of leading finance, labor, planning, and transportation professionals. The task force is charged with reinventing state economic development by coordinating $174 billion in existing capital investment dollars across 47 agencies and authorities, overseeing investment in projects, and accelerating hundreds of vital projects across the state.
The premier NY Works project is the replacement of the Tappan Zee Bridge. After decades of inaction and dysfunction prior to Andrew Cuomo coming into office, the Governor started the process of building the New NY Bridge to replace the Tappan Zee. The project is bringing tens of thousands of construction jobs to the lower Hudson Valley and represents one of the largest infrastructure projects in America today. The total cost of the New NY Bridge, including management and administrative costs, is $3.9 billion, more than $1 billion less than previously estimated, thanks in part to the Governor's design-build legislation.
To facilitate construction across the state and control costs, Governor Cuomo worked to enact a new law allowing the use of Design-Build techniques. This streamlines the contracting process by holding a single contractor accountable for both the design of the project and its actual construction, with the potential to save 9 to 12 months on the project timeline for bridge repair and construction.
Throughout his tenure, Governor Cuomo has been a strong supporter of the State's mass transit systems to help maintain services and protect straphangers. This year's budget alone provided more than $4.7 billion to support operations of public transportation systems. To improve safety at the MTA, the Governor implemented a series of reforms, including creating the position of Chief Safety Officer, enacting management changes at the operating agencies to enhance and streamline safety functions, and creating a Safety Committee of the MTA Board.
Governor Cuomo is spearheading the revitalization of New York's airports including the grand opening of the new $1.4 billion Terminal 4 at John F. Kennedy Airport and the ongoing $2.4 billion construction of LaGuardia Airport's Central Terminal.

Source: http://andrewcuomo.com/record-of-success/transportation/
