Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Disaster Declaration For 24 Counties Across New York State to Assist Farmers Impacted By Drought
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 31, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 24 counties across Upstate New York have been designated as a natural disaster area by the federal government as a result of this summer's drought. These designations mean that farmers in those areas may be eligible for assistance, including emergency loans, from the United States Department of Agriculture Farm Service Agency. Additionally, State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball, state lawmakers and other farm leaders will be conducting on-site assessments of farms affected by the drought, while the state works closely with Cornell University expert hydrologists and climate professors to help understand and study the outlook for recovery.
"Strong agriculture is critical to the vibrancy of Upstate New York and this year's hot, dry summer have created significant challenges to this crucial industry," Governor Cuomo said. "From Western New York to the North Country, New York's growers and producers are major drivers of our economy and the benefits they provide to the community are immeasurable. In these difficult times, we must ensure that they have full access to all the resources necessary for making a full recovery."
"Our hearts go out to the farmers and ranchers affected by the drought in New York," said United States Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack. "President Obama and I are committed to ensuring that agriculture remains a bright spot in our nation's economy by sustaining the successes of America's farmers, ranchers, and rural communities through these difficult times. We're also telling New York producers that USDA stands with you and your communities when severe weather and natural disasters threaten to disrupt your livelihood."
Disaster declaration is based on reporting of crop loss to the federal Farm Service Agency and a D3 designation by the U.S. Drought Monitor. The federal government declared 15 counties as primary natural disaster areas and an additional nine counties as contiguous disaster counties due to a recent drought. In addition, several other counties in the North Country, the Finger Lakes, Central New York, and the Southern Tier regions are also requesting primary disaster declarations.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-disaster-declaration-24-counties-across-new-york-state-assist-farmers
