Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces State Will Approve Finch Land Classification Proposal Preserving 42,000 Acres in Adirondack Park
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 15, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the State will approve the preferred alternative of the land classification for 42,000 acres recently added to the State Forest Preserve in the Adirondack Park. This classification package provides a balanced approach that allows for recreational access to the lands as well as carefully sited snowmobile trails on certain roads, while protecting the Essex Chain Lakes as a Primitive area and creating thousands of acres of new Wilderness areas. The classification of the properties, which were formerly owned by Finch Pruyn & Company, was approved by the Adirondack Park Agency (APA) on Friday and will be sent to the Governor shortly for his approval.

"The proposed classification advanced by the APA represents a tremendous opportunity for the future of the Adirondack Park and when it arrives at my desk, I intend to sign it," Governor Cuomo said. "The plan provides the right balance in preserving the Park's invaluable natural resources and providing recreational and tourism opportunities for the public. It will add thousands of acres of new protected lands and waterways, create exciting outdoor activities for tourists and New Yorkers, and allow for new trails that will better connect the communities within the Park. This is a plan that will help grow the local economy and ensure that future generations can enjoy the natural wonders of the Adirondacks for years to come."

This preferred classification endorsed on Friday by the APA provides something for everyone; it is a balanced approach that protects the lands but also provides for diverse opportunities and public access. This plan would:

Allow recreational access to the newly acquire lands for people of all abilities for a wide variety of uses including hiking, cross country skiing, hunting, fishing, mountain biking, horse riding and snowmobiling.

Ensure the Essex Chain Lakes will be protected as a Primitive area, promoting quiet, motor free access.

Allow for carefully sited snowmobile trails on existing roads in Wild Forest corridors that connect Adirondack communities without affecting sensitive lakes and ponds.

Create thousands of acres of new Wilderness areas on some of the most remote and wild parts of the property along the Hudson River and surrounding OK Slip Falls.

The APA's recommendation provides for a mixed use of Wilderness, Primitive and Wild Forest classifications. The Wilderness and Primitive Areas will protect the nearly pristine water bodies, intact fisheries, wetlands and endangered plants. The Essex Chain Primitive Area will establish a new remote paddling experience that is within reasonable access to the general public.

Float plane access for sportsmen and sportswomen to First and Pine Lakes is possible since these rights were reserved in the deeds conveying the property to the State. Also, a Wild Forest buffer between Hudson River Gorge and Essex Chain Primitive Areas will provide much needed community connectivity through a multi-use, four season trail, including mountain biking and snowmobile uses, linking Indian Lake, Newcomb and Minerva. This community connector trail supports the goal of public access and recreation, which supports tourism development and opportunities throughout the Park.

Governor Cuomo extended appreciation to the Board and staff at the APA for their careful and thorough work, to Commissioner Joseph Martens of the Department of Environmental Conservation for his dedicated consultation efforts throughout the classification process, and to the many stakeholders who weighed in during this process, particularly the supervisors of the five towns surrounding these lands.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/121513-adk-land-classification
