Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces E-ZPass for Sale at Four Major Upstate Grocery Chains
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 25, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that E-ZPass tags are now available for purchase at the customer service counters of all Tops, Wegmans, Price Chopper and Hannaford stores in addition to many other convenient retail locations, making them even more widely available for motorists in time for the busy holiday travel season.
"Starting this holiday season, it is even easier for New Yorkers to purchase E-ZPasses which save travelers time and money while on the road," Governor Cuomo said. "With E-ZPasses now available at popular supermarkets across the state, New Yorkers can purchase this on the road convenience while doing their holiday shopping. Whether hosting friends and family from afar or gearing up for a trip yourself, I hope New Yorkers will consider adding an E-ZPass to their shopping list this holiday season."
Thruway Authority Chairman Howard P. Milstein said, "The E-ZPass program has allowed our patrons to save millions of dollars and countless hours while traveling on the Thruway. We will continue making tags more widely available to help ensure our patrons have a convenient and enjoyable experience on New York's premier superhighway."
E-ZPass tags have a $25 value and are active upon purchase. The first $15 is immediately available for toll usage, and the remaining $10 becomes available once the tag is registered online or by phone.
E-ZPass provides a savings of five percent on all Thruway tolls and is accepted in 15 states: Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia, and West Virginia.
Thruway Authority Executive Director Thomas J. Madison said, "The numerous benefits of these prepackaged tags make them the perfect gift for the traveler in your life this holiday season. Now individuals can get their holiday shopping out of the way by simply adding an E-ZPass tag to their weekly grocery list."
Thruway E-ZPass customers have saved more than $177 million on toll discounts over the past 20 years. Today, there are approximately 5.4 E-ZPass trips on the Thruway every second of every day.
E-ZPass is now sold in more than 640 retail locations including the aforementioned grocery stores, convenience stores and gas stations, AAA locations, college book stores and city, county and town clerk offices.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/11252013E-ZPass
