Public Statements
Video, Photos & Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Kicks Off the 2016 Great New York State Fair And Celebrates the Fairgrounds' Historic $50 Million Transformation
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 25, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you. Thank you very much. What an exciting day. What an exciting day. A little rain is to christen the new fair. I want you to know this is all part of a plan. But it is a special day; a little rain is not going to dampen our spirits. Let's have a round of applause for Joanie Mahoney, who is doing a great job. For all my colleagues from the Legislature who are here: Senator John DeFrancisco, Assemblyman Magnarelli and their colleagues. Let's thank them for today because today does not happen without them. To the West Genesee Marching Band -- thank you for adding a special touch to today.
Today is, in many ways, a metaphor for everything that we've been doing over the last few years in Albany. This State Fair is a great tradition -- 1841, one of the first State Fairs in the United States of America. Many memories here. People from all across the state grew up coming to the State Fair. If you were here over the last ten years or so, when you would go through the Fair, you had to say to yourself, "You know, it needs improvements." Because you can't just stay where you are. You have to continue to grow. You have to continue to develop. You have to stay up with the times. You have to maintain the property. We didn't do that at the State Fair. We didn't do it for a lot of years. Now, in truth, Upstate New York, in my opinion, didn't get the attention it deserved from Albany for a lot of years. If you want to continue -- and if you want to grow the economy, you want to stay ahead of it, you want to stay robust, you have to continue to develop and invest and grow. We went back to Albany and we came up with an ambitious plan: a $50 million investment plan. To get something done in Albany, you need a wish. You need a prayer. Then you need bipartisan support. I don't know which is harder: the wish, the prayer, or the bipartisan support. We are lucky in central New York because the elected officials put there politics aside it does matter if we are democrats, it doesn't matter if we are republicans, we are New Yorker's first and we act in the best interest of New York.
The came together and they fought and we got a $50 million invest fund for this State Fair you see the results today, it really is staggering for people who have been here before to see the progress of the new midway and as Senator DeFrancisco said before you are not tripping over wires every few feet. The new midway is the largest midway it has ever had, bigger than ten football fields, there are 70 rides now in the midway. We have 315 parking spots for RVs on site with full amenities. There is WiFi as you go through, there is new lighting. The place looks a lot better, the buildings have all been given a face life, it is a totally different experience and this is just phase one.
We are going to come back we are going to do more and we are going to do better and we are not going to finish until this State Fair is the best State Fair in the United States of America and a national destination point. We have also added additional components to the fair so that you can do everything that you'd like to do on site, this year you can also see the locally based Syracuse symphony, "Symphonia" which is in the beautiful amphitheater which is just a tram ride a way and that is a great vision by the county executive and that is going to bring a new dimension to the fair so let's give the county executive another round of applause.
We are going to have on Labor Day weekend a big exhibit by the bass pro shop organization. The leading fishing organization in the United States, we are going to have a competition on Onondaga Lake believe it or not for a great fishing competition. That shows how far we have come with Onondaga Lake, remember when you wouldn't even think of going fishing on the lake and now we are having a fishing tournament. You didn't read this about in the newspaper but we had a race on Onondaga Lake a few weeks ago. It was the state officials of the state of New York, myself included in a canoe race against the local officials, the county executive was in the other canoe. The publisher of the newspaper who shall go nameless, Tim Kennedy was in the other canoe and we had a race to memorialize the bringing back of Regatta, the big canoe race. We trained for many months we took it very seriously. The state team, which I was the Capitan, trounced the local team and the local team had a certain problem with synchronization I believe they called it. They went off the course and ran into the bank, you didn't read about it in the newspaper cause Tim Kennedy totally covered up his loss and his defeat but I want to set the record straight. We were here we participated in the Regatta and we trounced County Executive Joanie Mahoney and Tim Kennedy, but they were good sports about it. For the correct version of what happened, you can go to my website. You can read the actual version.
It's all part of a restoration of Central New York. It started with understanding that Central New York did not get the help and assistance they needed from Albany for many, many years. It started with believing in Central New York and believing in the future of Central New York, and then a lot of people did a lot of work to bring these pieces together. We have this State Fair which is better than ever before. Onondaga Lake, which is coming back and is going to be the host of all sorts of activities. We're going to announce later an Indy car race coming to Watkins Glen, which is going to be a really big win for the area. We have some of the best wine tasting and craft breweries in the world, right here in Central New York.
This all works together to get people coming into Central New York, to grow tourism, which is a big, big business for this state and particularly for Upstate New York. We hit the $100 billion mark in tourism, believe it or not. $100 billion. That is a 25 percent increase in tourism, and I don't think you've seen anything yet, because when people come to Upstate New York, once they come, they're going to come back again and again and again, because nobody has in this country what we have in Upstate New York. The geographic beauty, the nature, and then the State Fair and the lake and Watkins Glen all working together in the amphitheater.
So the best is ahead. We make great progress. Jobs are coming back. Unemployment is down by half. 7,000 new jobs, which is what it's all about. Let me end where we began. I want to thank the legislators who made this possible. I want to thank the state officials who did a lot of hard work, Commissioner Ball and Pat Hooker and RoAnn Destito and Matt Millea, who really worked hard to get this ready on time, the county people who have built that amphitheater and it's operating and it's going great and all the people from Central New York who hung in there with us, who believe in Central New York, and who want to see Central New York come back stronger than ever, and that's what's going to happen. Thank you and enjoy the fair.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-kicks-2016-great-new-york-state-fair-and-celebrates
