Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Grand Opening of New Clubhouse For Teens and Young Adults Battling Addiction in the Mohawk Valley
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 25, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the grand opening of Creative Connections Clubhouse, a first-of-its-kind recovery center for teens and young adults in Montgomery County. The clubhouse, located in Amsterdam, provides a safe, welcoming space for teens and young adults who are in recovery or are at risk for substance use disorders to develop social skills that promote long-term health, wellness, recovery and a drug-free lifestyle. In January, as part of his multi-pronged approach to combating addiction, Governor Cuomo awarded HFM Prevention, a Mohawk Valley substance use prevention provider, a $250,000 annual grant to support the clubhouse's long- term viability, recovery and prevention services.
"New York is leading the fight against addiction by providing critical life-saving resources to those battling substance abuse," Governor Cuomo said. "Young people struggling with addiction often don't know where to turn for help, but this new clubhouse will provide more youth in the Mohawk Valley with the relief and long-term support they need while on the path to recovery."
The clubhouse -- one of seven in regions across the state -- provides a community-based, non-clinical setting that promotes prevention, peer-driven supports and recovery services. HFM Prevention Council will deliver a variety of services and activities, including homework help and tutoring, college and job preparation, community service opportunities, sports and fitness activities, group entertainment activities, and peer mentoring. Youth and family advisory board members at each clubhouse will help shape activities and programming.
Representative Paul Tonko said, "Addiction is something that touches all of our lives at some point, whether personally or through family and friends, and it's time to rethink our approach to providing assistance to those struggling through some of the most challenging times imaginable. Creative Connections represents a new way to help those most in need and is another program in the long line of innovative thinking from OASAS. I thank our local leaders that made this a reality, and I look forward to continuing my work in Congress as the Vice Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus to ensure we have the tools to boost the success of those battling substance abuse."

Source:
