Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $15 Million Investment in Cohoes Gateway Project
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 5, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a $15 million investment to convert Route 787 in Cohoes to a boulevard and create a welcoming, pedestrian-friendly gateway to the city. The project will restore the connection between the east and west sides of the City of Cohoes and feature a boulevard-style road with updated crosswalks and a landscaped median.
"Investing in New York's transportation infrastructure is critical to creating safe and thriving communities across the state," Governor Cuomo said. "This project will help increase access to downtown, helping to spur growth and help local businesses for years to come."
The $15 million was allocated to the New York State Department of Transportation in the 2017-2018 budget for design and construction of the proposed gateway project, which will require federal approval. DOT is in the process of working with the Federal Highway Administration to reclassify the road to from a freeway to arterial designation, which is the first step in moving the project forward.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "The community has asked for a renewed Cohoes Boulevard, and New York State is answering the call. The new boulevard will serve as a gateway to Cohoes and restore the connections for neighborhoods on both sides of Route 787."
The anticipated proposal features a boulevard-style roadway with a landscaped median and narrower travel lanes on Route 787 -- also known as Cohoes Boulevard -- through the city limits, from Dyke Avenue to just south of the approach to the Cohoes Waterford Bridge. User-friendly pedestrian crossings at intersection points will help restore the connection for all those who cross Route 787 for work, school, shopping and more between Cohoes' Van Schaick Island and Simmons Island neighborhoods on the east, and Downtown Cohoes and the Cohoes Hill and Harmony Mills neighborhoods on the west.

Source:
