Public Statements
Governor Launches "Come See the Comeback" Sandy Tourism Campaign Featuring MTA Discounts and Promotions
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 24, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today launched a "Come See the Comeback" tourism campaign to promote tourism in communities recovering from Superstorm Sandy. The campaign highlights the progress these communities have made in rebuilding after the storm and that they are ready to welcome visitors once again. The campaign partners with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) by highlighting discounts and promotions on the Metro-North Railroad and Long Island Rail Road to promote travel to these areas. The Governor also unveiled television ads that feature recovering communities and new MetroCards designed with the "I Love NY" logo. The "I Love NY" trains on the Grand Central-Times Square shuttle launched earlier this week will also include new interior ads for this campaign. The tourism campaign is fully funded by the State's tourism budget with no additional cost to the MTA or straphangers.

"Nearly one year after Superstorm Sandy, our "Come See the Comeback' campaign captures the spirit of New Yorkers who in the face of any challenge will work together to come back better than before," Governor Cuomo said. "Superstorm Sandy caused terrible destruction in communities in Long Island, New York City and the Hudson Valley, closing down local businesses and damaging popular parks and beaches. But in the last 12 months, many of these communities have rebuilt better than before and their doors are once again open for business. We want New Yorkers and visitors to come see the progress that these communities have made and breathe new life into the local tourism industry. From taking a spin on the Wonder Wheel in Coney Island and touring wineries on Long Island to hiking in the Hudson Valley, there is something to do for everyone -- and the MTA can get you there. So pick up a MetroCard, get on a train, and come see our comeback."

The campaign features four television ads that will be aired all across the state beginning tomorrow. They focus on how New York State has come back from Superstorm Sandy, Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee to drive visitors to "NY Rising' communities in New York City, Long Island and Upstate New York.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/10242013-come-see-the-comeback
