Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Results of Undercover Investigation Into Underage Alcohol Sales in New York City
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 21, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that a seven-day undercover investigation into underage alcohol sales has resulted in charges to 76 licensed groceries and liquor stores throughout New York City. The investigation by the State Liquor Authority (SLA), part of a coordinated enforcement action to prevent the sale of alcohol to minors statewide, is the largest underage sting operation ever conducted in the agency's history.

"Our State is committed to preventing young New Yorkers from buying and abusing alcohol," Governor Cuomo said. "This investigation should put stores that sell alcohol to minors on notice: if you break the law, we will catch you. The State will continue to identify and hold accountable any grocery or liquor stores that endanger underage New Yorkers."

The investigation was conducted by the SLA from October 3 through October 11, 2013. The SLA's Beverage Control Investigators sent volunteer minors into 250 licensed groceries and liquor stores in all five boroughs of New York City. During the investigation, BCI personnel entered the grocery and liquor stores separately from the undercover minor to observe and verify when illegal transactions occurred. In total, the undercover minors were able to purchase alcohol at 76 out of the 250 premises visited, including 26 stores in the Bronx, 23 stores in Brooklyn, 19 stores Manhattan, 6 stores in Queens, and 2 stores on Staten Island. By penalizing these 76 stores, the SLA is leveling the playing field for the remaining honest small businesses.

State Liquor Authority Chairman Dennis Rosen said, "Preventing the sale of alcohol to minors is a priority for the State Liquor Authority. These large scale enforcement efforts will continue to be a part of our proactive measures to prevent alcohol abuse among our youth."

Licensees charged by the SLA with underage sales face civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, with fines starting from $2,500 to $3,000 for a first time offense. Repeat offenders also face potential suspension or revocation of their licenses.

The SLA's investigation was made possible in part with the support of the American Society for Industrial Security (ASIS) and the City University of New York (CUNY), which helped the agency recruit the volunteer minors that were coordinated and supervised by SLA personnel.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/10212013-underage-alcohol-sales-results
