Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Fall and Winter Tourism Campaign In Partnership With MTA
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 21, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the launch of a new I Love New York campaign in partnership with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) to promote autumn and winter tourism throughout the State. The campaign uses innovative, high-impact advertising strategies, including the launch of the first ever "I Love NY' Trains on the Grand Central-Times Square shuttle with the trains fully covered in exterior wrapping and featuring interior ads. The tourism campaign is fully funded by the State's tourism budget with no additional cost to the MTA or straphangers.

"More than eight million people ride our State transportation system every day, which makes it the perfect vehicle to promote everything New York State has to offer tourists and residents," Governor Cuomo said. "This is a truly unique approach for the state -- capitalizing on the lifeblood of New York City to highlight the tremendous destinations that exist throughout and beyond the metropolitan region, including those areas recovering from Sandy that need extra economic support. By partnering with the MTA we are going one step further to get the message out: New York's tourist destinations are calling, and the MTA can help take you there."

This unprecedented deployment of promotional materials throughout the MTA network is part of the Governor's $60 million commitment, announced at the Tourism Summit earlier this year, to encourage travelers to explore the Empire State. The campaign will concentrate on reaching the millions of New Yorkers and others who ride the MTA's subway, bus and commuter railroad network every day, encouraging them to "get outta town" and visit the wineries, museums, historical sites and outdoor attractions located throughout the service areas of the Metro-North Railroad and Long Island Rail Road, and beyond.

The annual efforts of the iconic I Love New York campaign include efforts to get non-New Yorkers and upstate residents to visit the five boroughs as well as seasonal efforts to promote the varied attractions of the rest of the state. This year, Governor Cuomo reinvigorated the campaign with new advertising strategies and its largest budget in history.

Thomas Prendergast, Chairman and CEO of the MTA, said, "Promoting leisure travel throughout our transit network is one more way the MTA powers the regional economy. Throughout the year, the MTA works with the tourism industry to develop and promote special packages, discount fares and seasonal attractions that put more customers on trains and deliver tourist dollars throughout the 12-county MTA service region. The Governor's innovative advertising strategies this year will get more attention and deliver more tourists throughout the region than ever before, and we are glad the MTA can increase its tourist ridership and be a part of this effort."

Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Kenneth Adams said, "Tourism is the fifth largest employer in the state of New York. It supports over 700,000 jobs and generates tens of billions of dollars in revenues for the state and businesses. It is a critical economic engine for our state and we are committed to showcasing our state's assets for visitors and the economic impact they provide. This partnership with the MTA allows us to further leverage the resources available towards economic prosperity for the state."

The fall campaign continues as four "I Love NY" commercials air in 10 markets across the region and out of state, during early morning national broadcasts, and on local news, sports, and cable networks. It carries on the Governor's message of "Get Outta Town" as they encourage the viewer to experience New York State's tourism assets with scenes of New York's breathtaking fall imagery which will lead into harvest, holiday and winter sports experiences in the state.

The fall campaign initiatives start with the partnership of the MTA but over the next few weeks, it will deploy in the airports further expanding the relationship with the Port Authority. The overall goal is to create awareness of upstate tourism assets and the abundance of travel options in the Empire State.

In addition to the visibility of wrapped subway and rail cars, the I Love New York campaign will also utilize these other MTA advertising assets:



Source:
