Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches Business Services Initiative Offering Free Support and Resources to Help Employers Grow Statewide
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 17, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today launched a streamlined, multi-agency initiative offering free business services to help employers overcome obstacles and grow their businesses in New York State. The State expanded theNewNY.com website with a new section that consolidates all the resources available to simplify how businesses can find recruitment and training services; financing options, incentives and tax credits; business counseling; and minority and women owned business certification. In addition, New York State Business Service Team members are now available to offer assistance about available resources. All of the services are at no cost to businesses.

"We are continuing to transform state government to be an active partner with the business community, helping local businesses open and grow in New York," Governor Cuomo said. "This initiative to streamline state resources will create a one-stop-shop for businesses to find new employees, utilize existing supportive programs and most importantly, save money. We are also making New York State Business Service Team members available to provide direct hands on assistance to any businesses that need their help."

Beginning today, the State will send surveys to businesses in the Capital Region to help evaluate the quality of the state's programs and services and determine what areas can be improved. These surveys will be sent to other regions of the state in coming weeks.

"These business surveys will help better tailor our free resources and support for businesses in every industry and region of the state," said Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Kenneth Adams. "I encourage every business that receives this survey to respond, so we can build and deliver the programs that work best for you - everything from job placement to financial incentives to counseling and training."

Whether a business is just starting up, expanding, or looking to fill a few vacancies, New York State Business Service Team members are available to help businesses:

1) List their jobs;
2) Find the right candidates;
3) Access hiring and training incentives;
4) Obtain business tax credits and incentives;
5) Secure business capital;
6) Learn about small business training and counseling;
7) Become Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise (MWBE) certified;
8) Access HR services and technical assistance; and
9) Find layoff aversion resources.

Business Service Team members can also act as an extension for HR teams to help in selecting job candidates, creating and reviewing employee handbooks, developing HR policies, reviewing employee turnover and offering alternatives to downsizing -- all at no cost.

Each year, the state offers dozens of customized recruitments and participates in hundreds of career fairs, further connecting businesses with the most qualified job seekers for their openings.

"Governor Cuomo is responding to the concerns of business," said Heather C. Briccetti, Esq., president and CEO of The Business Council of New York State, Inc. "Through a streamlined, collaborative approach to offering services, businesses will be better able to find exactly what they're looking for all in one place. I strongly encourage every business that receives a survey to respond so services can further improve."

Cathy Honda, Human Resource Manager for M&G DuraVent, Inc. in Albany, NY, said, "First, the Job Bank is a great resource for employers. I am receiving a ton of applicants in response to our job postings. We have hired eight so far from the Job Bank. Secondly, I had six opportunities so far to take advantage of New York State on the job training program when hiring for our manufacturing facility. This program makes it much easier for a small business to take a shot in hiring someone and teach them in new trade or position. Last but not least, I appreciated the personal meeting I had with the employment representative, who informed me of these programs along with other tax saving advantages with hiring veterans, etc. I would encourage any small business to reach out to learn and take advantage of one or all of the programs."

Adam James, HR Generalist for HealthHelp, LLC in East Greenbush, NY, said, "Our company finds New York State's Occupational Analyst/Human Resource Consult services an invaluable resource. Having a resource like this allows for our company to have the ability to seek information and guidance. Every time we reach out, be it by phone or email, we receive immediate attention, receiving exactly the information we sought."

Michael Sinatra, spokesperson for Whole Foods Market's Northeast Region, said, "It's with great pride that we partner with the state of New York to offer high quality career opportunities to local area residents. The agencies have been instrumental in assisting us with identifying talented team members and helping to grow our company right here in New York, where we have plans to continue to grow."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/10172013-business-services-initiative
