Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces "Hiring Our Heroes" Career Fair For Veterans and National Guard Members
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 14, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that more than 70 companies, including General Electric, GlobalFoundries and Southwest Airlines, will participate in the "Hiring Our Heroes" career fair for Capital Region veterans and current members of the National Guard and Reserves on October 16. The career fair is hosted by the New York National Guard as part of a national effort by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce foundation dedicated to connecting employers with talented veterans and military spouses.

"With the "Hiring Our Heroes' career fair, we can connect employers looking to hire with New York's talented and skilled service members and veterans," Governor Cuomo said. "The State is committed to helping these men and women who have made sacrifices to serve our nation to find good paying civilian jobs. I encourage our local heroes in the Capital Region to attend this job fair on Wednesday and explore the wide range of opportunities that is available."

The career fair will be held at the New York State Division of Military and Naval Affairs headquarters in Latham from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Each registered employer has agreed to have at least five job vacancies available in order to participate in the event.

All potential employees will have the opportunity to attend a workshop beginning at 9:00 a.m. hosted by General Electric on how to best use job-searching tools.

The Latham event is co-sponsored by the New York State Department of Labor, Albany-Colonie Regional Chamber of Commerce, Rensselaer County Regional Chamber of Commerce, the American Legion, and the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR) organization.

According to figures released in July by the Department of Labor, the unemployment rate for all post-9/11 veterans stood at 7.4 percent, compared with the national rate of 7.2 percent for all Americans.

Job seekers interested in participating in the Hiring Our Heroes event can register here: http://www.uschamber.com/hiringourheroes/latham-ny3.

The New York National Guard sponsors the Hiring Our Heroes events as part of an effort to ensure that all Guard Soldiers and Airmen have good civilian jobs.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/10142013-hiring-our-heros-carrer-fair
