Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Progress on Elevated Walkway at the Wild Center
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 11, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the ceremonial groundbreaking of Wild Walk, a unique educational and recreational tourist attraction at The Wild Center in Tupper Lake. The Wild Center, which has a $10 million annual economic impact on the region, was awarded $1 million in Round 2 of Governor Cuomo's Regional Council initiative for the project's construction. The project was designated a Regional Council priority project and is consistent with the North Country Regional Economic Development Council's (NCREDC) strategic plan to put in place tools to attract private investment which will drive demand to revitalize and diversify communities.

"The Wild Center is one of the North Country's great assets for outdoor recreation and tourism. Supporting this project through the Regional Economic Development Councils is part of the State's ongoing investment in attracting tourism and economic growth to the region," Governor Cuomo said. "When completed, the Wild Walk will offer an unparalleled experience that will help draw new visitors to the area."

"The Wild Center is a tourism and education destination that aligns to our vision to elevate global recognition of the region as one of the special places on the planet to visit, live, work and study," said Anthony G. Collins, President of Clarkson University and Co-Chair of the Regional Council. "The Wild Center's unprecedented approach to engaging people in the natural environment with initiatives like Wild Walk is an example of the entrepreneurial and innovative spirit that permeates across all of the sectors in the North Country."

"The creation of new and enhanced tourism infrastructure in the Adirondacks is key to sustaining and building the regional economy," said Garry Douglas, President of the North Country Chamber of Commerce and Co-Chair of the Regional Council. "Wild Walk will not only make the Center an even greater attraction, but will add tremendously to its ability to tell the story of the Adirondacks as one of the special places of the world."

"We all feel honored," said Stephanie Ratcliffe, the Executive Director at the Center. "We know that the people who volunteer their time to guide the NCREDC care deeply for the region and its future. When they selected our project as one to recommend, it meant a great deal to all of us. The Wild Center has been a community effort. More than 20,000 people have supported the Center in one way or another, all with a goal of making The Wild Center important to the future of the region. We have worked on Wild Walk behind closed doors for five years; we designed it so it could become an iconic symbol for this inventive and creative region. We are so grateful that through the Council and Empire State Development, New York State has endorsed our work. It's gratifying to witness the dream coming to life."

Wild Walk will include an elevated walk¬way in a wooded section of The Wild Center's campus, providing an exciting and informa¬tive journey to the treetops through five timber towers of increasing height. "Safely dangerous" elements such as a rope "spider net" and viewing plat¬forms will enhance the visitor experience along the way. The structure will be used as a teach¬ing platform for natural science education as well as an outdoor recreational attraction.

In 2011, Governor Cuomo redefined the State's approach to economic development by establishing 10 Regional Economic Development Councils (REDC) across the State. The REDC and Consolidated Funding Application (CFA) process have transformed economic development in New York State, creating a statewide framework for bottom-up regional economic growth. As part of that process, Empire State Development provided $1 million to The Wild Center, allowing the museum to leverage an additional $1.8 million in private investment.

Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Kenneth Adams said, "Wild Walk will be a major economic driver and a catalyst for further investment in the Region's tourism infrastructure. The construction of this unique tourist attraction will create and retain jobs, and have a tremendous impact on the community, helping to expand the visitor base and supporting the revitalization of the Tupper Lake/central Adirondack region. We congratulate The Wild Center on this groundbreaking and look forward to the project's completion."

Senator Betty Little said, "Wild Walk will inspire a sense of discovery and appreciation for the Adirondacks that will be truly unique and unforgettable. When we had our first "Adirondack Day' in Albany this past spring, the Wild Walk model garnered a lot of attention so it is wonderful to see progress continue with today's celebration of the groundbreaking. This is a great private and public collaboration that will boost tourism and help the local economy by attracting new visitors to the region and giving others another reason to return."

Assemblywoman Janet Duprey said, "I am pleased that The Wild Center's vision and hard work to develop Wild Walk has received funding from the NCREDC and the support of Empire State Development. This pristine tourist attraction will be enhanced greatly by Wild Walk that will bring additional information and recreation to outdoor activities which will complement the already popular indoor displays in the museum. As a vital tourist and economic attraction in Tupper Lake, The Wild Center continues to grow and serve as a great source of educational and fun activities for visitors of all ages."

Franklin County Chairman Billy Jones said, "Wild Walk is an exciting project that will provide a significant economic boost to Franklin County. The Wild Center already plays a vital role in attracting tourism and economic activity to the region, and this addition will capitalize on that by offering new opportunities for learning and outdoor recreation."

Tupper Lake Mayor Paul Maroun said, "This is another added feature to The Wild Center which will enhance additional tourism in Tupper Lake and the North Country. I thank the North Country Regional Economic Development Council for approving these funds, which will allow this project to move forward."

About The Wild Center
The Wild Center is a not-for-profit organization based out of a 31-acre site in Tupper Lake, NY near the geographic center of the Adirondacks. The Center, dedicated to understanding this rare place where great expanses of nature are interspersed with small towns and communities exploring how man and nature can thrive together, is committed to helping people explore not a small collection, but one that lives and breathes across the entire expanse of the Adirondacks. The Wild Center is science-based, and its experiences, exhibits and programs are designed to open new ways to look into our relationship with nature.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/10112013-wild-center-walkway
