Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Awards $200 Million in Funding to Meet Healthcare and Human Service Needs Resulting from Superstorm Sandy
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 10, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that $200 million has been awarded to more than 450 healthcare and human service providers and other community-based organizations following the impact of Superstorm Sandy.

"Nearly one year after Superstorm Sandy hit New York, the State's healthcare and human service providers continue to serve communities recovering from the storm, even while many of these organizations themselves are still getting back on their feet," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding will help providers cover significant costs resulting from the storm, including repairs and renovation of critical facilities, unreimbursed expenses, and ongoing services to impacted New Yorkers. With today's grants, we are directing assistance to the people and communities that need it most so the State as a whole can continue to build back stronger than before."

The federal Superstorm Sandy Social Services Block Grant is designed to cover unreimbursed expenses resulting from the storm, including social, health and mental health services for individuals, and for repair, renovation and rebuilding of health care facilities, mental hygiene facilities, child care facilities and other social services facilities.

The grants will provide approximately $65 million for repair, rebuilding and renovation costs resulting from Superstorm Sandy; $52 million for unreimbursed operating costs during and after Sandy; $72 million for ongoing or new services to meet the continuing needs of Sandy-impacted New Yorkers; and $11 million for other eligible health and social services costs.

The grants will be awarded to 464 organizations pending full documentation of eligible costs. Some of the recipients include:

Region-Wide
$166,000 to Save the Children to reimburse the international non-profit for establishing "Child-Friendly Spaces" emergency services and respite locations for child care within six shelters and serving 1,033 children.

Long Island
$6.6 million to South Nassau Communities Hospital for construction and operating costs to establish an Urgent Care Center to be located in Long Beach to replace a facility that was destroyed due to Superstorm Sandy.
$1.4 million to Long Island Coalition for the Homeless to make needed repairs at a community center that houses 10 not-for-profits that will provide services to homeless persons, including homeless veterans.
$2.9 million to Long Island Jewish Medical Center, a 48-acre campus that includes Long Island Jewish Hospital, Steven and Alexandra Cohen Children's Medical Center and The Zucker Hillside Hospital, for unreimbursed operating costs to house and care for an influx of patients during and after Hurricane Sandy, as well as maintaining the well-being of their existing patients, and providing ongoing services to Sandy-impacted New Yorkers.
$2.2 million to South Shore Association for Independent Living Inc., to repair and rebuild a community residence that was severely damaged and to create a Recovery Case Management and Services program that will provide supportive counseling to aid individuals that continue to recover from the lasting effects of Superstorm Sandy.
$2.1 million to FEGS Health & Human Services to reimburse the non-profit for damage to a 10-story 138-unit low-income residential building for senior citizens, people with disabilities and people who are deaf or hard of hearing, and to provide services to Long Island children and to adults with developmental disabilities impacted by Superstorm Sandy.

New York City
$22.3 million to New York University Langone Medical Center for uncompensated operating costs incurred as a result of Hurricane Sandy as it cared for critically ill patients and worked to reopen its facility.
$2.3 million to Brookdale Hospital and Medical Center for unreimbursed operating costs to house and care for nursing home residents as well as other patients in its main building in Brooklyn, and for the expenses incurred to renovate and retrofit two floors in the hospital to make them patient-ready.
$2.6 million to Sunset Park Health Council Inc. / Lutheran Family Centers, a federally-qualified community health center in Brooklyn, to provide medical, behavioral health, health education, and clinical support to the storm-affected populations in nine neighboring public housing developments in Coney Island.
$1 million to CAMBA to fund the Ocean Village Recovery Project, which will address the immediate needs of residents of the Ocean Village complex on the Rockaway Peninsula by providing unemployed and under-employed residents with services to enable them to obtain gainful employment, including assistance in accessing job training opportunities and direct job placement.
$482,000 to Richmond University Medical Center for unreimbursed costs to repair extensive damage to the facility's roof and other exposed building elements as well as unreimbursed operating costs incurred as a result of the influx in patients during and after Hurricane Sandy. Richmond University Medical Center provides essential health care services to a catchment area of over 500,000 and was the only fully operational acute-care hospital open in Staten Island throughout Superstorm Sandy.
$446,000 to Project Hospitality, an organization that provides food, shelter, and services to more than 26,000 poor, hungry and homeless residents of Staten Island per year, to allow them to continue to provide essential recovery services which include providing food, housing, and information to thousands Staten Islanders impacted by Hurricane Sandy.
$68,000 to Hamilton-Madison House to provide case management, referrals for disaster mental health/substance abuse services, assistance with applications for Small Business Association (SBA) loans, and replacement of Sandy-destroyed equipment in lower East Side communities, including Chinatown.

Mid-Hudson
$257,000 to The Children's Village, which serves over 10,000 children and families annually through a variety of short-term residential and community-based programs. Their residential campus in Westchester County sustained the most significant damage from Superstorm Sandy with torn roofs, fallen trees, and broken fences.
$241,000 to The Summit Children's Residence Center in Nyack. Summit Children's Residence will use the funding to repair and maintain structures damaged by Superstorm Sandy, to ensure that they are able to meet the needs of the 115 severely emotionally disturbed adolescents in its care 24-hours a day, 365 days a year.

Grantees were selected through a competitive and transparent request for proposals. All awards are preliminary. Adjustments may occur in instances of specific ineligible expenses, duplication of benefits with other federal, state or private reimbursements, and insufficient documentation of costs. New York State may also make additional awards based on availability of funds.

For a full list of preliminary allocations, go to: www.Stormrecovery.ny.gov/SandySSBG

Senate Majority Coalition Co-Leader Dean Skelos said, "This grant is critically important to ensure that the residents of Long Beach have access to urgent care services provided through South Nassau Communities Hospital and the Long Beach Medical Center. These funds are a big step forward towards helping our area's continued recovery from Hurricane Sandy that devastated health care services in Long Beach."

Senate Majority Coalition Co-Leader Jeff Klein said, "One year after Superstorm Sandy, our commitment to rebuilding New York remains stronger than ever. These organizations continue to be some of the most important boots on the ground in New York's hardest hit areas. I'm proud that we can deliver the funds these organizations need, so they can rebuild and continue to serve communities in need."

Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said, "When New York was devastated by Superstorm Sandy, I and many of my Assembly colleagues worked closely with our local non-profit organizations to deliver essential services to those who were in desperate need. Non-profits stepped in to lend a vital hand to residents and business owners. True to their core missions, it has been our non-profits, the health care and human services organizations, which have upheld that support for the past year. In my Lower Manhattan community, local organizations sprang into action, working around the clock to help the most vulnerable and they have continued to deliver crucial services. Despite their own needs to repair and rebuild, New York's non-profits always put their neighbors first. I commend them all for their ongoing dedication to our communities and I applaud Governor Cuomo for recognizing the efforts of the more than 450 community-based organizations."

Richard Murphy, President and CEO of South Nassau Communities Hospital, said, "I thank Governor Andrew Cuomo for the Social Services Block grant funding that will assist the Hospital in its commitment to helping meet the health care needs of its residents that were impacted by the devastation of Hurricane Sandy. In particular, this will allow South Nassau to further its commitment to the residents of Long Beach to provide urgent care services to the community. South Nassau Communities Hospital looks forward to continuing its work with the Long Beach Medical Center and the NYS Department of Health in fulfilling this goal."

Terry Troia, Executive Director of Project Hospitality, with several locations throughout Staten Island, said "Since November 1, 2012, we have reached more than 4,000 Hurricane Sandy impacted families and we continue to manage the only ongoing evacuation center in NYC. We are overwhelmed and express our gratitude to Governor Cuomo and the team that reviewed our application. We are deeply moved by this extraordinary grant and know the impact of these funds will make a real difference to all Staten Islanders."

Greta Guarton, Executive Director, Long Island Coalition for the Homeless, said, "We are so grateful to the Governor and to New York State for this funding, which will allow us to complete work on a community center that had been destroyed by Superstorm Sandy. Once the building has been rehabilitated, homeless veterans and other homeless Long Islanders will be able to access a variety of services, including housing and employment assistance, in a "one-stop" model offered by the 10 non-profits co-locating in the building."

Jeanne-Aimée De Marrais, Advisor for Save the Children's Domestic Emergencies Programs, said, "The Governor's support meant that when children were most vulnerable -- when their families lost everything and had to seek shelter in large evacuation shelters (sometimes sleeping next to hundreds of strangers), Save the Children was able to provide programs and care to help keep kids safe. We are grateful for Governor Cuomo's support which allowed Save the Children to help support children's protection and recovery when they were in evacuation shelters immediately following the storm when New Yorkers needed it the most."

Mark E. Toney, President and CEO of Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center, said, "As a community hospital, Brookdale's core belief is that we are here to serve. After Hurricane Sandy, we were honored and proud to work with the Governor's office, DOH, and GNYHA to provide care for our extended communities and their most vulnerable citizens in their time of need. We appreciate Governor Cuomo's leadership during the storm. In addition, today, we appreciate him acknowledging Brookdale's efforts and this Block Grant will assist us with covering some of the extraordinary costs that we incurred during that very difficult time."

Kathy Teemer-Campbell, Kathy's Korner of Care, said, "As the owner and operator of a small child care program in Long Beach, my business was devastated by Super Storm Sandy. My home and place of business sustained extensive water damage as it approached the five foot level and ignited a fire which consumed the entire first floor. I have been fortunate enough to be able to operate out of an alternate location, providing critical child care to other families also impacted by the storm. This funding is going to go a long way to helping me repair my home and resurrect my child care program. I'm grateful for this opportunity to repair and rebuild my business, my home and my life."

Robert I. Grossman, MD, Dean and CEO of NYU Langone Medical Center, said, "We are grateful to all those who supported NYU Langone as we have sought to meet the critical need for healthcare services in our community. I especially want to thank Governor Andrew M. Cuomo and New York State officials, including the staffs of the State Departments of Health and Homeland Security. This support will benefit our patients, and the entire city, as NYU Langone works to recover from the immense impact of the storm."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/100102013-funding-for-needs-resulting-from-storm-sandy
