Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $1.2 Million in Job Training Grants
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 8, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that $1.2 million in job training grants is still available to businesses that hire long-term unemployed New Yorkers. This effort is part of a campaign to help individuals, who have been out of work for 26 weeks or longer, connect to available jobs in their region. To date, more than 600 businesses have taken advantage of about $8.2 million in On-the-Job training incentives to hire more than 1,200 individuals across the state.

"The State is using every tool available to actively reduce unemployment and ensure that every New Yorker has the opportunity to find a good paying, long-term, stable job," Governor Cuomo said. "With these job training grants, we are incentivizing businesses to hire and train New Yorkers who have been unemployed for at least half a year, benefiting both job seekers and companies. I encourage interested businesses to take advantage of these grants and New Yorkers looking for new opportunities to visit a New York State Career Center to explore the wide range of available employment services."

The State is also conducting outreach beginning this week to help New Yorkers who have been unemployed for 26 weeks or longer to find employment assistance. The Department of Labor will send an e-mail to those New Yorkers containing a simple survey that will be used to help tailor job search services for each individual who responds and to invite them to one of the 96 New York State Career Centers for these personalized services.

"Especially if you haven't been to a New York State Career Center in a while, I am excited for you to come see what's new and to let a Career Center specialist help you in your quest to get a job," said State Labor Commissioner Peter M. Rivera. "We won't stop helping until you do."

Steve Pesta, Owner of Awards by Walsh's & Creative Marketing Inc. in Cohoes, said, "Recently I had two opportunities to take advantage of the New York State on-the-job training when I was hiring new associates. In both experiences, I found this program to be very helpful. First of all, as a small business owner, you're afraid to hire someone because it takes so long to train them in the position; it is just easier to do it yourself. With this program, it makes it much easier for a small business to take a shot and hire someone and teach them in a new trade or position. I would encourage any small business to take advantage of this program."

Linda McKay, Human Resources Manager and Facility Security Officer for Dielectric Laboratories, Inc. in Cazenovia, said, "The NEG/OJT Grant has been a great benefit to Dielectric Laboratories. As an employer in Madison County, we have had some difficulties finding the right candidates for open positions. Working Solutions has been a good partner in locating the right candidates. The most challenging portion of any new hire is the amount of time and cost to train a new employee. The grant has been a tremendous help with the cost of training and we've been fortunate that the employees we have hired are still employed with us today and we expect they will be long term employees. Dielectric will continue to partner with Working Solutions as our business grows."

Travis Rivera, Production Assistant and Coffee Roaster Trainee at Java Love Coffee Roasting Co., LLC in Kauneonga Lake, said, "I was on the grant beginning in November 2012 for 6 months and now have been with Java Love Coffee Roasting Co just shy of a year. In that time, I have continued to learn and grow, moving from production assistant to roasting manager. My experience has been invaluable. I was formerly unemployed and now I am not only able to earn a living wage and provide for my family, I have a brand new skill set in roasting coffee and confidence in my abilities. I am more invested in and grateful for the grant, community and Java Love for giving me this opportunity I know I may not have had otherwise."

Lance Bennett, Facilities Manager at Human Technologies Corporation in Utica, said, "Having been employed for the past 40 years, I was not expecting my position to be eliminated suddenly from my previous employer. When I registered with Working Solutions in Herkimer, they gave me the resources to find a new job, by attending workshops and personal assistance. After being out of work for 4 months, I was offered a position at Human Technologies Corporation in Utica. I was very hesitant starting a new job, along with learning a new business. The staff at HTC were very helpful in providing me with training and giving me the tools to make a smooth transition back into the workforce. All in all the most unpleasant situation of having your position eliminated has turned into a once in a lifetime experience by locating and securing a new position, only achievable with the help and training provided through the OJT program."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/10082013Job-Training-Grants
