Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Legislation Allowing Wine to be Sold at Farmer's Markets and Designating New Wine Trails Along State Roadways
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 30, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the signing of a series of new laws that will continue the state's efforts to better market and promote New York wine by allowing wine to be sold at roadside farm markets and designating portions of the state highways near wineries and vineyards as "Wine Trails."

"These new laws will build on our continuing efforts to promote New York's wine industry across the state and beyond, boosting tourism, local economies and job growth," Governor Cuomo said. "We are increasing market opportunities for local producers and farmers and expanding our wine trails to attract tourists to communities across Upstate New York. Our state is home to hundreds of wineries that produce some of the best wine in the world, and we want both New Yorkers and visitors to come and enjoy them."

The farm markets legislation (S.267/A.1512) will create a new venue for New York wineries to sell their products by allowing roadside farm markets to sell wine manufactured and produced by up to two licensed farm wineries, special wineries or micro-wineries located within 20 miles of the roadside farm market.

The Governor also signed four wine trail laws: one establishes a new wine trail; one expands an existing wine trail; one both expands two existing wine trails and changes their names; and one simply changes the name of an existing wine trail. Wine trails help guide tourists to local attractions, vineyards, and wine tasting rooms, and to experience all that New York's wine regions have to offer. There are currently 16 wine trails designated by state law.

Senator William Larkin said, "I am very pleased that two of my bills helping the wine industry were signed into law," said Senator Larkin. "By authorizing licensed farm stands to sell local wine and expanding the Shawangunk East Wine Trail, we are creating more opportunities for New York State to promote its wine industry. These measures will also boost tourism and grow our local economies. I thank Governor Cuomo for his approval of these two laws."

Assemblymember William Magee said, "By allowing New York's wide variety of quality wines to be sold at roadside farm markets, we are opening another door for this important industry. This is a measure that will support the growth of local businesses in our communities, and provide an important boost to wine producers across the state."

Source:
