Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $10.4 Million Project to Replace Harlem Road Bridge Over Buffalo River in Erie County
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 24, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that work will begin Monday on a $10.3 million project to replace the Harlem Road Bridge in the towns of Cheektowaga and West Seneca in Erie County. The project is part of the Governor's $518 million program to replace and upgrade scour critical and flood prone bridges to ensure they are protected from future threats. Work is scheduled to be completed in December 2018.
"Our transportation infrastructure is the literal backbone of New York's growth and success, so we must ensure maximum resilience for our bridges to withstand both extreme weather conditions and regular use," Governor Cuomo said. "This project will improve safety and mobility on the road and strengthen the transportation system in Western New York."
The bridge, which carries Route 240, Harlem Road, over the Buffalo River, was built in 1911. This project will replace the aging structure to provide a 75-year minimum service life by improving the water flow to prevent future scour and flooding. The new bridge has been designed with only one bridge pier in the water instead of the four bridge piers that currently exist. The Governor secured funding from the Federal Emergency Management Agency to strengthen 105 bridges through its Hazard Mitigation Grant Program and the FY 2017 State Budget allocated additional funding for this project.
Congressman Brian Higgins said, "This project, which includes over $8 million in federal funding, provides for replacement of a 105 year old bridge, supporting critical infrastructure investments in West Seneca and needed relief for residents who have struggled with reoccurring flooding in their neighborhoods," said Congressman Brian Higgins, who in 2014 advocated for design features that make the structure more resistant to ice jam flooding."



Source:
