Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Project Labor Agreement on New Rochester Station
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 10, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the State will use a Project Labor Agreement (PLA) for construction of the new Rochester Intermodal Station, which is scheduled to break ground this winter. The agreement will save more than 10% on labor costs and contains other enhancements that will improve coordination and streamline the project schedule. The PLA will protect taxpayers by delivering the best quality work at the lowest possible price, and is open to all contractors, both union shop and open shop.

"The new Rochester Intermodal Station is a significant project that will help meet the growing demand of our travelers in the Finger Lakes region," Governor Cuomo said. "As we move forward on the new station, this Project Labor Agreement will save taxpayer dollars while ensuring an efficient construction process. I commend all those involved in reaching this agreement to ensure that this major project is on track to break ground this winter."

"Governor Cuomo has long focused on spending taxpayer money efficiently and ensuring that state and local governments also operate in a productive, cost-saving manner," Lt. Governor Robert J. Duffy said. "The new Rochester Intermodal Station will provide excellent jobs and create an improved environment for travelers here in Rochester. I applaud our partners in the federal government and all agencies for their hard work in securing the funding for this station and this significant Project Labor Agreement."

The PLA is expected to save $653,000 from the projected $6.1 million in labor costs for the $30 million project. The $30 million estimate includes all phases of the project and the track and signal work to be performed by CSX Transportation, Inc. (CSX). These savings will be achieved through standardized start and stop times for shifts across all trades, as well as allowing flexibility in scheduling that will help avoid interference with railroad operations. This project will require complex coordination with Amtrak and CSX that will allow both companies to continue operations during construction and minimize the need for costly protective services.

In addition, the Design Builder and other contractors working on the project will be allowed to control staffing levels and scheduling. The PLA also contains a no-strike clause and will protect the project from the delay impact of strikes and other labor disputes.

The PLA was negotiated by the New York State Department of Transportation in cooperation with the City of Rochester, the Rochester Building and Construction Trades Council, and local unions.

The $30 million dollar Rochester Station project includes demolition of the current station and construction of a brand new station at the same site; a temporary station will be erected for use during construction. The project includes track and signal work to be designed and built by CSX in coordination with NYSDOT's contractors. NYSDOT will also construct two dedicated passenger rail sidings, a new high-level passenger platform, a pedestrian concourse under the tracks to access the new platform, new parking lots, pedestrian and bicycle pathways, and landscaping. The station will also include space for Greyhound and Trailways bus operations, which could be expanded in the future as needed.

Project funding includes a $15 million TIGER grant from the Federal Railroad Administration, $7.5 million from New York State and $500,000 from the City of Rochester.

New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "I want to thank Congresswoman Louise Slaughter, Mayor Richards , the Rochester Building and Construction Trades Council, and Amtrak for their collaboration to move this project forward. Their commitment recognizes the importance of creating the flexibility necessary to deliver this complex project on time and on budget while maximizing value for taxpayers."

U.S. Representative Louise Slaughter said, "I have pushed for this Project Labor Agreement since 2012 when we announced that the Rochester train station had been awarded TIGER funding. A PLA will ensure that the workers building the station represent a cross-section of Rochester, and that they are paid a fair wage for their work. It will also provide contractors with the certainty that deadlines will be met and the project will move forward without delays," Rep. Slaughter said. "With this Project Labor Agreement, we are one step closer to breaking ground on a state-of-the-art rail station to support our current ridership of 145,000, a number that is expected to double in the years to come."

Assembly Majority Leader Joseph D. Morelle said, "This agreement paves the way for a new and much-needed station for travelers in the greater Rochester area, and it also serves as a model for how government and labor can and must work together to create good-paying jobs and protect taxpayers at the same time. I want to thank Mayor Tom Richards, Governor Cuomo, Amtrak and the Trades Council for their shared commitment to our region and their leadership on this important transportation issue."

Mayor Thomas S. Richards said, "It is great news that the New York State Department of Transportation is utilizing a Project Labor Agreement in its plans to rebuild the Rochester Train Station and Governor Cuomo deserves our thanks. This project now joins with Midtown Rising, the Rochester City School Facilities Modernization Program, College Town and the new Transit Center as projects that will see minorities, women and city residents employed at historically high rates. We have worked diligently to ensure that projects built with public dollars employ at least 20% minority and 6% women in all of the various trades. These workers will now have more than just a job. They will have a union card, a trade and a career. I am thankful to the State for supporting the important role of minorities and women in Rochester's revitalization. We have more than a billion dollars of active investment being kept in the city thanks to Project Labor Agreements such as this one."

Amtrak President and CEO Joe Boardman said, "New York recognizes the importance of Amtrak service to the state and the new Rochester Intermodal Station will help the community grow and prosper."

Rochester Building and Construction Trades Council President David A. Young Jr said, "The Rochester Building and Construction Trades Council is proud to be a part of this Project Labor Agreement, as it helps to ensure a significant savings to the tax payer, a safe project for the workers building the station and a quality facility for the public to use. The Project Labor Agreement guarantees local labor on the project. This agreement also provides great opportunities for women and minorities in our community."

Amtrak ridership in Rochester has doubled since 2005 to 144,703 passengers last year. The increased demand at the Rochester station coincides with Amtrak's continued record ridership figures. The new station will add to that equation by increasing capacity and making it easier and safer for travelers to get on and off trains. Amtrak will own and operate the new station when it is complete.

NYSDOT issued a Request for Proposals from pre-qualified contractors on July 18. The proposals are due September 20. Construction will begin after the contract is awarded.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/09102013-pla-new-rochester-station
