Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Proclaims September as Preparedness Month
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 6, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that September is Preparedness Month across New York State, encouraging individuals, families, and businesses to take this opportunity to review their disaster plans and become better prepared for any emergency.

"New York has experienced some of the most devastating natural disasters in our state's history in recent years, as well as the worst terrorist attack on U.S. soil in our nation's history," Governor Cuomo said. "This September, I urge all New Yorkers to form emergency plans and make sure they are prepared in the event of a natural or man-made disaster. Doing so is an important way to protect your family and can make all the difference in an emergency."

Preparedness Month is a national effort, now in its ninth year, sponsored by the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Ready Campaign in partnership with Citizen Corps. It is designed to encourage Americans to take simple steps to prepare for emergencies in their homes, businesses, and communities.

In advance of this month's observance, the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services and the Department of Health have been showcasing preparedness information at the New York State Fair. State agencies have also taken multiple steps to increase resiliency, preparedness and response capabilities.

Basic steps to follow in advance of any disaster include having an emergency plan, stocking up on emergency supplies, and remaining cognizant of potential hazards that could impact where you live or visit -- including obtaining information through local news outlets during an emergency. New Yorkers should also subscribe to NY- ALERT, the State's alert and notification system, and download its new mobile app, iAlertz. To subscribe, visit http://www.nyalert.gov or http://www.ialertz.com.

New York State has also developed a website to guide citizens to prepare for any type of incident at www.nyprepare.gov. This website serves as a clearinghouse of safety and preparedness information from the State agency websites of the Office of Emergency Management, the Department of Health, the Office of Counter Terrorism, the State Police, the Office of Fire Prevention and Control, the Department of Financial Services, and the Department of Agriculture and Markets, as well as the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the American Red Cross.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/09062013-september-preparedness-month
