Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Funding for Town of Upper Jay to Build new Fire Station After Hurricane Irene
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 4, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $1,496,676 in funding for the Town of Upper Jay in Essex County to build a new fire station after the old station was destroyed by Hurricane Irene.

"Two years later, the Town of Upper Jay is still feeling the impact of Hurricane Irene," Governor Cuomo said. "As the Town continues its rebuilding process, the State will remain a committed partner until the community is fully recovered. Today's funding will help bridge the Town's financial gap so that a new fire station can finally be rebuilt at a new and safer location. This project will serve and protect more than 1,000 residents in the district and ensure the region is better prepared for the future."

The old fire station was severely damaged during Hurricane Irene, and the building was condemned by the Town Code Enforcement Officer. In June 2012 following a meeting with the New York State Department of Financial Services, an agreement was reached between the Town of Jay and an insurance company to build a new firehouse at a new location with less flood risk.

The total cost of the new fire station project is $2,783,441, which includes the purchase of new land, demolition of the old facility and construction of the new building. The Town was able to secure $1,286,765 to pay for the project with funding from insurance, municipal bonding, funds raised in the community and FEMA. To fill the remaining gap of $1,496,676, Essex County applied to the State for NYS Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds, which is being made available today.

With a new fire station, the Upper Jay Fire District will be better equipped to provide essential services to the residents of the district.

Senator Betty Little said, "The Town of Jay lost more than just a firehouse in Hurricane Irene -- part of the Town's ability to serve its community was damaged and washed away. Today, with state government's help, we are taking a major step to make the community whole again. This is an example of government coming together to do what is right for the people, and I am pleased to have worked with Governor Cuomo to make our state stronger in the face of these and future storms."

Assemblyman Dan Stec said, "With all of the extreme weather that has swept across New York State over the past few years, the importance of a quality fire house cannot be taken for granted. These locations serve as important staging areas for not just fire personnel, but the larger community as well in an emergency. This state funding will prove to be a tremendous asset to the Town of Jay, which can look forward to a new firehouse built to withstand the next big storm."

Essex County Board of Supervisors Chairman and Town of Jay Supervisor Randy Douglas said, "Losing our fire station added a new level of difficulty to our community's ongoing recovery efforts from the widespread damage that we experienced during Hurricane Irene. Thankfully Governor Cuomo is fully invested in the Town of Jay's recovery, and he has been a true friend to our local community and the entire county. This funding will go a long way toward not only replacing our firehouse, but keeping our residents and businesses safe in future emergencies."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/09042013-new-fire-station-town-of-upper-jay
