Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Opening of Wyoming County Agricultural Business Center In Warsaw
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 23, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the opening of the Wyoming County Agricultural Business Center in Warsaw. The center, a Finger Lakes Regional Economic Development Council priority project, will support the growth of the dairy industry in Wyoming County. Lieutenant Governor Kathleen C. Hochul marked the occasion today with a ribbon cutting ceremony at the site.
"Wyoming County is the state's leading milk producer and one of the top producers in the nation. This new business center is a one-stop shop that puts all the resources for individuals and businesses looking to succeed in this industry under one roof," said Governor Cuomo. "Agriculture remains a critical component of the state's economy, and we look forward to investing in new agribusinesses as they continue to generate significant growth in their communities."
"Supporting our local agriculture community is one of the critical elements of Governor Cuomo's commitment to rebuilding upstate's economy and moving the Finger Lakes forward," said Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul. "The new Agriculture Business Center of Excellence will streamline services Wyoming County's farmers need to compete on a state-wide and national basis. This is New York's top agriculture producing county, and it now has the facility it needs to maintain and expand its success."
The construction of the Agricultural Business Center project involved the conversion of the vacant historic Brown Knitting Mill building, which sits on a 4-acre plot of the Village of Warsaw, into a 32,000 square foot, one-stop resource for farmers that will promote the efficiency, inter-agency cooperation and synergy necessary to stimulate the expansion of the dairy industry.
New York State Agriculture Commissioner Richard Ball said, "As New York's largest agricultural sector, a thriving dairy industry is essential to the state's economy and I thank Governor Cuomo for his continued support of the community, particularly during this challenging time in the marketplace. The Business Center will provide critical resources for our dairy farmers in Wyoming County, who not only produce wholesome, healthy dairy products but also lead the eastern states in the production of milk, forming the foundation for a strong agricultural industry in New York."
Wyoming County Industrial Development Agency Chairman Mark Dadd said, "This Agriculture and Business Center project is a showcase for a one stop delivery of agriculture and business services in Wyoming County and fine example of what can happen when you have an entrepreneurial private sector developer supported by a public partnership."
The center is supported by a $500,000 grant from Empire State Development, a $200,000 New York State Energy Research and Development Authority grant and a $200,000 contribution from the 2014 state budget. New York State Electric and Gas provide economic development grant assistance to help offset electric infrastructure costs related to this project.
Senator Patrick Gallivan said, "Wyoming County is a leader in the agriculture industry and the state's investment in this new facility will ensure that farmers and other agribusinesses have the resources they need to grow and create jobs. The center brings like-minded agencies and businesses under one roof so that they can work together for the good of the entire county."
The project brings together several organizations that provide support and services to the county's dairy producers under one roof. The center will offer education and training, agriculture business retention and expansion services and financing, economic development assistance, entrepreneurship support, and environmental conservation assistance.
Participating Organizations:
Cornell Cooperative Extension
Wyoming County Soil and Water Conservation District
U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farm Service Agency and Natural Resource Conservation Service
Cornell University's Milk Production Services
Wyoming County Business Education Center
Wyoming County Chamber of Commerce and Tourism
Wyoming Industrial Development Agency
Wyoming County Planning and Development
Wyoming County Building and Codes
Wyoming County Water Resource Agency
Mark S. Lynch, president and CEO of New York State Electric and Gas Corporation and Rochester Gas & Electric said, "New York State Electric and Gas is pleased to add our support for the Center Street Business Center. Our companies have been helping communities foster economic development for many decades. Our grant to the Center will benefit communities and the farming industry throughout Wyoming County."
Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Howard Zemsky said, "The Wyoming County Agricultural Business Center rehabilitated a vacant structure that now provides an agribusiness one-stop shop and is a great addition to the Village of Warsaw. Governor Cuomo's continued support of New York's agriculture businesses is really paying off and strengthening the region."
Wyoming County Board of Supervisors Chairman A.D. Berwanger said, "The Wyoming County Ag. and Business Center is the result of the challenge Governor Cuomo issued to the Ag. producers in New York State four years ago to increase milk production in order to accommodate the raw product demands of the flourishing yogurt industry in our state. The Center also fits the Governor's quest to consolidate services to provide more efficient delivery of the needs of not only agribusiness but all types of business in Wyoming County in a cost effective way."
Accelerating Finger Lakes Forward
The state is accelerating "Finger Lakes Forward" with a $500 million investment through the Upstate Revitalization Initiative, announced by Governor Cuomo in December 2015. This funding will incentivize private business to invest in the region and leverage well over $2.5 billion to support up to 8,200 new jobs.
Since 2012, the state has invested more than $3.4 billion in the region to lay the groundwork for this comprehensive plan. Today, unemployment is down to the lowest levels since before the Great Recession; personal and corporate income taxes are down; and businesses are choosing places like Rochester, Batavia and Canandaigua as a destination to grow and invest in.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-opening-wyoming-county-agricultural-business-center-warsaw
