Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Delivers Flood Aid Checks to Residents of Herkimer, Montgomery, Madison, Oneida and Niagara Counties
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 29, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today issued $13.6 million in state aid checks to 1,206 homeowners, renters, businesses and farmers affected by July flooding across the Mohawk Valley, Central New York and Niagara County. The Governor today traveled to the Village of Herkimer, the City of Lockport, and the City of Oneida to personally deliver checks to dozens of New Yorkers that sustained serious losses as a result of the flooding.

"In times of crisis, government should work for the people, and today I am proud to say we have. A little over a month after announcing that the State would step in to provide the help the Federal Government didn't, we are now sending checks to thousands of homeowners, renters, businesses and farmers who are still recovering from this summer's floods," said Governor Cuomo. "By acting quickly and efficiently to expedite the process, in a few short weeks money has begun to flow to enable residents in these communities to begin the recovery process and build back better than before."

This is the latest action taken by the Governor as part of the comprehensive assistance and delivery of aid to help the communities devastated by flooding this summer rebuild, recover and prepare for future disasters. Immediately following FEMA's decision to deny recovery funding to homeowners, the Governor announced the launch of the Mohawk Valley and 2013 Upstate Flood Recovery Program to allow residents who sustained damage to their homes to receive much needed funding and rebuild. In addition, last week, Governor Cuomo announced that, at his request, FEMA extended the application period for Public Assistance to September 10th in the counties affected by the late June/early July flooding. After the floods, the Governor also deployed the Department of Financial Services' Mobile Command Center to outline resources and advice for affected families and businesses dealing with their insurance companies. Finally the Governor launched the New York Rising Communities Reconstruction program, which will deliver a total of $6 million to counties hit by summer flooding, enabling them to build more resilient infrastructure that will better protect them from future natural disasters.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/08292013cuomo-delivers-flood-aid-checks-albany
