Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Community Revitalization Funds Awarded to 29 Projects Across the Mohawk Valley
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 27, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $8 million in Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds have been awarded to 29 economic development and community revitalization projects in Fulton, Herkimer, Montgomery, Oneida, Otsego and Schoharie counties. The resources were awarded as part of the second round of the Governor's Regional Council initiative to projects that applied through the Community Revitalization Fund of the Mohawk Valley Regional Economic Development Council (MVREDC). These 29 projects will support the creation of more than 400 jobs.

"The Regional Council initiative is about empowering our communities to chart their own path to prosperity by utilizing the local assets that they know best," Governor Cuomo said. "The projects receiving these awards will create over 400 jobs, provide affordable housing, strengthen infrastructure and support the growth of local businesses. These improvements clearly demonstrate the success that comes from a ground-up approach to economic development, and I look forward to continued collaboration between the public and private sectors for the betterment of communities throughout the state."

In February, the Mohawk Valley Regional Economic Development Council, in partnership with New York State Homes & Community Renewal (HCR), announced $8 million in Community Renewal Fund resources were being made available to communities for housing rehabilitation, public infrastructure, public facilities and economic development activities, primarily for the benefit of low- to moderate-income individuals. The federally-funded CDBG program, which is administered by HCR in New York State, helps units of local government develop viable communities by expanding economic opportunities and providing decent, affordable housing.

"The funds awarded today by the Mohawk Valley Regional Economic Development Council will enhance quality of life throughout the region and reinvigorate communities," said Darryl C. Towns, Commissioner/CEO of New York State Homes & Community Renewal. "This is the goal of Governor Cuomo's Regional Economic Development Council initiative, and HCR is proud to be part of this critical community-driven economic development strategy. I congratulate our partners in the Mohawk Valley on securing resources that will help businesses grow and families thrive."

"By investing in the Mohawk Valley's resources we can build a bright future for residents and businesses," said Larry Gilroy, President of Gilroy, Kernan & Gilroy, Inc. and MVREDC Co-chair. "The awards we announce today will create jobs, provide quality housing, and strengthen our businesses and community assets. The Mohawk Valley Economic Development Council is grateful to Governor Cuomo for creating this important initiative that connects our region's communities, leverages partnerships, and provides greater opportunities for growth and prosperity."

After a comprehensive review of applications by the Council and its County Liaison Committee -- a work group that includes economic development professionals from each of the six counties in the Mohawk Valley Region (Fulton, Herkimer, Montgomery, Oneida, Otsego and Schoharie) -- the MVREDC and HCR have selected 29 projects from across the region that have been identified as community priorities that will create more than 400 jobs and align with the Regional Council's Strategic Plan, to receive funding.

For the full list of awards, visit the MVREDC home page. Projects receiving CDBG funds are required to be completed within two years.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/08272013-revitalization-funds-to-mohawk-valley
