Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Reminds New York Health and Human Service Providers to Apply for $200 Million in Sandy Recovery Funds
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 22, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today reminded organizations that provide health and human services to New Yorkers to apply for $200 million in available funding for costs and services associated with Superstorm Sandy. The deadline for applications is Friday, August 30.

The federal funding, secured by the Governor and the State's Congressional Delegation following Sandy, is available to cover necessary expenses resulting from the storm, including social, health and mental health services for individuals, and for repair, renovation and rebuilding of health care facilities, mental hygiene facilities, child care facilities and other social services facilities. SSBG funds can be used to reimburse providers for services delivered during and after Sandy as well as for future expenses to meet the ongoing needs of New Yorkers impacted by the storm.

"New York State's health and human service providers performed life-saving work in the immediate aftermath of Sandy and continue to be essential to communities recovering from the storm," Governor Cuomo said. "I urge all organizations that provide critical services to New Yorkers to apply for these federal funds so they can continue to give vital assistance to our state's most vulnerable residents."

To address the needs of critical health and human service providers and the populations they serve, the Governor announced in July that New York will distribute $200 million in federal Superstorm Sandy Supplemental Social Services Block Grant (SSBG) funding through a public and transparent request for proposals. Applicants can seek funding for:

Unreimbursed costs of facility repair, rebuilding and renovation for child care providers, health and mental hygiene facilities, senior centers and similar facilities, and other health and human services facilities in response to Superstorm Sandy, including measures to make damaged facilities more resilient for future severe weather events.
Reimbursement for child care, health, mental health, behavioral health, employment, senior-focused and other direct service delivery costs and costs of lost and damaged materials and supplies incurred as a result of Superstorm Sandy.
Reimbursement to food banks, food pantries and related organizations and public agencies for costs resulting from increased demand for food relief during and following Superstorm Sandy.
Enhanced child care, food/nutrition, health, mental health, behavioral health, employment, legal, senior-focused, volunteer coordination, case management and other direct services to meet the ongoing needs of Sandy-impacted New Yorkers.
Equipment and supplies required to deliver enhanced services in Sandy-impacted areas
Other eligible health and social services costs incurred during Sandy as well as ongoing needs from facilities and other providers.

Information about available funding, and a link to the online application, is available at http://nysandyhelp.ny.gov/content/sandy-social-services-block-grant-ssbg-funding

Source:
