Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Schluter Systems to Expand North Country Manufacturing Operations Creating 46 New Jobs
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 23, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced Schluter Systems, L.P. will expand manufacturing operations in Plattsburgh, Clinton County. The tile installation systems company will invest more than $22 million to construct a new state-of-the-art manufacturing facility at its 40-acre location in Upstate New York.
"Schluter Systems has been a key component of the North Country economy for nearly 30 years and this new expansion ensures that commitment will continue for decades more," Governor Cuomo said. "This expansion, along with similar ones throughout the state, is further proof that our regionalized efforts to improve the Upstate economy are working and private sector companies are taking notice."
Schluter Systems will invest over $22 million to build a new 45,000 square-foot LEED certified manufacturing facility and expand its current warehouse by 200,000 square-feet. Empire State Development will provide up to $600,000 in performance-based Excelsior Jobs Program tax credits in return for the company's commitment to create 46 new jobs and retain 236 current employees in Clinton County.
ESD President, CEO & Commissioner Howard Zemsky said, "This is exactly the kind of business growth and expansion New York State invests in and our North Country communities will benefit significantly from $22 million committed by Schluter Systems to increase manufacturing operations in Plattsburgh. With this new investment, we look forward to the creation of new jobs, retention of over 230 current employees, and support of new opportunities in manufacturing in Upstate New York."
Schluter Systems President Marco Ludwig said, "More tile installers, builders and homeowners are choosing Schluter products for their tile projects and this expansion is a result of that growth. The facilities and people in Plattsburgh are integral to our success in North America and this expansion helps prepare the company for continued growth. We are grateful for the Excelsior Jobs Program as it provides important support for this significant investment and continues our partnership with the community."
Schluter Systems established roots in Upstate New York nearly 30 years ago. The company's products are specifically designed for the tile industry to ensure that installations maintain integrity and durability. Schluter Systems' product line includes over 4,000 items, ranging from tile trims, uncoupling membranes, and waterproof building panels, to electric floor warming systems and shower systems. Today, the company has three locations in North America: Plattsburgh, New York; Montreal, Quebec; and Reno, Nevada. For more information, visit www.schluter.com.
Senator Betty Little said, "This is great news for the North Country. I am very pleased that Empire State Development has partnered with Schluter Systems to ensure this long-standing and excellent company has an excellent future ahead in Plattsburgh. I couldn't be more pleased for the employees and their families."
Assemblywoman Janet Duprey said, "I have had the pleasure of watching Schluter Systems expand its facilities over the years initially as Clinton County Treasurer and now as a Member of the Assembly. The buildings they have constructed and the number of local people who are employed make Schluter one of our top employers. I am delighted they are expanding again with a $22 million manufacturing facility and thank President Ludwig and local Schluter officials for their continued investment in the North Country."
Clinton County Legislature Chairman Harry J. McManus said, "Thanks to the support of Governor Cuomo and ESD, the company's $22 million investment will create new jobs and new opportunities for the hard-working residents of Clinton County. As an anchor business for the Plattsburgh community, we are excited to see Schluter Systems' expansion project take shape and look forward to celebrating the completion of the manufacturing facility in the near future. We are extremely pleased that they are choosing to grow in Clinton County. "
Town of Plattsburgh Supervisor Michael Cashman said, "Schluter Systems is vital to Plattsburgh's business community and has been a strong partner for nearly 30 years now -- sourcing goods from local companies and employing hundreds of workers throughout the county. We thank Governor Cuomo for supporting this substantial expansion project and look forward to the creation of new manufacturing jobs at the Plattsburgh facility."
President of the North Country Chamber of Commerce and Co-Chair of the North Country Regional Economic Development Council Garry Douglas said, "Schluter is a great employer and an important part of the growing cluster of international companies finding Plattsburgh and the North Country to be a supportive place to succeed and grow. We appreciate their clear confidence in our area and Governor Cuomo's continued partnership in helping companies like Schluter, expand and create additional employment here in the North Country. Onward and upward for Schluter and our region!"
President of Clarkson University and Co-Chair of the North Country Regional Economic Development Council Tony Collins said, "Under Governor Cuomo, New York State is investing in companies like Schluter Systems, which has a history of innovation to keep its product lines relevant in a competitive marketplace. As part of the Regional Council's vision, the North Country is energizing communities by encouraging growth and expansion in targeted manufacturing industries."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-schluter-systems-expand-north-country-manufacturing-operations
