Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Statewide Initiative to Crack Down on Speeders
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 11, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a week-long New York State Police enforcement initiative that will target speeding and aggressive drivers across the state. The "Speed Week" campaign runs from August 10 -- 17 and coincides with the NASCAR Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series at Watkins Glen International Raceway.

"This weekend, we are excited to host the NASCAR Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series at The Glen, but we are also using this occasion to remind New Yorkers that off the racetrack, speeding will not be tolerated in this state," Governor Cuomo said. "Speeding is the number one cause of deaths on our roads each year, and it is a dangerous activity that puts everyone at risk. Starting today, the State Police will be increasing enforcement to put the brakes on drivers who ignore the law and speed. So slow down and drive safely or you will be pulled over."

The goal of this campaign, and enforcement year round, is to reduce speed related crashes and improve safe travel for drivers and passengers on New York's roads. Speeding by all vehicle types, as well as other traffic violations, will be heavily enforced throughout the week in addition to normal year-round enforcement.

Approximately one third of all fatal crashes from year to year are the result of speeding. Troopers will also be watching for distracted or impaired drivers, vehicle occupants who are not properly buckled up, and drivers that are violating the "Move Over Law."

"Many of our highway deaths and injuries could be prevented if drivers would comply with speed limits and other rules of the road," New York State Police Superintendent Joseph A. D'Amico said. "The New York State Police are committed to enforcing the law on New York's roadways, but we also need the public's help. By obeying these rules you can ensure safe and uneventful travel for you and your family."

Drivers can expect to see more troopers on major highways during this detail. Unmarked patrol vehicles will also be out in force.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/081113speedweek
