Public Statements
Video, Photos & Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces Completion of New Track Laying Between Central Islip and Ronkonkoma for LIRR Double Track
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 22, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you very, very much. It's a pleasure to be with all of you this afternoon on a really beautiful day, and Tom Prendergast, thank you very much for that presentation. I would like to chat about that and a few other things but before we begin, we got some really bad news yesterday. Matter of fact, many people in this room, many people who have been in the political-governmental world. A terrible accident on the LIE, as you know, yesterday, which was really one of the most horrendous accidents of all time. One of the people who lost his life was a fellow named Scott Martella. Scott Martella, 29 years old, worked for me as the Suffolk representative, so an event like this, he would have been preparing. Just one of the really beautiful human beings in life. 29 years old, he was with his fiancé. They did absolutely nothing wrong. The car came from the other side of the road, went into the median, car was launched, hit his car. Other people were killed. Other people were injured. He was in the car with his fiancé. She was injured but apparently they were non-life threatening injuries. Just a really extraordinarily talented young beautiful person who was trying to do the right thing. I have kids who are really not that much younger than he is and I spoke to his parents yesterday and just sometimes, there are no words. You know, if you don't believe in God and you don't believe in destiny, it's a madness, so let's take a moment of silence for Scott Martella and all the people who were lost on the Long Island Expressway yesterday.
Thank you very much. Today Tom has gone through the presentation on the track. We were just out looking at this really phenomenal piece of equipment, this track laying machine that comes and puts down the ties and then puts the rail on top of the ties and clamps it all together and it's quite an impressive machine and it just shows you how far the technology has come in this entire area, and it was really fascinating to see. Apparently this machine goes all around the country doing just this. But it's central to an important topic, and I'm pleased to join all my colleagues who are here today, and you'll hear from Senator Boyle and Assemblyman Thiele in a moment.
But this is a critical function that government performs. We can have all sorts of political debates -- should government do this? Should government do that? What's essential? What's not essential? There is no political debate that government has to do two things. One, public protection, police, military. Two, infrastructure and transportation. Those are two essential functions that must be performed. I don't care if you're liberal, conservative, whatever you call yourself. Those two functions have to be done, and unfortunately this state has been delinquent in rebuilding its transportation infrastructure, especially its mass transportation. We have squandered decades, decades advancing infrastructure and the transportation that we should, to the extent that I believe it's hurting the economy and I believe it's hurting the growth of the state. Long Island, more than suburbs in New York, the congestion has gotten so bad that there's almost nowhere to grow, because you're on the concentric circles of development. The commute in from Long Island is horrendous. It is truly horrendous. We can't have more cars on the road. There are no more roads to build. There's no way to handle that volume on the road. Well take mass transit. Well it's the reliability of the mass transit that gives people pause, and the same for the northern suburbs and the part of the metropolitan area. Where were the improvements? Where were the transportation improvements? Where were the infrastructure improvements? We didn't do it. Why not? Well, it's complicated. Luckily I wasn't here so I don't really know, but there were a lot of reasons. One, it was money and the state didn't have money to invest in capital projects. Two, there was a lot of gridlock in Albany to begin with and not a lot of big things were getting done. Three, there's a high level of skepticism of our government and well government is going to do this project. Oh no, not government! Another government project, all they are going to do is mess it up and it's going to be late and it's going to be slow and it's going to be awful. An essential function of transportation infrastructure can only be done by government. Long Island Rail Road was built at a time when there were only 35,000 people on Long Island. 35,000. You know have 2.9 million people. You have parts of the Long Island Railroad with only one track. How can it be? How can it be? I get a report in the morning, same conversation Tom and I have three times a week, report in the morning -- "Extensive delays on the Long Island Rail Road." I call up Tom, "What happened?" "A train got stuck on the track." That's the end of the conversation. You have one track. A train gets stuck, that's it. By the way, a train can get stuck and a switch that big goes bad, it stops the whole system. Where's the redundancy? Where's the second track? Where's the backup track? Well, we don't have one. Why? Well, we didn't build one. But you've been talking about it forever. The second track, third track. We have been talking about it for decades.
It's not just the Long Island Rail Road. Vice President Biden, God bless him, you know he tells the truth Vice President Biden. He says what is on his mind. Smart, not smart, he is going to say what is on his mind. He had that quote about LaGuardia Airport if you were blindfolded and landed in LaGuardia you would think you were in a third world country. Look at our bridges and tunnels, they are artwork around the world, and look at ours, we have lost literally decades. And it has hurt us. What we are trying to do now is make up for the loss. Invest heavily, but invest smartly. $27 billion, largest capital investment in the history of the MTA, Largest capital investment in the history of the MTA, The applause goes to the Assembly, and the senate for having the vision to pass that. Because the MTA capital plan, it doesn't happen tomorrow. They have to plan, they have to go through environmental reviews, et cetera, so it really is an investment for the future, but the largest capital investment ever, it takes two things to get these projects going. Number one, it takes political courage, and number two, it takes competence. Why political courage? Because nobody wants government to build anything anywhere. I swear, if government proposed a tulip farm, somebody would say, they should be daisies. The opposition is unbelievable, and in politics, the last thing you want is opposition. Why? Because that's bad medicine when you're in the political business. An old Sicilian saying: "Friends come and go, enemies accumulate." You do not want a lot of enemies when you are in politics, so if there's any community opposition you see the project die immediately, and a project of this scale -- second track or the third track -- there has to be opposition. Why? It's loud. It's noisy. I don't want the machines. I don't want the dust. I don't want the noise. I don't want it near my house. I don't need it. That has stopped projects all across this state and all across this nation that should have been done. So number one is political courage, and we have said that we are doing the second track and we are doing the third track and I understand there is political opposition, but you will suffocate Long Island if you don't do this. You will strangle the growth of Long Island. It will ultimately hurt the property values and development will do somewhere else. The environment cannot sustain the amount of vehicles we are putting on the road. You have to have a mass transit system that people can rely on and is not a morning torture to get to work and to do that, you have to do the second and third track and by the way, everything else we're doing. New cars, new electronic system, et cetera.
So this is the second track we're talking about now, which we're going to do forthwith and then the third track. It's not that we haven't learned the lessons of the past, we now do it in a very, very different way. Government actually does very little here. We have what we call design-build is the new way that we do this. Design-build says let the Long Island Railroad determine what they want to do and then contract it out to a private contractor and let them design it and let them build it and give them an incentive if they come in early and give them a sanction if they come in late. And understand that in life, sometimes the most important thing to know is know what you don't know. Government is not really in the construction business and they should not be in the business. There are people that are in that business, God bless them, let's use them. So we contract out through design-build and actually they come and do the work, monitored and regulated by government. That's the second track and the third track.
The third track was also controversial. We changed the design of the third track. Now, when you say the third track people remember the old one. The old one was a proposal to lay a whole new line, a whole new track that disrupted a number of private residences and businesses. This third track is in the same right of way. Zero homes or businesses taken. Zero. Well how can there be opposition? There is still another track that has to be built and there is still dust and dirt and people who come with large trucks to do the construction. But, zero homes taken. We do the second track, we do the third track we do them quickly, we do them well. You'll have a capacity on Long Island, you've never had before and then Tom's point, this is all part of a seamless system. Because we're not just doing the LIRR, we're doing the largest capital construction in this state in 50 years. $100 billion. New airport at LaGuardia. Modernizing JFK. Penn Station and Farley which they've been talking about for 110 years, we're actually going to get done. New roads and bridges. New airports in Upstate New York. The Midtown tunnel, we're going to re-do. The Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel, we're going to re-do. Triborough we're going to re-do and modernize. All of this infrastructure has to be brought up to the standards that it can qualify against anything done internationally and it is possible. It really is possible. I think one of the reasons we lost so much time and so many decades went by, I'm not sure that we believed we could do it at the end of the day.
I had a great meeting, it was a terrible meeting actually, but a great experience. When I first became Governor, I had one of my first staff meeting, I was all excited and I brought in the whole senior team, many had been there for many years and I said, "You know, people are so down on government and there's such apathy, let's find a really big problem, come up with a big solution and do something really big that engenders confidence once again, that lets people believe once again." And we went around the room and there were no ideas and I said, "Well, we're going to sit here until someone comes up with an idea." And it got near lunch time, so all of a sudden somebody had an idea, and they said "You can say you are going to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge." I'll never forget it. I said, "Now, I'm a lawyer, my father was a lawyer, language matters, even language at the breakfast table. Every word my father used to listen to." I said, "I can say we're going to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge, does that mean we're going to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge?" He said, "Oh, no. You can't replace the Tappan Zee Bridge, but you can say you're going to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge" and then it doesn't happen but, you know, they're working and you can say you're going to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge and that's a big thing," and I said "but that's exactly the problem. I don't want to go say I'm going to go replace the Tappan Zee Bridge and then nothing happens and that feeds the apathy and the disgust and the incompetence." I said by the way, "Why can't we replace to Tappan Zee Bridge?" and they said "Oh no, you can't replace the Tappan Zee Bridge because of the Hudson River, there are a lot of environmental groups. If you drop a hammer in the water, you're going to get sued, you have to do an environmental impact statement -- it would never happen, but, you can say."
I said "Hey that's not what made New York New York. We built the tallest buildings in the world, we built the longest bridges then came back and built the longest bridges again. Sixty mile aqueduct just to get water to New York City. Everything we did was the biggest, the boldest. Miles of subways. Everything about us defies limitation, and that's what we did. Robert Moses on Long Island. Jones Beach, fourteen feet of fill, fourteen feet of fill for the entire distance of Long Beach." Imagine that. The entire Jones Beach, all fill, and then built a monument on top of it. I said, "We have to be able to build a bridge," and you know what, we met every day. We are building a Tappan Zee Bridge and it's coming out of the water and it's beautiful. Design-build, we had an international competition, companies came in, largest crane in the world. We had to pick the color, fine. It's beautiful and it's coming out a billion dollars under the estimated cost and it's on time. It says, "Yes we can." We did it once and we can do it again and we have to get that spirit back. Look at these two tracks, and it's not just the tracks, it's increased reliability, it's reverse commute, it's a more reliable commute. It's going to connect to a new LaGuardia airport where you will be able to take the Long Island Rail Road to LaGuardia. You will never have to get in your car. LIRR right to LaGuardia. LIRR east side access, which we are expediting. You can take it to the east side of Manhattan. You don't have to go to the west side of Manhattan and then take another train or another bus. So it is part of a new seamless transportation system, and it's going to happen, and it's going to happen right, and it's going to happen on time. And it's going to restore, not just our ability to grow and to prosper, it's going to restore our ability in us -- and Government is us at the end of the day. It's not a foreign being, these people who condemn government like it's another place, government is us.
We can do this and we will do this and I commend Tom Prendergast and his team who are bringing an entirely new culture. Because he's right -- the MTA's way was "we'll do it when we do it and that's it." No. We're going to do it now. We're going to do it faster than ever before, and better than ever before, because people are being inconvenienced every day that we don't do it. That has to be the attitude, and that is the new attitude, and you see it being evidenced all across the system. I want to thank my colleagues from the Assembly and the Senate who are here. This was a lot of money. It was a wise investment. And I applaud their vision in doing it. I want to thank our partners in the labor movement who are here. I want to thank the labor movement, not just who was doing the construction, but the labor movement like Anthony Simon that run the railroad and have been full partners in helping make this project a reality and I want to thank the people of Long Island. I know they're skeptical about government projects, I know that. Thank you for giving us the benefit of the doubt and the chance to show you that, yes, we can still run a railroad, and we can do it well. Thank you and god bless you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-announces-completion-new-track-laying-between
