Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Legislation Ensuring Veterans Service Agencies Are Providing Highest Level of Care Possible
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 2, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the signing of a new law that will require local Veterans Service Agencies (VSA) to be accredited by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (US DVA), enabling New York's veterans and their families to prepare and file federal benefits claims at offices in their local communities.

"New York State is committed to giving our veterans the best care possible after they return from serving our nation and defending the freedoms we cherish as Americans," Governor Cuomo said. "This new law will enable local Veterans Service Agencies to better serve our heroes returning from overseas, and give our veterans and their families the ability to apply for vital federal benefits in their own communities. This is another step by New York State in our efforts to be the national model for how state government serves our veterans and their families."

Col (Ret) Eric J. Hesse, Director of the Division of Veterans Affairs, said, "I thank the legislators who sponsored this important bill and Governor Cuomo for signing the law and his leadership in ensuring New York State Veterans and their Families we be receiving assistance from accredited VSOs upon their return to the State. New York State has taken the lead in making sure our returning service members have the support and assistance they need to successfully transition to civilian life."

Local VSA directors are appointed by New York county executives and mayors, and are not required to be accredited by the US DVA. Without the federal accreditation, local offices cannot oversee the preparation and submission of claims by veterans and their families for federal benefits.

The new law (A.6221-C / S.5825) signed by the Governor will require that county or city VSA directors be accredited by the US DVA. The New York State Division of Veterans' Affairs can accredit VSA directors and staff at no cost. Training is conducted on-line, one-on-one with a State Veterans Service Counselor, and annually at several geographic locations throughout the State.





Source:
