Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Results of Increased Enforcement Campaign to Crackdown on Texting-While-Driving
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 12, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 486 drivers had been ticketed by State Police for distracted driving during the July 4th weekend. The holiday weekend involved heightened enforcement of traffic laws by state police in both marked and unmarked patrol vehicles.

"Last week, I signed a law to institute tougher penalties for texting while driving and starting this past July 4th weekend, the State Police is now using new tools and tactics to enforce that law," Governor Cuomo said. "I am hopeful that every driver who got a ticket for looking at their phone instead of the road gets the message that this reckless behavior won't be tolerated. Getting a ticket teaches young drivers this lesson the easy way -- no parent should have to experience the hard way."

Governor Cuomo recently announced that State Police would have an increased presence on roads across the state this summer in order to crack down on texting-while-driving, beginning with ramped up enforcement over the holiday weekend. Part of the increased enforcement involved the use of Concealed Identify Traffic Enforcement (CITE) vehicles to more easily identify motorists who are texting and driving. CITE vehicles are built on higher than average platforms that allow law enforcement officials greater ability to see into other vehicles and detect individuals in the process of sending or viewing text messages. They are also unmarked, which allows them to blend into regular traffic.

Although the risks of texting-while-driving are well documented, the problem remains widespread on roadways in New York State and across the nation. The number of accidents in the U.S. caused by cellphone use has tripled over the past seven years. In New York State alone there was a 143% increase in cellphone-related accidents between 2005 and 2011 -- by comparison, alcohol-related crashes actually decreased by 18% over the same period. This epidemic is also particularly acute for younger drivers. Among teenagers, 43% readily admit to texting behind the wheel.

In order to combat this dangerous habit the Governor has both strengthened New York's distracted driving laws and increased enforcement by state law enforcement officials. A bill signed by the Governor earlier this month instituted new license suspension periods for drivers with probationary and junior licenses who text and drive. Legislation signed by the Governor in 2011 also made using a handheld electronic device a primary offense, which gave law enforcement officials the power to stop motorists solely for texting. New York State now has some of the nation's toughest laws against distracted driving -- for a state-by-state comparison of cellphone laws, go to: http://www.ghsa.org/html/stateinfo/laws/cellphone_laws.html.

In addition to reforming New York's distracted driving laws, Governor Cuomo has also directed the Department of Motor Vehicles to strengthen penalties for distracted driving by raising the number of points issued against a driver's license. Since the Governor took office the points issued for distracted driving have increased from two to five.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/07122013-governor-announces-results-of-campaign-against-texting-while-driving
