Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Coordinated Interagency Effort to Combat Underage Drinking on College Campuses Across New York
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 22, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a coordinated effort by several state agencies and institutions to prevent underage drinking on college campuses and in college towns as the fall semester begins across the Empire State. The New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services , the New York State Liquor Authority, the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles, and the New York State Police are aligning resources to prevent underage drinking on campuses across New York. These efforts will build upon the Governor's commitment to protect college students and increase safety on New York's college campuses, most recently through his "Enough is Enough" legislation. These efforts will begin this month as college students head to campus.
"Underage drinking can lead to life-altering consequences for college students, and as the fall semester gets underway, we are working to educate college students about this reckless behavior," Governor Cuomo said. "These coordinated efforts will build on our progress to help avoid needless tragedies and create a safer learning environment on campuses statewide."
The following interagency efforts are aimed at protecting college students:
OASAS Campaign Helps Parents Talk to College Students About the Dangers of Underage Drinking and Drug Use
NYS OASAS actively works to prevent underage drinking and to stop the disease of addiction before it starts, and is launching the next phase of its Talk2Prevent campaign, which provides resources for parents on how to talk to their college-age students on the dangers of underage drinking and drug use. The agency also makes resources available that describe the risks associated with underage drinking and illicit drug use for colleges and community-based organizations, including posters, fact sheets and postcards. A letter regarding the availability of these Talk2Prevent materials will be shared with colleges and community partners across the state this month. A Kitchen Table Tool Kit, developed to assist parents, teachers, counselors and the community with guidance on how to initiate conversations about heroin and prescription opioid abuse, is also available on the Combat Heroin website.









Source:
