Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Support for Women's Equality Act from Congressional Leaders
Press Release
By: Grace Meng Carolyn Maloney Nita Lowey Nancy Pelosi Nydia Velázquez Carolyn McCarthy Andrew Cuomo Debbie Wasserman Schultz Louise Slaughter
Date: June 7, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that congressional leaders support the passage of the Women's Equality Act.

"The Women's Equality Act will once again restore New York's reputation as the leader on women's rights," Governor Cuomo said. "This legislation is designed to address all areas affecting women in New York -- from achieving pay equity to ending gender discrimination in housing to strengthening human trafficking laws. The support of these leaders shows that this is not just a state issue, but a national one, and I thank them for their support in our efforts to protect and improve women's rights in the State of New York once and for all."

The Women's Equality Act is designed to end discrimination and inequality based on gender and to restore New York as a leader in women's rights. If enacted by the Legislature, the Women's Equality Act will achieve pay equity, stop sexual harassment, prevent pregnancy discrimination in all workplaces, strengthen human trafficking laws and protections for domestic violence victims, end family status discrimination and protect a woman's freedom of choice.

The Women's Equality Act will:

Achieve Pay Equity
Stop Sexual Harassment in All Workplaces
Remove Barriers to Remedying Discrimination
End Family Status Discrimination
Stop Housing Discrimination for Victims of Domestic Violence.
Stop Source-of-Income Discrimination
Protect Victims of Domestic Violence by Strengthening Order-of-Protection Laws
Strengthen Human Trafficking Laws
Stop Pregnancy Discrimination Once and For All
Protect a Woman's Freedom of Choice

Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi, House Democratic Leader from California's 12th District, said, "The Women's Equality Act will go a long way towards ensuring that women are treated respectfully and fairly in the State of New York. I applaud the Governor for creating such a comprehensive reform package, and I am looking forward to its passage in the coming months."

Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Chair of the Democratic National Committee and Representative from Florida's 23rd District, said, "Nearly 165 years since the first women's rights convention took place in Seneca Falls, Governor Cuomo has once again placed New York at the forefront of women's equality with the announcement of his groundbreaking 10 point Women's Equality Act. Women in New York earn only 84 cents for every dollar earned by men, amounting to $500,000 less over the course of a lifetime. Given this inequality, it is no surprise that women are twice as likely as men to live out old age in poverty."

Congresswoman Nita Lowey, from New York's 17th District, said, "New York has long been at the forefront of advancing equality for all, including for women. At a time when some are working to roll back the progress women in our country have made, Governor Cuomo's Women's Equality Act would protect women and families and advance women's rights. I would be proud to see our Governor sign this critical legislation into law."

Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, from New York's 12th District, said, "New York has a long history on the frontlines of important social issues. Thanks to Governor Cuomo and the Women's Equality Act, our state can once again lead the nation in the fight for gender equality. I urge the legislature to pass this bill as soon as they possibly can."

Congresswoman Carolyn McCarthy, from New York's 4th District, said, "It's called the "Women's Equality Act' but you could call it the "New Yorkers' Equality Act' because with more women than ever being the breadwinners in their families, this legislation will not just bring fairness, justice and opportunity to women but will also help everyone they take care of -- their spouses, partners, children and parents. I'm grateful to Governor Cuomo for his leadership."
Congresswoman Grace Meng, from New York's 6th District, said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo for putting forward an ambitious agenda to improve gender equity in New York State. If enacted, this plan will go a long way towards combating inequality based on gender, and it will help make New York an even better place for women. I thank the governor for his leadership on this critical issue."

Congresswoman Louise Slaughter, from New York's 25th District, said, "Since the time of Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, New York has been a national leader for women's equality and fairness. Leaders on women's rights at the federal level need good partners at the state level, and I'm proud of the package Governor Cuomo has outlined to improve women's rights throughout our great state."

Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez, from New York's 7th District, said, "These laws will position New York as a leader on women's rights by putting an end to inequalities and gender discrimination. I commend Governor Cuomo for advancing this legislation and encourage the legislature to swiftly approve it."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/06072013Support-for-Womens-Equality-Act-from-Congressional-Leaders
