Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Kicks Off Round 3 of Regional Economic Development Councils
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 15, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today kicked off round three of the Regional Economic Development Council (REDC)s, hosting council co-chairs and local economic development officials in Albany to detail the third round of the process and officially launch the 2013 competition.

"Over the past two years, the Regional Economic Development Councils have been a tremendous success, transforming our state's approach to job creating from a traditional Albany top-down model to a community-based, bottom-up process," Governor Cuomo said. "From Niagara Falls, to Plattsburgh, to Long Island, the results are clear in communities all across the state as new projects are being launched, creating jobs and supporting local economic growth. Today we are building on that success, convening local job creators and community leaders from across the state to officially kick off round three of the Regional Councils."

Lieutenant Governor Robert J. Duffy, Chair of the Regional Economic Development Councils said, "The past two rounds of the Regional Economic Development Councils have shown what a difference we can make to local economies by listening to regional business and community leaders. Under Governor Cuomo's vision, we will continue to do this and ensure that New York State is on the path to economic success. I thank each of the Co-Chairs and their teams for the countless hours and continued dedication to rebuilding New York State, and applaud them for the achievements made so far."

The REDC and Consolidated Funding Application (CFA) process have transformed economic development in NYS, creating a statewide framework for bottom-up regional economic growth.
Statewide, the first two rounds included $1.5 billion in investments to support more than 1,400 projects, and creating or helping retain an estimated 75,000 jobs.
































Source:
