Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Directs New York State Police to Increase Security at Long Island Marathon This Weekend
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 3, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the New York State Police (NYSP) will be providing support to the Nassau County Police Department (NCPD) to ramp up security at the Long Island Marathon, which includes several races this weekend.

"In light of the recent tragedy at the Boston Marathon, it is important that we increase security efforts to keep participants in this weekend's Long Island Marathon safe," Governor Cuomo said. "The New York State Police will be providing troopers and other resources to assist Nassau County with security and ensure that law enforcement is prepared for any situation at the event. The safety of New Yorkers has always been and remains our top priority."

New York State Police Superintendent Joseph D'Amico said, "The State Police have been working closely with the Nassau County Police Department to coordinate security measures in advance of Sunday's event. State Police have had several planning sessions with local law enforcement and will be providing additional troopers and K-9's as added security measures to help ensure the safety of participants and spectators."

Nassau County Executive Edward P. Mangano said, "I thank Governor Cuomo for providing additional law enforcement resources for this weekend's Long Island Marathon festivities. From the response during Hurricane Sandy to annual events such as the marathon, Governor Cuomo has been a true partner in preserving public safety."

At the Governor's direction, the NYSP is deploying additional troopers to assist with security efforts by the NCPD. The NYSP will also provide additional communications capability and access to an NYSP helicopter.

The marathon kicked off today with a Sports and Fitness Expo. On Saturday, May 4, there will be a 1-mile run, 5k race, and kids fun run. On Sunday, May 5, there will be a 10k race, half marathon, and marathon. The races will include 8,000 participants, and 20,000 people in total are expected to attend the marathon.

Source:
