Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Re-Opening of On-Ramps to Interstate 190 at Niagara Street and Porter Avenues in Buffalo
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 18, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the re-opening of two ramps adjacent to the Peace Bridge Plaza in Buffalo. Closed since spring of 2016 as part of the $56.7 million New York Gateway Connections Improvement project to the Peace Bridge U.S. Plaza, the on-ramp from Niagara Street to Interstate 190 southbound, and the on-ramp from Porter Avenue to Interstate 190 northbound have both been reconstructed and reopened.
"Peace Bridge Plaza serves as an important border crossing and the tremendous progress being made will provide both local and international benefits," Governor Cuomo said, "The completion of this project will not only improve access to the Peace Bridge but remove traffic from city streets, positively impacting both motorists and community residents alike."
The Niagara Street ramp carrying traffic to southbound Interstate 190 was resurfaced and The Porter Avenue ramp carrying traffic to northbound Interstate 190 was reconstructed to connect to the new roundabout on Porter Avenue, allowing for the construction of a new ramp from Porter Avenue directly into the Peace Bridge Plaza on an alignment located outside of and adjacent to Front Park. Both have been reopened.
State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "Under the leadership of Governor Cuomo, the mobility of the area surrounding the Peace Bridge is being greatly enhanced. The improved access will provide a streamlined traffic flow to our international border while alleviating congestion in the surrounding neighborhoods."
Congressman Brian Higgins said, "The opening of the on-ramps to the 190 at Niagara and Porter Streets will facilitate efficient regional and international traffic flow. An important piece of continued improvements to the Niagara Street corridor and the Peace Bridge plaza, these enhancements will encourage the flow of goods and people throughout Western New York and across our border."

Source:
