Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Bridge Construction to Begin in Greater Rochester Area
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 26, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that construction will begin next week on $4.5 million worth of projects to replace bridge decks on structures in Monroe and Ontario counties. Starting May 1st, the bridge carrying Clinton Avenue over Route 104 in Rochester will close to traffic. The work is funded through the NY Works program and meets the goals of Governor Cuomo's Drivers First initiative to ensure that construction causes the least impact to motorists.

"The NY Works program continues to strengthen infrastructure across the state and create jobs," Governor Cuomo said. "Rehabilitating these bridges will allow them to last longer, improve safety for drivers, and save taxpayers money in the long run."

The project also includes work on the bridges carrying Paul Road eastbound and westbound over Interstate 490 in the town of Chili and the westbound ramp from the Inner Loop to Clinton Avenue in the city of Rochester, all in Monroe County, and Routes 5 & 20 over Mud Creek in the town of East Bloomfield, Ontario County.

Construction will start next week on the bridge carrying Clinton Avenue over Route 104 in the city of Rochester, Monroe County. When the bridge closes May 1, northbound traffic will follow a signed detour using the Route 104 service road and Seneca Street. Southbound motorists will be directed to use East Ridge Road, St. Paul Street and Norton Street.

Work at other locations will begin next month and construction will progress simultaneously. The bridge carrying Routes 5 & 20 in East Bloomfield will remain open to alternating one-way traffic during construction. The other bridges in the contract will be completely closed, with traffic directed along signed detours.

The project includes removing the existing concrete decks and replacing them. All the bridges are expected to be reopened to traffic this fall.

New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "Replacing these bridge decks will increase safety for motorists in the Greater Rochester area. Thanks to Governor Cuomo's innovative NY Works program, we will see many important safety projects taking place this year, helping to improve our infrastructure, facilitate economic development and create immediate jobs across New York State."

The traffic management plans for the projects were established as part of the Drivers First initiative, developed by Governor Cuomo last year. Drivers First requires that capital construction road and bridge projects are reviewed to ensure that work has the least impact possible on highway users.

The construction contractor for the project is Sealand Contractors Corp. of Rush, Monroe County.

NY Works focuses on improving the condition of bridges from fair condition to good condition in order to extend their service life. This rehabilitation work will better preserve the state's infrastructure and guard against the need for more costly, in-depth construction. Bundling projects sites within close geographic locations into a single contract enables DOT to lower expenses and obtain lower bids.

It is imperative that motorists remember to drive carefully through this and the many other highway and bridge construction zones they will encounter during the upcoming construction season.

Assembly Majority Leader Joseph D. Morelle said, "Investing in infrastructure not only makes our highways safer, it creates construction jobs today and sets the foundation for long-term economic growth. I am grateful to Governor Cuomo and Commissioner McDonald for their leadership and commitment to rebuilding New York."

Assembly Minority Leader Brian Kolb said, "Under Governor Cuomo's NY Works program, we are undertaking construction projects that will toughen infrastructure across the state while creating jobs and spurring economic activity. Furthermore, replacing these bridge structures will mean safer travel for all those driving through our region. I thank Governor Cuomo for making this important investment."

Senator Joseph Robach said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo for making renewing the state's infrastructure a priority. Not only will this project upgrade our infrastructure and provide for safer transportation for area drivers, but it will also boost employment opportunities in our community."

Senator Michael Ranzenhofer said, "The NY Works program continues to serve the people of New York through investments in infrastructure projects to ensure well-maintained roads and safer bridges across the state. At the same time, this program is helping to generate job growth, giving a shot in the arm for our region. As construction begins, the Drivers First initiative will ensure that drivers will have the least inconvenience. This is a win-win for our community."

Senator Ted O'Brien said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo's NY Works program and the investments it makes in the Greater Rochester area and Ontario County. This project will spur economic growth and create jobs in our communities, while providing much-needed repairs to our local infrastructure."

Assemblymember Harry Bronson said, "Updating our state's infrastructure is an important part of our building a better New York. Projects like these bridge deck replacements not only make our roads safer, but they will create new jobs in the region and save taxpayer dollars by avoiding the need for greater repairs in the future. As this construction project demonstrates, Governor Cuomo and the NY Works program are continuing to deliver for New Yorkers."

For real-time travel information, call 511 or visit www.511NY.org. 511NY is New York State's official traffic and travel information source. The 511NY site and mobile app offer free, 24/7, statewide, real-time traffic and transit information for all of New York State. It also offers a transit trip planner, camera views, as well as weather alerts and forecasts. New features available at the site -- www.511ny.org -- include additional mobile app features, border crossing times, new notifications on the home page, and an interface that is easier to navigate.

Source:
