Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Construction on I-390 Bridge in Steuben County to Begin Monday
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 19, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that construction is beginning on a $1.2 million project to replace the concrete bridge deck on the structure carrying Michigan Hollow Road (State Route 961J) over Interstate 390 in the town of Avoca, Steuben County. The project is funded through the NY Works program and meets the goals of Governor Cuomo's Drivers First initiative to ensure that construction causes the least impact to motorists.

"Under the NY Works program, projects like the Michigan Hollow Road Bridge in Steuben County will strengthen the state's infrastructure and improve safety for drivers for years to come," Governor Cuomo said. "Further, under Drivers First, construction on this project has been planned to have minimal interference with New York's motorists."

Starting Monday, April 22, the bridge will be closed to traffic and motorists will be detoured using I-390. The project, which includes removing and replacing the concrete bridge deck, is expected to last 55 days and should be completed in June.

New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "Replacing this bridge deck will increase safety for motorists and enhance mobility along Michigan Hollow Road. Thanks to Governor Cuomo's innovative NY Works program, we will see many important safety projects taking place this year, helping to improve our infrastructure, facilitate economic development and create immediate jobs across New York State."

The bridge closure and detour were established as part of the Drivers First initiative, developed by Governor Cuomo last year. Drivers First requires that capital construction road and bridge projects are reviewed to ensure that work has the least impact possible on highway users. The traffic management plans were evaluated to ensure projects would be completed quickly and safely, while maintaining mobility for drivers.

The work is part of a $10.8 million contract to replace the bridge deck on nine structures in Steuben and Chemung counties. The construction contractor for the project is Cold Spring Construction of Akron, Erie County.

NY Works focuses on improving the condition of bridges from fair condition to good condition in order to extend their service life. This rehabilitation work will better preserve the state's infrastructure and guard against the need for more costly, in-depth construction. Bundling project sites within close geographic locations into a single contract enables DOT to lower expenses and obtain lower bids.

It is imperative that motorists remember to drive carefully through this and the many other highway and bridge construction zones they will encounter during the upcoming construction season.

For real-time travel information, call 511 or visit www.511NY.org. 511NY is New York State's official traffic and travel information source. The 511NY site and mobile app offer free, 24/7, statewide, real-time traffic and transit information for all of New York State. It also offers a transit trip planner, camera views, as well as weather alerts and forecasts. New features available at the site -- www.511ny.org -- include additional mobile app features, border crossing times, new notifications on the home page, and an interface that is easier to navigate.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/04192013-steuben-county-bridge-construction
