Public Statements
Governor Announces Construction on NY Works Bridge Projects Across the State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 18, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that construction is beginning on $44.5 million in projects to either completely replace bridges or install new concrete decks on 15 bridges across New York State. The projects are funded through the NY Works program and meet the goals of Governor Cuomo's Drivers First initiative to ensure that construction causes the least impact to motorists.

"Through the NY Works program, the State is investing in critical infrastructure projects to repair our roads and bridges while creating jobs and generating local economic activity," Governor Cuomo said. "These 15 projects which include both rehabilitating and replacing bridges across the state will make traveling in New York safer for drivers and achieve long-term savings for taxpayers."

Projects include the following:
Bridge deck replacement on structure carrying State Route 8 northbound over the NY Susquehanna & Western Railroad in New Hartford, Oneida County: The bridge is located between New Hartford and Washington Mills, approximately one mile from the junction of Routes 8 and 12. Work has begun and is expected to be completed this fall. Construction on the southbound Route 8 bridge was completed last year. During construction, northbound traffic will be shifted to use the southbound bridge, which will carry one lane in each direction. Mill Street will be closed for the duration of the project. Motorists accessing Route 8 southbound should use the Campion Road or Kellogg Road ramps. The construction contractor for the $880,000 project is Slate Hill Contractors of Warners, Onondaga County.
Bridge deck replacement on structures carrying State Street (Route 5) over the Crosstown Connection (Route 7) and carrying the Crosstown Connection over Interstate 890 in Schenectady, Schenectady County: Construction on both bridges will be staged, with traffic shifted to one side of the bridge and one lane open in each direction, while work progresses on the opposite side of the bridge. On Monday, April 29, construction will start on the State Street bridge over the Crosstown Connection. Traffic will be shifted to the eastbound side of the bridge while work occurs on the westbound side of the bridge. The ramp from westbound State Street to eastbound Crosstown Connection will be closed during this phase of construction. Approximately one week later, work will begin on the Crosstown Connection over I-890. Traffic will be shifted to the eastbound side of the bridge while work occurs on the westbound side of the bridge. A new yield sign will be installed where the eastbound I-890 off-ramp merges with the eastbound Crosstown Connection. The construction contractor for these design-build projects is Kubricky Construction Corp. of Wilton, Saratoga County, and the design consultant is VHB Engineering, Surveying & Landscaping Architecture of Albany.
Bridge deck replacement on four structures in the Hudson Valley: The construction contractor for the $9.1 million in design-build projects is Harrison & Burrowes Bridge Constructors, Inc. of Glenmont, Albany County and the design consultant is Clough Harbor & Associates of Albany.
Route 9 northbound over County Route 306 and Annsiville Creek in Cortlandt, Westchester County: Northbound traffic is crossed over to Route 9 southbound with one lane of traffic available in each direction. County Route 306 is closed and traffic is directed along a short detour using Roa Hook Road. Work on the $2.3 million project is expected to be completed in July.
Route 55 over Route 44 in Poughkeepsie, Dutchess County: Travel lanes are reduced from three to two in the westbound direction. Work on the $1.8 million project will continue into September.
Taconic State Parkway over Wappinger Creek in Clinton Corners, Dutchess County: During the first stage of the project, traffic is crossed over to the southbound roadway with one travel lane open in each direction. During the second stage, traffic will be crossed over to the northbound roadway with one lane available in each direction. Work on this $2.4 million project will continue through the fall.
Tuckahoe Road over Route 100 in Yonkers, Westchester County: Two lanes of traffic in each direction will be maintained during construction. Work on the $2.6 million project is expected to continue through July.
Completely replace the Patterson Bridge carrying Route 352 over the Norfolk Southern railroad and Chemung River, in the city and town of Corning, Steuben County: The $19.4 million project is beginning approximately one year ahead of schedule. NYSDOT originally planned on replacing the Patterson Bridge starting in 2014, but was able to accelerate the project schedule with funding from the NY Works program. Construction has begun on access roads for contractor vehicles to use during construction. Bridge work is anticipated to begin in May. Starting in August, the existing structure will be closed to traffic in the westbound direction, with a full bridge closure in September. Motorists will be detoured to Interstate 86 and Route 414. Work to establish the detour and adjust traffic signal timing in the area will take place this summer. The new bridge is expected to open to traffic next spring, with off-road work, such as landscaping, completed next fall. The construction contractor is Cold Spring Construction Company of Akron, Erie County.
Bridge deck replacement on structures carrying State Route 17 eastbound and westbound over Willowemoc Creek, and carrying State Route 17 eastbound and westbound over Hazel Road in Rockland, Sullivan County: Construction has begun on a project to replace the bridge carrying westbound Route 17 over Willowemoc Creek. The bridge is closed and traffic has been crossed over to use Route 17 eastbound. The project will continue through the end of May. At that time both eastbound and westbound traffic will be crossed over to use the new Route 17 westbound bridge while construction takes place on the eastbound bridge. Work will last through the end of summer. Work has also begun on the bridges carrying Route 17 over Hazel Road. One lane of traffic will be maintained on the bridge in each direction on SR 17 at all times using staged construction, which replaces one half of the bridge at a time while maintaining traffic on the other half of the bridge. Occasional lane restrictions may be needed along Hazel Road during construction, which is expected to last through the end of summer. The construction contractor for the $5.3 million in projects is Economy Paving Co, Inc. of Cortland, Cortland County.
Bridge deck replacement on four structures in Jefferson County: Construction will begin Monday, April 22 on the $5.9 million project, which includes repairing the underlying steel structures and replacing critical components, such as bearings and joints. This intensive rehabilitation allows the existing structures to continue in service far beyond their normal service life. The construction contractor for these design-build projects is Kubricky Construction Corp. of Wilton, Saratoga County and the design consultant is VHB Engineering, Surveying & Landscaping Architecture of Albany.
State Route 971V Bridge carrying the access road from Route 3 to Fort Drum over the Black River in the Town of LeRay, Jefferson County: The bridge is closed during construction and traffic is detoured along State Routes 3 and 342. Work on the $2.1 million project is expected to be completed by the fall.
State Route 177 over North Branch of Sandy Creek in the Town of Rodman, Jefferson County: The bridge will remain in service during construction utilizing a temporary traffic signal. Work on this $2.3 million project is expected to be completed by late fall.
State Route 193 Bridges over I-81 northbound and southbound in the Town of Ellisburg, Jefferson County: Work will include armor joint repairs, and highway approach work to the bridges to improve sight distance and turning radii at the bridges. The bridges will be closed during construction and the detour will utilize adjacent interstate exits. Work on the $1.5 million project is expected to begin in May and be completed by late fall.

New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "Replacing these bridges and bridge decks will increase safety for motorists and enhance mobility along important travel corridors across the state. Thanks to Governor Cuomo's innovative NY Works program, we will see many important safety projects taking place this year, helping to improve our infrastructure, facilitate economic development and create immediate jobs across New York State."

Traffic management plans for the projects were established as part of the Drivers First initiative, developed by Governor Cuomo last year. Drivers First requires that capital construction road and bridge projects are reviewed to ensure that work has the least impact possible on highway users. The projects were evaluated to ensure they would be completed quickly and safely, while maintaining mobility for drivers.

NY Works focuses on improving the condition of bridges from fair condition to good condition in order to extend their service life. This rehabilitation work will better preserve the state's infrastructure and guard against the need for more costly, in-depth construction. Bundling projects sites within close geographic locations into a single contract enables DOT to lower expenses and obtain lower bids.

The design-build process, implemented by Governor Cuomo, allows for the combining of design and construction services into single contracts to help expedite repair work to vital infrastructure and save taxpayer money.

It is imperative that motorists remember to drive carefully through this and the many other highway and bridge construction zones they will encounter during the upcoming construction season.

For real-time travel information, call 511 or visit www.511NY.org. 511NY is New York State's official traffic and travel information source. The 511NY site and mobile app offer free, 24/7, statewide, real-time traffic and transit information for all of New York State. It also offers a transit trip planner, camera views, as well as weather alerts and forecasts. New features available at the site -- www.511ny.org -- include additional mobile app features, border crossing times, new notifications on the home page, and an interface that is easier to navigate.

Source:
