Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces NY Security Measures in Response to Boston Marathon Bombing
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 16, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that he has directed state agencies, including the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services (DHSES), the New York State Police (NYSP), National Guard, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ) to be on a heightened state of alert. These measures were taken to ensure the continued safety of New Yorkers after the terrorist attack at the Boston Marathon yesterday.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families, as well as the people of Boston during this tragedy," said Governor Cuomo. "As we learn more about this incident, New York has taken every step to ensure the safety of all New Yorkers and all those visiting our state. Our law enforcement agencies will remain vigilant in looking for any unusual activity, and I urge all New Yorkers to report any suspicious packages or activity to the authorities. No cowardly act of terrorism will ever match the will and bravery of New Yorkers and Americans, nor will it deter us from carrying on with our daily lives."

New York State has been in close contact with federal, state and local officials as well as with authorities in Boston. All law enforcement agencies will continue to monitor developments and coordinate with FBI Joint Terrorist Task Force.
Division of Military and Naval Affairs

The New York National Guard's Joint Task Force Empire Shield has surged forces, sending 230 soldiers and airmen to assist NYPD Counter Terrorism and the MTA and are providing personnel to augment security missions at Port Authority Bus Terminal, PATH station, and Penn Station along with Grand Central Terminal, Amtrak, Queens Midtown Tunnel, Brooklyn Battery Tunnel, JFK International, and LaGuardia International airport.
New York State Police

State Police patrols, with emphasis on K-9 units, have an increased presence and visibility at train stations and platforms in coordination with MTA and Amtrak. Patrols are required to increase presence and patrol operations at mass gathering venues and special events, including transportation hubs.
Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

PANYNJ Police have increased their presence at all Port Authority facilities, including the World Trade Center site, the Port Authority Bus Terminal, PATH, its tunnels, bridges, airports and seaports.

In addition, PANYNJ officials are meeting with members of the NYPD to coordinate details and security arrangements for Sunday's 9/11 Memorial 5K Run/Walk. Security surrounding this event will also be increased to ensure a safe, secure environment.
Metropolitan Transportation Authority

Deployment of additional MTA Police throughout stations and platforms across 2047 miles of rail track; New York State Police will coordinate with MTA to deploy Troopers at train stations and platforms throughout the lower Hudson Valley area and Long Island.

Special attention to be paid to critical transportation hubs, such as Grand Central Terminal, Penn Station, as well as the high volume Atlantic and Jamaica Terminals.

The New York State Intelligence Center will continue to monitor investigation efforts and share information and request action from the law enforcement community as appropriate to ensure every effort is made to detect and prevent attacks in New York State.

A Statewide Conference Call was convened last night by the New York State Office of Counter Terrorism and New York State Police to brief state and local law enforcement on the Boston Bombing and to request those agencies to increase their presence and awareness of venues involving mass gatherings, special events, graduations and transportation hubs; whether it be train platforms and stations, bus terminals, and bridge crossings.

If any New Yorkers witness activities that seem suspicious or out of place, please report them to local law enforcement.
In New York City, please call 1-888-NYC-SAFE (1-888-692-7233)
Elsewhere in New York State, please call 1-866-SAFE-NYS (1-866-723-3697)

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/04162013-safety-measures-in-response-to-boston-marathon-bombing
