Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces the Installation of Hundreds of Electric Vehicle Charging Stations
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 11, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that more than 360 electric vehicle (EV) and plug-in hybrid charging stations will be installed across the state in support of his Charge NY initiative.

Charge NY, unveiled by Governor Cuomo during his State of the State address earlier this year, is an initiative to create a statewide network of up to 3,000 public and workplace charging stations over the next five years and to put up to 40,000 plug-in vehicles on the road during that period. This initiative is being spearheaded by both the New York Power Authority (NYPA) and the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA).

"Building this network of innovative charging stations will encourage New Yorkers to use fuel-efficient alternatives like electric vehicles as well as grow the green industry and jobs in the state," Governor Cuomo said. "The Charge NY program shows how New York is leading the way toward an electric vehicle future, and it is helping to drive the state's clean energy economy."

In support of Charge NY's goals, NYPA today issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) for the installation of 100 electric vehicle charging stations equipped with smart charging capabilities to reduce EV charging demand on the electric grid at periods of peak demand. The charging stations will be located at 36 convenient locations, including transportation hubs, and other public and private parking lots, primarily in the Metropolitan New York City area and are expected to be in operation by 2014. Copies of the RFP can be found at http://www.nypa.gov/Procurement/Default.aspx.

"These charging stations -- well placed for public use -- will help encourage more electric vehicles on the road," said Gil C. Quiniones, NYPA president and CEO. "The Power Authority is proud to move the Governor's clean transportation agenda forward with this consumer demand-driven program."

In addition, NYSERDA has awarded $3.6 million to 14 organizations to install more than 260 electric vehicle charging stations across the state, from Long Island to Buffalo. Most stations will be dual charging stations, with the ability to accommodate two vehicles at once.

"The Governor's announcement today is just one more step the State is taking to reduce its reliance on fossil fuels and promote the use of electric vehicles as a viable option to consumers," said Francis J. Murray Jr., President and CEO, NYSERDA. "The investment the State is making in this infrastructure, under Governor Cuomo, underscores our continued commitment to clean energy and energy efficiency programs, which will also help to stimulate the economy and protect our environment."

Projects being funded by NYSERDA include:
Access Technology Integration Inc., Troy, $267,000 -- 26 EV charging stations in Schenectady County, including at Schenectady County Community College, a public library, a nursing home, Schenectady City Hall, parking garages and surface parking lots. Stations will be available for both public and county fleet vehicle use.
Beam Charging LLC, Roslyn, $300,000 --21 EV charging stations at locations in upper Manhattan, Brooklyn and Long Island. The stations will be located in public parking garages and parking lots, including mall locations.
Car Charging Group Inc., Miami, Fla., $334,000 -- 30 EV charging stations throughout New York State, including workplace, retail and multifamily locations.
City of White Plains, $200,000 --10 EV charging stations at multifamily residences around the city.
Columbia University, NYC, $41,000 --Four EV charging stations in two underground garages at the university. Stations will also be used as a teaching tool.
EV Connect Inc., Albany, $275,000 -- System deployment with reservation support and managed services for EV charging stations at 10 Hertz Local Edition rental car locations across New York State that offer electric vehicles for rent. Stations would also be open to the public.
EVPass, Syracuse, $300,000 -- Installation of 26 EV charging stations at retail shopping mall parking lots throughout New York State.
Greater Long Island Clean Cities Coalition, Stony Brook, $200,000 -- 10 EV charging stations at multifamily locations in Nassau and Suffolk counties.
Town of Haverstraw, $78,000 -- Four EV charging stations at town hall and park-and-ride lots.
Leviton Manufacturing Co. Inc., Melville, $1 million -- 82 EV charging stations at multiple workplace locations throughout New York State that are interested in promoting electric vehicles.
Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, $15,000 -- Two EV charging stations within the medical center's parking garages accessible to employees and the public.
MyFleetDept.com, Canandaigua, $72,000 -- Three EV charging stations at the Rochester Institute of Technology campus to be available to students and staff.
PepsiCo's Frito-Lay Division, Purchase, $350,000 -- Installation of 20 EV charging stations at distribution centers in Albany and Rochester (10 per city) for the purpose of charging fleet vehicles.
Sky View Ventures LLC, Port Chester, $250,000 -- Install 20 EV charging stations at 10 hotels around the state.
This announcement is the second round of funding supported by NYSERDA for the installation of EV charging stations. Last June, Governor Cuomo announced awards of $4.4 million through NYSERDA to fund 325 charging stations around the state including those announced by NYPA today.

Through his Charge NY program, the Governor has proposed investing $50 million over the next five years to stimulate demand for EVs and investments in infrastructure, including funding from NYSERDA, NYPA and tax credits. In addition, the Governor has called for increasing the State's EV readiness through reforming regulations to facilitate EV charging, utility rate incentives, educating consumers about EVs, and demonstrating advanced EV technologies.

"This is an important effort that will lay the groundwork for a practical, sustainable infrastructure to support electric vehicles throughout New York State and is a classic example of the kinds of projects that EPRI and the utility industry have collaborated on for years to enable the use of electricity as a transportation fuel," said Mark Duvall, director of Electric Transportation at EPRI.

"Governor Cuomo's "Charge NY' plan is an important step toward developing an infrastructure for clean plug-in vehicles in New York State," said Ashok Gupta, Director of Programs and a senior energy economist at NRDC. "Oil-free and low-carbon transportation is the way of the future and Governor Cuomo's efforts will help make that vision a reality."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/04112013-hundreds-of-electric-vehicle-charging-stations
