Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Details Major Investments in Public Transportation Included in 2013-14 Budget
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 27, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today detailed the more than $4.7 billion included in the 2013-14 Budget to support public transportation systems across New York State.

To maintain services and help protect straphangers, the Governor and Legislature increased support for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) by 9.2% increase -- more than $358 million -- bringing the total MTA budget to $4.2 billion. The Budget also includes more than $454 million to support Upstate and Downstate public transportation networks, in addition to millions of dollars in new capital grants.

"New York State has always been a national leader in investing in our public transportation infrastructure, and this Budget includes hundreds of millions of dollars in new spending to rebuild transit systems across the state," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding will help protect toll payers, straphangers, and all New Yorkers that depend on public transportation, while at the same time supporting job-creating projects and new investments in communities across New York State. I commend the members of the Legislature that worked hard to ensure this funding was included in our state's budget."

Senate Majority Coalition Co-Leader Dean G. Skelos said: "The new state budget makes a substantial investment in transit services for New Yorkers through significant increases in operating aid and funding for capital improvements in the MTA region and all across the state. I applaud the Governor and Senator Charles Fuschillo, Chairman of the Senate Transportation Committee, for working out a very strong transit plan in the state budget that helps our residents whether they live Upstate or Downstate."

Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said, "Mass transit is the backbone of our economy and New York's progress depends on reliable, affordable transportation within and between our cities, towns, and neighborhoods. With this appropriation, we are investing in the network of subway and rail lines that countless workers, students, and visitors depend on."

The MTA will receive an increase of more than $358 million, or more than 9.2 percent, from the $3.8 billion received in 2012-13, which will provide operating support for transit and commuter rail systems. This increase exceeds the MTA 2013 budget aid assumption from the State, and will help to maintain services while also reducing pressure on fares and tolls.

The Budget also continues support for the MTA capital program, reauthorizing spending for $770 million in State capital funding that was committed for the MTA 2010-14 capital program and approximately $570 million for the continued spend-out of the MTA's 2005-09 capital program from reappropriations of the Rebuild and Renew New York Bond Act of 2005.

The Budget also includes $21 million in new funding, including $16 million in grants and an additional $5 million in NY Works Capital Assistance, to support Downstate Suburban and Upstate public transportation capital investments (Non-MTA).

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/03272013-cuomo-details-major-investments-in-public-transportation
