Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Details More Than $438 Million in Funding For Local Road And Bridge Repair Projects
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 25, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today detailed $438 million in funding included in the 2013-14 Budget under the Consolidated Local Street and Highway Improvement Program (CHIPS) that will go to counties, cities, towns and villages in all corners of New York State to support local highway, road, and bridge repair projects. The Budget includes $75 million of increased funding for the CHIPS program, the first increase since the 2008-09 Budget.

"This Budget is about jobs, jobs, jobs, and by investing in rebuilding our state's transportation infrastructure we are helping to grow local economies and create jobs in all corners of the state," Governor Cuomo said. "During these difficult fiscal times, this $75 million increase in CHIPS funding is a big victory for our state's localities that will be able to use these much-needed funds to make repairs to local highways, bridges, and roads, and at the same time support job growth and economic development in their communities. I commend the members of the Legislature that worked hard to ensure that these funds are included in our state budget."

Senate Majority Coalition Co-Leader Dean G. Skelos said, "Funding our State's infrastructure is one of the most important investments we can make in our residents and their futures. Senate Republicans are pleased to have fought for and won a 21 percent increase in CHIPS funding, the first increase in five years. This critical funding will allow local governments to maintain and upgrade our roads and bridges so they can carry people, goods and services, and keep our economy moving forward."

Senate Majority Coalition Co-Leader and Independent Democratic Conference Leader Jeff Klein said, "This budget reflects the fact that infrastructure is one of the most important investments our state can make. By adequately funding investments in our roads and bridges, we can ensure that all road travelers will be able to drive safely and efficiently across our state."

Senator Charles J. Fuschillo, Jr., Chairman of the Senate's Transportation Committee, said, "Local governments, who maintain the overwhelming majority of our state's roads, have seen the need for infrastructure projects and the costs to complete them grow significantly over the last several years. Increasing CHIPS funding will help municipalities undertake additional infrastructure repairs and improvements, create jobs, and promote economic development, all of which are desperately needed. This is a smart and critically important investment that will benefit counties, towns, and villages throughout the state."

Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said, "The Assembly Majority has successfully advocated for funding to help local governments pay for the maintenance and improvements of our roads, bridges and mass transit systems. This budget recognizes that a sound and reliable municipal infrastructure is essential to keeping our residents safe as well as a community's ability to keep and grow businesses."

Assembly Transportation Committee Chair David Gantt said, "Working within the limitations of a slowly recovering economy, this budget makes important funding commitments to the state's transportation infrastructure, the backbone of our economy. Not only will these funds ensure that our highways, roads, and bridges are in good repair and safe for the traveling public, but they also will help spur employment within the construction and transportation industries."

The Consolidated Local Street and Highway Improvement Program (CHIPS) was established by the Legislature in 1981. The funds go directly to local governments to support repairs to the highways, bridges, and roads that they operate and maintain.

Source:
