Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Construction on I-490 Bridges in Monroe County to Begin in April
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 22, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that construction will begin next month on a project to replace four bridge decks on Interstate 490 in Monroe County. The work is part of a $13.8 million contract funded through the NY Works program. The project meets the goals of Governor Cuomo's Drivers First initiative to ensure that construction causes the least impact to motorists.

The bridges carry eastbound and westbound I-490 over Chili Center Coldwater Road (Route 386) in Chili and eastbound and westbound I-490 over Route 204 (Airport Expressway) in Gates.

"The NY Works program is getting infrastructure projects done quickly and efficiently in the Finger Lakes region for taxpayers," said Governor Cuomo. "And under the Driver's First initiative, these projects are making drivers in Monroe County a priority during the entire construction process."

"This project will increase safety for the many motorists traveling into and out of Rochester, and I urge motorists to be patient during construction and drive with extra caution through the work zone," Commissioner McDonald said. "Thanks to Governor Cuomo's innovative NY Works program, we will see many important safety projects taking place this year, helping to improve our infrastructure, facilitate economic development and create immediate jobs across New York State."

During construction, a 2.5-mile stretch of I-490 will be reduced from two lanes to a single lane in each direction between Paul Road in Chili and Buffalo Road in Gates. Traffic from one side of the highway will be crossed over the center median to use the opposite side of the highway. All traffic will use the eastbound bridges during the first phase of the project while the westbound bridge decks are removed and replaced. Traffic will be shifted to the westbound side during the second phase, as construction occurs on the eastbound bridges.

Construction on the first phase of the project will begin in April and last into August. The entrance ramp from Chili Center Coldwater Road to I-490 eastbound will be closed. A detour will be posted directing drivers to take Chili Center Coldwater Road to Westside Drive to Coldwater Road (Route 386) to Buffalo Road (Route 33) to access I-490. All other entrance and exit ramps will remain open while the first phase is under construction.

The second phase of the project will occur from August through November. During this phase, the exit ramp from I-490 westbound to Route 204 will be closed. This will also affect traffic traveling from Route 531 eastbound to I-490 westbound to access Route 204. A detour will be posted directing drivers to exit at Buffalo Road West (Route 33) to Coldwater Road to Westside Drive to Chili Avenue (Route 33A/204).

The bridge closures and crossovers were established as part of the Drivers First initiative, developed by Governor Cuomo last year. Drivers First requires that capital construction road and bridge projects are reviewed to ensure that work has the least impact possible on highway users. For this project, it was determined that closing two bridges while maintaining both directions of traffic on the other two bridges would allow the project to be completed quickly and safely while allowing mobility for drivers. It is imperative that motorists remember to drive carefully through this and the many other highway and bridge construction zones they will encounter during the upcoming construction season.

The NY Works contract includes replacing the deck on the Route 15 bridge over Interstate 390 in Rush, which was completed in 2012, as well as five bridges in the Buffalo area. The construction contractor for the project is Union Concrete Constructors of West Seneca, Erie County.

NY Works focuses on improving the condition of bridges from fair condition to good condition in order to extend their service life. This rehabilitation work will better preserve the state's infrastructure and guard against the need for more costly, in-depth construction. Bundling projects sites within close geographic locations into a single contract enables DOT to lower expenses and obtain lower bids.

Senator Michael H. Ranzenhofer said, "The proper maintenance of Monroe County's bridges keeps drivers and their passengers safe and sound, while taking a pro-active approach to preventing more expensive repair projects in the future. Replacing four bridge decks on Interstate 490 will ensure safety for motorists travelling on the bridge for years to come."

Senator Joe Robach said, "Not only will this project provide upgrades to our infrastructure and provide for safer transportation for drivers, but it will also provide a boost in employment opportunities in our community. As this project gets underway in April and continues through November, it provides opportunities for hard-working men and women who are looking to get back into the construction workforce."

Assemblyman Harry Bronson said, "I applaud the Governor and Commissioner McDonald for bringing these vital projects to fruition. As a NY Works program, this project will be completed on-time and within budget, saving our families and state much needed cash. As a Drivers First initiative, motorist and construction workers can be assured of a road project that will marry safety with convenience. These repairs will help drive our economy."

Monroe County Executive Maggie Brooks said, "Monroe County is proud to maintain a collaborative partnership with New York State to continuously improve highway and bridge infrastructure throughout our area. Our community is already nationally-renowned for the ease and speed of our commutes, and these important bridge upgrades will do even more to improve our world-class transportation system in the years to come."

For real-time travel information, call 511 or visit www.511NY.org. 511NY is New York State's official traffic and travel information source. The 511NY site and mobile app offer free, 24/7, statewide, real-time traffic and transit information for all of New York State. It also offers a transit trip planner, camera views, as well as weather alerts and forecasts. New features available at the site -- www.511ny.org -- include additional mobile app features, border crossing times, new notifications on the home page, and an interface that is easier to navigate.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/03222013-i490-bridge-monroe-county-construction-april
