Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Construction on State Route 17 Interchange 100 in Sullivan County to Begin March 25
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 22, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that construction to replace the decks of two bridges carrying the exit and entrance ramps for westbound State Route 17 at Interchange 100 over the Mid-Mongaup River in Liberty, Sullivan County will begin on March 25th. The bridges will be closed during construction, and a detour will be put in place. Plans for this $1 million NY Works project meet the goals of the Governor's Drivers First initiative to ensure that construction causes the least impact to motorists.

"The NY Works program ensures that New York State has a safe and stable infrastructure to support our economy for decades to come," Governor Cuomo said. "By making the Drivers First initiative a part of the construction process, this project in Sullivan County will move forward with the least hassle for motorists so that we can complete the work efficiently and as soon as possible."

In addition to replacing the bridge decks, other structural work will be done, including replacement of the bridge rail. While the decks are being replaced, the bridges will be closed to all traffic. The closures will begin on Monday, March 25, and work is expected to be completed by the end of May.

During the closure, traffic for the Interchange 100 exit ramp will be detoured to Interchange 101 and Sullivan Avenue. Traffic intending to use the Interchange 100 entrance ramp will be detoured to Interchange 99. Periodic lane closures on State Route 17 may also be needed.

New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "Replacing the bridge decks will increase safety for motorists and enhance mobility at an important interchange in Sullivan County. Thanks to Governor Cuomo's innovative NY Works program, we will see many important safety projects taking place this year, helping to improve our infrastructure, facilitate economic development and create immediate jobs across New York State."

NY Works projects in the greater Binghamton area total $46.5 million and have addressed nearly 50 miles of pavement. This project is part of a $19.8 million contract to replace bridge decks on 19 structures in Broome, Chenango, Delaware, Sullivan and Tioga counties. The construction contractor for the project is Economy Paving Co, Inc. of Cortland, Cortland County.

It is imperative that motorists remember to drive carefully through this and the many other highway and bridge construction zones they will encounter during the upcoming construction season.

The bridge closures and detour plans were established as part of the Drivers First initiative, developed by Governor Cuomo last year. Drivers First requires that capital construction road and bridge projects are reviewed to ensure that work has the least impact possible on highway users. For this project, it was determined that closing the bridges and establishing a relatively short detour would allow the project to be completed much more quickly and safely, while creating only a minimal amount of travel delays for drivers.

NY Works focuses on improving the condition of bridges from fair condition to good condition in order to extend their service life. This rehabilitation work will better preserve the state's infrastructure and guard against the need for more costly, in-depth construction. Bundling projects sites within close geographic locations into a single contract enables DOT to lower expenses and obtain lower bids.

Senator John Bonacic said, "This project creates construction jobs and makes the flow of traffic safer. Continuing the conversion of Route 17 to I-86 is important as we strengthen bridges, roads, and other infrastructure throughout New York."

Assemblywoman Aileen Gunther said, "This is an important project for Sullivan County and the region. Governor Cuomo has shown extraordinary leadership, not only with the Drivers First initiative, but with a significant investment in improving the roads and bridges in Sullivan County and New York State."

For real-time travel information, call 511 or visit www.511NY.org. 511NY is New York State's official traffic and travel information source. The 511NY site and mobile app offer free, 24/7, statewide, real-time traffic and transit information for all of New York State. It also offers a transit trip planner, camera views, as well as weather alerts and forecasts. New features available at the site -- www.511ny.org -- include additional mobile app features, border crossing times, new notifications on the home page, and an interface that is easier to navigate.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/03222013State-Route-17-Interchange-100-Construction
