Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces International Partnership Between New York State and the State of Israel to Grow the Nanotechnology Industry
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 20, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to establish an international partnership between New York State and the State of Israel, through a collaboration involving the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering (CNSE) and the Israeli Industry Center for Research & Development (MATIMOP), that will significantly expand business, technology, and economic relations in the burgeoning field of nanotechnology, while enabling billions of dollars in new investments and the creation of thousands of high-tech jobs in New York and Israel.

"I am so proud of the partnership between the State of Israel and College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering, which continues to be the leader in the global nanotechnology industry," said Governor Cuomo. "This partnership will strengthen our state's relationship with the State of Israel, while also investing in a thriving industry that will create jobs and expand the economy right here in New York."

Lieutenant Governor Robert Duffy said, "This partnership is yet another example of how Governor Cuomo has strengthened New York State's global reputation as an attractive place to do business and create jobs. I thank the State of Israel for partnering with New York State to ensure the continued growth of the global nanotechnology industry. New York State is at the forefront of this industry, and I commend Dr. Alain Kaloyeros for his leadership and hard work on this agreement. Through this partnership, the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering can continue to drive this emerging and rapidly growing field."

Nili Shalev, Israel's Economic Minister to North America, said, "This agreement is the first significant step to stimulate scientific and industrial collaboration in areas where both states excel. The partnership will enable Israeli companies to access to CNSE's renowned facilities and collaborate with leading American and multinational companies on campus. It introduces many other opportunities, including industrial R&D and commercialization joint ventures, natural synergy between the two G450 Consortia of both states, and the enhancement of academic research in Nano scaling. I would like to congratulate Governor Cuomo, Lt. Governor Duffy and Dr. Alain Kaloyeros, the CEO of CNSE, for supporting this initiative."

Dan Vilenski, Former Chairman of Applied Materials' Israeli subsidiary and Board member of the Israeli National Nanotechnology Initiative, said, "Nanotechnology is one of the major areas in which both Israel and New York have a great deal to offer. Israel is the leader in metrology and inspection in the semiconductor market, and the State of New York has built one of the leading facilities in the world for Nano scaling research and will play a significant role in shaping the future of this industry."

State University of New York Chancellor Nancy Zimpher said, "The governor has fostered an innovation environment in New York that is drawing top scientists from around the world, and through SUNY's globally renowned NanoCollege, the potential for advancement and discovery is limitless. Only a world-class university system like SUNY can generate an international collaboration and investment of this magnitude. I want to welcome our new Israeli partners to New York and to the SUNY system. I am sure our combined expertise and passion for academic excellence and high tech innovation will yield tremendous results."

CNSE Senior Vice President and CEO Dr. Alain Kaloyeros said, "As further testament to the pioneering leadership, strategic vision, and critical investments of Governor Andrew Cuomo, which have truly established New York as the epicenter for the global nanotechnology industry, the NanoCollege is delighted to enter into this partnership with the most prestigious Israeli Industry Center. In harnessing the power of nanotechnology innovation to bring together corporate and university partners from the U.S. and Israel, this collaboration sets the stage for leading-edge advances in nanoscale technologies, and opens the door for high-tech growth that will provide exciting career and economic opportunities for individuals and companies across the New New York."

The partnership announced today between CNSE and MATIMOP, acting on behalf of the Office of the Chief Scientist (OCS) in the ministry of Industry Trade and Labor, builds on and leverages the multi-billion dollar investments in New York's nanotechnology industry under the leadership of Governor Cuomo. This partnership will facilitate and promote bilateral and multilateral research, development, and commercialization programs in innovative nanoscale technologies between corporations and academic institutions in the U.S. and Israel.

Through the agreement, the Israeli government has allocated up to $300 million a year to fund access for Israeli companies and universities to CNSE's state-of-the-art 300mm wafer and 450mm wafer infrastructure, facilities, resources, and know-how, which are unparalleled worldwide. In addition, a publicity and marketing campaign is being prepared to generate interest and participation from Israel's corporate and academic entities.

The centerpiece of the collaboration is the NanoCollege, the most advanced nanotechnology education, research, development, and deployment enterprise in the world. With more than $14 billion in high-tech investments, over 300 global corporate partners, and a footprint that spans upstate New York, CNSE is uniquely positioned to support this first-of-its-kind partnership.

The agreement is designed to enable a host of nanotechnology research and development (R&D), prototyping, demonstration and commercialization activities, including the facilitation of partnerships to spur collaborative projects targeting industrial R&D and commercialization; exchange of technical information and expertise to promote global development of next-generation nanoscale technologies; and the organization of joint seminars and workshops to enhance cooperation between corporate and academic entities in New York and Israel.

Specific technology areas targeted for initial collaboration include sub-systems, sensors and accessories for deployment in the nanoscale cleanroom environment; simulation and modeling for next-generation tools and technologies; and tools, processes, and testing technologies essential to accelerate critical innovations in the multiple fields enabled by nanotechnology, including nanoelectronics, energy, and health care, among others.

Congressman Paul Tonko said, "This partnership between New York State and Israel is yet further proof that the Capital Region is not only renowned on a national stage, but indeed on the world stage. Clean energy innovation jobs and long-term economic growth require investments, and Tech Valley laid that foundation years ago. As a fast-growing region for high tech jobs and all the ancillary benefits that follow, these sorts of partnerships led by Governor Cuomo will ensure we remain a bright spot for continued education, research, development and deployment by some of the most cutting edge innovators, entrepreneurs, small businesses and large companies in the world."

Senator Neil D. Breslin said, "This is a fantastic partnership between New York State and the State of Israel that will create jobs, further leverage a proven investment, and continue to let the Capital Region shine as the forefront of the nanotechnology industry. I commend Governor Cuomo for championing the growth in nanotechnology in New York, and the State of Israel for choosing to enter into this great partnership."

Assemblywoman Patricia Fahy said, "I am pleased that this partnership between New York State and the State of Israel will not only create jobs, but add immensely to a much-needed boost of economic development in the Capital Region. I congratulate the Governor for bringing global attention to New York State in the field of nanotechnology, and the State of Israel for choosing to do business in New York."

Mayor Jerry D. Jennings said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo for his leadership in developing Albany's nanotechnology sector, and thank the State of Israel and the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering for their hard work in making this partnership a reality. This is great news for the Capital Region, which has already seen immense growth in this industry, and I look forward to ensuring that this progress continues."

Albany County Executive Daniel McCoy said, "Governor Cuomo has done a great job leading the way toward greater economic development, and this partnership between New York State and the State of Israel is just another example. I applaud the Governor, the State of Israel, and the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering for their hard work in developing this partnership that will spur job creation, economic development, and greater international attention for our state."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/03202013NYS-Israel-Nanotechnology
