Public Statements
Governors Cuomo and Christie Announce Selection of Nationally Renowned Legends Hospitality to Develop and Operate One World Trade Center Observation Deck
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 19, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew Cuomo and Governor Chris Christie today announced the selection of nationally renowned Legends Hospitality, LLC (Legends) to develop and operate the observation deck at the top of One World Trade Center. The selection will provide The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey with a projected $875 million in revenue over the term of the 15-year lease, the largest amount of any of the submitted bids.

"Bringing a world-class observation deck to One World Trade Center will provide millions of New Yorkers and visitors from across the region and around the globe with an unparalleled viewing experience of the greatest city in the world," said Governor Andrew M. Cuomo. "Today's announcement builds on the tremendous progress we have made at the World Trade Center site over the past couple of years and marks the continued rebirth of Lower Manhattan. The observation deck will add hundreds of jobs in New York and add to the resurgence of the state's economy."

"People from around the world have watched as One World Trade Center is poised to once again become the anchor of Lower Manhattan," said New Jersey Governor Chris Christie. "Tourism has been the backbone of our bistate region for many generations, and this observatory will be among our region's premier attractions that will draw tourists from around the world who want to experience the best that our bistate region has to offer."

The governors are calling on the Port Authority Board of Commissioners to approve the agreement when the matter goes before the Board at its monthly meeting tomorrow.

The winning design for One World Observatory, submitted by Legends, will take visitors on a dynamic journey that tells the story of New York City and One World Trade Center as guests ascend to the top of the iconic skyscraper to enter the observation deck.

One World Observatory will provide visitors with spectacular views of New York City and the surrounding region from 1,250 feet high in the air. The venue is projected to draw an estimated 3.8 million annual visitors to the top of what is the tallest building in New York and soon will be the tallest structure in the Western Hemisphere.

The agreement with Legends, which handles a variety of services at world-class venues including Yankee Stadium and Cowboys Stadium, provides significant private capital for the World Trade Center site without any additional State or Port Authority investment. The projected revenue is a mix of fixed and variable rent over the course of the lease.

One World Observatory will provide a viewing opportunity from the highest vantage point in New York City. Prior to September 11, 2001, the South Tower featured an observation deck that was one of the most successful tourist attractions in the country.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/03192013One-World-Trade-Center-Observation-Deck
