Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Completion of Major Solar Project at Davidson Chevrolet in Watertown
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 14, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the completion of a major solar project at Davidson Chevrolet in the North Country, the latest of 16 projects at Davidson locations throughout Central and Northern New York. The project will provide clean, renewable energy to the car dealership and save an estimated $1 million in expenses over the next 20 years. As a part of the NY-Sun Initiative, the completion of this project advances the Governor's Reforming the Energy Vision strategy and the Clean Energy Standard, a nation-leading mandate to supply half of its electricity needs from renewable energy resources by 2030.
"New York is becoming a national leader in renewable energy, and much of that success is driven by businesses like Davidson Chevrolet that are looking to reduce costs and preserve our environment," Governor Cuomo said. "This solar project will serve as a model for other businesses across the state, and will move us closer to a cleaner, greener and more resilient New York for all."
The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority provided $225,000 from the Governor's $1 billion NY-Sun initiative to support the solar installation. The project, developed by High Peaks Solar, is in final testing prior to it being interconnected to the grid.
Photos of the solar arrays and dealership can be found here.
State Senator Pattie Ritchie said, "Projects like this demonstrate how renewable energy not only has the power to protect the environment, but also to bolster our economy. I am pleased to see the completion of this major solar project, which will decrease business costs, help reduce pollution and take us one step closer to achieving New York's clean energy goals."
Chairman of Energy and Finance for New York Richard Kauffman said,"New York State is making progress in how it generates and delivers energy to consumers and solar power is key to this effort as we strive to make our environment cleaner, more resilient and affordable under Reforming the Energy Vision. I applaud all community and business leaders, like Davidson Chevrolet, for making this commitment to a clean and sustainable future."
New York State Energy Research and Development Authority President and CEO John Rhodes said, "This project demonstrates the significant growth under the leadership of Governor Cuomo of solar in communities across the state. Businesses across New York continue to adopt and deploy affordable and sustainable solutions to help the State meet its aggressive clean energy goals."
The solar project uses remote net metering and is located offsite at 21752 Gillette Road in Watertown. Net metering allows residential and commercial customers that install solar to receive a credit on their electricity bill for power generated by their system and fed back into the grid.

The amount of energy produced by solar in New York increased by 575 percent from 2012 through 2015, adding 525 MW of clean, renewable power. More than 700 solar projects were installed in the North Country region during this period
Scott Gray, Chairman, Jefferson County Board of Legislature said, "The Davidson family is to be commended for their forward thinking to utilize renewable energy production to lower cost and maintain jobs in our community. The Jefferson County Legislature earlier this year decided to remain in Real Property Law 487 that provides tax exemptions for renewable energy projects and the Davidson's have utilized the program. This is a great example of clean energy and jobs working to better our community. "
Don Davidson, Co-owner, Davidson Chevrolet said, "Davidson Chevrolet is pleased to be part of New York State's clean energy efforts. This solar project is an example of our continued commitment to using clean energy to reduce costs and benefit the environment."
New York's solar growth has also generated significant job growth in the solar industry. According to a national report, New York's solar industry is now the fourth largest in the nation and currently employs more than 8,250 workers, an increase of more than 3,000 jobs since 2013. In 2016, double-digit job growth is expected to continue with another 1,000 additional jobs created as a result of the State's robust solar project pipeline.
Other recent North Country solar installations supported by New York State Energy Research and Development Authority include projects in the Town of Malone and at the North Country Library which are estimated to provide 223,586 kWh of power annually, the equivalent to taking 25 cars off the road.
About the NY Sun Initiative
NY-Sun is part of Governor Andrew M. Cuomo's commitment to improving the efficiency, affordability, and reliability of energy systems in New York State. He launched the initiative in 2012. In 2014, he made a historic commitment of nearly $1 billion to stimulate the marketplace and increase the number of solar electric (also referred to as photovoltaic or PV) systems across the State over 10 years.
NY-Sun aims to add more than 3 gigawatts of installed solar capacity in the State by 2023. That is the equivalent of adding enough solar energy to power 400,000 homes. NY-Sun brings together programs administered by New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, Long Island Power Authority, PSEG Long Island, and the New York Power Authority.
About Reforming the Energy Vision
Reforming the Energy Vision is Governor Andrew M. Cuomo's strategy to lead on climate change and grow New York's economy. Reforming the Energy Vision is building a cleaner, more resilient and affordable energy system for all New Yorkers by stimulating investment in clean technologies like solar, wind, and energy efficiency and generating 50% of the state's electricity needs from renewable energy by 2030. Already, Reforming the Energy Vision has driven 600% growth in the statewide solar market, enabled over 105,000 low-income households to permanently cut their energy bills with energy efficiency, and created thousands of jobs in manufacturing, engineering, and other clean tech sectors. Reforming the Energy Vision is ensuring New York State reduces statewide greenhouse gas emissions 40% by 2030 and achieves the internationally-recognized target of reducing emissions 80% by 2050. To learn more about Reforming the Energy Vision, including the Governor's $5 billion investment in clean energy technology and innovation, please visit www.ny.gov/REV4NY and follow us @Rev4NY.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-completion-major-solar-project-davidson-chevrolet-watertown
