Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Opening of Innovative Affordable Housing for Seniors in New Rochelle
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 12, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the official opening of Shiloh Senior Apartments in New Rochelle. The 40-unit development provides quality, energy-efficient, affordable apartments for senior citizens. New York State invested $10 million in tax credits, bonds, and grants for the project through the Housing Finance Agency (HFA) of New York State Homes and Community Renewal (HCR) and partnered with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the City of New Rochelle, Westhab, Inc. and Shiloh Community Development Corporation to create a model of affordability, sustainability, and collaboration.

"The state-of-the art Shiloh Senior Apartments will offer high-quality homes for the elderly in one of the costliest parts of the State--allowing seniors to stay in the community they call home, live independently, and add to Westchester's economic vitality," Governor Cuomo said. "These are the types of investments in housing and in people's lives that New York is making to create strong communities and increase quality of life for everyone."

The building is equipped with High Performance and Smart Building Technology including computer optimized control of exhaust fans, common areas, and lights, as well as high efficiency elevators and low-flow kitchen and bath fixtures.

In addition to the HFA credits and subsidies, financing for Shiloh Senior Apartments also includes $7 million from HUD's Section 202 program. Additionally, the City of New Rochelle provided $1.6 million in HOME funds.

Rents are set at 30% of each tenant's income, and eligible tenants must earn less than 50% of the Area Median Income. Completed on December 31st, 2012, it was fully occupied by January 11, 2013. Co-developers are Shiloh Community Development Corporation, a subsidiary of Shiloh Baptist Church, and Westhab, Inc., Westchester County's largest non-profit provider of housing.

Amenities include individually controlled heat and air conditioning, air conditioned common areas, a community room, an exercise room, tenant laundry and a lounge on each floor, on-site support services and free transport for shopping, outdoor passive recreation and a gazebo.

Darryl C. Towns, Commissioner/CEO of HCR said, "Governor Andrew Cuomo's leadership is resulting in smart investments like Shiloh Senior Apartments throughout New York State because he knows quality housing builds strong communities and makes our state a better place to live. Seniors living at Shiloh, and their families, will enjoy the peace of mind that comes from having a safe, energy-efficient roof over head."

"HUD has no higher mission than providing our elderly population with decent, safe and affordable housing," said Acting Regional Administrator Mirza Orriols. "That is why I am so proud that our Department has partnered with Westhab, Inc. and the Shiloh Community Development Corporation to provide 39 lucky senior citizens with a state-of-the-art facility that not only provides them with comfort and luxury, but also free transportation to keep them active and feeling part of the community. As such, we congratulate all our partners for making this day possible: New Rochelle Mayor Noam Bramson, Westhab, Shiloh Community Development Corporation, the Federal Home Loan Bank, and the New York State Housing Finance Agency."

New Rochelle Mayor, Noam Bramson said, "This development represents an outstanding example of collaboration between government and the non-profit sector to provide quality, affordable housing for our community's seniors, while making a positive contribution to the neighborhood in which it is built. We are pleased to have been able to support such a project."

Bob Millier, President and CEO of Westhab, Inc. said, "Westhab thanks Governor Cuomo, even in these time of fiscal constraints, for his continued leadership to insure that there are adequate resources to house New Yorkers of all incomes and needs."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/03122013-affordable-senior-housing-new-rochelle
