Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Dynamax Imaging to Remain in New York with New Location at CNSE's Smart System Technology and Commercialization Center of Excellence
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 11, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Dynamax Imaging LLC, a leading developer of high-performance image sensors that had outgrown its current facility in Homer, will remain in New York by locating to the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering's (CNSE) Smart System Technology and Commercialization Center of Excellence (STC) in Canandaigua. This move will spur the creation and retention of more than 100 high-tech jobs and bring CNSE's STC to full capacity.

"Dynamax Imaging's decision to move to the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering's STC demonstrates the continuing success of our investments in growing nanotechnology jobs and companies in New York," Governor Cuomo said. "Through this move, Dynamax Imaging will keep and create more than 100 good paying, high-tech jobs in the State of New York. We are pleased to have a leading company like Dynamax call New York home, keeping us at the forefront in the field of nanoscale technology."

Dr. Jim Tan, President and CEO of Dynamax Imaging LLC, said, "We are delighted that the best opportunity to support the continuing growth of Dynamax Imaging is right here in New York. By tapping into the world-class, first-rate capabilities with the most advanced semiconductor equipment at CNSE's STC, we look forward to advancing our innovative image sensor technologies, developing new products and establishing new partnerships, all of which will enable the company to grow and flourish, and maintain the reputation of New York as the "imaging capital of the world.' This partnership will also help to keep the United States in the forefront of worldwide advancements in high-tech CMOS imaging products, which are necessary for critical applications in many industrial imaging market applications."

Dr. Alain E. Kaloyeros, CNSE Senior Vice President and CEO, said, "Fueled by the leadership of Governor Andrew Cuomo, New York is recognized worldwide as the place to be in the global nanotechnology industry. The decision by Dynamax Imaging to stay and grow in New York is proof positive that the Governor's strategy is working, keeping small and medium-sized nanotechnology firms in the Empire State while also attracting leading high-tech companies from around the world."

Paul Tolley, CNSE Vice President for Disruptive Technologies and Executive Director of CNSE's STC, said, "CNSE's Smart System Technology and Commercialization Center of Excellence is thrilled to welcome Dynamax Imaging to its expanding roster of corporate partners. The fact that our current space has now reached capacity is testament to the impact of New York's nanotechnology sector in Western New York, and a great motivation to continue to pursue opportunities for additional growth in the future."

Dynamax Imaging, which has operations in several countries, will install over $3 million in high-tech equipment and establish more than 100 high-tech jobs at CNSE's STC over the next three to five years. This will include the location of the majority of its engineers, scientists and researchers from other U.S. locations to CNSE's STC this year, as well as the hiring of 30 to 50 cleanroom operator and technician positions to support the company's research, prototyping, and pilot production activities.

Utilizing several thousand square feet of office and cleanroom space at CNSE's STC, Dynamax Imaging will target further development of its extensive and rapidly growing IP portfolio covering pixel, sensor, and system architectures, based on its novel Active Column Sensor™ (ACS®) technology. Additionally, Dynamax Imaging and CNSE's STC will work collaboratively to advance technologies for sensors, and for chip-scale and wafer-scale packaging.

The high-performance CMOS image sensors developed by Dynamax Imaging are used in a host of industries, in products ranging from HDTV camcorders and flat-panel displays in the consumer market, to imaging and biometrics technologies in the scientific sector, to security and surveillance systems for the military.

The Dynmax Imaging sensors -- both its near-IR Line-Scan (Linear) and Area-Array CMOS image sensors with global shutter -- are recognized for extremely high dynamic range, high speed, high sensitivity and near-IR quantum efficiency.

Dynamax Imaging was formed when the company acquired substantially all of the assets of Panavision Imaging, LLC's CMOS image sensor business.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/03112013-dynamax-imaging
