Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Construction of New Ramp to Improve Gateway Connection Between U.S. and Canada at Peace Bridge in Buffalo
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 8, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State will construct a new traffic ramp that will connect the U.S. Peace Bridge Plaza directly to the northbound Thruway I-190. The new ramp is part of the New York Gateway Connections improvement project, which will reconfigure access to the U.S. Peace Bridge Plaza, reducing congestion and improving traffic flow for both commercial and private vehicles. This step will make the Peace Bridge a more effective conduit for travel and commerce between the United States and Canada. The project will also utilize the Buffalo Olmsted Parks Conservancy Master Plan, which was adopted into the City of Buffalo Comprehensive Plan, to revitalize the historic Front Park by removing Baird Drive.

"This project is a win for the City of Buffalo, the Buffalo Olmsted Parks Conservancy and the Peace Bridge plaza neighborhood because it will provide efficient and effective traffic movement between New York State and Canada and improve commerce between the two economies," Governor Cuomo said. "By removing Baird Drive and having Peace Bridge traffic utilize Porter Avenue and the Thruway, we will move traffic away from a residential neighborhood, provide better border security and restore the historic character of Frederick Law Olmsted's Front Park."

The approximately $22 million project, which will create hundreds of jobs, including planners, engineers, suppliers and construction workers, is expected to begin construction in spring 2014 and be complete by the end of 2015. The state is currently fast tracking the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) with concurrent design build procurement.

The plaza enhancements will include:
Reconfiguring traffic flow to a single point of ingress and egress to and from the plaza.
Adding a direct connection from the U.S. Plaza to the northbound Thruway I-190.
Adding a new access point to the Peace Bridge from the City of Buffalo via Porter Avenue.
Removing Baird Drive from Front Park.





















Source:
