Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Directs State Assistance to Gasoline Spill in Rensselaer
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 13, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today directed immediate assistance from the State Department of Environmental Conservation to the Buckeye Terminal at the Port of Rensselaer where 600 gallons of gasoline have spilled. The fuel was leaked following a sudden power loss during local thunder and lightning storms, causing its containing equipment to fail. The leak is currently controlled in a secondary containment, and State Department of Environmental Conservation personnel are remaining on scene this evening to monitor the containment and cleanup.
"The safety of New Yorkers and our environment is paramount, and we are relieved tonight's spill is already contained," Governor Cuomo said. "My administration has worked hard to strengthen safety standards and improve emergency response to this types of events, and we will continue to monitor the spill though the night and conduct a full investigation into the incident."
The State Department of Environmental Conservation's Spill Response Team is coordinating its actions with the Rensselaer County Hazardous Materials Team and Local Emergency Services Agencies. More information on the containment and response will be provided as it becomes available.
Urging New Yorkers to Exercise Caution During Extreme Storms
The incident in Rensselaer was caused by a power outage during a thunder and lightning storm. Governor Cuomo today reiterated his call for New Yorkers to exercise caution during these storms. In addition to excessive heat warnings, the National Weather Service forecasts showers and severe thunderstorms for much of New York State for this weekend. Storms will likely produce heavy rainfall, gusty winds and lightning. Over the last three days, lightning strikes have resulted in at least three deaths and four injuries. On Wednesday, two individuals were killed in Genesee County after being struck by lightning, and on Friday, five people in Westchester County were impacted by lightning -- killing one individual and severely injuring four people.

Source:
