Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $93 Million Contract Awarded for NY Works Project to Replace Deck on Newburgh-Beacon Bridge
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 31, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the New York State Bridge Authority has awarded a $93 million contract through the NY Works program to Kiska Construction to re-build the deck of the south span of the Newburgh-Beacon Bridge. The project is estimated to create at least 200 jobs and work will begin this spring.

"With the awarding of this contract today, work can begin this spring to restore the Newburgh-Beacon Bridge and several hundred good paying local jobs can be created right here in the Hudson Valley," Governor Cuomo said. "This project is yet another investment made by the NY Works program to rebuild New York's critical infrastructure and revitalize our state's economy. Thanks to the Drivers First initiative, Mid-Hudson commuters and residents will be able to mostly avoid inconvenient construction delays."

Spanning the Hudson River between Orange and Dutchess counties in the Hudson Valley, the Newburgh-Beacon Bridge is crossed each year by approximately 25 million vehicles. The Bridge Authority will implement Governor Cuomo's Drivers First initiative for the project to ensure that the bulk of the work is done at night to minimize the impact on motorists. Parts of the deck will be re-built in phases with at least two lanes of traffic maintained during the day.

The contract award included a project labor agreement, negotiated by the Bridge Authority with the Hudson Valley Construction Trades Council, which will result in a labor cost savings of more than $4 million over the life of the project while insuring that the bulk of the employment remains within the Mid-Hudson region with local workers.

Bridge Authority Executive Director Joseph Ruggiero said, "This is the largest single self-financed project in Bridge Authority history and will ensure that the I-84 corridor and the Newburgh-Beacon Bridge remain a critical link to the entire northeast transportation network."

State Senator William J. Larkin, Jr. (R-New Windsor) said, "Transportation is a critical industry in the Hudson Valley and this investment will make sure that the region remains the "Crossroads of the Northeast'. I'm pleased to work with Governor Cuomo and the Bridge Authority to keep our bridges well maintained and in good shape. This type of investment will produce benefits for years to come."

State Senator Terry Gipson (D-Rhinebeck) said, "Governor Cuomo and the Bridge Authority are to be commended for making this project a reality. Local jobs, local investment and state-wide benefit - it is this type of leadership that will bring the concept of "Excelsior' back to New York State."

State Assemblyman Frank Skartados (D-Milton) said, "The Bridge Authority provides links to jobs, hospitals, transportation and schools throughout the Hudson Valley. Governor Cuomo's foresight in including this project in the New York Works program just shows how important it is to our state's revitalization."

Todd Diorio, President of the Hudson Valley Construction Trade Council, said, "The construction industry has been hard hit throughout the valley. These are good jobs that will be filled by highly skilled local workers. Governor Cuomo's NY Works program and the Bridge Authority's dedication to keeping bridges in good shape have combined to make New York a better place to do business."

The project is financed through bonds paid for by tolls collected by the Bridge Authority and is the largest part of a $164 million 5-year Capital Improvement Plan adopted by the Authority in 2012.

Kiska Construction -- USA was established in 1987 and has successfully completed a number of large infrastructure projects in the New York metropolitan region.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/1312013Contract-Awarded-for-NY-Works-Project
