Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Free Safety and Health Inspections Saving Businesses Impacted by Hurricane Sandy
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 31, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that he is making New York State Department of Labor safety and health inspectors available to areas hard hit by Hurricane Sandy to offer affected businesses free on-site safety and health inspections, a service that can save small businesses thousands of dollars. This free service can help employers hard hit by the storm reopen their doors as soon as possible.

Businesses can schedule a free inspection by calling 1-888-4-NYSDOL (1-888-469-7365) or visiting www.labor.ny.gov/workerprotection/safetyhealth/safetyhealthtourism.shtm.

"Business is the backbone of our state's economy and we will do everything in our power to get businesses hurt by Hurricane Sandy back on their feet," Governor Cuomo said. "As business again picks up, we want to ensure that both employees and the general public are safe. I urge every business affected by Hurricane Sandy to schedule their free inspection."

The Governor has asked safety and health inspectors to deploy to businesses in any of the impacted storm areas to assess hazards. They will also help businesses understand how to minimize, eliminate and control the hazards identified.

Since 2011, the Department of Labor has provided free safety consultations to 840 employers who each averaged between $3,750 and $4,375 in savings. The Department has also given free safety training to 461 employers, who averaged between $1,200 and $1,400 in savings. These efforts helped save businesses $7.5 million in possible fines over the past year.

"These inspections are vital to the health and safety of employees, especially for businesses damaged by Hurricane Sandy," said State Labor Commissioner Peter M. Rivera. "These consultations are aimed at improving safety and helping a business and will not result in a penalty or violation, so long as any serious hazards are addressed."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/01312013-free-health-safety-inspections-hurricane-sandy-businesses
