Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces State Agency Support to Mitigate Damage from Industrial Fire in Lockport
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 11, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced State support to mitigate the devastating effects of a severe industrial fire in Lockport. Three State agencies -- the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services, Department of Environmental Conservation, and Canal Corporation -- are deploying resources and working closely with local officials on the ground beginning today. The State is helping to determine the origin and cause of the fire and control any resulting environmental damage.
"While this industrial fire has been contained, much work remains to determine its cause and limit the potential impact on the surrounding neighborhoods in Lockport," Governor Cuomo said. "I am directing these agencies to lend their support to local officials to ensure the safety of everyone living near this blaze and to protect the surrounding area from lingering damage."
Niagara County Emergency Services continues to extinguish any remaining hot spots. During the height of the fire, and in addition to the municipal hydrant system, water from the Erie Canal was pumped to supply 19 fire engines, three aerial ladders, and seven tankers. Two ambulances were also on the scene. Excavators are now on site to begin taking apart remaining structures to ensure final fire extinguishment. Yesterday, fire officials evacuated individuals from approximately 200 homes in the immediate area as a precaution. The American Red Cross and the Salvation Army each opened shelters to accommodate those who needed safe shelter. Niagara County Emergency Services will determine when it is safe for individuals to return home.
The investigation into the cause and origin of the fire is ongoing, and the Lockport Fire Department has requested the assistance of the New York State Office of Fire Prevention to aide in this effort. Fire investigations by nature are a measured and deliberate process, but given the complexity and magnitude of the fire, and its resultant damage, it is anticipated that this investigation will take time.
Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services Commissioner John P. Melville said, "The Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services Office of Fire Prevention and Control provided assistance to the Lockport Fire Department and Niagara County Fire Coordinator's office last evening to combat this massive industrial fire and they remain active today. Initially OFPC provided staging area management, technical expertise and resource tracking to support the firefighting effort. While these efforts continue today, OFPC is now active in the investigation into the origin and cause of the fire in partnership with local investigatory units."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-state-agency-support-mitigate-damage-industrial-fire-lockport
