Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Exelon Agreement to Assume Ownership and Continue Operation of the James A. FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 9, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Exelon Generation has agreed to assume ownership and management of the James A. FitzPatrick nuclear power plant in Scriba. The agreement to continue operation of the plant will save approximately 600 high-skilled, well-paying jobs, further the plant's contribution of $500 million per year in regional economic activity, and avoid three million tons of carbon emissions annually -- representing about 10 percent of the state's carbon savings. The facility, currently owned by Entergy, provides enough carbon-free electricity to power more than 800,000 average-sized homes. The Governor made the announcement at a rally in support of the FitzPatrick Plant in Oswego County.
"Saving FitzPatrick is an enormous win for Central New York and the entire state, preserving hundreds of jobs and maintaining a reliable, carbon-free power source for New Yorkers," Governor Cuomo said. "FitzPatrick's continued operation is essential both to the regional economy and our nation-leading efforts to power the state with 50 percent renewable energy by 2030. I appreciate the efforts of Entergy and Exelon, and the hard work of our team from the state, including the Public Service Commission, the New York Power Authority and NYSERDA to save Fitzpatrick's jobs, significantly reduce greenhouse emissions, and help build a sustainable future for our children and grandchildren."
This landmark agreement between Exelon and Entergy was made possible by Governor Cuomo who facilitated the transaction between the two companies over the past several months, as well as his visionary Clean Energy Standard -- the most comprehensive and ambitious mandate in the state's history to fight climate change, reduce harmful air pollution, and ensure a diverse and reliable energy supply at affordable prices. The Clean Energy Standard provides bridge support to upstate nuclear power plants to ensure that critical progress on greenhouse gas emissions reductions is sustained as the state works toward achieving its goal to generate 50 percent of New York's electricity from renewable energy sources like wind and solar by 2030.
Maintaining zero-emission nuclear power is a critical element to achieving New York's ambitious climate goals.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-exelon-agreement-assume-ownership-and-continue-operation-james
