Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces GLOBALFOUNDRIES to Build New Technology Development Center at Fab 8 Campus
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 8, 2013
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that GLOBALFOUNDRIES, a global leader in the semiconductor manufacturing industry, will build a new multi-billion dollar research and development facility at its Fab 8 Campus in Saratoga County. The Technology Development Center (TDC) is expected to result in at least 500 new, high-paying jobs at the TDC, as well as 500 additional jobs at the GF Fab and administration buildings.

"This significant expansion demonstrates that the investments we have made in nanotechnology research across New York State are producing the intended return-- the creation of high-paying jobs and generation of economic growth that is essential to rebuilding our state," Governor Cuomo said. "New York has become the world's hub for advanced semiconductor research and now, the Technology Development Center will further help ensure the innovations developed in New York, in collaboration with our research institutions, are manufactured in New York."

The TDC represents an additional investment of approximately $2 billion. It will include 90,000 square feet of flexible cleanroom space that will house a variety of semiconductor development and manufacturing areas to support the transition to new technology nodes. Construction of the TDC is planned to begin in early 2013 with completion targeted for late 2014.

GLOBALFOUNDRIES CEO Ajit Manocha said, "As the industry shifts from the PC era to a market focused on mobile devices, we have seen increasingly strong interest from customers in migrating to advanced nodes on an accelerated schedule. To help facilitate this migration, we are making significant investments in strengthening our technology leadership, including growing our workforce and adding new capabilities to make Fab 8 the hub of our global technology operations. New York State's continued support of the semiconductor industry has created a strong collaborative ecosystem and helped pave the way for this additional investment. The new TDC will help us bridge between the lab and the Fab by taking research conducted with partners and further developing the technologies to make them ready for volume manufacturing."

While no new incentives were provided from the State, Governor Cuomo's leadership in establishing the collaborative environment necessary to grow this industry was key to this project moving forward. Last year, Governor Cuomo announced the Global 450 Consortium project. Five leading international companies, including IBM, Intel, Samsung, TSMC, and GLOBALFOUNDRIES is investing $4.4 billion to create the next generation of computer chip technology in New York State. This historic investment marks an unprecedented level of private investment in the nanotechnology sector in New York and will create and secure approximately 6,900 jobs. In addition, New York State continues to support R&D facilities across the state, such as the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering--which has been critical in developing the early stage work from which the TDC builds.

CNSE Senior Vice President and CEO Dr. Alain Kaloyeros said, "Today's announcement provides further testimony to the international success of Governor Andrew M. Cuomo's innovation-driven economic development blueprint, which is firmly establishing the New New York as the global hub for the 21st century nanotechnology industry. The expansion of GLOBALFOUNDRIES' advanced technology and manufacturing capabilities, supported by new investments and location of new high-tech research and development jobs at the College of Nanoscale Science and engineering, will fuel exciting opportunities for both residents and businesses across New York State, in accordance with Governor Cuomo "New York Open for Business" strategy, and continue to pave the way for long-term economic growth and prosperity catalyzed by computer chip innovations. "

Source: http://184.106.78.18/press/01082013-globalfoundries-tech-development-center
