Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces State Response to Help City of Amsterdam Improve Aging Water Infrastructure
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 5, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $5 million is available to improve aging water infrastructure in the City of Amsterdam following a sewer line break along Forest Avenue last month. The funding, which includes $1.25 million from the NYS Water Infrastructure Improvement Act and a zero interest loan of $3.75 million from the Clean Water State Revolving Fund, will help the city prevent future sewer overflow events.
"Aging water infrastructure can harm the environment and put the health and safety of residents at risk," Governor Cuomo said. "With this funding, we are helping the City of Amsterdam make necessary repairs and ensure that its critical water infrastructure needs are met for the future."
Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Basil Seggos said, "When I visited the City of Amsterdam on August 1 I informed leaders there that the state continues to stand with them, offering technical assistance, funding and any additional help needed. It's great to see the City take these important steps to improve water infrastructure."
On Monday, July 25, The City reported to DEC through the NY Alert System that a break in a sewer line was causing an estimated 50 gallons per minute of untreated sewage into the North Chuctanunda Creek, which is adjacent to the Mohawk River. Approximately 500,000 gallons of sewage leaked before crews managed to install a pumping system to bypass the damaged section of pipe, virtually eliminated any discharge by June 30.
On August 1, Governor Cuomo directed the Department of Environmental Conservation and Environmental Facilities Corporation to meet with the City and asses options for fixing the sewage infrastructure failure. Additionally, the state identified potential funding options such as the Water Infrastructure Improvement Act of 2015, Environmental Facility Corporation subsidized loans, Engineering Planning Grants and water Quality Improvement Program grants. DEC is also currently in discussion with Amsterdam to make further improvements on their aging wastewater infrastructure, including the updating of a comprehensive existing compliance order.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-state-response-help-city-amsterdam-improve-aging-water-infrastructure
