Public Statements
Consumer Alert: Governor Cuomo Advises New Yorkers to Protect Against Identity Theft During Holiday Shopping Season
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 19, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today issued a consumer alert to urge New Yorkers to protect themselves against identity theft during the busy holiday shopping season when that risk is especially high. As part of the consumer alert, the Department of Financial Services (DFS) released its "Top 5 Tips" for New Yorkers to safeguard themselves from falling victim to identity theft while shopping in-store and online.

"New Yorkers should be particularly vigilant about protecting their sensitive personal information while shopping this holiday season," said Governor Cuomo. "Scammers and identity thieves often use this busy time to prey on unsuspecting shoppers, so when you're buying presents at a store or online, it is important to be aware and take precautions. I encourage consumers to review our top five tips to protect their financial information -- it is a smart way to ensure an enjoyable and undisrupted holiday season."

Benjamin M. Lawsky, Superintendent of Financial Services, said, "During the final shopping rush, consumers should keep a close eye out to help make sure they do not end up the victim of identity theft. Your sensitive personal information is a virtual treasure trove for scammers. If identity thieves get hold of that data, it could wreak havoc on your holiday season and cause lasting damage to your financial life."

DFS today released the following "Top 5 Tips" for protecting against identity theft:

1. Safeguard Your Personal Information, Online and Off.
* Install a firewall and virus protection on your home computer to prevent hackers from obtaining personal identification and financial data from your hard drive or when you're using the internet.
* Never send sensitive personal information, like credit card numbers, via email.
* Do not give out personal information over the phone unless you initiated the call or are absolutely certain with whom you are speaking.













Source:
