Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Extension for 'STEP' Emergency Assistance Program
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 18, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the deadline to apply for the Sheltering and Temporary Essential Power (STEP) program has been extended through December 31, 2012 for New York City and the counties of Suffolk and Nassau. The STEP program provides emergency assistance with restoring temporary electricity, heat and hot water to homes that can shelter homeowners while permanent repair work continues.

"The STEP program is designed to allow families to remain in their homes while emergency or electrical repairs are being made," Governor Cuomo said. "As New Yorkers continue to recover from the damage caused by Hurricane Sandy, the extension for this program will allow more families to get the emergency assistance they need in order to rebuild and still have their place to call home."

The deadline is now extended for obtaining Right of Entry forms (ROE) for the program, which offers the following options:

Residential Electrical Meter Repairs -- For those whose home can be used to shelter-in-place, and only need repairs to the electric meter to have power restored. This might include repairs to the weather head, service cable or the meter socket.
Shelter Essential Measures -- For those whose home can be used to shelter-in-place, STEP will provide temporary electricity, heat and hot water to meet basic life sustaining needs while permanent repairs are made.
Rapid Temporary Exterior Repairs -- These are necessary and essential repairs to protect storm-damaged residences from further damage that may present an immediate threat to life and property, and, where appropriate, facilitate sheltering-in-place pending repairs that are more permanent repairs. This may include securing broken windows, covering damaged exterior walls and roofs, and patching and securing damaged exterior doors.

Suffolk County residents who wish to participate in the STEP Program should call 2-1-1 to set up an appointment for an assessment of their home. Residents seeking assistance through the Nassau County STEP Program should dial 1-888-684-4267. Residents in the five boroughs of New York City can call 3-1-1 to access information about the program. Once the assessment is completed, the scope of work will be determined and communicated to the program participant. The program manager will schedule a contractor to perform the work needed on the residential property. Work is required to be completed within sixty days of the assessment of the home.

Source: http://184.106.78.18/press/12182012-STEP-extension
