Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Completion of Major Solar Project at Montrose VA Medical Center
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 4, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the completion of a major solar project installation at Montrose VA Medical Center in Westchester County. The 500 kW solar installation will provide clean, renewable energy to the public hospital campus and save the hospital an estimated $96,000 per year, for a total savings of $1.9 million during the next 20 years. The project advances the Governor's Reforming the Energy Vision strategy and recently enacted Clean Energy Standard, a nation-leading mandate to supply 50 percent of its electricity from renewable energy resources by 2030.
"This solar project will allow the VA to care for our veterans while cutting costs and protecting the environment," Governor Cuomo said. "New York is a leader in clean energy development and passed the most ambitious clean energy standard in the nation that will foster more smart projects such as this one and will make for a stronger, greener and more sustainable New York for all."
The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority provided $358,000 from the Governor's $1 billion NY-Sun initiative to support the installation of the solar array on the hospital's carports and buildings. This project serves as a model for other regional hospitals and healthcare centers across the state seeking to invest in clean energy.
Chairman of Energy and Finance for New York Richard Kauffman said, "Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, New York's solar industry is booming, and the VA's investment is just another example of clean energy's win-win benefits: lower costs and lower emissions. Today's announcement is yet another indication we are well on our way to achieving the Governor's historic mandate to meet half our state's energy needs with renewable energy sources, like solar, by 2030."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-completion-major-solar-project-montrose-va-medical-center
