Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Opening of Two New Higher Educational Facilities in Western New York
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 28, 2012
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the opening of two new schools in Western New York: the Niagara County Community College (NCCC) Culinary Institute in downtown Niagara Falls, and Kapoor Hall, the new home for the University at Buffalo's Pharmacy School. Lieutenant Governor Robert Duffy joined school and local officials at both sites today for ribbon cutting ceremonies.

The Niagara Falls Culinary Institute is a $26 million, 90,000 square foot facility that will be home to the College's Hospitality and Tourism programs. The project was funded with both public and private sector support including $13.3 million from the Empire State Development and USA Niagara Development Corporations, as well as $2 million awarded through the Governor's Regional Economic Development Council program in December 2011.

The opening of Kapoor Hall represents a major investment in the University of Buffalo's South Campus. The new 147,000 square foot facility was included as part of the UB 2020 strategic plan - enabled by the Governor's NYSUNY 2020 initiative - and will play a central role in the UB's efforts to revitalize the quality of life on the campus and in the surrounding University Heights neighborhood. New York State provided $46 million of the $62 million project, with the rest coming from UB and private philanthropy.

"To invest in a strong future for New York State, we must invest in a talented and capable workforce with the tools needed to succeed in the 21st Century economy," Governor Cuomo said. "My administration has made a commitment to revitalizing communities across Western New York, and today's announcement is great news and will lead to new jobs and economic development throughout the region."

Niagara Falls Culinary Institute at Niagara County Community College

Lieutenant Governor Robert Duffy today joined NCCC and local officials for a ribbon cutting ceremony to celebrate the Institute's opening.

Lieutenant Governor Duffy said, "The Niagara Falls Culinary Institute promises to bring new energy and excitement to the City of Niagara Falls, helping continue Governor Cuomo's work to create sustainable jobs that will benefit the city and the region. The fact that the former Rainbow Centre Mall, which sat vacant for decades, is now home to this stunning facility is a testament to the great things we can accomplish when we work as a team.　This is yet another example that builds on the work of the Regional Economic Development Councils and demonstrates that we can indeed come together to build a new New York."

Funding for the project has come in the form of both public and private sector support. New York State provided significant support for the project including $13.3 million from Empire State Development and USA Niagara Development Corporation, as well as $2 million in funding awarded through the Regional Economic Development Council in December 2011.

The new facility encompasses one third of the former Rainbow Mall on Old Falls Street in Niagara Falls, NY. In addition to eventually holding up to 1,000 students and faculty, the Culinary Institute features Savor, a year round student operated fine dining restaurant; La Patisserie, a French pastry shop; the Old Falls Street Deli, featuring traditional New York style deli sandwiches and salads; the Wine Boutique, a traditional wine store that will offer wines primarily found on the Niagara Wine Trail; and a Barnes & Noble culinary themed bookstore. The Mise en Place tourism kitchen and Small Business Development Center will open on the 2nd floor later this Fall.

NCCC President James P. Klyczek said, "We are thrilled to be here today as this project comes to fruition. For those who have been following this project you know that it was no easy task. There were many obstacles along the way and it is a testament to the commitment of the College Administration and staff, as well as our State, County, City and private partners that we are here today. This Institute will play a significant and meaningful role in the continued revitalization of Niagara Falls and we could not be prouder to be here."

NCCC Board Chairperson Bonnie R. Gifford said, "As Chairperson of the NCCC Board of Trustees I would like to thank everyone who played a role in helping us to make the dream of the Culinary Institute become a reality. President Klyczek and our College faculty and staff showed incredible tenacity in getting us this far. We are also grateful for the incredible support we have received from every level of government. This project is truly a partnership that will benefit the entire region."

The College expects to begin offering regularly scheduled tours and community education classes within the next two months.

UB Pharmacy School Returns to City of Buffalo as Kapoor Hall opens

Lieutenant Governor Duffy today joined university and local officials as the UB pharmacy school officially opened its new home, John and Editha Kapoor Hall, named for alumnus John N. Kapoor and his late wife, Editha. New York State provided $46 million of the $62 million project, with the rest coming from UB and private philanthropy.

Lieutenant Governor Duffy said, "This is not just a new, state of the art pharmacy school opening on the UB campus; this is a major investment in both the City of Buffalo and the region's healthcare sector. Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, Western New York is back on the path to economic growth, and this investment fulfills a part of the UB2020 plan to revitalize the South Campus and surrounding area. By working together with the private sector to invest in critical projects, such as the newly opened Kapoor Hall, we are rebuilding our state's economy while creating jobs for New Yorkers."

Kapoor Hall is one element of a much larger and ongoing effort to reinvest in UB's South Campus. The UB 2020 strategic plan, with support from the NYSUNY 2020 legislation signed into law last year by Governor Cuomo, calls for enhancements that will revitalize the quality of life on the campus and in the surrounding University Heights neighborhood.

Kapoor Hall also represents a homecoming for the pharmacy school, which was founded in 1886 on the South Campus, but spent the past 35 years in Cooke and Hochstetter halls on the North Campus in Amherst. The university's second oldest entity, next to medicine, UB Pharmacy is the first professional school in three decades to return to the City of Buffalo. UB Pharmacy ranks 17th in the United States and is the only pharmacy school in the State University of New York system.

Wayne K. Anderson, dean of the pharmacy school since 1995, said, "This ribbon-cutting will open more than this spectacular new facility; it also begins a new era for our nationally ranked school. With a tailor-made new home to accommodate the next generation of pharmacy professionals, our school is considerably stronger in our mission: to prepare our students to be future leaders in their fields.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/092812WNYschools
