Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Sweeping Progress Toward Nation-Leading Goal of Broadband for All
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 3, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the New NY Broadband Program has made sweeping progress toward achieving its nation-leading goal of broadband for all. On the heels of its merger with Time Warner Cable, Charter has outlined its four-year rollout plan to service 145,000 currently unserved households in upstate New York. Additionally, Charter will make available internet speeds of 100 megabits per second for more than 2 million upstate homes and businesses by early 2017 in its upstate service area, including in Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, Binghamton and Albany.
The Governor also unveiled the New NY Broadband Program's Round I awards, which will connect 34,000 homes to high-speed internet for the first time. Once completed, these actions will ensure 97 percent of New Yorkers have the broadband access required to succeed in a 21st century economy, with the goal of serving all New Yorkers by the end of 2018.
"Access to high-speed internet is critical to keeping pace with the rising demands of the modern economy," Governor Cuomo said. "The New NY Broadband Program is advancing our vision for inclusive, interconnected communities that empower individuals, support small businesses, and advance innovation. These actions are a major step forward in creating the most robust broadband infrastructure network in the nation, and ensuring that reliable, high-speed internet is available to all New Yorkers."
Building on the progress already achieved, the Governor also announced the launch of a Request for Proposals for Round II of the State Broadband Program. The initiative will target a further extension of broadband availability to the most remote areas of the state in order to bring increased connectivity to millions of New Yorkers.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-sweeping-progress-toward-nation-leading-goal-broadband-all
