Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Reduces Size of Government by Signing Bills to Eliminate More Than 120 Inactive Local Authorities and Agencies
Press Release
By: Michael Ranzenhofer William Magnarelli Jack Martins Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 16, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed two bills that will eliminate 28 local public authorities and 95 urban renewal and industrial development agencies that are inactive or no longer needed.

"Since taking office, my administration has worked to make government more efficient and accountable to taxpayers, including doing more with less and finding ways to reduce the costs facing localities," Governor Cuomo said. "Given that these authorities and agencies no longer serve the public interest, it only makes sense to do away with them for good. I thank the bill sponsors for their work on these two bills."

The two bills (A. 10288-A / S.5198-D and A. 8823-A / S. 5227-B) repeal the statutory authorization for approximately 95 urban renewal and industrial agencies and 28 local public authorities that are either defunct, were never ultimately established by local law, or are no longer needed to carry out the public function for which they were formed.

The affected agencies and authorities have no outstanding debt or other obligations. The law transfers the eliminated entities' remaining books, records, and rights to the municipality where each is located.

Both laws take effect in 60 days.

Senator Michael H. Ranzenhofer, sponsor of S.5198-D, said, "This is another victory for New York State taxpayers. For years many of these authorities have been defunct and not serving the residents of New York State. This law is an important step toward simplifying State government and eliminating wasteful and duplicative state agencies. I appreciate the Governor's swift action to sign this bill into law."

Senator Jack M. Martins, sponsor of S. 5227-B, said, "During these difficult economic times, as we seek accountability from all levels of government, it makes sense to eliminate layers of government that are no longer necessary and consolidate their responsibilities in our counties, towns, and villages. I want to thank the Governor for his continued leadership in partnering with us to right-size government."

Assembly Member Jim Brennan, sponsor of A. 10288-A, said, "This bill was a joint effort between the Governor, the Authorities Budget Office, the Comptroller, members of the Legislature, and local governments to carefully extinguish dozens of defunct public authorities. It also ensures that any remaining responsibilities are returned to local government. I appreciate the Governor's continued leadership in streamlining state government."

Assembly Member William Magnarelli, sponsor of A. 8823-A, said, "As Chair of the Assembly's Local Government Committee, one of our priorities has been to dissolve IDA's and other authorities that are no longer legally functioning. I support Governor Cuomo's efforts to streamline New York State's government agencies to foster better efficiency and effectiveness. This bill accomplishes the first step in eliminating inactive public authorities. In addition, this bill would advance the State's effort to maintain an accurate inventory of agencies, and abolish unnecessary sectors of local government."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/08162012-sign-bills-reduce-govt
