Public Statements
Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces Nearly $50 Million in Broadband Grants and Major Expansion of Charter High-Speed Internet in Upstate New York
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 3, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you very much. Well this is an exciting day and it is my pleasure to be here. First, it is my pleasure to be back in Hudson. I'll tell you a little secret--when I am off duty, not that I'm ever really off duty. When you are Governor, it is a 24/7 job. But I live in Westchester and I love to come up with Sandy and the girls because Hudson is just so beautiful and it is such a beautiful way to spend the day on the weekends. I come up often, but it is good to be here in my official capacity. First, to Michael Tucker who does a really great job, he is a pro. Audrey Zibelman has been a phenomenal leader for the PSC. This week you have really seen the accomplishments that the PSC has brought. This state is going to be the leading state in the nation in terms of clean energy thanks to what Audrey has done. Between that and broadband, I think she has earned her pay and more. Let's give her another round of applause.
To Kathy Marchione, and Senator Amedore, and Didi Barrett who are my partners in the legislature--none of this happens without them. This was a $500 investment which is a lot of money on anyone's budget. If the state hadn't made this commitment this wouldn't happen. So let's give them another round of applause.
This nation has a lot of complicated problems. The state has a lot of complicated problems. We just went through these political conventions, everyone is angry, everyone is frustrated--a lot of complications. I always believed that as complicated a situation is as simple as it is if you can just get the emotion out of it and look it at it honestly and candidly. The situation we had in the state of New York for many, many years was that the Upstate economy--what's Upstate defined as? North of the Bronx? That's Upstate. Hudson Valley, Upstate--that was one economy. The New York City economy was a second, different economy. And the New York City economy was very strong and it has been strong--ups and downs over the past 40 years, but basically the line has been up. Hudson Valley, Upstate New York -- basically the line has been down for 40 years. That is the honest truth. "Well you can't say that." Why not? Because it is too stark. But it's true. If you don't acknowledge the problem, you will never solve it. That is the first rule in life, in any relationship. When you look in the mirror and you are not willing to acknowledge a problem, you are not going to solve it.
We had two economies in this state and the state government in Albany was more focused on New York City. Why? Because that is where most of the people live, that is where most of the wealth is. That is where the media is. So the state government focused on New York City. The Upstate Hudson Valley communities got less assistance from the state. At the same time over those 40 or so years, a lot of what the state did actually made it worse because the state was raising taxes. Now if you are Upstate, you're Hudson Valley and the taxes are going up, up, up, up and the economy is already fragile, it increases the exodus of businesses. When the businesses leave people leave. All those years you see young people leaving generation after generation. How many parents would say to me, "I couldn't tell my children to stay because there is no future for them."
So they left. That was the story, and it got worse and it compounded itself and nobody would even admit it. The political system was all focused on New York City. That is where the political contributions came from, that is where the media outlets were and the people who were fighting for Upstate, like Kathy, Didi, Phil, Hudson Valley, they were fighting against an overwhelming majority. You look at both the Assembly and the Senate, they come from Downstate New York. It is very easy when you are a legislator. They say, "I want to do for my district." Well, how about your colleagues who have different districts? "I wish them well, but I want to do for my district." That went on for a lot of years. The stark difference in this administration is we acknowledged it and we admitted it and we said it and we corrected it. We have done a 180 degree turn. We first said, "You have to stop raising taxes because you are chasing everyone away." Just because the people in New York City can afford it, who by the way don't really pay property taxes, that does not mean that it works for the rest of the state. Every year, we have reduced taxes again. Today, every person in this room pays a lower tax rate than they did six years ago. Middle class up to $300,000 -- the lowest income tax rate in seventy years, believe it or not. Reduced taxes overall.
Second, give special attention to those areas that need more help. When people say, "Well, how? You are Governor of the entire state. How can you justify giving more help to Upstate New York than Downstate New York?" You know what I say? "Because Upstate New York needs more help than Downstate New York." I have no problem. You have three children, I love them all the same, yes. But if you have one that needs more help, you give that child more help and you do not apologize for it. It is your responsibility. That is how I have seen my responsibility. It has been a dramatic shift. We have invested a lot of money in Upstate New York -- $25 billion we have invested in Upstate New York. This administration has invested more in Upstate New York, Hudson Valley than any administration in the history of the state of New York and I am proud of that.
Now, within what we need to do, lower taxes, investment credits, etcetera, marketing of New York, and marketing of the areas that need assistance. Probably the single most important issue that we needed to address was this. Why? Broadband sounds like it is something that is high tech people use and it is really not important for day-to-day life. This is everything, this is everything. This is infrastructure for today. This is what the road system was in the 50s. You need roads. Why? Otherwise you cannot get there. If you do not have a road, you cannot develop the area because you cannot get to the area. If you do not have broadband, there is no discussion. Michael Tucker is going to sit with a business and try to pitch a business coming to Columbia County without broadband? Forget it. I am going to tell my kids, "I am buying a second home in Columbia County. Oh, it is beautiful, nice. Let's go. No broadband." "Forget it. You are on your own, call, we will miss you." It is a very simple conversation. You cannot be competitive without access to broadband.
It is Eisenhower's highway road system of the "50's. It is what Governor Smith did, what DeWitt Clinton did with the Erie Canal. It's what we did with the New York State Thruway System. You have to be able to get there. Broadband is that basic a requirement. Now when you go to the map, what happened was broadband was distributed, was placed by private sector companies. They put broadband in the densest parts of the state where they could make the most amount of money. Why? Because from their point of view, you get the biggest bang for your buck in areas of density. If you look at those areas, those are the areas that coincidentally are the areas of the state that happen to be doing well. They are dense, there is a lot of commerce, and there are a lot of clients for broadband. So the areas that got the broadband were actually the areas that were already doing well. The areas that didn't get broadband were exactly the areas that actually needed more assistance. The market reinforced the market's success. We have business thriving, communities thriving, they got the high-speed internet. Slower markets, they didn't --which meant that slower markets were going to get even more slow. The challenge to us, the challenge to Audrey, is how to incentivize the private sector companies to actually go to the areas that don't have a high economic impact. That, we are doing two ways.
Number one, companies come to the state for merger agreements, approvals. Audrey's genius was, "You want us to approve your merger? We would love to approve your merger. We just want to make sure that you are helping the state in this merger and now let me tell you how you can help the state. You can help to service the places that are not currently served." The state also said that there are going to be some areas that are just not economic for the private sector companies. To do rural parts of the county where you have to spend a lot of money to access the homes and then you only have a handful of homes--that is not economic. There the state said, "We will participate in subsidizing the providing of the service there." That is the two step approach basically that we have taken. That is what the legislature approved at $500 million to partner for the 100 percent broadband. The only state in the United States of America that is doing this is the state of New York and we are doing it faster than anyone has ever contemplated.
And it is just not access to internet, it is access to high-speed internet. One hundred megabytes per minute per second is high-speed internet and that is what we are providing. It is not that we are putting in just access to internet and then two years later we have to upgrade it to high-speed internet. It is a game changer in that it totally flips the situation. I have always believed that -- the Hudson Valley -- you want to talk about a place that naturally has all sorts of advantages for economic development, it is the Hudson Valley. It is one of the most beautiful places on the planet. What God created here was a masterpiece. It inspired schools of artists, people came from all over the world, right? Hudson River School, just to paint the natural beauty. The Hudson River itself. You have every advantage you could possibly imagine and you have access to anywhere.
You want to get to New York City to see a play? You can do it. You want to go north? You can do it. It has every advantage that you can imagine. Michael Tucker's job should be very easy. Real estate market should be very easy. You have that big market in New York City, the residents looking for second homes. You have 50 million tourists coming to New York City every year from across the globe. Fifty million. That is nice. Come see New York City. By the way, then come see the Hudson Valley and see why the artists and the sculptors all came to the Hudson Valley. It is amazing how you can have the urban metropolis, but then just a couple of hours away is one of the most beautiful rural, natural settings on the planet.
You had all sorts of advantages, but you have to be able to get there. It is no longer the road system, it is having the internet system and the high-speed internet, which now equalizes the playing field because if I am at my computer in Columbia County, I can be in Manhattan, I can be in Paris, I am wherever anywhere else is, I am for purposes of commerce and presence. I think now you are going to see the natural assets come to the foreground because the negative has been resolved. The speed at which this is done is amazing. Government, if it does anything, it is normally slow and then late, right? Extended timeline and then it misses the timeline. This is 2016, 2017. We will have 80 percent of it done 2018 the rest of it done. It is remarkably fast. We are going to go from 99 percent that does not have high-speed internet today to 100 percent having it in two years, which is going to be an amazing, amazing transformation.
Congratulations. I congratulate Audrey and her team who did a great job, my colleagues in the Legislature, thank you very much for the investment and the partnership in working this out and making this possible.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-announces-nearly-50-million-broadband-grants-and
