Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Bill to Protect Public Health by Requiring Sewage Plants to Notify Public When Discharge Occurs
Press Release
By: Bob Sweeney Mark Grisanti Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 9, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed legislation that will require publicly owned sewage treatment plants and sewer systems to notify the general public whenever the facility discharges untreated or partially treated sewage.

"New Yorkers have a right to know when potentially harmful, untreated sewage is discharged into waterways in their communities," Governor Cuomo said. "These new notification requirements will let the general public know when untreated sewage is released in water bodies, especially swimming beaches and fishing areas. In addition, this new law will also raise awareness to the need for upgrades and maintenance of our state's wastewater infrastructure. I thank the bill sponsors for their work on this important law."

The 'Sewage Pollution Right to Know' law is designed to protect New Yorkers by increasing awareness when discharges which may affect public health occur, allowing the general public to make informed decisions about fishing, swimming and recreating in affected water ways.

Currently, notification of a discharge is only provided to certain public officials and not the general public. Sewage treatment plants were required to inform the Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) and the local health department only to instances where the discharge of untreated or partially treated sewage may affect shellfish harvesting, swimming or recreational areas. The new law will expand the notification requirements, ensuring that all New Yorkers know when untreated sewage that poses a threat to public health has been discharged in their communities, as well as giving DEC additional information, enabling the agency to focus compliance education and outreach efforts.

The new law also requires DEC to prepare an annual report of discharges of treated or untreated waste from each publicly owned sewage treatment plant and system. The report will contain the total number of discharges, the volume and duration of such discharges, and the remedial responses, if any, to such discharges.







Source:
