Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Issues Proclamation Declaring August Child Support Awareness Month
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 31, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that he has issued a Proclamation declaring August as Child Support Awareness Month in New York State. This was announced in partnership with The State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance (OTDA).

OTDA, in conjunction with local departments of social services, administers New York's child support enforcement program. In addition, OTDA assists in obtaining financial assistance and health insurance coverage for children by locating non-custodial parents, establishing paternity and support orders, collecting, distributing, and enforcing payments of child support.

"By enforcing child support payments, OTDA is not only securing the financial benefits owed to custodial parents, but protecting the well-being and future of the children of our state," said Governor Andrew M. Cuomo. "Child support is important for the economic stability of these families, and is especially crucial to those in low-income areas. We are dedicated to protecting the rights of vulnerable children in New York State by holding individuals accountable."

"Child support is a vital source of income for single-parent households in New York State, many of them low-income families," said OTDA Executive Deputy Commissioner Elizabeth Berlin. "Our successes in child support are critical to enhancing child well-being and the economic security of New York's families. Studies have shown that when both parents provide financial and emotional support, children are more likely to lead healthy and productive lives, do well in school and succeed later in life."

OTDA handles more than 900,000 cases, providing services to more than 1.1 million children. Last year, child support collections in New York exceeded $1.8 billion, a record high.

Additional information on child support can be found at www.childsupport.ny.gov.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/07312012-child-support-awareness
