Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Legislation to Continue State's Efforts to Help Returning Veterans Find Employment
Press Release
By: Martin Golden William Scarborough Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 25, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed legislation that will continue the state's efforts to assist returning service men and women in finding employment.

The new law requires the establishment of an employment portal on the Division of Veterans' Affairs (DVA) website that will include links to appropriate federal and state governmental programs that assist veterans in obtaining employment.

"Military veterans are highly trained, often in specialized skills that are in great demand in the public and private sectors," Governor Cuomo said. "It is essential that our returning service men and women have access to the many resources available on the state and federal level to help veterans find jobs in the civilian workforce. I commend the bill sponsors for their work on this important new law."

The employment portal on the DVA website will provide information regarding resources that are available to assist veterans in finding jobs, including governmental programs on the federal and state level and links to resources available through the federal and state labor departments. To ensure the portal successfully serves veterans, DVA will consult with members of the community devoted to helping veterans obtain employment.

This legislation continues Governor Cuomo's work to ensure that veterans' valuable and specialized military experience is recognized when they transition to the civilian workforce. In November 2011, the Governor launched the "Experience Counts" campaign to facilitate the transfer of military skills to the public and private sectors. In addition, Governor Cuomo signed in November an Executive Order that expanded the state's Council on Returning Veterans and Their Families as a means to find more ways to properly credit military experience in the civilian workforce. Earlier this year, the Governor announced that the NYS Department of Motor Vehicles will waive road tests for veterans applying for a commercial driver's license if they have military experience operating a similar vehicle.

Senator Marty Golden said, "I thank Governor Andrew Cuomo for signing into law legislation that will assist our veterans find jobs so to provide for their families and themselves. The creation of a veteran's job bank in New York State will help the American heroes who have so bravely fought to defend our Nation in this time of war. Our government must support these men and women as best as possible, for these soldiers have made sure that we remain a safe and free nation."

Assembly Member William Scarborough said, "Our veterans have put their lives on the line in Iraq and Afghanistan to protect our freedoms back home. They deserve the opportunity to utilize the skills that they have learned. This initiative will assist them in doing so and will allow potential employers to find those veterans."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/07252012returning-veterans
