Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Comments on President Trump's Decision to Withdraw from the Paris Accord
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 2, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Question: Can you talk about the Climate Accord decision that was announced yesterday?
Governor Cuomo: The federal government has announced, President Trump announced that he's not going to follow the Paris Accord. I think that is a tremendous mistake. I think it was a great world advancement that that accord was reached. Secretary John Kerry, at the time, did a tremendous amount of work on it. I talked to him yesterday about it. But it was a great step forward. It was an international recognition of the problem and the scale, and it was an international agreement to move forward. I think it has a potentially devastating impact, and I said we're going a different way as the State of New York. We're going to follow the accord, we're doing it individually.
We joined with California, and when you have California and New York together -- you have two of the largest players, literally, in this area. We're joining on with other states and other mayors. I don't believe the people of this country support the withdrawal from the accord. I don't believe it. I believe people understand that the environment is under stress, people understand that we have extreme weather problems that we never had before, people get it. People see the brown tide, people see seven feet of snow in Buffalo. Buffalo gets snow, but they never had seven feet of snow. We have tornadoes in New York State, we never had tornadoes in New York State. We have a problem with Lake Ontario right now. It's at its highest level in recorded history and it's flooding the shoreline. People get it, they're smart. So I don't understand the thinking or the reasoning but we're going the other way and we're going to bring a lot of other people with us.
Question: Governor, can you provide more details about the $1.6 billion investment in renewable energy that New York has committed to? Over what course of time, and how does that fit into this greater plan to promote the environment?
Governor Cuomo: It's relatively simple. What the Paris Accord said was that you have to move to alternative forms of energy and you have to do it quickly. The state was already on that agenda and on that program with investing in renewable sources of energy. Wind, solar, etcetera. The $1.6 billion is going to accelerate our move towards renewable sources which is how we will have the most aggressive renewable standard in the nation and comply with the Paris Accords. Renewable energy is one of the main thrusts to be in compliance with the Paris Accords and that's the investment.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-audio-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-comments-president-trumps-decision-withdraw-paris
