Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $13 Million in Crime Fighting Grants
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 16, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that nearly $13 million has been awarded under Operation IMPACT to 17 counties to target violent and gun crime and domestic violence. The IMPACT jurisdictions receiving funding today report 80 percent of the crime in the state outside of New York City.

Operation IMPACT consists of a partnership among the primary police department and the District Attorney's Office, Sheriff's Office and Probation Department in each county, as well as state and federal agencies, including Parole, the New York State Police, and the United States Marshals. The grants, which are administered by the state Division of Criminal Justice Services (DCJS), fund personnel and technology that allow the IMPACT partners to fight, reduce and prevent crime through the analysis of data and trends, development and sharing of intelligence and targeted enforcement efforts.

"We must do all we can to ensure that New York State is a safe place to live, raise a family and do business," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding through Operation IMPACT will provide much-needed resources so that local law enforcement partners can develop community-specific strategies designed to prevent and reduce crime. By working together and encouraging collaboration across all levels of government, we will be able to make communities across New York a safer place for all."

New York's Deputy Secretary for Public Safety Elizabeth Glazer said, "Local governments must constantly do more with less. Funding available through Operation IMPACT provides agencies in the state's urban centers -- some of which have been hit harder by the financial crisis -- with additional resources to fight violent crime that destroys families and communities."

DCJS Executive Deputy Commissioner Michael C. Green said, "As a former District Attorney, I know first-hand the importance of Operation IMPACT. The program is effective because partners work together, using intelligence-driven policing, data and technology to address persistent and emerging crime through strategies designed to both prevent crime and hold those who commit crimes accountable."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/07162012
