Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Legislation to Help Protect New York Teens from Health Risks of Indoor Tanning
Press Release
By: Charles Fuschillo, Jr. Andrew Cuomo Harvey Weisenberg
Date: July 16, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed legislation to better protect teens from dangerous exposure to UV radiation by limiting their access to indoor tanning facilities. The new law prohibits the use of indoor tanning devices by children less than 17 years of age and requires teens between the ages of 17 and 18 to obtain parental consent.

"Exposure to UV radiation can be extremely harmful, particularly for younger people, and this new law will help protect teenagers from the heightened risk of skin cancer that can come from using indoor tanning devices," Governor Cuomo said. "This legislation recognizes that many tanning salons are small businesses facing economic challenges, however, protecting our children must always be our first priority. I thank Senator Fuschillo and Assembly Member Weisenberg for their hard work on this legislation."

Under previous law, individuals under 14 years of age were prohibited from using UV radiation devices and individuals between 14 and 18 years of age were required to present the signature of a parent or legal guardian. Under the legislation signed by the Governor today, minors 16 years of age and younger will be prohibited from using UV indoor tanning devices, and parental consent will be required for those between the ages of 17 and 18. This law takes effect in 30 days.

Senator Charles J. Fuschillo said, "Research has shown that indoor UV tanning can be potentially dangerous; it greatly increases the risk of developing skin cancer and exposes skin to UV radiation that is far more intense than what the sun produces. This new law will help protect children from something that can cause them serious health problems later in life. I applaud Governor Cuomo for signing it."

Assembly Member Harvey Weisenberg said, "Indoor tanning at an early age is, unfortunately, one of those things that people live to regret. I thank the Governor for taking this important step to prevent cancer."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/07162012risks-of-indoor-tanning
