Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Awards $1 Million to Expand Addiction Treatment in Western NY
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 2, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that $1 million has been awarded to Horizon Village, a treatment provider in Niagara County, to assist New Yorkers battling substance use disorders. The funding will support the creation of a new 25-bed treatment facility, advancing Governor Cuomo's multi-pronged approach to combating substance use disorders across the state. The new treatment facility, located in Sanborn, will offer a spectrum of addiction services including counseling, skills training and long-term support.
"We are continuing New York's fight against substance abuse and, with this funding, providing more tools and more access to resources for those seeking help to battle an addiction," Governor Cuomo said, "These new treatment beds will help more Western New Yorkers get on the path to recovery and build on our efforts to end the heroin and opioid crisis in this state once and for all."
This new 25-bed program is yet another advance in the Governor's ongoing effort to address the heroin and opioid public health crisis. These new beds will help fulfill the Governor's commitment to add 270 treatment beds and 2,335 opioid treatment program slots across the state to help New Yorkers suffering from substance use disorder and to expand vital treatment and recovery resources. Western New York has also recently received State funding for a family support navigator and on-call peer crisis services, as well as $1.75 million for a Buffalo-based recovery and outreach center.
Horizon Village will receive annual operational costs of up to $1 million once the program is opened. The Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services will work with Horizon to provide capital funding for construction needs at the treatment space, if necessary.
New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services Commissioner Arlene González-Sánchez said, "When I traveled across the state as co-chair of the Governor's Statewide Heroin Task Force, I saw firsthand how this epidemic has affected every community in New York, including the most rural parts of the state. These additional treatment beds will allow for more New Yorkers who are struggling with addiction to get the help that they need."
Senate Joint Task Force on Heroin and Opioid Addiction Co-Chair Senator Rob Ortt said, "These new beds represent much more than further access to treatment. They provide long overdue relief to families and individuals struggling with addiction. They provide hope in helping us end the heroin and opioid epidemic that continues to sweep across our communities. These treatment beds will give individuals a chance to overcome their addiction, piece their lives back together and live to tell their story of success."
Senator Tim Kennedy said, "As the opioid crisis continues to grow, it is becoming ever rarer to find a Western New Yorker that has not been impacted. Day after day we are losing young lives to this scourge, and now more than ever we need access not only to prevention tools but treatment resources, including additional beds at recovery centers like Horizon. If we can save just one life, and prevent one more parent from having to bury their child, then New York's increased attention to this crisis will be worth it. I want to thank Governor Cuomo for his leadership in continuing to tackle this head on, the New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services for their commitment to Western New York, and of course the many hardworking men and women who dedicate their time to addiction treatment, for no dependent individual is past saving."
Assemblywoman Crystal Peoples-Stokes said, "Alcohol and substance abuse continues to affect our entire WNY community and we need institutions like Horizon Village to provide quality inpatient rehabilitation services. The secured funding allows Horizon Village to expand their quality care to more patients and provide extensive wraparound services. Life's journey is full of peaks and valleys; during those valleys people need to have access to the supportive services that gets them back on track. I'm certain that the funding will be utilized to provide more efficient, effective, and comprehensive services. I applaud Governor Cuomo for securing the funds and making today a reality."
Assemblyman John Ceretto said, "This resource, provided by the Governor, is a great step in combating drug abuse and addiction in Western New York. More people who need assistance will now be able to receive the care that is crucial to recovery. I thank the Governor for his commitment to Western New York and look forward to working with him in the future."
Anne Constantino, President and CEO, Horizon Health Corporation said, "We are honored to be awarded this funding at Horizon. Access to treatment must be a priority. We know that treatment works and that people can recover and go on to live happy, healthy and productive lives. Thank you to Governor Cuomo and the New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services for continuing to fight this epidemic and making access to treatment a priority. The services that will be provided by these 25-beds are vital in Western New York and we at Horizon are committed to continued quality of care and serving the patients and their families in our community each and every day."
After listening to recommendations from New Yorkers across the State through his Heroin and Opioid Task Force, Governor Cuomo signed a comprehensive legislative package into law to further combat addiction in New York State. The package includes significant changes to insurance laws and regulations to ensure broader coverage of substance use disorder treatment and improve access to addiction treatment. The legislation also places limits on opioid prescriptions for acute pain; increases emergency evaluation placement for individuals incapacitated by drugs from 48 to 72 hours; requires training to improve connections to substance use disorder care upon hospital discharge; requires ongoing education about addiction and pain management for physicians and prescribers; and mandates pharmacists to provide information about risks of substance use disorder to clients, among other efforts.
In addition, under Governor Cuomo's leadership, New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services continues to strengthen statewide public awareness efforts to improve public understanding of the disease of addiction and point New Yorkers to resources where they can get help.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-awards-1-million-expand-addiction-treatment-western-ny
