Public Statements
Governor Cuomo and Legislative Leaders Announce Agreement on Bill to Prohibit Internet Access of Child Pornography‬
Press Release
By: Sheldon Silver Joseph Lentol Andrew Cuomo Dean Skelos Martin Golden
Date: June 17, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo, Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver today announced an agreement on legislation that will more effectively prohibit internet access of child pornography.‬

The legislation would amend New York's Penal Law to prohibit individuals from knowingly accessing, with the intent of viewing, child pornography on the internet. Currently, under New York law, an individual who views child pornography on a website where the images become automatically embedded in a computer does not "possess" child pornography. This legislation closes that loophole. If enacted in New York, if an individual purposefully accesses a website, intending to view child pornography, he or she will be committing a class E felony.

As a result of this legislation, child pornography can never be legally possessed in New York State.

"We must, under any circumstance, put the safety and protection of our children first by banning any and all forms of child pornography," said Governor Cuomo. "This legislation closes a loophole that has allowed predators to go unprosecuted and unpunished. That will no longer be an option. Together with my colleagues in the Senate and Assembly, we are taking every precaution to ensure that our children are protected and that justice is served. I thank Majority Leader Skelos and Speaker Silver for their leadership on this issue as we continue to work toward making New York a safer state, especially for our children."

Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos said, "Viewing child pornography is a despicable act. This legislation will help protect children by imposing tough new penalties on people who view or possess child pornography. I applaud Senator Golden for his leadership on this issue which is at the top of the Senate's criminal justice agenda, and I thank Governor Cuomo for working with us to achieve a bipartisan agreement."







Source:
