Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $28 Million in Grants for 3 Mohawk Valley Hospitals
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo James Seward Joseph Griffo Anthony Brindisi
Date: June 15, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $28 million in grants to three hospitals in the Mohawk Valley, continuing efforts to transform the state's health care system to improve patient care, reduce costs, and ensure that all New Yorkers have access to quality treatment.

The grants are made available through New York State's Health Care Efficiency and Affordability Law (HEAL NY). Statewide, the $301.1 million in HEAL NY grants will help 40 hospitals and nursing homes across the state improve primary and community-based care, eliminate excess bed capacity, and reduce over-reliance on inpatient care in hospitals and nursing homes.

"As a result of the hard work of the Medicaid Redesign Team and our actions to transform the state's health care system, we have already taken important steps toward reducing costs and improving care for patients," Governor Cuomo said. "These grants to hospitals in the Mohawk Valley will help our health care facilities deliver better quality care in a more efficient and cost effective manner so all New Yorkers have access to the best care possible when it is needed."

The awards are allocated through the New York State Department of Health (DOH) and the Dormitory Authority of the State of New York (DASNY) and are part of nearly $3 billion in funding that has been invested in health care reform through 20 separate HEAL NY phases over the past seven years.

The grants announced today will help implement recommendations from Governor Cuomo's Medicaid Redesign Team, including enabling health care facilities to deliver more efficient, higher quality care through restructuring, merging, and realigning operations.

Additionally, the awards will help develop collaborative projects among health care providers and will support capital projects, such as the conversion of hospital inpatient space to outpatient and ambulatory care and inpatient nursing home capacity to other less-restrictive forms of long-term care.

DOH received a diverse group of applications from throughout the state. Additional funding will be made available in future rounds to support additional projects including efforts to help develop a high-quality, financially secure and sustainable health system in Brooklyn.

State Health Commissioner Nirav R. Shah, M. D., M.P.H., said, "I commend these hospitals and nursing homes for their resourcefulness and effectiveness in reconfiguring their beds and services to achieve greater efficiency and to deliver care most appropriate to address the identified needs in their communities. These projects represent prime examples of how institutions - large and small alike - can leverage the opportunities presented by a health care system that is moving towards greater integration of services and new models of patient-centered care."

DASNY President Paul T. Williams, Jr. said, "DASNY is committed to working with Governor Cuomo, the Department of Health, and our health care partners across the State to provide the best possible outcome for New Yorkers. These grants will support improvements and collaborations that will strengthen services and deliver care that will benefit our communities."

Assembly Member Anthony J. Brindisi said, "With NY Heals allocating a total of over $14 million to Faxton-St. Luke's and St. Elizabeth's, they will be able to deliver even better, more efficient care for our friends, family and neighbors who have come to rely on their services."

Senator James L. Seward said, "The HEAL NY grants meet critical healthcare needs in communities that, in many cases, have limited medical options, especially for low-income individuals. These projects will complement current healthcare programs and translate to more efficient care and healthier families."

Senator Joseph A. Griffo said, "The hospitals up and down my district have been working to take a longer view of continuing to deliver quality health care services in a challenging economy. These awards help these health care providers plan and execute a way to do so. The Senate will continue to work with the Governor and his administration to see that hospitals in New York function smarter and give consumers a high-degree of care."

Following is a list of HEAL NY awards in the Mohawk Valley:

Mohawk Valley

The Mary Imogene Bassett Hospital $ 13,700,000
Faxton-St. Luke's Healthcare $ 7,135,500
St. Elizabeth Medical Center $ 7,135,000

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/06152012-28m-mohawk-valley
