Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces First-Ever Public Awareness Campaign to Educate New Yorkers About Crime Victim Assistance and Services
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 2, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the New York State Office of Victim Services will launch its first-ever public service campaign to raise awareness about the assistance the agency -- and the community-based programs it funds -- provide to innocent crime victims and their families in their time of need. The agency previewed the public service announcements at an event in Albany this afternoon to commemorate the 50th anniversary of its creation.
"For five decades, this agency has proudly served New Yorkers in their darkest hours and their greatest time of need," Governor Cuomo said. "This administration remains committed to this office's important work and these public service announcements will help spread the word about the critical services that are available whenever and wherever victims need them."
The broadcast and digital advertising campaign -- Help, Healing and Hope for Crime Victims -- is scheduled to begin later this month in Central and Western New York, targeting the state's largest population centers outside of New York City. Additional advertising is planned for later this year and early 2017 in other regions. The campaign PSAs feature survivors of crime and advocates describing the agency's impact:
Jennifer Nadler's story
David Snowden's story
Help from OVS
Governor Cuomo today issued a citation recognizing the agency's 50-year milestone. The Office of Victim Services also debuted a new web page featuring the PSAs, testimonials, a timeline of the agency's history and the services it provides. Also featured online is a short video that further explores the agency's work through interviews with survivors and victim service professionals.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-first-ever-public-awareness-campaign-educate-new-yorkers-about-crime
