Public Statements
Statement from Governor Cuomo on U.S. Chamber of Commerce Report that Found New York in Top 10 States for Growth, Productivity, and Livability
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 15, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today issued the following statement regarding New York jumping 11 spots to place in the top 10 states for growth, productivity, and livability in a new U.S. Chamber of Commerce study. The study finds that "states that boost exports, foster innovation, provide businesses with certainty and reasonable taxes, insist on excellence in education, and prioritize infrastructure are leading on job creation and economic growth."

"The focus of the administration has always been and will continue to be making New York work to help create jobs and grow businesses in every region of the state. In the spirit of entrepreneurial government and through our New York Works initiatives, we have positioned the state as a partner to the private sector to encourage billions of dollars of new investment in nanotechnology and other growth industries. We are investing for the first time in new regional economic strategies that focus on the unique strengths of each part of the state, in addition to cutting taxes on small businesses and passing the lowest tax rates on middle class families in 58 years. For too long, state government stood in the way of business development. Those days are ending. Although we still have work to do, this report highlights just some of the great strides our administration, in partnership with the legislature, has made by working together," Governor Cuomo said.

The report can be found here: http://www.uschamber.com/press/releases/2012/june/new-us-chamber-study-r... (See pages 13-14 for state by state ranking and page 67 for information regarding New York.)

The report found that the "Empire State's large, complex economy performed well across all measures, placing in the top 25 in six of seven (categories). The state moved up 11 spots in this year's performance rankings due to rapid Gross State Product (GSP) expansion and per capita personal income growth."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/06152012states-for-growth
