Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Agreement to Restore Upper Jay Firehouse
Press Release
By: Betty Little Andrew Cuomo Teresa Sayward
Date: June 13, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced an agreement between officials from the Town of Jay and an insurance company, allowing the Upper Jay firehouse to be restored in a new location after it was destroyed by Hurricane Irene.

"I saw firsthand the destruction that Hurricane Irene caused in Upper Jay and other local communities in the North Country," Governor Cuomo said. "I am pleased that the state was able to help in this agreement that will allow for the firehouse to be moved to a new location, and save taxpayers from having to foot the bill that would have accompanied litigation."

The firehouse in Upper Jay in Essex County was severely damaged during Hurricane Irene. In the months afterward, the insurance company and local officials were unable to reach an agreement about whether to repair or rebuild the firehouse on the same location or move it to a new location with less flood risk. Following a meeting between representatives from the Department of Financial Services, the insurer, and local officials, an agreement was reached that will avoid drawn out litigation and allow the firehouse to be moved to a new and safer location.

Senator Betty Little said, "Life is steadily returning to normal in Adirondack communities hard hit by last year's devastating flooding. From day one of the recovery, Governor Cuomo and his administration have been enormously helpful and supportive, and their work to forge this agreement is another example of that commitment. Our first responders were heroes during and in the days and weeks following the storm. I'm very pleased to see Jay moving closer to having their firehouse operational again."

Assembly Member Teresa Sayward said, "This is another example of the cooperation Governor Cuomo has fostered to assist our North Country communities in rebuilding after Hurricane Irene. The Upper Jay Fire Company will be able to rebuild in a safe location and continue to provide the dedicated service to the community that they have done for generations."

Randy Douglas, Town of Jay Supervisor and Chairman of the Essex County Board of Supervisors, said, "This agreement is a big win for the people of Upper Jay, as we will finally have a new firehouse after the old one was destroyed by Hurricane Irene. We cannot thank Governor Cuomo enough for his efforts to work out this agreement with the insurance company that will save our taxpayers a lot of money by avoiding litigation, and allow the project to move forward now."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/06132012-restore-upper-jay-firehouse
