Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Taste NY Market at Todd Hill Sales Up More Than 30 Percent
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 1, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that sales at the Taste NY Market at Todd Hill are up 34 percent in the first six months of this year compared to the same time period in 2015. The Market, which is celebrating its second year of operation on the Taconic State Parkway, recorded sales of $480,990 between January and June for its Taste NY store. The Todd Hill store is one of 54 Taste NY locations statewide that helped Taste NY more than triple gross sales from 2014 to 2015.
"The Market at Todd Hill continues to build on the momentum of the state's successful Taste NY program, and demonstrates that the demand for New York State food, beverages and goods continues to grow," Governor Cuomo said. "When New Yorkers buy New York products, everyone wins."
The Taste NY Market at Todd Hill is operated by Cornell Cooperative Extension Dutchess County and features a wide selection of local foods, beverages, and agricultural products from dozens of New York State producers. The Market is one of more than four dozen locations across the state -- including the brand new markets announced this year at Jones Beach, the Lock E-13 Living History Rest Area on the Thruway, and the Taste NY Long Island Welcome Center on the Long Island Expressway.
Last year, the Governor announced that Taste NY had tripled the gross sales of participating producers from approximately $1.5 million in 2014 to more than $4.5 million in 2015. This year, Governor Cuomo set a goal to double the gross revenue to $9 million by the end of 2016 through the addition of four new stores, the launch of new partnerships at sports and entertainment venues, and the opening of new locations within the New York State Park system.
The Taste NY Market at Todd Hill is this summer hosting outdoor farmers' markets on Friday and Sunday afternoons from 1:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. The farmers' markets have expanded this year and offer opportunities to small farms and producers who are dedicated to growing their business at the Todd Hill location, including options for fresh produce and flowers from New York vendors such as Rock Steady Farm and Flowers, plus beverages from Hillrock Distillery, Black Dirt Distillery, Taconic Distillery, and Nine-Pin Cider Works. Joining the outdoor farmers' market this year is the Farmers and Chefs food truck, which features ingredients from Hudson Valley farms -- many of whom also sell products inside the retail market. More information on the vendors and schedule is available here.
State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball said: "The Taste NY Market at Todd Hill is a great example of retailers and wholesalers working together to bring fresh, locally grown foods to the community around them. People in the Hudson Valley recognize the value this market brings to their community and it keeps them coming back time and time again."
Taste NY Todd Hill Market Manager Lachele Coninx-Wiley said: "We are certainly on track to meet our sales goals in 2016. This year shows robust sales and includes several new vendors, new equipment in the store, and capital improvements to the site. What's more exciting is the revenue that this represents to area farms and local producers, and that the initiative is progressively working to expand the economic activity of those businesses. More and more people are becoming aware of the impact of the Taste NY Market at Todd Hill and are very supportive and shop frequently at this location."
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said: "Governor Cuomo saw the potential for reopening the long-closed Todd Hill rest area and building a Taste NY store there, an idea that quickly became a tremendous success story for both travelers and New York State farmers. We are proud to partner with the Taste NY program, offering motorists a respite while promoting high-quality products made right here in New York State."
The Taste NY Market at Todd Hill also helps facilitate the Farms2Tables food box program, a weekly or bi-weekly grocery subscription that supplies consumers with local food from more than 80 farms throughout the Hudson Valley. Each box consists of a variety of local vegetables, fruits, salad greens, cheeses, yogurt, milk, eggs, and meat -- including products from BQ Farms, Inc. and All You Knead Bakery. Additional items such as honey, jam, butter or granola are included. Box subscriptions are available for pick up at the Taste of NY Todd Hill location every Sunday from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. More information, including how to order a Farms2Tables food box, is available at www.thef2tbox.com.
BQ Farms Inc and BjornQorn Sun-Popped Corn Founder Bjorn Quenemoen said: "The Taste NY Market at Todd Hill has been a great partner for us. Its store serves as a welcoming mat to all those entering the Hudson Valley via the Taconic Parkway and immediately introduces them to a choice selection of the wonderful foods they can find there. We are grateful to be included and frequently receive positive feedback from customers who discovered our popcorn there."
All You Knead Bakery Owner Simone Wiliams said: "The Taste NY account has been, and continues to be, a huge asset for my small company. This account comprises approximately 50 percent of my wholesale business and this does not include the weekly farmers' market we attend every Friday. In addition to the financial gain this account has afforded me, the fact that my products are available in such a high traffic location has boosted my store front traffic as well."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-taste-ny-market-todd-hill-sales-more-30-percent
