Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Deployment of 325 Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Across New York State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 6, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that $4.4 million has been awarded to ten companies, municipalities and other entities to enable more than 325 new electric-vehicle (EV) charging stations to be installed across New York State.

New York State's electric-vehicle charging stations are supported by a joint effort by the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA)'s Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Demonstration Program and the U.S. Department of Energy.

With high gas prices, EVs provide a fuel-efficient alternative to gas- and diesel-powered vehicles while helping reduce the nation and state's dependence on fossil fuels. A diverse infrastructure of EV charging stations will create new jobs and business opportunities across the state, as well as helping promote the sale of electric cars, trucks and other vehicles.

"With New Yorkers facing higher prices at the pump, the state is stepping up to make owning an electric vehicle an affordable and convenient option," Governor Cuomo said. "Creating an infrastructure to accommodate electric vehicles will create jobs and new economic development across the state, while reducing our carbon footprint and helping protect the environment."

New York's transportation sector has considerable potential for energy efficiency. Transportation makes up about three-fourths of the state's oil consumption, and nearly 40 percent of the state's greenhouse gas emissions.

Francis J. Murray Jr., President and CEO of NYSERDA, said, "Electric vehicles offer a cleaner alternative to combustion engines, helping reduce the consumption of fossil fuels and the emission of greenhouse gases. NYSERDA supports the Governor's continued leadership in creating an electric-vehicle future in New York State, and advancing technology that will not only stimulate the economy but lessen our impact on the environment."

Last year, NYSERDA received a $1 million U.S. Department of Energy grant on behalf of the Transportation and Climate Initiative, a collaboration of the transportation, energy, and environment agencies of 11 Northeast states and Washington, DC to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transportation sector. The goal of the initiative is to accelerate the introduction of EV charging stations throughout the Northeast making the region a hub for electric vehicles through public and private partnerships. President Barack Obama has called for 1 million plug-in vehicles to be on the street nationwide by 2015.

U.S. Senator Charles Schumer said, "Sky-high gas prices and tight budgets have left many New Yorkers struggling at the pump, but there is hope in new technology, like electric cars, that can free us from our dependence on foreign oil. By finally making electric cars more accessible to the general public, we are taking a huge step towards giving consumers another viable and affordable transportation option, and I'm proud to have fought for money for this program from the U.S. Department of Energy."

U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand said, "In this tough economy we need a do-it-all approach that expands our energy portfolio to provide middle class New Yorkers with relief at the pump. By creating an infrastructure for electric vehicles, we can cut energy costs, cut pollution to protect the air we breathe, and reduce our dependence on foreign oil which strengthens our national security."

U.S. Representative Eliot Engel, a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said, "America needs to end our dependence on foreign oil, and our reliance on such hostile nations as Iran and Venezuela to power our cars and homes. Alternative technologies exist, such as electric cars, and their widespread use will go a long way towards ending this reliance. I am the author of the Open Fuel Standard Act, (along with Rep. John Shimkus, R-IL) that would require 50 percent of new automobiles in 2014, 80 percent in 2016, and 95 percent in 2017, to operate on nonpetroleum fuels in addition to or instead of petroleum based fuels. Between electric cars and alternative fuels, we can eventually reach a point where we no longer have to put money in the coffers of our enemies."

U.S. Representative Paul Tonko, who is also the former President and CEO of NYSERDA, said, "Drivers across New York, and indeed the nation, are sick and tired of giving tax breaks to Big Oil companies while at the same time paying record prices at the pump. One competitive alternative is electric vehicles. I applaud Governor Cuomo for installing these new charging stations and for partnering with the federal government to advance clean energy technology, create jobs and provide drivers options they so urgently deserve."

NYSERDA will also be managing a $10 million fund that offers vouchers of up to $20,000 per vehicle for the purchase of EV commercial trucks weighing more than 10,000 pounds.

EV charging station projects announced today include:

Access Technology Integration Inc. -- Plans to install charging stations with innovative reservation and payment systems at seven locations around the Albany area, including St. Peter's Hospital, Albany-Rensselaer Train Station, Times Union Center, universities, supermarkets, and other locations. NYSERDA funding: $244,000.

Beam Charging LLC -- Company will install a total of 28 charging stations, each one in a separate public parking garage around Manhattan, for the purpose of gathering data to determine how well such charging stations are used. $400,000.

Car Charging Group Inc. -- Plans to install charging stations at up to 15 high-traffic locations in New York City, directed toward apartment dwellers who do not have parking at home. Sites would go in parking garages that are used primarily for monthly parking. NYSERDA funding: $200,000.

City of Rochester -- Plans to install 24 charging stations at seven highly-visible and busy locations around the city, including municipal parking garages, City Hall, the Port of Rochester and the Rochester Public Market. NYSERDA funding: $228,000.

Coulomb Technologies Inc. -- Partnering with National Grid, Coulomb will deploy 81 dual charging stations with Coulomb's ChargePoint software. The technology will demonstrate a web-based demand response program, a new low-cost installation method and a customized reservation system. NYSERDA funding: $1 million.

EV Connect Inc. -- Plans to install EV charging stations at five Marriott hotels around New York State that make use of a unique reservation and payment system. Project would make it possible for overnight visitors to charge their vehicles while staying at a hotel. NYSERDA funding: $250,000.

Golub Corp. (Price Chopper Supermarkets) - Plans to install 12 charging stations at four locations, each equipped with a weather canopy and lighting to make them visible. This is the first phase of an intended statewide rollout. NYSERDA funding: $325,000.

New York Port Authority -- Plans to install seven experimental charging stations for fleet vehicles and public use that practice demand-response (aligning charging times with times of low power demands, reducing charging cost and impact during peak demand to the grid). NYSERDA funding: $720,000.

New York Power Authority -- Plans to install 124 charging stations at train and bus stations, airports and municipal parking lots. Three sites would be powered in part through on-site solar power. NYSERDA funding: $989,000.

Plugin Stations Online -- Plans to install charging stations at three apartment complexes in Albany, Rochester and Buffalo, as well as one at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy. NYSERDA funding: $64,000.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/06062012Charging-Stations
