Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Encourages New York Youth to Take Advantage of Job Opportunities Available Through State Employment Programs
Press Release
By: Bob Duffy Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 1, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo and Lieutenant Governor Robert Duffy today encouraged New York youth to take advantage of the many job opportunities that are available to them through two state employment initiatives. The Governor's NY Youth Works and Summer Jobs programs have already helped thousands of youths across New York find employment opportunities and develop the tools they need to succeed in the workforce.

"Jobs, jobs, jobs are essential to rebuilding New York and getting our state's economy back on track," Governor Cuomo said. "Our state's future economic success is dependent on our young people being able to launch careers right here in New York, and these programs have already been a tremendous success in helping connect our youth with employment opportunities throughout the state. I encourage additional young people and businesses to get involved."

Lieutenant Governor Robert Duffy said, "The NY Youth Works and Summer Jobs programs are designed to give our young people a much-needed boost to find work in these difficult economic times. Governor Cuomo has made job creation front and center of his plan to rebuild the state's economy, and these programs are off to a great start. Any young people looking for work should tap into these vital resources, and I strongly encourage businesses across the state to sign up."

Thousands of jobs remain available to young New Yorkers through the following state programs:

NY Youth Works

The NY Youth Works program is designed to provide permanent, unsubsidized employment for youth across New York State. New York businesses have already offered over 10,000 full- and part-time job opportunities through the program. With more than 6,000 youth certified to participate in the program, approximately 4,000 positions remain available.

Eligible participants include unemployed, low-income youth aged 16 through 24 who are located in one of the following areas: Albany, Brookhaven, Buffalo, Hempstead, Mount Vernon, New Rochelle, New York City, Rochester, Schenectady, Syracuse, Utica, and Yonkers.

Youth interested in participating in the program can call the New York State Department of Labor at 877-226-5724 or visit their local One-Stop Career Center, a listing of which can be found at http://labor.ny.gov/workforcenypartners/osview.asp.
Summer Jobs Program

Governor Cuomo's Summer Jobs Program will enable more than 18,000 teens to be employed across the state this summer.

Eligible participants must be aged 14 through 20, and their family must be a recipient of public assistance or have a family income below 200 percent of the federal poverty level (for example, $37,060 for a family of three).

Youth interested in participating in the program should contact their local department of social services through http://otda.ny.gov/workingfamilies/dss.asp.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/06012012-job-opps-state-service
