Public Statements
Governor Cuomo, Mayor Bloomberg and Borough President Markowitz Announce Brooklyn Navy Yard to Make $46 Million Investment to Build a Green Manufacturing Center Creating Nearly 300 New Jobs
Press Release
By: Velmanette Montgomery Bob Duffy Joseph Lentol Andrew Cuomo John Sampson Daniel Squadron
Date: May 18, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, Brooklyn Borough President Marty Markowitz, and state and city elected officials today announced that the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation will invest $46 million to build a Green Manufacturing Center in the Navy Yard. This New York City Regional Economic Development Council priority project consists of the adaptive reuse of three former WWII-era Navy machine shops into a state-of-the-art industrial complex, creating nearly 300 new permanent jobs and approximately 400 construction jobs.

"This project is an example of how the Regional Council initiative is helping the state invest in a productive and sustainable innovation economy that will put New Yorkers back to work now and for years to come," Governor Cuomo said. "This is an eco-friendly investment that will create almost 300 new jobs while making space available for a successful company to produce the tools needed to keep the heroic members of our armed services safe."

"The Brooklyn Navy Yard is an economic success story if there ever was one, and this investment in green manufacturing is more great news for the Navy Yard and for New York City's economy," said Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. "Today the Navy Yard is home to the kind of innovation that is going to create the jobs of the future and keep our city competitive in the long-term."

"The Green Manufacturing Center at the Brooklyn Navy Yard--with its lead tenants Crye Precision and Macro Sea--will show the world how to successfully incorporate green manufacturing and sustainable practices into a state-of-the-art facility that will create hundreds of permanent and construction jobs," said Brooklyn Borough President Marty Markowitz. "Bravo to Governor Cuomo, Mayor Bloomberg, Speaker Quinn, our Brooklyn Legislative and Council delegations, Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation President Andrew Kimball and all their partners for transforming "navy blue' into "navy green.' There is no better example than the Navy Yard of Brooklyn's dynamic, diverse--and green--economy, and I was proud to support the Green Manufacturing Center project."

"The Navy Yard is a testament to New York City's resilience and creativity," said New York City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn. "Through thoughtful redevelopment efforts, what was once a thriving shipbuilding facility is now a model urban industrial park that houses some of the City's most cutting edge companies, and now soon, a Green Manufacturing Center. We are proud at the Council to have partnered with the Governor, Bloomberg Administration, Borough President Markowitz, and the Brooklyn Navy Yard to ensure that the Navy Yard continues to thrive and create more jobs for New Yorkers."

The Brooklyn Navy Yard is a 300 acre industrial park on the Brooklyn waterfront that houses more than 275 businesses, employing 6,000 workers, up from 230 businesses and 3,600 workers in 2001. Over $200 million in infrastructure investments by the City, State, and federal governments have leveraged over $500 million in private investment for new and renovated industrial buildings and hundreds of millions more in tenant machinery, equipment and fit-out.

The development of the Green Manufacturing Center will continue the expansion underway at the Brooklyn Navy Yard -- its largest growth since WWII, adding more than 1.8 million square feet of new space and over 2,500 new jobs over the next two years. Home to more than 30 green manufacturers, the development of green facilities has long been a priority at the Yard. This major new investment will transform buildings 28, 123, and 128, former Navy ship building machine shops, into a 220,000 square foot multi-tenanted, into the LEED Silver-certified Green Manufacturing Center. Major construction begins this summer and will take approximately 18 months to complete.

BNYDC President & CEO Andrew H. Kimball, said, "The Navy Yard has become a thriving hub of high-tech and clean-tech manufacturing," said "We are thrilled to get this project underway with the support of our partners at every level of government and to have two fantastic anchor tenants secured."

Lieutenant Governor Robert J. Duffy said, "The Green Manufacturing Center is a striking example of how Governor Cuomo's Regional Council initiative is helping to forge the innovative public-private partnerships we need to create jobs and grow our economy. By investing in the expansion of our high-tech manufacturing industry, we are literally building the tools for a sustainable economy that's prepared to last."

The City University of New York (CUNY) Chancellor and New York City Regional Council Co-Chair Matthew Goldstein said, "On behalf of the New York City Regional Economic Development Council, I congratulate the Brooklyn Navy Yard on moving forward with the development of a new Green Manufacturing Center, and on securing Crye Precision as its anchor tenant. This new center will be a crucial piece of the twenty-first century infrastructure needed to support environmentally sustainable advanced manufacturing in New York City."

Crye Precision -- a premier designer and manufacturer of body armor and apparel for the U.S. military as well as federal and state law enforcement agencies - which was awarded $1 million through the New York State Consolidated Funding Application (CFA) process, has agreed to become one of two lead tenants at the new Green Manufacturing Center. Crye currently operates in four separate spaces at the Navy Yard, with 110 employees, and will now lease 80,000 square feet, consolidating multiple sites into one central location. Crye decided to expand in the Navy Yard after considering numerous options for consolidation and expansion, including New Jersey.

The company's expansion into the Green Manufacturing Center will create 100 new jobs over the next five years. Crye also has several commercial product lines under development; one uses locally recycled materials that are converted into fabrics.

Crye Precision Executive Director Caleb Crye, said, "The Navy Yard has been exactly what our business needed to grow and we are thrilled that our future will remain here. We started here a decade ago with 4,500 square feet, today we're up to 45,000 square feet with more than 100 employees and when the new facility is complete we'll have a more efficient operation with room to grow and add at least 100 new jobs."

A second anchor tenant, Macro Sea, will lease more than 50,000 square feet for New Lab, a cutting-edge facility that will promote design and manufacturing innovation using the latest in environmentally-conscious processes and machinery. Through traditional tenancies and co-working spaces, New Lab will encourage the collaboration between design and fabrication by hosting a dynamic mix of designers, digital manufacturers, architects, graduate research facilities, and others in a hive of sustainable design and innovation. Working at the forefront of green technology advances, New Lab has received strong interest from the following universities and firms:

The Cooper Union, Institute for Sustainable Design Innovation Laboratory;
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute's School of Architecture and Center for Architecture Science & Ecology (CASE)
Columbia University, Laboratory of Applied Building Science (L-ABS) at the Graduate School of Architecture Planning and Preservation;
Terreform ONE, Brooklyn based nonprofit design group and unique laboratory for scientists, artists, architects, students, and individuals of all backgrounds to explore and advance the larger framework of green design; and
Within Lab, a London-based design consultancy best known for creating tools which constantly push at the boundaries of the possible in the world of additive layer manufacturing.
Macro Sea Managing Principal David Belt said, "New Lab will bring together graduate students, designers, and high-tech manufacturers in a unique space that will encourage innovation and collaboration. The Navy Yard's community of manufacturers represents the future of urban industry and New Lab will seed the next generation of cutting-edge Yard businesses."

The $46 million construction project will be built to LEED Silver standards and funded through capital grants from New York State ($6 million from Empire State Development), the New York City Council ($7.5 million), the Brooklyn Borough President ($2.5 million) and the U.S. Economic Development Administration ($2.5 million). In addition, Crye has been awarded $1 million in Excelsior tax credits from Empire State Development through the New York State Consolidated Funding Application process. BNDYC has financed the balance of construction through the federal EB-5 program. Crye will expend approximately $9 million on their fit-out and equipment and Macro Sea will expend approximately $10 million.

Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Kenneth Adams said, "This major investment in green manufacturing shows that Governor Cuomo's efforts to build a new New York economy is starting to pay off with immediate and long-term job creation. The Brooklyn Navy Yard should be commended for providing the strong foundation to help companies grow and create jobs that are as good for the environment as they are for our economy."

Senate Minority Leader John L. Sampson said, "These types of projects are both good for the environment and good for the wallet. If we are truly going to turn this economy around and make it stronger we have to identify innovative solutions. The future of the United States and its businesses depend on the green economy--and here in Brooklyn we are doing something about it. I commend the Governor and his Regional Economic Development Council for not only securing a healthier and more environmentally-friendly future for the state but also enhancing our global competitiveness."

Senator Daniel Squadron said, "The Brooklyn Navy Yard continues to prove that no matter how difficult the times, success is possible. The new Green Manufacturing Center will provide Brooklyn with even more jobs and creatively put to use this historic space in a sustainable way -- all while helping to drive our community's growth and revitalization. Thank you to Governor Cuomo, Lieutenant Governor Duffy, Borough President Markowitz, EDC, and BNYDC for working to make this a reality, and to Crye Precision and New Lab for bringing your talent to Brooklyn."

Senator Velmanette Montgomery said, "The future will be built on a foundation of green jobs and the sooner we invest in this emerging industry, the more stable our long-term economic recovery will be. Green technology makes good environmental sense and good economic sense. I commend the Governor for his efforts to ensure New York will be at the forefront of the new economy and look forward to working with him in the future to bring more good, green jobs to our community and state."

Assemblyman Joe Lentol said, "We are happy to roll out the green carpet for new manufacturing here in Brooklyn. Welcome to Brooklyn Crye Precision. You are clearly part of New York's new manufacturing revolution that is clean, lean and green. The Navy Yard continues to make Brooklyn proud as it demonstrates its flexibility to foster large scale manufacturing and creative entrepreneurship at the same time."

NYC Council Member Stephen Levin said, "The Brooklyn Navy Yard never ceases to impress me. Today we are celebrating support for the Green Manufacturing Center, the re-purposing of a 215,000 square foot space and the creation of hundreds of new jobs. The BNYDC is driving an incredible resurgence of activity and growth here and we owe a debt of gratitude to Andrew Kimball for steering the ship. I am very proud to represent the Brooklyn Navy Yard in the City Council and I know there are going to be many more great stories to tell in the coming years."

NYC Council Member Letitia James said, "The collaboration of the city, state and the private sector has once again put the Brooklyn Navy Yard on the map with the Green Manufacturing Center creating 300 new permanent jobs and approximately 400 construction jobs. Furthermore, this $46 million green facility is an investment in our environment. I want to thank Governor Andrew M. Cuomo, Mayor Michael M. Bloomberg, Brooklyn Borough President Marty Markowitz, City Council Speaker Christine Quinn and Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation President Andrew H. Kimball for securing the funding for this project."

The Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation is a non-profit corporation that manages operations of the Brooklyn Navy Yard for New York City. It is tasked with leasing space, promoting local economic development and redevelopment of underutilized areas, and modernizing the Yard's infrastructure. Prior to its reopening as an industrial park, the Brooklyn Navy Yard served one of America's preeminent military facilities for more than 150 years. The rich past, thriving present and promising future of the Yard is captured in a newly opened exhibition, visitors and employment center: the Brooklyn Navy Yard Center at BLDG 92.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/05182012Brooklyn-Navy-Yard
