Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $20 Million to Support 160 Housing Units for Homeless Families and Individuals
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 15, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that $19.6 million has been awarded for five homeless housing projects across New York State to support the creation of more than 160 units of housing for formerly homeless individuals and families.

The grants are provided by the Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance through its Homeless Housing and Assistance Program (HHAP) to support projects in Broome, Onondaga, Suffolk and Westchester counties.

"All New Yorkers should have access to safe, stable and adequate housing," Governor Cuomo said. "These grants will help provide affordable housing to vulnerable New Yorkers, including veterans, those with mental illness, the elderly, victims of domestic violence, and homeless youth. These new housing units will help break the cycle of chronic homelessness and allow individuals and families here in New York build a foundation for a better future."

The funding will support five projects to create 163 housing units and 258 beds for families and individuals. The support services available at these sites will assist survivors of domestic violence, veterans dealing with post-traumatic stress disorder, and individuals with disabilities, mental illness or chemical dependency.

HHAP meets a distinct need in New York by providing funding to develop housing for various special needs populations. Since the program's inception, it has assisted in the development of housing for families, adolescents, persons in recovery, persons with mental illness, persons living with HIV/AIDS, individuals recently released from incarceration and veterans. HHAP is designed to help all families and individuals move out of homelessness and poverty, and achieve the highest level of independence possible.

HHAP provides capital grants and loans to not-for-profit corporations, charitable and religious organizations, municipalities and public corporations to acquire, construct, or rehabilitate housing for those who are homeless or at risk of homelessness and are unable to secure adequate housing without special assistance. HHAP has been utilized successfully by community organizations to develop more than 14,000 housing units in New York State.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/05152012-housing-units
