Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Presents New Legislation to Protect Vulnerable New Yorkers in Westchester
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 10, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today presented his new legislation at the College of New Rochelle in Westchester County that would establish the strongest standards and practices in the nation for protecting people with special needs and disabilities. Governor Cuomo's bill will create a new Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs, an initiative that will transform how the state protects over one million New Yorkers in State operated, certified or licensed facilities and programs.

The Justice Center will have a Special Prosecutor and Inspector General for the Protection of People with Special Needs who will investigate reports of abuse and neglect and prosecute allegations that rise to the level of criminal offenses. It will also include a 24/7 hotline run by trained professionals, a comprehensive statewide database that will track all reports of abuse and neglect and a statewide register of workers who have committed serious acts of abuse who will be prohibited from ever working with people with disabilities or special needs.

"This bill puts forth unprecedented reforms that will transform how New York State protects and cares for people with special needs and disabilities," said Governor Cuomo. "This is exactly the type of agency that the patients and their family and friends deserve. I urge the Senate and Assembly to pass this bill so we can start implementing these reforms as soon as possible."

Clarence Sundram, the Governor's Special Advisor on Vulnerable Persons, said, "The Governor's proposed legislation is the strongest and most comprehensive plan in the country for preventing abuse and neglect before it happens and for responding to reported incidents. It covers five of the state's health and human services agencies, as well as the State Education Department, and sets forth a clear and consistent set of standards to guide the behavior of employees in all systems. It provides a simple system for reporting allegations and a consistent response by trained investigators to all reports. Governor Cuomo is providing visionary leadership to reforming government's performance of one of its most important obligations --protecting vulnerable New Yorkers. The Governor's proposed legislation will affect over one million New Yorkers and their families. The legislature should take swift action to enact this bill into law."

Deputy Secretary for Health Jim Introne said, "The Governor has proposed a plan that will make New York the national standard bearer in the protection of our vulnerable population. He has demonstrated his leadership in assuring the best possible care for New Yorkers with special needs. I thank Governor Cuomo for his strong advocacy on this issue and urge the Assembly and Senate to pass this bill so we can start protecting those who need our help the most."

Last year, there were more than 10,000 allegations of abuse against New Yorkers with special needs and disabilities in state operated, certified or licensed facilities and programs. However, the State has never had a consistent and comprehensive standard for tracking and investigating complaints or punishing guilty workers.

Governor Cuomo's proposed Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs will have primary responsibility for tracking, investigating and pursuing serious abuse and neglect complaints for facilities and provider agencies that are operated, certified, or licensed by the following six agencies: The Department of Health (DOH), the Office of Mental Health (OMH), the Office for People With Developmental Disabilities (OPWDD), the Office of Children and Family Services (OCFS), the Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services (OASAS), and the State Education Department (SED). The Justice Center will also absorb all functions and responsibilities of the Commission on Quality of Care and Advocacy for Persons with Disabilities, with the exception of the Federal Protection and Advocacy and Client Assistance Programs which will be designated to a qualified non-profit.

Other components and responsibilities of the proposed Justice Center include the following:

An Executive Director, Special Prosecutor and Inspector General, and a substantial staff of trained investigators, lawyers and administrators. The Justice Center's law enforcement branch will have concurrent authority with district attorneys to prosecute abuse and neglect crimes committed against such persons.











Source:
