Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces That More Than 18,000 Teens Will Be Employed By Summer Jobs Program
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 10, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the NY Youth Works Summer Employment Program will enable more than 18,000 teens to be employed across the state this summer.

The State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance (OTDA) will distribute $25 million among all 57 counties and New York City to help bring underserved youth into the labor market, acquire skills and expand their aspirations and career goals.

"By connecting young New Yorkers with good summer jobs, we are providing them with valuable experience and skills to help prepare them for future employment," Governor Cuomo said. "The NY Youth Works Summer Employment Program will help address the chronically high unemployment rate among underserved, young New Yorkers. By helping our young people gain the tools needed to succeed in the workplace, we will set them on a path to future success, while helping create new jobs across New York State."

The $25 million allocated this year represents a 61% increase from what was available for the 2011 summer program, during which 11,277 youth were employed. The additional funding will allow thousands of additional youth to participate in the program this summer.

Eligible youth must be between the ages 14 and 20 to qualify for the program. Participating families must be recipients of public assistance, or have a family income below 200 percent of the federal poverty level, or $37,060 for a family of three.

Funds are used to subsidize the wages paid to eligible youth, to support education and training activities, counseling and employment related services, such as transportation to and from work or training. Youth interested in participating in the program should contact their local department of social services. Information on contacting the social services departments can be found here:http://otda.ny.gov/workingfamilies/dss.asp

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/teens-summer-jobs-for-18000-plus
