Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Statewide Coalition to Support Legislation Protecting People With Special Needs and Disabilities Grows to Over 100 Members
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 10, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the grassroots coalition formed to support the Governor's proposed legislation to reform how New York State protects people with special needs and disabilities has grown with more than 100 advocacy groups from across the state now signed on.

The Coalition for the Protection of People with Special Needs will participate in a grassroots effort to raise awareness about Governor Cuomo's reforms through community outreach, sharing with family and friends, and discussing the legislation online, via Twitter and Facebook.

In addition, these advocates and providers will continue to educate New Yorkers about the state's vulnerable population and the ways in which Governor Cuomo's proposed legislation will help protect those who need our help the most. The Coalition will mobilize New Yorkers with special needs, their family, friends and loved ones to share their experiences and help generate support for Governor Cuomo's sweeping legislation.

This week, nearly 700 advocates who were briefed on Governor Cuomo's legislation to create a new Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs committed to take action to make sure Albany acts on the proposal this session.

The Governor's office launched www.justice4specialneeds.com, a website where groups and New Yorkers can learn more about the Governor's proposal. The site has an action center where visitors can e-mail family and friends about the initiative, submit a video testimonial about the issue, share with fellow New Yorkers on Twitter and Facebook, and stay in touch with the Governor's office about the issue.

"Change in Albany only happens when the people make it happen," said Governor Cuomo. "This legislation will make sure that New York leads the nation when it comes to the treatment and protection of people with special needs and disabilities. Now we need New Yorkers to make their voices heard so that Albany will pass our legislative proposal to create a new Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs."

Paige Pierce, Executive Director of Families Together in NYS, said, "Governor Cuomo's proposed legislation includes real reforms that will help protect vulnerable New Yorkers and prevent further abuses from occurring. In addition, this bill will provide peace of mind for the family, friends and loved ones of those in the state's care. The Justice Center will transform monitoring practices and will protect the civil rights of vulnerable people. This is exactly the type of agency that individuals and their families deserve. I am proud to support Governor Cuomo's bill and hope that both the Senate and Assembly will do the same."

Harvey Rosenthal, Executive Director of the New York Association of Psychiatric Rehabilitation Services, Inc. (NYAPRS), said, "This is a tremendous advance in weeding out, prosecuting and preventing any future NYS based human services work for those who abuse New Yorkers with disabilities. The Governor deserves tremendous credit for the care, conviction, innovation and amount of resources that were committed today towards these ends. These initiatives will no doubt save lives and end suffering previously/currently experienced by thousands of New Yorkers with disabilities."

Peter Pierri, Executive Director of the Interagency Council of Developmental Disabilities Agencies, said, "We applaud Governor Cuomo for this broad initiative to insure the safety and protection of vulnerable people in New York State. Safety and protection are the number one priority for the entire community. We also appreciate his acknowledgment and support for the thousands of direct care workers who are doing great work in their community every day to help people recover and move forward with their lives."

John Coppola, Executive Director of the New York Association of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Providers, Inc., said, "The New York Association of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Providers are committed to working with the Governor and Legislature on this initiative. We are pleased that the Governor has actively engaged consumers and providers in the development of this important work which will not only ensure the safety of persons receiving services, but will also contribute to increased trust and better service outcomes for New Yorkers."

Governor Cuomo's proposed Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs will have primary responsibility for tracking, investigating and pursuing serious abuse and neglect complaints for facilities and provider agencies that are operated, certified, or licensed by six state agencies that provide human services.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/05102012-100-members
