Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Invites New Yorkers to Volunteer at State Parks as Part of First "I Love My Park Day" This Saturday
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 2, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo today invited New Yorkers to volunteer at their favorite state park or historic site as part of the inaugural "I Love My Park Day" that will be held this Saturday, May 5th. Governor Cuomo will participate in an event this Saturday. Volunteers will participate in clean-up, beautification and stewardship events at more than 35 state parks and historic sites. To register, visit: http://www.nysparks.com/
"New York State is home to over 213 magnificent state parks and historic sites. Millions of New Yorkers visit their parks every year for camping, recreation, relaxation or simply to connect with nature or explore our history," Governor Cuomo said. "Volunteers are more important than ever to help care for these special places and 'I Love My Park Day' is the perfect opportunity for New Yorkers to enjoy the outdoors and help clean-up our parks. I encourage New Yorkers to sign up for a volunteer activity at the more than 35 participating state parks and historic sites."
The New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation and Parks & Trails New York are teaming up for "I Love My Park Day", a statewide event to improve and enhance New York's parks and historic sites and bring visibility to the entire park system and its needs. Volunteers will celebrate New York's park system by cleaning up park lands and beaches, planting trees and gardens, restoring trails and wildlife habitat, removing invasive species, and working on various site improvement projects.
"I Love My Park Day" comes on the heels of the enactment of the Governor's New York Works Fund, which will provide $89 million, leveraging $143 million in total funding, to rehabilitate state parks, representing the single largest infusion in history of capital dollars for New York's parks. Currently, 83% of state parks are deteriorating. Projects will be funded in every region of the state and will enhance the visitor experience and enable state parks to reemerge after years of decline.

Source:
