Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Maximus Federal Services to Expand in Monroe County
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 30, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Maximus Federal Services will invest nearly $1.7 million to expand its Medicare Appeals back office operation in Pittsford, New York, retaining 159 at-risk jobs and creating 308 new jobs over the next five years. Maximus is the leading pure-play provider in the administration of government health and human services programs, including Medicaid, CHIP, Medicare, employment services, education and related consulting offerings. The investment to expand its operations is expected to result in the creation and retention of almost $120 million in payroll wages to spur local economic growth.

"The expansion of Maximus means more jobs for Monroe County and another big investment by a leading international company choosing to stay and grow in New York," Governor Cuomo said. "To compete in the global market we must continue to attract world-renowned businesses like Maximus that can create jobs in the short term and sustainable investment opportunities for the long-term health of our economy."

Maximus will expand into a larger facility to accommodate its existing employment base, as well as its anticipated growth. The company will invest $1,694,600 in furniture, fixtures and equipment over a two year period. To support this expansion project, Empire State Development will provide up to $2 million in Excelsior Jobs Program tax credits over the next five years for the expansion. Monroe County will also provide $202,264 in tax abatements.

"Maximus is a growing company that will create hundreds of new jobs by capitalizing on the strong demand for its services," said Lieutenant Governor Robert J. Duffy. "This project demonstrates how the effective leadership of Governor Cuomo is improving New York's ability to attract big companies to invest and create jobs in New York."

Bruce Caswell, President and General Manager of MAXIMUS Health Services said, "We are thrilled to be a part of the community as we grow our presence in Monroe County, bringing 300 jobs to the area. Our new Pittsford location is critical in establishing a regional hub for efficient service delivery on behalf of our government clients. As a native upstate New Yorker, I'm excited to be a part of supporting the local community and contributing to its longer-term economic growth."

Monroe County Executive Maggie Brooks said, "Monroe County is proud to partner with MAXIMUS as they positively impact our local economy with the creation of over 300 jobs and invest in existing infrastructure. As a global industry leader in providing valuable human resources services to all levels of government, MAXIMUS puts Monroe County on the map and highlights our region as an ideal area for job growth and business development."

Senator Jim Alesi said, "Companies from around the world recognize the Greater Rochester region as an excellent place to do business. After conducting an extensive, multi-state search for a new office location, Maximus Federal Services chose Pittsford, undoubtedly a true testament to our region's tremendous academic institutions, manufacturing base, and technical expertise. I thank Maximus and its leaders for selecting Pittsford as its new home, and I am looking forward to partnering with them in the future as we continue to create jobs and revitalize our local economy, which has been the focus of Governor Cuomo and the Legislature in an effort to make New York business-friendly once again."

Assemblyman Joseph Morelle said, "This is the kind of success story we want to be able to tell in Monroe County and New York State: Private and public sector partners working together to retain more than 150 jobs and create 350 new ones. This is a global firm with many options, and they've chosen to maintain and expand their operations right here. For this, and for the work MAXIMUS does to help make government services more efficient and affordable, we are grateful. I also applaud Empire State Development for its hard work and commitment to making today's announcement possible."

Maximus is a leading health and human services administrator for governments in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. The company delivers administrative solutions to improve the cost effectiveness, efficiency and quality of government-sponsored benefit programs, such as Medicaid, Medicare, Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), Health Insurance BC (British Columbia), as well as welfare-to-work and child support enforcement programs across the globe. Its primary customer base includes federal, provincial, state, county and municipal governments and employs more than 7,000 people in more than 220 offices worldwide.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/4302012MaximusFederalServices
