Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Energy Efficient Upgrade Projects Saved New York State $9 Million and Created 3,000 Jobs in 2011
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 27, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that projects completed by the New York Power Authority (NYPA) in 2011 saved New York taxpayers $9 million and created more than 3,000 jobs across New York State.

Last year, NYPA provided $186 million in financing for energy efficiency and clean energy projects at nearly 2,600 public facilities throughout the state, including projects that are in various phases of development. The projects completed or under construction will lower electricity bills and will reduce carbon pollution. The upgrades involved no cost to New York taxpayers as the upfront investments will be repaid from energy savings.

"The energy efficient upgrades implemented across the state are a win-win, saving taxpayer dollars by lowering energy costs while also reducing carbon pollution," Governor Cuomo said. "New York State has always led the way in progressive energy and environmental reforms, and my administration is committed to continuing this legacy. We will continue to do all we can to provide low-cost, clean power to New York homeowners, businesses, and state facilities, and by doing so save taxpayer money and create jobs."

In his Power NY agenda, the Governor called for accelerating energy efficiency improvements to public buildings, highlighting the multiple benefits that included saving taxpayer dollars, improving the environment, and creating jobs. The upgrade projects included new lighting fixtures, heating and ventilating systems, electric motors, automated energy management systems, fuel cells, and solar power installations, while beneficiaries included schools, colleges, police and fire stations, municipal buildings, transit facilities, public housing, libraries, and wastewater treatment plants.

NYPA partnered with many local and state government organizations to complete energy efficiency and clean energy projects in 2011, including its downstate government electricity customers; below are several of the projects completed this past year:

Williamsville Central Schools, Erie County: A $7 million energy-saving makeover at the suburban Buffalo school district's 13 elementary, middle and high schools will provide annual savings of $537,000 and eliminate nearly 2,300 tons of greenhouse gas emissions annually. The new lighting, cooling, heating and ventilation upgrades and other measures also have enhanced comfort levels for the nearly 11,000-student body.
SUNY Brockport, Monroe County: A $5.5 million project with an estimated energy savings of nearly $610,000 that included lighting retrofit and controls, heat recovery, chiller loop expansion, and installation of a solar photovoltaic system.
Albany County Sports Arena, Times Union Center: A $1.4 million project that is saving taxpayers more than $210,000 annually; the work included the replacement of a 700-ton comfort chiller, enhancement of a heat pump loop heat exchanger, and installment of a carbon dioxide demand-controlled ventilation system.
City of Cohoes, Albany County: The comprehensive $1 million energy efficiency upgrade included water filtration plant improvements, an energy efficient chiller and cooling tower in the public library, and an energy efficient gas-fired boiler in the senior center.
State University of New York at Plattsburgh: A $1.6 million campus-wide metering system for electric, gas and water consumption that is expected to remove more than 1,100 tons of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere each year.
SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse: A $600,000 project that included ventilation upgrades, energy efficient motors, lighting and controls and an energy efficient chiller.
MTA, Brewster Maintenance Facility, Putnam County: The $2.5 million energy conservation measures included lighting fixture upgrades, occupancy sensors, a water storage boiler, space unit heaters, a waste oil heater, and an office area boiler.
Westchester County Center, White Plains: The $3.8 million comprehensive energy-efficiency upgrade included the replacement of boilers, air-conditioning units, and an entirely new chiller system with ice storage.
New York City Transit, East New York Bus Depot, Brooklyn: The $2.9 million ventilation and lighting project is expected to save taxpayers nearly $450,000 annually and remove more than 2,000 tons of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere each year.
United Nations Development Corporation, Manhattan: The $3.7 million energy efficiency upgrade replaced existing lighting with high efficiency lighting--as well as new sensor technologies--and is expected to save taxpayers more than $500,000 annually.
Long Island Railroad (LIRR), Queens: A $4 million heating upgrade that replaced platform exhaust fans with new, insulated ducts, and high-efficiency fan motors. In addition, new gas-fired rooftop heaters were installed with new rooftop heaters and interior gas radiant heaters, including a gas detection system and the repair of roof penetrations. Completion of these energy savings options will allow the LIRR to realize a reduction of energy consumption, reduction of energy costs, and reduced equipment maintenance.
Suffolk County Community College, at its three campuses, on Long Island: The $5.5 million energy conservation measures, which include the installation of new boilers and high efficiency chillers, as well as lighting and ventilation upgrades, will save taxpayers more than $350,000 annually and remove more than 1,300 tons greenhouse gases from the atmosphere each year.

The projects are expected to lower peak electricity use by more than 10 megawatts -- one megawatt is enough electricity to meet the needs of 800-1,000 homes. The upgrades will also reduce greenhouse gas emissions by nearly 36,000 tons.

In an Earth Week Cabinet Meeting this week, Governor Cuomo announced that NYPA will finance approximately $800 million in cost-effective energy efficiency projects over the next four years, including $200 million in 2012 -- 25% more than the $150 million target in 2011 that NYPA eclipsed by more than $35 million. The financing will help reduce energy consumption in state buildings by 20% and will be directed toward the largest and most inefficient buildings.

NYPA finances the cost of its energy services programs primarily from the sale of Commercial Paper Notes and recovers its costs by sharing in the resulting electric-bill savings. A $21 million renewable energy program established by NYPA in 2008 is also a source of funding for clean energy.

Since the late 1980s, NYPA has completed energy efficiency and clean energy projects at more than 3,800 public facilities throughout the state for an installed cost of nearly $1.5 billion. The improvements have lowered annual electricity bills of those facilities by approximately $140 million and peak electricity demand by approximately 223 megawatts, or the equivalent to the output of a medium-sized power plant. In addition, the improvements have reduced annual greenhouse gas emissions by nearly 835,000 tons.

NYPA President and Chief Executive Officer Gil C. Quiniones said, "The energy-efficiency improvements that the New York Power Authority undertook in 2011 under Governor Cuomo's leadership involved a wide array of advanced energy technologies to lower utility bills at public facilities and reduce global-warming greenhouse gas emissions by lessening electricity demand. The environmental-protection goals of Earth Week are woven into our organization's DNA, from the generation of electricity from clean energy sources such as hydropower facilities, to significant investments in energy efficiency. The Power Authority is also contributing to the creation of clean energy jobs through businesses engaged in the engineering, design, manufacture and installation of these technologies."

NYPA Chairman Michael J. Townsend said, "The Power Authority is committed to energy efficiency and helping to meet Governor Cuomo's ambitious goals for managing electricity demand and expanding the state's use of renewable power. The Governor has made it clear that he will be giving priority to expanding efforts in these areas as a major part of his energy policy. NYPA will continue to give this maximum attention in supporting the Governor in this endeavor."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/04272012energy-efficient-jobs
