Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces DFS Investigation into Life Insurers Recovers More Than a Quarter Billion Dollars in Unpaid Benefits for Consumers Nationwide
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 23, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that a Department of Financial Services (DFS) investigation into how insurance companies tracked life insurance policy holders has resulted in 32,715 payments to consumers nationwide totaling $262.2 million, including 7,525 payments totaling $95.9 million to New Yorkers.
The DFS investigation found that many insurance companies regularly received a list of recent deaths from the Social Security Administration but were not mandated to use and, therefore, were not using that list to determine if a policy holder had died. That means if a family member did not know there was a life insurance policy or simply forgot to file a claim to the insurance company, that policy went unpaid. As a result, tens of thousands of families did not receive their life insurance benefits.
Meanwhile, the investigation found that insurance companies often used the list of recent deaths to verify the status of people getting annuity checks, and, when a death was verified, the insurance company stopped the annuity payment.
"This investigation makes it perfectly clear that something must be done to make sure families across New York receive the life insurance benefits that they are due," Governor Cuomo said. "In the wake of this investigation, New York will now mandate that insurance companies actively search the list of recent deaths so money will be paid to beneficiaries instead of being trapped in limbo and a new website will help families search for lost or forgotten policies."
"The Department gets frequent calls from people who say, "I know my parents were insured, but I can't locate the policy and I don't know which insurance company issued the policy.'" DFS Superintendent Benjamin M. Lawsky said. "There is simply no reason why insurance companies shouldn't be scrubbing their policy lists with the death index database on a frequent basis. Running these computer matches isn't much of a burden and the benefits to consumers are significant."




Source:
