Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Release of Enacted 2012-13 Budget Financial Plan
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo Charlie Rangel Chuck Schumer
Date: April 19, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the release of the 2012-13 Enacted Budget Financial Plan by the Division of the Budget. Following the passage of the budget, the Division of the Budget releases this annual report to update the state's financial plan. This year's report summarizes the state's official financial projections through 2016.
The 2012 budget closes a multi-billion dollar deficit with no new taxes, fees, or gimmicks and launches the New York Works Task Force to invest billions of dollars to rebuild the state's roads, bridges, parks, and other infrastructure and create tens of thousands of jobs. The budget also includes key economic development and transportation initiatives, important reforms to improve government efficiency, and measures to strengthen communities across the state.
The 2012-13 Enacted Budget Financial Plan holds State Operating Funds spending growth at two percent. To view the report, visit http://publications.budget.ny.gov/budgetFP/2012-13EnactedBudget.pdf.
"By responsibly closing a multi-billion dollar deficit with no new taxes and investing in innovative economic development programs, this budget will help us continue to rebuild our economy and create jobs," said Governor Cuomo. "This budget reflects Albany's renewed commitment to fiscal discipline, honest accounting, and bipartisan cooperation, and its successful early passage shows that state government is once again working for the people of New York."
President Bill Clinton said, "With the second consecutive on-time budget, major reforms to save taxpayer money, and a commitment to make New York's schools the best in the nation, Governor Cuomo is making New York's government work again, and making New York the comeback state."
United States Senator Charles E. Schumer said, "New York State is coming back and we are making real progress on our top priority for the state, creating jobs. This year in Albany Governor Cuomo and the legislature passed a budget that boosts our ongoing recovery by investing in infrastructure job creation while keeping the fiscal house in order. Together we will continue to revitalize our state's economy and create a better future for all New Yorkers."
Congressman Charles B. Rangel, dean of the New York congressional delegation, said, "We have witnessed a real transformation in our great State of New York over the past two years. Thanks to Governor Cuomo for the second straight year we have an on-time budget which presents a real blueprint for rebuilding our economy, investing in our schools and supporting vital programs. I look forward to continuing to work with the Governor to get New York's economy moving again and to build a better future for all New Yorkers."
Executive Director of the New York State Association of Counties Stephen J. Acquario said, "The 2012-13 Budget is good news for counties and local governments across New York State. By holding the line on spending and maintaining tough fiscal discipline, for the second straight year Governor Cuomo has put New York on track to rebuild and prosper. Over the years, county governments stand to benefit from the mandate relief and pension reform provisions included in the budget that will save tens of billions of dollars and help balance expenses on the local level. We commend the Governor for his leadership and look forward to continued efforts together to make our state better for all New Yorkers."
New York State Conference of Mayors Executive Director Peter A. Baynes said, "The New York State Conference of Mayors praises the 2012-13 State Budget that was introduced by Governor Cuomo and passed by both houses of the State Legislature. For far too long, New Yorkers had been forced to pay -- through increased property taxes -- for the ever-growing cost of government. Under the Governor's leadership, the state's last two budgets have closed multi-billion dollar deficits with no new taxes, fees or gimmicks. Furthermore, in addition to preserving AIM and CHIPS funding at current year levels, cities and villages across the state will save billions of dollars as a result of the budget's sweeping pension reform, helping to hold the line on taxes and protect local taxpayers. NYCOM commends the Governor for his leadership in working with the State Legislature to reach agreement on a budget that is timely, fiscally responsible and paves the way for a better, stronger and more competitive New York."
Unshackle Upstate Executive Director Brian Sampson said, "Governor Cuomo and the Legislature have done what's right for the people of New York by passing an on-time, balanced budget that keeps spending under control, while supporting capital funding for important projects and the elimination of budgetary tricks. This budget will also help jumpstart New York's economy and get major infrastructure initiatives off the ground to create new jobs. For two years in a row, Governor Cuomo has shown New Yorkers that he is serious about rebuilding the state's fiscal house, and we applaud his leadership."
Heather Briccetti, President & CEO of The Business Council of New York State, Inc., said, "Once again, Governor Cuomo and the Legislature have enacted an on-time budget that keeps spending under control and does not contain any new taxes. The budget makes important investments in job creation and critical infrastructure, sending a strong message to businesses across the state and nation that New York has turned the corner and moved in a direction that will lead to a better economy and new jobs for millions of New Yorkers. The Business Council is pleased that by working together, Governor Cuomo and legislative leaders are continuing on the path to bringing fiscal stability back to New York."
New York State AFL-CIO President Mario Cilento said, "The top priority of the labor movement is to create real jobs and bolster the middle class. Governor Cuomo's New York Works Program holds great promise to further this shared agenda and we look forward to collaborating with him as well as the members of the state legislature to improve the lives of New York's working families."
New York State Building & Construction Trades Council President James Cahill said, "By leveraging billions of dollars in capital funding for vital infrastructure projects, Governor Cuomo's Budget has the right ingredients to get New York State's economy moving again. New York's roads and bridges are in need of repair, and we commend the Governor for putting the New York Works Program as the centerpiece of his budget and reform plan to create jobs and put New Yorkers back to work. We applaud the Governor's willingness to consider Project Labor Agreements on appropriate infrastructure projects and the Building Trades will continue to work with him and his staff to ensure these projects are completed on time and under budget."
President of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York Gary LaBarbera said, "Governor Cuomo and the legislature are taking the right steps toward rebuilding New York's economy and creating jobs for our residents. Vital projects across the state will receive funding to begin work immediately through the New York Works Program. By investing in rebuilding our infrastructure, the governor is ensuring that the state supports our growing economy and creates jobs for New Yorkers."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/04192012Enacted-Budget
