Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New York State to Cover Local Share of Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee Response and Recovery Costs
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 11, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State will cover the local share of disaster response and recovery costs resulting from Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) usually covers 75% of eligible disaster response and recovery costs, and the remaining 25% is typically shared equally by the state and localities. Under the Governor's direction, the state will pick up the local share for most eligible expenses, making $61 million available to 25 counties to cover costs associated with emergency shelter, road, water system and infrastructure repair, stream and riverbed mitigation, and other clean-up projects.

"Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee devastated communities across our state, uprooting lives and placing a tremendous financial strain on families and local governments," Governor Cuomo said. "During the storms and their aftermath, New Yorkers in an outpouring of goodwill came together to lend a hand to their neighbors, and now it is the state's turn to lend a hand to localities. I am pleased that New York State could step up to the plate and provide tens of millions of dollars in funding to take the pressure off local governments and taxpayers, and allow existing rebuilding and recovery projects to move forward as quickly as possible."

Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee caused widespread destruction across New York late last summer, marking one of the largest disasters in the state's history. The total storm recovery cleanup cost is expected to exceed $1.6 billion and involve approximately 15,000 separate response and recovery projects.

The state is able to cover the local share of costs through funding put in place by the Legislature and additional federal funds requested by the Governor.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/04112012-tropical-storm-lee
