Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Joins Local Elected Officials in Utica to Highlight Recently Passed Budget
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo Joseph Griffo
Date: April 9, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today traveled to Utica to highlight the 2012-2013 New York State budget that was passed last week by the Legislature.

The Budget continues the Governor's commitment to fiscal responsibility while creating jobs and strengthening communities across the state. It closes a multi-billion dollar deficit with no new taxes, fees or gimmicks, limits spending growth to two percent or below for the second year in a row, and launches the New York Works Task Force to invest billions of dollars to rebuild the state's roads, bridges, parks, and other infrastructure and create tens of thousands of jobs.

The New York Works Task Force is the centerpiece of Governor Cuomo's jobs program and will reinvent state economic development with an innovative new strategy that will put New Yorkers back to work rebuilding the state's infrastructure. The Task Force will create tens of thousands of jobs by coordinating comprehensive capital plans, overseeing all investment in infrastructure projects, and accelerating hundreds of critical projects across the state.

The Budget includes key economic development and transportation initiatives, important reforms to improve government efficiency, and measures to strengthen communities across the state.

"For the second year in a row, New York State government came together and passed a budget that holds the line on spending and launches the New York Works program to create jobs and rebuild our state's infrastructure. By putting partisan politics aside, my colleagues in the legislature have helped transform our government into an efficient and effective body that restores competence, integrity, and fiscal discipline to Albany," Governor Cuomo said. "I applaud the New York State Assembly and Senate, as well as Majority Leader Skelos and Speaker Silver, for their leadership and dedication to New Yorkers."

Senator Joseph Griffo said, "In years past, adopting late Budgets was an accepted sign of Albany dysfunction. It became a running joke where the hardworking New Yorker suffered as the target of a punchline. After a leadership change in the Governor's office and the Senate, for the second year in a row, we've adopted a Budget that controls state spending, avoids new taxes, fees and unfunded mandates and helps create new jobs here in the Mohawk Valley. I recognize the Governor for his leadership and for working together with the Senate and Assembly over the past 15 months to spur economic development across the state and restore faith in New York's government."

Assemblymember AnthonyJ. Brindisi said, "Tough decisions had to be made, but in the end we delivered a fiscally responsible, on-time budget that focuses on job creation and makes the most of taxpayer dollars. I look forward to working with Governor Cuomo in the coming months to do even more to ease costly, burdensome unfunded mandates so that we can continue to reduce taxes and create jobs."

The key provisions of the Budget include:










































































































Source:
