Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces More Than 120 Businesses Join NY Youth Works Program, Creating Jobs for 2,900 At-Risk Youth
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo Keith Wright Michele Titus Joe Robach
Date: March 21, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that more than 120 businesses across the state have joined the New York Youth Works Program, creating 2,900 full and part-time job openings for young, at-risk New Yorkers.

Mylan Denerstein, Counsel to the Governor, and Alphonso David, Deputy Secretary for Civil Rights, today joined members of the Legislature and representatives from participating businesses to encourage additional youth and companies to take advantage of the program.

"I've repeatedly said that it's all about jobs, jobs, jobs, and this program is off to a great start helping young adults across our state get the tools they need to find employment," Governor Cuomo said. "By giving at-risk youth a chance, participating companies are helping strengthen our inner city communities and developing our state's workforce for the future. I encourage additional businesses to take advantage of this program, and urge young people who are struggling to find employment to get involved."

The Governor and Legislature designed the NY Youth Works program to provide permanent, unsubsidized employment for youth across New York State. The program allows thousands of young people to receive work readiness, occupational training and digital literacy training to build a foundation for future success.

The program includes $25 million in tax credits for businesses that hire unemployed and at-risk youth, and $62 million to support job training programs. Currently, 122 businesses have committed to the program, offering 2,950 full-and part-time job opportunities. In addition, 1,030 youth have been certified to participate in the program. Job training is scheduled to begin in early April.

Participating businesses will be offered up to a $3,000 wage subsidy in the form of tax credits to immediately put inner-city youth to work for six months. An additional tax credit of up to $1,000 is available to employers who retain the participating youths for an additional six months.

Businesses interested in participating in the NY Youth Works program should visit http://www.jobs.ny.gov/youthworks. Youth interested in participating in the program can visit their local One-Stop Career Center, a listing of which can be found at http://labor.ny.gov/workforcenypartners/osview.asp, or call the New York State Department of Labor at (877) 226-5724. Eligible participants for "NY Youth Works#157; include unemployed, low-income youth aged 16 through 24 who are located in one of the following areas: Albany, Brookhaven, Buffalo, Hempstead, Mount Vernon, New Rochelle, New York City, Rochester, Schenectady, Syracuse, Utica, and Yonkers.

Businesses that have led the way in creating jobs through NY Youth Works include:
Wegmans Food Markets, Inc: 271 Jobs
Sutherland Global Services, Inc: 200 Jobs
All Care Home Health Services, LLC: 180 Jobs
Dinosaur Restaurants, LLC: 160 Jobs
NAE Edison LLC: 150 Jobs
Havana Central NY 4: 149 Jobs
NY Penn League: 133 Jobs (Buffalo Bisons, 71; Tri-City Valley Cats, 30; Rochester Red Wings, 17; Brooklyn Cyclones, 10; Staten Island Yankees, 5)
New Century Home Care, Inc: 130 Jobs
Platinum Home Health Care: 130 Jobs
Caring LHCSA, LLC: 130 Jobs
Intergen Health, LLC: 100 Jobs

The Governor also announced that Time Warner Cable and Cablevision have both agreed to run Public Service Announcements to promote New York Youth Works. The announcements will begin airing next week and will encourage additional young people and businesses to get involved.

Senator Joe Robach, Chairman of the State Senate Labor Committee, said, "This recent economic downturn has hit communities across this state very hard, especially our inner cities. The New York Youth Works Program has gotten off to a great start in helping young New Yorkers in neighborhoods across the state get the training they need to start long, successful careers. I encourage additional businesses and unemployed young people to take advantage of this program, and thank Governor Cuomo for his efforts to create jobs and put New Yorkers back to work."

Assemblyman Keith Wright, Chairman of the State Assembly Labor Committee, said, "Even before the recession, the majority of young people in Harlem had trouble finding a job. Now, the problem has only gotten worse, with over fifty percent of young adult African-American males unemployed. This is why I joined with Governor Cuomo to enact the NY Youth Works program, which will address the historic disparity in employment for at-risk youth with realistic strategies and 'on-the-ground' action. By giving our children access to invaluable work experience at a young age, we are helping to ensure their lifelong success. I applaud Governor Cuomo for taking the lead on an issue which is so truly important to communities like Harlem and to the future of our State."

Assemblywoman Michele Titus said, "Creating jobs for our young people must be a top priority and the New York Youth Works Program has already shown great promise at helping tackle the issue of youth unemployment in our inner city neighborhoods. Although many businesses and young people have already signed up with New York Youth Works, there is room for many, many more. I urge young people who have had difficulty finding a job to get involved, and I encourage businesses big and small to take advantage of the hiring incentives so we can create jobs and rebuild our communities. I thank the Governor and my colleagues in the legislature for joining together to create jobs and opportunities for those who need them the most."

Michael O'Sullivan, Managing Director of Government Relations for Hillside Family of Agencies, said, "For years, Hillside has worked across Upstate New York with great partners like Wegmans to prepare and train young people for successful careers. These are good, career-building jobs at major businesses and organizations, and show that investing in people- particularly our youth- is good for business and great for our communities. I thank Governor Cuomo and the legislature for launching this exciting program, and I urge businesses across the state to get involved and take advantage of this great opportunity."

Lee Schroeder, Cablevision's senior vice president of government and public affairs, said, "Cablevision is pleased to support Governor Cuomo's innovative initiative, New York Youth Works, to develop important workplace skills. Cablevision is committed to making this valuable program visible to young adults and businesses, a critical element to its success."

Rory Whelan, Time Warner Cable Regional Vice President of Government Relations, said, "Time Warner Cable congratulates Governor Cuomo and the State of New York in bringing awareness to this valuable initiative. We recognize the importance of inspiring and developing our next generation of workers here in New York State and the lasting effect it will have on our state's economy and the local communities we serve."

Rick Murphy, Vice President & General Manager of the Tri-City Valley Cats, said, "The NY Penn League is happy to participate in the New York Youth Works Program. There are many opportunities throughout the entire league for youth to pick up life skills and build a long lasting career. We thank Governor Cuomo for his commitment to making sure unemployed young people in New York's economically disadvantaged communities have an opportunity to get the training they need to launch successful careers."

In mid-February, DOL made $8 million available to training providers to facilitate the employment of work-ready youth in the 12 targeted areas. These training providers can now each apply for up to $100,000 in total funding. To apply for funding under the RFP/RFA process, please visit www.jobs.ny.gov/youthworks. Submit the completed application to the Department via e-mail to: WDTD.Onestop@labor.ny.gov.

For more information about the program, visit: www.labor.ny.gov/careerservices/youth-tax-credit.shtm

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/03212012-businessnyyouth
