Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces "NYSStore" on Ebay to Sell State Vehicles and Other Assets
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 22, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the Office of General Services (OGS) will launch "NYSStore," a new eBay-based online platform to sell unneeded state vehicles and other excess state assets. NYSStore will offer a spectrum of surplus state goods including office supplies, computers, cell phones, furniture, medical equipment, cameras, generators, tools, and other supplies that are no longer needed by the state. The sale will begin in early April with inventories updated regularly.

As part of Governor Cuomo's overhaul of New York's government operations, a new fleet management system has been set up to consolidate the state's vehicle fleet. As a result of this effort, the state has already identified nearly 500 vehicles to be part of the first online sale. The sale of these cars and other goods could generate hundreds of thousands of dollars as well as millions of dollars in reduced costs due to reduced fuel and maintenance expenses.

"By selling unneeded equipment and supplies, New York State will reduce operating costs and cut back on excess spending and inventory," Governor Cuomo said. "This initiative is a small part of our work to overhaul government operations and make the state work more efficiently for the taxpayer."

The nearly 500 passenger vehicles that will be offered in the initial sale on NYSStore include numerous makes and models. Many vehicles are late model (after 2000), have high mileage and will be sold "as-is". Vehicles not sold through NYSStore will be offered through the traditional Office of General Services on-site auction at a later date.

The vehicles will be offered through the NYSStore (http://www.nysstore.com), via eBay, beginning in April. Vehicles will be available for inspection at the Harriman State Office Campus, and the Department of Motor Vehicles will have a satellite office on the Campus to facilitate the sale and registration of the vehicles. Vehicles will be offered at a "buy it now" price, or for auction with a minimum price.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/02222012NYSStore
