Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Unveils Plans to Modernize and Rebuild I-390 Interchange in Rochester
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 17, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today unveiled new plans to modernize and rebuild the I-390 Interchange in Rochester. The project will create a gateway to the University of Rochester, enabling campus expansion and job growth. The Governor included $26 million in his 2012-2013 Executive Budget to support the first two phases of the project.

The project will improve accessibility to the University of Rochester, Monroe Community College and Rochester Institute of Technology campuses, leading to thousands of new jobs in the local economy generated by university growth. Approximately 630 construction jobs will also be created.

"The rebuilt I-390 Interchange will help Rochester continue to build on its strengths as one of the nation's premier learning and professional development centers, while creating thousands of new jobs," Governor Cuomo said. "By rebuilding critical infrastructure across New York we can jumpstart our state's economy, and that is why I included $26 million in my Executive Budget to support the first phases of this important project."

Lieutenant Governor Robert Duffy said, "As the former Mayor of Rochester, I can attest to the importance of rebuilding and modernizing the I-390 Interchange. Rochester is home to some of the nation's top institutions of higher education, and the upgraded Interchange will allow for university expansion and the creation of thousands of new jobs. Governor Cuomo and I will continue to put creating jobs and investing in our state's infrastructure at the center of our plan to rebuild New York."

The I-390 project was identified as a key initiative by Governor Cuomo's Finger Lakes' Regional Economic Development Council. The project will consist of several phases that will help address current congestion and traffic safety issues along the I-390 corridor. Included in the overall project are significant improvements to the East River Road and Kendrick Road intersection, as well as major improvements at both the East Henrietta Road and West Henrietta Road interchanges along I-390. The new ramps and capacity improvements will greatly improve accessibility to and from the University of Rochester and Monroe Community College campuses and will help support other local development efforts.

New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) Commissioner Joan McDonald said, "Our transportation network in Rochester and across New York State must meet modern traffic needs. Working together with the university community, we will invest in this vital link and provide safer access and mobility for bicyclists and pedestrians, as we continue to integrate motor vehicle traffic with healthier and more sustainable modes of transportation. This project is the perfect example of government working to restore critical infrastructure that will enable the local economy to continue to grow and prosper."

A key phase of the project will involve a new ramp from Kendrick Road to I-390 northbound and a new direct access ramp from East River Road to I-390 southbound. These new connections to I-390 will help improve safety, reduce congestion and provide the access necessary for the University of Rochester to move ahead with their plans to expand their campus, hospital, and research facilities. The University of Rochester is the largest employer in the Rochester area and the sixth largest employer in New York State. These improvements will help support the continued growth of the University and the surrounding area. Construction contracts are expected to be awarded later this year.

Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-28) said, "The improvements to come on I-390 are wonderful news for everyone who lives or works downtown. It will be a major economic driver for the Rochester area, allowing our world-renown higher education institutions and world-class corporations to expand creating thousands of new jobs. I am pleased to support this critically needed infrastructure project and have long fought for projects that improve our regional transportation systems understanding that with improved infrastructure comes economic development."

State Senator Joseph Robach said, "The launch of this project to rebuild the I-390 Interchange is a big win for local businesses, our top-notch colleges and universities, and the people here in Rochester. Governor Cuomo has repeatedly emphasized the need to invest in critical infrastructure projects, and I commend him for including more than $25 million in his Executive Budget to get this project off the ground. We will continue to do all we can to create jobs in the Rochester area and get our state's economy back on track."

Assemblyman Joseph Morelle said, "I thank Governor Cuomo for his leadership in seeing the I-390 project start this year. Rebuilding and modernizing the Interchange will allow Rochester's world-class colleges and universities to grow and expand, leading to new jobs and investment. For too long we have put important projects like this on the back burner, but it is truly a new day in New York. By working together, we can make sure our state's economy is rebuilt and jobs are created for New Yorkers."

Assemblyman David Gantt said, "Governor Cuomo has put in his Executive Budget this year a bold plan to rebuild our state's transportation infrastructure. I am pleased that the I-390 Interchange project has been prioritized and will begin this year. This project will be a big support for the University of Rochester, RIT, and Monroe County Community College, as well as the many small businesses in this area."

City of Rochester Mayor Thomas S. Richards said, "Today is a great day for the City of Rochester. By rebuilding I-390, we are laying the groundwork for decades of future job growth and expansion, as well as enabling the jewels of Rochester -- our institutions of higher education- to continue investing in our city. This is a big win for New York State, our City, and our colleges and universities, who will benefit from this project for years to come. I praise Governor Cuomo for his leadership and focus on launching this project."

University of Rochester President Joel Seligman said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo for his support for the I-390/Kendrick Road Interchange project. The Governor's decisive leadership was vital to moving this transformational project forward. It will enable the University of Rochester to create literally thousands of jobs and strengthen our position as one of the leading research universities of the 21st century. For his leadership and his vision for a stronger, better New York, I am deeply grateful."

Source:
