Public Statements
Governor Cuomo and NYSCOPBA President Donn Rowe Announce Tentative Contract Agreement Between State and NYSCOPBA Law Enforcement Members
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 9, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo and New York State Correctional Officers and Police Benevolent Association (NYSCOPBA) President Donn Rowe today announced a tentative contract agreement between the State and NYSCOPBA law enforcement membership.

The tentative contract includes zero percent wage increases for 2011-2013 and ensures protections against layoffs, and offers health benefits commensurate with other state bargaining units. The contract provides for a 2% increase in both 2014 and 2015, 9 days of deficit reduction leave, and adjustments to the health insurance premium.

"During these difficult fiscal times, shared sacrifice is needed and I am pleased that we have been able to reach a tentative agreement with the law enforcement membership of NYSCOPBA," Governor Cuomo said. "By working together we have put forward a fair and reasonable contract that protects the jobs of our men and women in law enforcement. I thank President Rowe for his hard work in helping reach this tentative agreement."

Donn Rowe, President, New York State Correctional Officers and Police Benevolent Association, Inc. (NYSCOPBA), said, "These are certainly difficult times for New Yorkers, and NYSCOPBA has always pledged to do our part to help the state get through them. With this agreement, Governor Cuomo is recognizing the hard work of our law enforcement members and the valuable service they perform for the public. The Governor deserves credit for negotiating a fair contract that considers the needs of our members while also acknowledging New York's fiscal reality."

NYSCOPBA represents over 26,000 New York State employees and retirees from the Security Services Unit. The tentative agreement applies to law enforcement members who are not eligible for arbitration.

The agreement follows the pattern of contracts negotiated over the past year and includes:
Zero percent wage increases for 2011-2013, a 2% increase in both 2014 and 2015.
The agreement includes 3% and 4% wage increases for 2009-2010; same pattern as other units. These increases were previously reserved for in the state financial plan.
A $1,000 retention bonus paid out $775 in the third year and $225 in the fourth year.
Deficit Reduction Leave of five days this fiscal year and four days next fiscal year, saving $4.3 million. The total deduction for the days comes from the retro pay for 2009-11.
Employees will be repaid the value of 4 days in equal installments starting at the end of the contract term.
Retroactive payments that are scheduled to be paid in two installments next fiscal year.
A two percent increase in health insurance premium contributions for Grade 9 employees and below, making the share 12% for individuals and 27% for family premiums; and six percent increase for Grade 10 employees and above, making the share 16% for individuals and 31% for family premiums.
A health plan opt-out so officers can opt-out through a spouse/partner to a non-State health plan.
All changes to health benefits, including premium shifts, will save $8.2 million over the contract period and $2 million annually after 2016.
A labor/management committee to review all leave taken by officers, including annual, personal, sick, workers compensation, and the manner of such use. Recommendations will be made to the President of NYSCOPBA and the GOER Director for implementation.
Officers will receive broad layoff protection. Workforce reductions due to management decisions to close or restructure facilities authorized by legislation, SAGE recommendations or material or unanticipated changes in the state's fiscal circumstances are not covered by this limitation.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/02092012NYSCOPBA
