Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches NY Youth Works Program to Address Inner City Jobs Crisis
Press Release
By: Ruth Hassell-Thompson José Peralta Felix Ortiz, Jr. Sam Roberts Crystal Peoples-Stokes Phil Ramos Earlene Hooper Carl Heastie David Gantt John Sampson Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 23, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the launch of "NY Youth Works," a statewide program to combat the unacceptably high unemployment rates among inner city youth in communities across New York. The new program, passed last month in an extraordinary session of the state legislature, includes $25 million in tax credits for businesses that hire unemployed and disadvantaged youth and $62 million to support job training programs.
"With unemployment at over 40 percent among youth in our inner cities, New York must stand up and make sure our young people are a central part of our state's economic recovery," Governor Cuomo said. "To rebuild New York, we must invest in the next generation of New Yorkers and give our young people opportunities to grow and succeed. This program will bring together government and the private sector to join forces and make a lasting impact on families, communities, and our state's economy."
The Governor and legislative leaders designed the NY Youth Works program to provide permanent, unsubsidized employment for youth across New York State. Under the program, thousands of young people can receive work readiness, occupational training and digital literacy training to build a foundation for future success. Businesses will also be offered up to a $3,000 wage subsidy in the form of tax credits to immediately put inner-city youth to work for six months. An additional tax credit of up to $1,000 will be available to employers who retain the participating youths for an additional six months. The program is a central part of Governor Cuomo's urban agenda which is designed to revitalize underserved communities across the state and address the chronic needs of those living in poverty.
Businesses interested in participating in the NY Youth Works program should visit http://www.jobs.ny.gov/youthworks. Youth interested in participating in the program can visit their local One-Stop Career Center, a listing of which can be found at http://labor.ny.gov/workforcenypartners/osview.asp, or call the New York State Department of Labor at (877) 226-5724. Eligible participants for "NY Youth Works" include unemployed, low-income youth aged 16 through 24 who are located in one of the following areas: Albany, Brookhaven, Buffalo, Hempstead, Mount Vernon, New Rochelle, New York City, Rochester, Schenectady, Syracuse, Utica, and Yonkers.
Senate Minority Leader John Sampson said, "We can no longer ignore the unemployment crisis among high-risk youth in inner city communities. By putting in place the NY Youth Works program, Governor Cuomo is leading the way at confronting this major issue and providing a real solution to create jobs and incentivize businesses to give opportunities to our young people. Our first priority must be getting our state's economy back on track, and I commend the Governor for his leadership in ensuring the youth in our cities have the tools they need to put their careers in the right direction."
Senator Ruth Hassell-Thompson said, "There is an unemployment crisis in our urban communities that must be addressed, and I commend Governor Cuomo for his leadership in launching the NY Youth Works program to incentivize businesses to hire inner city youth. For these young people to contribute to our state and economy throughout their careers, we must make investments in their future now, and this program does just that. I thank the Governor for his efforts to make sure urban youth are not left out of the state's economic recovery."
Senator José Peralta said, "I am proud to stand with Governor Cuomo today at the launch of the important NY Youth Works program. It is high time that government step up to address the need for jobs in inner city areas, and this program will help businesses hire at-risk youth and jumpstart their careers and future. I thank the Governor for making sure creating opportunities for our inner city youth is a major part of our state's economic recovery."
Deputy Speaker Earlene Hooper said, "I thank Governor Cuomo for taking the lead on this important issue of youth unemployment in our communities. We cannot stand by as our communities suffer, and creating jobs for our young people must be a top priority to rebuilding our neighborhoods. Governor Cuomo has been a strong voice in advocating for the need for new jobs and opportunities in our communities, and I praise him for launching the NY Youth Works program that will be a major step toward revitalizing our cities and neighborhoods."
Assemblywoman Crystal Peoples-Stokes said, "This program launched by Governor Cuomo will be a big step toward putting young people in our urban communities to work. For too long, unemployment has been too high among our youth, and the NY Youth Works program will bring together businesses and government to invest in these young New Yorkers. I thank the Governor for his leadership and work to put in place this program that will be a big support for our communities."
Assemblyman David Gantt said, "We cannot afford to stand by idly as young people in our cities are unable to find work. Governor Cuomo has taken the lead in making sure our youth have employment opportunities so they can begin their careers on the right foot. The NY Youth Works program is an innovative and resourceful way of bringing together the public and private sector to create jobs and support businesses and young people. I commend the Governor for his leadership."
Assemblyman Sam Roberts said, "Governor Cuomo is right for emphasizing the importance of putting young people in urban communities to work. Creating jobs must be the centerpiece of any plan to get the economy running again. And nowhere is unemployment worse than in our cities and among inner city youth. I praise the Governor for launching this important program that will help to rebuild our neighborhoods and give our young people new hope and opportunities."
Assemblyman Phil Ramos said, "To get our state's economy running again, we must create jobs in every corner of the state. Nowhere is the jobs crisis worse than among inner city youth, and that is why the NY Youth Works program is such a critically needed program to address this need. I support and thank Governor Cuomo for leading the way on this initiative and for his efforts to create opportunities for young people in urban communities."
Assemblyman Felix Ortiz said, "I praise Governor Cuomo for putting the NY Youth Works program front and center of his agenda to revitalize inner city communities. The first step to rebuilding our communities starts with addressing the unacceptably high unemployment rates among our young people. This program will give local employers incentives to put at risk youth to work- giving them new opportunities and hope for the future. I thank the Governor for leading this effort."
Assemblyman Carl Heastie said, "After years of ever increasing unemployment rates and abysmal job growth, finally something is being done to combat the jobs crisis in inner city communities across New York State. Governor Cuomo should be commended for launching the NY Youth Works program which holds the potential to launch an economic recovery in the hardest hit parts of our cities and give our young people much needed jobs. I look forward to continuing to work together with the Governor to create jobs and make sure our inner cities are not forgotten as we get our state's economy back on track."
The new inner city youth employment and tax credit program is part of Governor Cuomo's comprehensive New York Works Agenda. The New York Works Agenda will create thousands of jobs and grow the state's economy through investments in New York's infrastructure, a new fair tax reform plan that achieves the first major restructuring of the tax code in decades, a tax cut for 4.4 million middle class New Yorkers, additional relief for areas devastated by recent floods, and a reduction of the MTA payroll tax to provide relief for small businesses.
For more information, please visit www.labor.ny.gov.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/1232012JobsCrisis
