Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New York State To Receive $93 Million In Federal Grants For Disaster Relief
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 20, 2012
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State will receive over $93 million in disaster relief to help communities that were hit hard by Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee. The funds are for disaster relief, long-term recovery, and restoration of infrastructure, housing, and economic revitalization in counties that received a disaster declaration in 2011.
"Since Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee swept through New York, we have worked hard to get communities the resources they need to recover and rebuild," Governor Cuomo said. "This announcement is a big victory for our state and for the families, businesses, and municipalities that were hit hard by the devastating floods. We will do all we can to expedite these funds and make sure they go directly to those who need them the most."
In the wake of Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee, along with other disasters that occurred nationwide in 2011, the U.S. Congress recently appropriated $400 million for disaster relief in the form of Community Development Block Grants Disaster Relief (CDBG DR). New York State had disaster declarations issued in 48 of its 60 counties last year, and will receive a total of $93 million in CDBG DR funding, more than any other state. Orange County and the Town of Union will receive funds directly from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), 11.2 million and $10.1 million respectively. New York State Office of Housing and Community Renewal will receive funds totaling $71.7 million to assist the remaining disaster declared local governments.
Use of CDBG DR funds to assist local governments will require the State to submit a plan to HUD detailing the proposed use of all funds. The State may also use its share of CDBG DR funds as a matching requirement, share, or contribution for any other Federal program. This would allow the State to assist local governments in funding their share of required match for other disaster assistance funds.
Counties that received a disaster declaration include: Albany, Allegany, Broome, Bronx, Chemung, Chenango, Clinton, Columbia, Delaware, Dutchess, Essex, Franklin, Fulton, Greene, Hamilton, Herkimer, Kings, Lewis, Livingston, Madison, Montgomery, Nassau, New York, Niagara, Oneida , Onondaga, Ontario, Orange, Otsego, Putnam, Queens, Rensselaer, Richmond, Rockland, Saratoga, Schenectady, Schoharie, Steuben, Suffolk, Sullivan, Tioga, Tompkins, Ulster, Warren, Washington, Westchester, Wyoming, and Yates.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/01202012fedgrant
