Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Outlines 2012-13 Executive Budget and Reform Plan in Yonkers
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 18, 2012
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today traveled to the City of Yonkers in Westchester County to outline his 2012-13 Executive Budget and Reform Plan, which expands on the historic reforms enacted last year to continue building a New New York. As a result of the tough decisions and bipartisan cooperation of the past year, the State is able to close the current deficit without broad cuts, new taxes, fees or gimmicks. In addition, the Governor's Executive Budget proposes major reforms to reduce the cost of government for taxpayers, implements accountability in our schools to put students first, and puts the State in a position to leverage billions of dollars in private sector investment to grow the economy and create jobs.
"The hard work we did last year to transform the way our state spends money is paying dividends this year as we are now able to make the long-term reforms needed to reimagine our government and revitalize the state's economy," Governor Cuomo said. "This budget demonstrates fiscal discipline and proposes real reforms that puts students ahead of the education bureaucracy and leverages major investment to spur private sector growth. By coming together in the same bipartisan manner we did last year, we will continue our work to build a New New York."
The Governor's Executive Budget closes the current $2 billion budget deficit with no new taxes or new fees. It also proposes sweeping mandate relief and pension reform that will save taxpayers and local governments billions of dollars and launches historic education reform to put students ahead of the education bureaucracy. Additionally, the Executive Budget lays the groundwork for an innovative $25 billion economic development agenda, funded largely by leveraging billions in private sector investment rather than by taxpayer dollars. The New York Works Fund and Task Force will accelerate and launch projects to rebuild critical infrastructure in the Hudson Valley, spurring more than $426 million in investment, and creating more than 4,100 jobs. The NY Works Fund will further leverage $5 billion for the Tappan Zee Bridge project, leading to the creation of more than 23,000 additional jobs. A complete list of projects in the Hudson Valley can be found here: http://governor.ny.gov/assets/Yonkersprojects.pdf







Source:
