Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Agreement Reached on Taxi Legislation
Press Release
By: Sheldon Silver Andrew Cuomo Carl Heastie Dean Skelos Martin Golden
Date: Dec. 20, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that an agreement has been reached to provide taxi service to all five boroughs of New York City and improve access to taxi and livery cabs for persons with disabilities.
Governor Cuomo will approve the bill and the legislature has agreed to introduce a chapter amendment in the next legislative session.
The agreement includes the creation of a new class of hail-accessible inter-borough livery licenses, 20% of which will be for vehicles accessible to individuals with disabilities. The Taxi and Limousine Commission (TLC) will be authorized to issue up to 18,000 of these new licenses and will be required to provide grants of up to $15,000 to retrofit vehicles to accommodate the disabled or to purchase accessible vehicles. The agreement also authorizes the city to sell 2,000 new medallions, all of which will be restricted to vehicles that are accessible to the disabled.
"By working together and finding common ground, I am pleased that we have been able to reach a deal that will extend taxi and livery service to the outer boroughs and upper Manhattan, while ensuring full access for the disabled," Governor Cuomo said. "The bill as originally passed failed to address the needs of individuals with disabilities and did not provide any incentive for the livery industry to ensure disabled New Yorkers had full access to the taxicab system."
"Last January, in my State of the City speech, I announced that our Administration would seek to achieve a goal that had eluded the City for three decades: bringing legal taxi service to the 7 million New Yorkers who live outside Manhattan's Central Business District," said Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. "Today, we have achieved that landmark goal -- and it is a huge victory for all New Yorkers who have ever sought to hail a cab outside of Manhattan and in northern Manhattan. The new law and the agreement reached today will also generate a much-needed billion dollars in revenue for the City through the sale of 2,000 new yellow medallions, all of which will be wheelchair accessible. In fact, today's agreement, by increasing the number of medallions sold by 500, will provide even more revenue for the City than the original bill passed in June."

Source:
