Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $14.4 Million in AmeriCorps Funding
Press Release
By: Charlie Rangel José Serrano Andrew Cuomo Eliot Engel Brian Higgins
Date: July 25, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State has been awarded $14.4 million in AmeriCorps funding for 14 organizations that promote children's health and education, disaster preparedness and other key initiatives. The funding, provided by the Corporation for National and Community Service, will support the recruitment of new AmeriCorps Members. $8.1 million in competitive grant funds have already been awarded, with an additional $6.3 million in New York State AmeriCorps grants to be announced later this year.
"New Yorkers help New Yorkers when they need it the most -- a tradition that is exemplified by the great AmeriCorps volunteers in every corner of this state," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding will support the vital work of these organizations to improve lives and help build a stronger New York for all."
Each receiving organization has crafted a program to address specific needs in its community. Awarded through a national competitive Request for Proposal process, the funding will enable 14 nonprofit organizations to recruit new AmeriCorps members. New York State received its best results in the last five years, with 90 percent of grant submissions funded. The New York State Commission on National and Community Service - New Yorkers Volunteer will administer the funding.
Linda Cohen, Executive Director of the New York State Commission on National and Community Service, said, "AmeriCorps members are making a real difference in our state, and we are gratified that the Corporation for National and Community Service has shown such strong support for New York's excellent national service programs. Whether it's cleaning up after a devastating storm or helping children succeed in school, this funding will further the growth of the communities they serve."
Congressman Charles B. Rangel said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo for his commitment to help enhance AmeriCorps, a critical and cost-effective program that engages young adults across the country. This generous funding from the Corporation for National and Community Service will serve as a substantial investment to involve New Yorkers in the important work of improving our communities by providing essential services in education and infrastructure."
Congressman Eliot Engel said, "As Americans and New Yorkers, we know what an incredible difference organizations like AmeriCorps can have on our communities. There is no greater calling in life than to give voluntarily of one's self to serve others. The $14.4 million in AmeriCorps funding Governor Cuomo has announced today will empower many great organizations throughout the state to continue to make a positive difference in our communities."
Congressman José E. Serrano said, "This important federal funding will allow some our state's most important non-profits to strengthen and expand their activities by recruiting new AmeriCorps members. The work of these non-profits is crucial in communities like the Bronx and thanks to this funding they will be able to offer more programming and services in a number of key areas including children's health, education, and disaster preparedness."
Congressman Brian Higgins said, "Service organizations turn ideals into action to enact sustainable change. AmeriCorps and the Service Collaborative of WNY will use these resources to create support systems for school children, filling in critical gaps to build a strong foundation, and giving them tools to succeed."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-144-million-americorps-funding
