Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $785 Million in Economic Development Funding Through Regional Councils
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 8, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that $785 million has been awarded through the Regional Economic Development Council initiative, continuing the Governor's efforts to redesign the way state government works in order to drive economic growth and create jobs.
Announced in July, Regional Councils represent a fundamental shift in the state's approach to economic development from a top-down development model to a community-based, performance driven approach which empowers individual areas to develop comprehensive strategic plans that invest in regional solutions to create jobs and economic growth. As part of the Regional Council process, a Strategic Plan Review Committee was chosen to analyze and rank the strategic plans for each region competing for $200 million in specially targeted economic development funding.
"Regional collaborations and planning is a roadmap to get New Yorkers back to work," Governor Cuomo said. "The plans submitted by all ten regions were truly extraordinary. For the first time, we are putting the power of the State Government behind the innovation of our people, giving them the tools to rebuild our economy."
Lieutenant Governor Robert Duffy said, "Under Governor Cuomo's transformative Regional Council initiative, New York finally has the strategic economic development planning to change the way it does business. By engaging the expertise of those who know their regions best we can capitalize on each region's greatest assets to maximize job creation and economic growth."
The plans are the result of months of consideration by the Regional Councils and input from the public in each region. The process included holding over 100 public meetings, forums and community workshops across the State. Thousands of New Yorkers contributed to the development of the plans through these events.
In addition to the strategic planning grants made available through the Regional Council initiative, a Consolidated Funding Application (CFA) was created to give businesses and other entities streamlined and expedited access to economic development funding from nine state agencies and 29 existing programs. Awards for CFA projects were based on the endorsement of the local Regional Council and the technical scoring of various state funding agencies. Additionally, approximately 800 eligible applicants will receive funding from NYSERDA's energy efficiency and renewable energy programs.
Consistent with the Governor's Executive Order issued earlier this year to increase Minority and Women Business Enterprise (MWBE) participation in state contracting, all projects awarded grants through this initiative must use best efforts to reach the goal of 20% MWBE participation.
For a full appendix of these projects, go to:
http://www.governor.ny.gov/assets/documents/CFAAWARDSBooklet.pdf
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/12082011RegionalCouncils
