Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Directs Actions to Help Curtail State's Energy Usage
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 25, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

"The ongoing heat event is increasing electricity usage and placing additional demands on New York's power grid. As a result, we are taking action to conserve energy use when possible, and are encouraging New Yorkers to do the same," Governor Cuomo said. "As temperatures continue to climb across the state, it is important for everyone to take proper precautions to stay cool and act responsibly to beat the heat."
As a result of the high temperatures today, it is expected that the state's peak load will be 32,400 MWs, approaching the record set on July of 2013 of 33,955 MWs. One megawatt of electricity is enough to power between 800 and 1,000 average-sized homes. In summer, usage climbs each day during a heat wave causing the load to grow, peaking in the afternoon. When the electric system is stressed, it can result in localized brownouts, instances of low voltage or isolated outages.
To reduce demand, the state's electric utilities and the New York Independent System Operator have preparations in place to have industrial and commercial customers voluntarily reduce demand, if necessary. Meanwhile, Con Edison, the state's largest electricity utility, has used voltage reduction and demand response in some localized areas as a precautionary measure to reduce stress on equipment. Similarly, the New York Power Authority and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced they have also activated a program to reduce electricity use a designated MTA sites to offset demand. MTA service will not be affected.
Governor Cuomo also directed all agencies across the state to immediately lower their energy usage by turning off lights, raising air conditioning temperatures, closing window shades, and powering down unused computers, printers and other electrical devices. This step is expected to reduce demand by 60 MWs, or enough for 60,000 homes. Governor Cuomo strongly encouraged local public officials and municipalities to follow suit.
Department of Public Service Chair Audrey Zibelman said, "Given the prolonged heat wave we are experiencing, it's important for consumers to reduce their energy use at this time. Equally important is for our residents to stay cool and stay hydrated as the hot and humid weather continues. Working together, we will able to reduce unnecessary electricity usage during this heat wave and stay physically healthy."
Office of General Services Commissioner RoAnn Destito said, "In response to the directive by Governor Cuomo, OGS is implementing its statewide energy reduction protocols in the buildings we own and manage. This includes reducing the use of non-essential lighting, reducing the use of air conditioning in common areas such as lobbies, slightly increasing building temperatures, shutting down selected escalators and turning off electrically powered displays."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-directs-actions-help-curtail-state-s-energy-usage
