Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Health Insurer Rate Filings Now Available to Public
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 15, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that rate increase requests from health insurers are now available on the Department of Financial Services' website, www.dfs.ny.gov. DFS has determined that all rate increase requests should be available so that the public could comment effectively, but health insurers initially objected. Then, led by United Healthcare, the insurers dropped their objections.
Governor Cuomo said, "Rising health insurance costs hit everyone, and especially those who can least afford them. This is a great day for transparency and the public's right to know how their health insurance premiums are set."
Under a law passed in 2010, insurers are now required to seek the prior approval of the Department of Financial Services for certain health insurance rate increases for individuals, small groups and some large groups. So far, for contracts that start on or after January 1, 2012, health insurers requested weighted average increases of 12.7% and the Department granted increases of only 8.2 percent, below the expected increase in medical costs. The lower increase will save consumers more than $400 million in 2012.
The insurers support their rate requests with substantial detailed data. Previously, those detailed filings were kept confidential.
Department of Financial Services Superintendent Benjamin Lawsky said, "The public has a right to know the basis for rising premiums. In addition, transparency and competition should help to control the increases in health premiums. I applaud the insurers decision to make these filings public."
In September, DFS determined that the filings should be disclosed so that the public can provide meaningful comments as part of the rate review process. The Department sent a letter to all of the health insurers informing them of this decision. Ten insurers and the industry trade group, the New York Health Plan Association, responded with formal objections, which are permitted by law. In October, the insurers agreed to drop their objections so the filings could be made public without going through a long legal process.





Source:
