Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches Program to Incentivize Improvements In Student Performance
Press Release
By: Sheldon Silver Dean Skelos Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 2, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the launch of the School District Performance Improvement Awards program that is designed to transform New York State's education system by incentivizing student achievement and encouraging school districts to implement innovative reforms to improve student performance.
The performance awards will be granted to school districts in the state that have demonstrated the most success in increasing student performance, narrowing the achievement gap, and increasing academic performance among students with the greatest educational needs. The awards will also be available to school districts that exhibit the greatest potential for continued improvements in student performance. Up to $75 million in grants will be distributed over the next three years, with additional awards to be distributed in future years. Districts that do not receive awards are eligible to reapply.
Currently, education aid is primarily distributed through formula-based grants without performance incentives or requirements. To transform the state's education system, Governor Cuomo created in his first Executive Budget two performance-based competitive award programs to incentivize student performance and management efficiency.
"New York must be the leader when it comes to education reform and this begins with improving performance on all levels," Governor Cuomo said. "For too many years, our state has spent more and more money on education, without producing the results our students deserve. This competitive award program will incentivize innovative reforms in school districts across the state that will benefit students and help educate the workforce of tomorrow. New York's commitment to its students is second to none, and we will continue to build our state's education system so every child can receive a top quality education."

Source:
