Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Puts Forth Port Authority Appointments and Reorganization Plans
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 19, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that he has recommended Patrick J. Foye to serve as Executive Director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ) and will nominate James Rubin and Rossana Rosado to the Port Authority Board. Additionally, the Governor is calling for the board to approve the consolidation of the Moynihan Station Development Corporation and Lower Manhattan Development Corporations operations into the Authority. There is no fiscal impact to the Port Authority as a result of these changes.
Mr. Foye's recommendation is subject to the approval of the PANYNJ Board. Current Executive Director Christopher Ward will remain in his position until the end of October and then serve as an advisor to the Port Authority for a transitional period through the end of the year.
"The Port Authority must meet its potential as a major economic engine that plans for the region and attracts business on an international scale," Governor Cuomo said. "We must also improve its operations and maximize the value out of every dollar spent so that it is financially responsible and respects the tax and toll payers."
Pat Foye said "I am honored to be recommended for Executive Director of the Port Authority. Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, we have begun to re-energize New York's economy and pave the way for job growth in the state. I thank Governor Cuomo for this opportunity and look forward to working closely with him and the Board of Directors at the Port Authority on maintaining and improving the New York metropolitan region's vital transportation, infrastructure and economic development assets".
Governor Cuomo also announced the reorganization of the operations of the Moynihan Station Development Corporation and the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation into the Port Authority.


Source:
