Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Visits New York Remembers Exhibit in Nassau County
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 7, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today visited the New York Remembers exhibition in Rockville Centre, where he was joined by family members and first responders to commemorate the tenth anniversary of September 11th.
"This exhibition will give New Yorkers here in Nassau County a place to gather and stand as one community to make sure we never forget those who lost their lives on September 11th," Governor Cuomo said. "Every community across New York felt the impact of the senseless acts of terrorism that claimed thousands of lives just one decade ago. Today we come together to embrace the spirit of unity that brought us together on that day of devastating tragedy."
On August 10, Governor Cuomo, the New York State Museum, and the National September 11 Memorial and Museum announced the "New York Remembers" exhibitions in 30 locations across the state. The exhibitions give New Yorkers a place to remember the victims of September 11th and honor the countless heroes who came from all corners of the state to help in the clean-up and recovery efforts. The exhibitions feature historical artifacts from the collections of the State Museum and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum.
Bernie O'Brien, father of Tim O'Brien and father-in-law of Steve Tighe, both of whom worked at the World Trade Center, said, "The September 11 terrorist attacks were meant to tear our communities apart, but instead they brought our state and nation stronger together. However, we still suffered greatly that day and my family in particular lost two members, Tim and Steve. A decade later, New Yorkers must continue to remember those who died that day, whether it was a flight attendant, firefighter or someone working in the World Trade Center, all the lives lost were precious and their memory must be preserved. The "New York Remembers' exhibits do just that, and I am grateful for the chance to pay tribute today to our boys and all those who were lost."
Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos said, "It is very appropriate that Rockville Centre has been chosen as one of the two places on Long Island that will showcase these nationally important historical artifacts because of the exceptionally profound loss of life our village, and the communities surrounding it, suffered on September 11. This exhibit will provide another way for us all to learn more about the experiences of others on that tragic day, remember the thousands who died, and demonstrate the strength and resolve of our community, state and country."
Deputy Speaker Assemblywoman Earlene Hooper said, "The New York Remembers exhibits provide the opportunity for citizens from across the state to come and see with their own eyes artifacts from the September 11 attacks. These are pieces of New York and American history and I urge everyone to come, learn and remember."
Assemblyman Brian Curran said, "Our state and our nation came together as never before following the terrorist attacks of September 11. I commend Governor Cuomo for establishing the 'New York Remembers' exhibits and for ensuring that they are spread throughout the state, so that all New Yorkers may visit them, pay tribute and truly remember that historic day. I believe this exhibit will serve as a healing for us all."
Francis Murray, Mayor of Rockville Centre, said, "As we approach the tenth anniversary of 9-11, it is vital that we remember those who were lost on that fateful day. I applaud Governor Cuomo for his efforts in creating the 'New York Remembers' exhibits, and thank him for bringing this vital piece of our state's history to Rockville Centre."
Each location will remain open until the end of September. All will be open on Sunday, September 11th.
Many of the artifacts being exhibited have never been seen by the public, including: the trailer used by families visiting Ground Zero that includes photographs and messages; damaged emergency vehicles and other vehicle parts; aluminum and glass from the buildings; religious "symbol steel" created by the workers at the site; and airplane fragments including landing gear and engine parts. The stories behind all the artifacts will be told as part of the exhibitions.
With more than 2,000 artifacts, the New York State Museum is the nation's largest repository of objects recovered from the World Trade Center site after September 11, 2001. Within weeks of the attacks, State Museum staff documented the operations at the WTC site and later spent countless hours at the WTC Recovery Operation at Fresh Kills where all the material was inspected. In the ten months that followed the attacks, the FBI and NYPD recovered over 50,000 pieces of personal property. The Museum also documented the Fresh Kills operation with hundreds of photographs, interviews, and films.
The FBI and NYPD transferred all artifacts to the Museum after they were designated non-essential to the crime scene as neither criminal evidence nor personal property. Items include rescue artifacts, building pieces, everyday artifacts, and other objects from the site. No object collected from Fresh Kills by the State Museum was kept if it could be identified as owned by an individual. Vehicles like a FDNY truck were signed over to the State Museum by the FDNY via a deed of gift by the specific agency. Forty-nine pieces of the two airplanes that crashed into the towers were transferred to the State Museum by the FBI. These include fuselage, interior, and engine parts.
The State Museum also has a significant collection of sympathy material from the New York City area, New York State, and across the world.
ABOUT THE NATIONAL SEPTEMBER 11 MEMORIAL & MUSEUM
The National September 11 Memorial & Museum is the not-for-profit corporation created to oversee the design, fundraising, programming, and operations of the Memorial & Museum at the World Trade Center. The Memorial & Museum will be located on eight of the sixteen acres of the World Trade Center site. The Memorial will be dedicated on the tenth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks and will open to the public the following day, and the Museum will open in September 2012.
The Memorial will remember and honor the thousands of people who were killed in the horrific attacks of September 11, 2001 and February 26, 1993. The design, created by Michael Arad and Peter Walker, consists of two reflecting pools formed in the footprints of the original Twin Towers and a plaza of trees.
The Museum will display monumental artifacts linked to the events of 9/11, while presenting intimate stories of loss, compassion, reckoning, and recovery that are central to telling the story of the 2001 and 1993 attacks and the aftermath. It will communicate key messages that embrace both the specificity and the universal implications of the events of 9/11; document the impact of those events on individual lives, as well as on local, national, and international communities; and explore the continuing significance of these events for our global community.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/09072011NewYorkRemembersExhibitinNassauCounty
