Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $15 Million Agricultural and Community Recovery Fund
Press Release
By: Kirsten Gillibrand Paul Tonko Andrew Cuomo Chuck Schumer
Date: Sept. 3, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that he has created a $15 million Agricultural and Community Recovery Fund to help rebuild the agricultural industry in farming areas impacted by Hurricane Irene.
"I have seen first-hand the devastating damage to many New York farms as a result of Hurricane Irene and we must do all we can to help these farmers and our rural communities recover," Governor Cuomo said. "New York's agricultural industry is an important part of our state economy and the storm wreaked havoc on farms that many New Yorkers depend on for their livelihood. This fund will help New York's farming community rebuild and recover."
The money provided by the fund will be used for soil and water conservation districts to assist in rebuilding agricultural infrastructure, mitigation of stream banks, drainage and sewer rehabilitation, vineyard restoration and other projects necessary for rebuilding the agricultural industry in hard hit farming areas. Darrel Aubertine, Commissioner of the Department of Agriculture and Markets, and Matthew Driscoll, President and CEO of the Environmental Facilities Corporation, will work with the New York Farm Bureau and local governments to prioritize projects that will have the greatest impact on restoring damaged communities.
The money will be provided from the Upstate Agricultural Economic Development Capital Fund and the Department of Homes and Community Renewal's Community Development Office.
Darrel Aubertine, Commissioner of the Department of Agriculture and Markets, said, "Farmers that have seen widespread damage from Hurricane Irene should know that New York is here to help. Our agriculture community is a vibrant and robust part of our state economy, and I commend Governor Cuomo for establishing this fund to help farmers get back on their feet after this devastating storm. I look forward to working with farms across the state as we recover from Hurricane Irene."

Source:
