Public Statements
Statement from Governor Cuomo on President Obama Granting Federal Disaster Declaration for New York
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 31, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

"I thank President Obama for his quick action granting New York a federal disaster declaration. The damage incurred by Irene has devastated communities in counties across our State, leaving many without homes and towns and villages without essential public infrastructure. All levels of government are working together to help New York recover and we will not stop until the job is done."
Governor Cuomo requested the expedited approval yesterday.
Designations and types of assistance granted by the federal disaster declaration are as follows:
* Individual Assistance (Assistance to individuals and households): Albany, Delaware, Dutchess, Essex, Greene, Schenectady, Schoharie, and Ulster Counties.
* Public Assistance (Assistance for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities): Albany, Bronx, Clinton, Delaware, Dutchess, Essex, Greene, Montgomery, Nassau, New York, Queens, Rensselaer, Richmond, Rockland, Schoharie, Suffolk, Ulster, Warren, and Westchester Counties. Direct federal assistance is authorized.
* Hazard Mitigation Grant Program: (Assistance for actions taken to prevent or reduce long term risk to life and property from natural hazards): All counties in the State of State of New York are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program.
* Other: Additional designations may be made at a later date after further evaluation.
The public assistance granted today will reimburse communities for the costs incurred for debris removal and emergency protective actions taken in response to Hurricane Irene.
The Individual Assistance program will provide the following aid to homeowners, renters and small businesses: the Individuals and Households Program, Crisis Counseling, Disaster Unemployment Assistance, USDA food coupons and distribution, USDA food commodities, Disaster Legal Services, the Disaster Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, and Small Business Administration disaster loans.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/08312011GrantingFederalDisasterDeclaration
