Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Returns to Margaretville to Survey Damage and Recovery Efforts
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 31, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today returned to Margaretville to survey the damage caused by the storm and to monitor the ongoing recovery efforts. The Governor made the visit after traveling to Prattsville earlier today with Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate.
Governor Cuomo traveled through Margaretville this past Sunday as the storm hit and flood waters rose up. He personally took photographs of the devastation caused to the community by massive flooding. The Governor returned to Margaretville today, three days after the storm, to review recovery efforts, meet with local officials, and speak with residents affected by the storm.
"We were right here during the storm, we have returned to review the damage, and we will stay on top of the recovery efforts until Margaretville is restored," Governor Cuomo said. "This community paid a terrible price because of the storm, but when we rebuild Margaretville it will be better and stronger than ever before."
In Margaretville, the Governor met with Mayor John VanBenschoten and Delaware County Emergency Management officials. He also met with local business leaders including Noah Katz, the owner of the only supermarket in a 30 mile radius. The Governor inspected the interior of the market which was totally destroyed, as well as other structures and businesses in the town. Numerous structures on the town's Main Street may be structurally unsound.
The Governor thanked state and local emergency workers, clean-up crews and the National Guard who are actively working in Margaretville. The Governor was joined by General Patrick Murphy, head of the National Guard and Howard Glaser, Director of State Operations. Following his visit, the Governor directed the National Guard and his Upstate Storm Recovery Task Force to send a state recovery team to the Town to further assist recovery efforts.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/08312011GovernorCuomoReturnstoMargaretville
