Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Department of Motor Vehicles Investigation Leads to Additional Arrests of Commercial Drivers with Multiple Licenses
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Aug. 18, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced today that a Department of Motor Vehicles investigation has led to the arrests of 51 commercial drivers, including bus drivers, for fraudulently obtaining multiple driver licenses using an alias.
The arrests were made as the result of the use of facial recognition technology which reviewed the records of 600,000 holders of New York State Commercial Driver Licenses (CDLs). In addition to the most recent arrests, more than 70 other CDL drivers were arrested based on the use of facial recognition technology earlier this year. Since February of 2010, 800 people have been arrested for having two or more licenses under different aliases.
The drivers who obtained their licenses fraudulently were each charged with Offering a False Instrument in the First Degree and Falsifying Business Records in the Second Degree. Those with excessive unpaid tickets were also charged with Aggravated Unlicensed Operation in the Second Degree.
"With some hi-tech help, the state can now quickly find drivers who think it's acceptable to use an alias to illegally get more than one license," Governor Cuomo said. "I commend investigators from the Department of Motor Vehicles as well as the local, state and federal agencies that teamed up on this case to help stop this fraud and keep our roads safe."
In addition to the DMV Division of Field Investigations the other agencies involved in the investigations and arrests were the New York City Police Department Document Fraud Squad, the New York State Division of State Police, U. S Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the Social Security Administration, the United States Department of State Diplomatic Security Service, and the U.S. Secret Service in cooperation with the offices of the District Attorneys in Queens, New York, Brooklyn, Nassau, Westchester and the Bronx.


















































Source:
