Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Port Authority and Delta Agree on Final Component to Building New Airport at LaGuardia
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 21, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey's Board of Commissioners has authorized $600 million in Port Authority contributions to support Delta's complete rebuilding of its terminal and gate facilities at LaGuardia Airport -- the final component for an entirely new, unified airport at LaGuardia. Under this agreement, former terminals C and D will be combined into a new, single Delta facility, linking to Central Hall, and giving all LaGuardia travelers direct access to every airline, state-of-the-art amenities, and expanded public transportation, including the planned AirTrain.
Today's authorization comes less than one year following the unveiling of the master plan for the new airport at LaGuardia by Governor Cuomo and Vice President Biden, and follows last month's groundbreaking on the airport's new facilities. The Port Authority's $600 million investment will leverage approximately $3 billion in Delta's financing of its new facilities.
"LaGuardia is one of the premier gateways into New York, but for too long its antiquated and dilapidated appearance has obscured its role as a key driver of New York's economy and transportation hub," Governor Cuomo said. "Replacing these outmoded terminals is a major step forward in our reimagining of LaGuardia into a 21st century, world-class airport worthy of the Empire State. I thank Delta for their partnership, and welcome the many visitors who will enter through their new terminals."
The authorization includes plans for a long-term lease with Delta for the new terminals. The lease would run through 2050, which is the same timeframe for both the Port Authority's airport lease with the City of New York and Central Hall. Terms and conditions of the lease with Delta are being finalized and will be presented to the Port Authority Board of Commissioners for final approval.
The Port Authority's $600 million commitment includes $200 million towards the new Delta facilities, including the construction of new concourses and ramps; $185 million for a new electrical substation to support the power requirements of the new building, plus an expansion of the East Garage and temporary parking during construction; and $215 million for new roadway and additional supporting infrastructure that is typically the responsibility of the Port Authority in new terminal developments.
Start of construction is pending environmental review and permitting by the Federal Aviation Administration. Work on the Delta phase of the project is expected to be carried out on a parallel track with the rest of the airport's new construction.
Delta CEO Ed Bastian said, "Today marks another proud moment in Delta's ongoing commitment to providing an exceptional experience for New Yorkers. Our participation in this historic project builds on the more than $2 billion Delta has invested in New York over the past seven years. We are honored to be a part of Governor Cuomo's and the Port Authority's comprehensive vision for a 21st-century LaGuardia Airport, and we look forward to many exciting milestones to come."
Delta Vice President-New York Henry Kuykendall said, "On behalf of the more than 10,000 New York-based employees who are part of the fabric of this community, we take great pride in Delta's role in rebuilding one of the world's busiest and best-known airports in the city that we all call home."
Port Authority Vice Chairman Steven M. Cohen said, "Nearly a year ago, Governor Cuomo unveiled his vision for a 21st century, unified LaGuardia Airport. With nearly 80 percent of the $8 billion project funded through private finance and existing passenger fees, the new LaGuardia Airport is a model on the private and government working together to deliver critical transportation projects for the region."
Councilmember Julissa Ferreras-Copeland said,"LaGuardia is not only a major transportation hub, but also a cultural gateway and vital economic force in the local community and greater New York area. Under Governor Cuomo's visionary leadership, we are building a new state-of-the-art airport at LaGuardia with innovative solutions to support the demands of a thriving, modern city. The authorization of two new terminals is an exciting step towards creating an airport that reflects the best of New York."
Borough President Melinda Katz said, "This is a substantial investment at an important juncture for Queens. Infrastructure upgrades are critical to the economic engine and future of our borough. The transformation of LaGuardia will go a long way toward keeping our city competitive. Thanks to the vision and dedication of Governor Cuomo and tremendous partners like Delta Air Lines, LaGuardia Airport will soon be a top-flight, state-of-the-art, unified airport befitting of the international capital of the world."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-port-authority-and-delta-agree-final-component-building-new-airport
