Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Law to Allow Expanded Donations of Computer Equipment to Not-For-Profits
Press Release
By: Ellen Jaffee Andrew Cuomo John Bonacic
Date: Aug. 15, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed a law to allow municipalities to donate surplus computers, computer software and computer equipment to not-for-profit institutions for use by senior citizens or low income individuals.
"In today's technologically advanced world, a computer is an indispensable tool and this law will give senior citizens and low income New Yorkers access to computers that are no longer needed by municipalities," Governor Cuomo said. "Computer literacy is often a requirement for employment and staying connected with friends and family, and this law will help not-for-profit organizations provide important services to New Yorkers. I thank the sponsors, Senator Bonacic and Assemblywoman Jaffee, for their support of this legislation."
The new law authorizes local governments to dispose of surplus computers, computer software and computer equipment through donation to not-for-profit institutions for use by senior citizens or low income individuals upon demonstrating proof of need by such organization. Previously, municipalities were restricted to donating computers to schools, libraries and not-for profits for use by individuals with disabilities. The new law expands which not-for-profit organizations are eligible for surplus equipment, giving more New Yorkers access to workable and affordable equipment and technology. The law takes effect immediately.
Senator John Bonacic said, "This will enable not-for-profit institutions to refurbish and redistribute workable computers to citizens who can benefit from affordable access to technology. Computers are often a prerequisite to finding a job and having a working sense of technology can improve one's chances of being hired. I thank Governor Cuomo for signing this legislation that I believe will help New Yorkers be better prepared for the job market, while providing a common sense way for municipalities to dispose of surplus technological equipment."
Assemblywoman Ellen Jaffee said, "Knowing that taxpayer dollars funded the purchase of these computers, it makes perfect sense that we expand where this equipment can be donated when it is no longer needed. Governor Cuomo has emphasized the need to do everything possible to help New Yorkers be better prepared for the job market, and this law will help thousands of New Yorkers learn how to better use computers and have access to 21st century technology."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/08152011NotForProfit
