Public Statements
Governor Cuomo to Sign "Complete Streets" Legislation
Press Release
By: David Gantt Andrew Cuomo Charles Fuschillo, Jr.
Date: Aug. 15, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced he will sign a law to require state and local transportation agencies to consider "complete streets" designs that will make streets and roadways across the state safe and accessible to all New Yorkers.
"New York's roadways should safely accommodate all pedestrians, motorists and cyclists, and this legislation will help communities across the state achieve this objective," Governor Cuomo said. "Complete Streets designs recognize measures that will make streets safer for New Yorkers of all ages and abilities. I thank Senator Fuschillo and Assemblyman Gantt for their hard work on this legislation."
Under the new law, "Complete Streets" design principles will be considered on New York State Department of Transportation projects and local and county projects which receive both federal and state funding and are subject to state DOT oversight. "Complete Streets" principles facilitate improved joint use of roadways by all users, including pedestrians, motorists, and bicyclists as well as promote a cleaner, greener transportation system with reduced traffic congestion and the resultant air pollution. Design features may include sidewalks, bicycle lanes, crosswalks, pedestrian control signalization, bus pull outs, curb cuts, raised crosswalks, ramps, and traffic calming measures.
Senator Charles Fuschillo said, "Complete streets design principles have been proven to reduce fatalities and injuries, and by taking them into consideration on future projects we will greatly improve the safety of pedestrians, bicyclists, and drivers of all ages and abilities. This new law will result in safer roadways and I thank Governor Cuomo for supporting this law which will help save lives, prevent injuries, and make New York a safer place for all."
Assemblyman David Gantt said, "With this legislation, future state and local transportation projects will be planned in a way that is more mindful of all users of our roadways. Thanks to this new approach to road design, New Yorkers will be able to realize the convenience, energy savings and health benefits that all forms of mobility have to offer. I commend Governor Cuomo for his leadership and New York will be better off with this new law in place."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/08152011CompleteStreetsLegislation
