Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches Mohawk Valley Regional Economic Development Council
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 28, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today launched his Mohawk Valley Regional Economic Development Council, which will redesign the relationship between the state government and businesses to stimulate regional economic development and create jobs statewide. Lieutenant Governor Robert Duffy was joined by local officials, business leaders, and community members to launch the Regional Council at the SUNY Institute of Technology in Utica.
The Mohawk Valley Regional Council will be led by Bjong Wolf Yeigh, President of the SUNY Institute of Technology, and Lawrence T. Gilroy III, President of Gilroy, Kernan & Gilroy, Inc., who will both serve as Regional Co-Chairs. The Regional Council will coordinate the economic development of Fulton, Herkimer, Montgomery, Oneida, Otsego, and Schoharie counties. A complete list of members of the Mohawk Valley Regional Council is included below.
"Through these Regional Councils, we will empower individual areas like the Mohawk Valley to chart their own course for job creation and economic growth," Governor Cuomo said. "For too long, Albany has imposed one-size-fits-all economic development plans, ignoring the distinctive assets and challenges of each region. Today, we are taking a new approach that sends a clear message that New York is open for business."
The Regional Councils represent a fundamental shift in the state's approach to economic development, from a top-down development model to a community-based approach that emphasizes regions' unique assets, harnesses local expertise, and empowers each region to set plans and priorities.
Currently, New York State's economic development efforts are managed through dozens of separate state and local agencies. The Regional Councils will now bring together stakeholders in every region of the state to serve as a coordinated point of contact for economic development. Each Regional Council will be chaired by Lieutenant Governor Robert Duffy and will be led by two Regional Co-Chairs from the business and academic communities. Additional membership is comprised of local leaders from business, academia, labor, agriculture, nonprofits, and community-based organizations.
Each Regional Council will develop a plan for the development of their region. The state will work with the Regional Councils to align state resources and policies, eliminate unnecessary barriers to growth and prosperity, and streamline the delivery of government services and programs to help the Regional Councils carry out their plans for development.
Governor Cuomo has already made historic changes to the state's economic development grant application process to support the Regional Councils. Through a new Consolidated Funding Application that combines resources from dozens of existing programs, the Regional Councils can now apply for $1 billion in state funding for projects they determine to be part of their regional strategy.
Lieutenant Governor Robert Duffy said, "These Regional Councils will enable every section of the state to prepare individualized economic plans, making the regions the drivers of their own success. Only by focusing on what our regions actually need can we take full advantage of our resources and keep businesses and jobs here in New York. Governor Cuomo's groundbreaking economic development strategy will put our state back on the right path to future prosperity."
Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Kenneth Adams said, "New York can no longer afford to be rated amongst the worst in the nation for business. It is clear that the economic development strategies of Albany's past have failed to solve the challenges we face. Governor Cuomo's Regional Councils create a more efficient business model that empowers individual regions to determine what is best for their own communities and incentivizes thoughtful economic policies through competition. I am excited to work with every region to maximize their potential and bring investment and jobs to New York State."
Bjong Wolf Yeigh, President of the SUNY Institute of Technology and Co-Chair of the Mohawk Valley Regional Council, said, "No one possesses more experience and knowledge of local economies than the stakeholders in that community. Governor Cuomo's Regional Councils will implement a community-based, competitive approach that promises to effectively turn around the Mohawk Valley and the rest of New York. By collaborating with local business leaders and stakeholders, the Governor's plan addresses the core of our economic challenges, from the ground up. I congratulate Governor Cuomo for his bold plan and look forward to working with him and the members of the Mohawk Valley Regional Economic Development Council to revitalize New York's economic climate."
Lawrence T. Gilroy III, President of Gilroy, Kernan & Gilroy, Inc. and Co-Chair of the Mohawk Valley Regional Council, said, "New York's economic development has been at a standstill for years. Governor Cuomo's Regional Council enlists Mohawk Valley business leaders and stakeholders who know exactly what is needed in the region. The model has the potential to revamp the Mohawk Valley's economic development, create jobs, and generate business that has long been lacking in this area. In addition, the Governor's approach will take advantage of the local expertise and assets in the community. As a whole, these Councils will finally restore New York's reputation as a business-friendly state. I applaud the Governor and Lieutenant Governor for their bold plan and I am proud to serve on the Mohawk Valley Regional Council."
The ten Regional Councils cover the Capital Region, Central New York, Finger Lakes, Long Island, Mid-Hudson, Mohawk Valley, New York City, North Country, Southern Tier, and Western New York.
To learn more about the Regional Councils, please visit www.nyopenforbusiness.com

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/07282011MohawkValley
