Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Law Prohibiting The Sale of Hookahs, Smoking Paraphernalia, and Shisha to Minors
Press Release
By: Martin Golden Andrew Cuomo Alec Brook-Krasny
Date: July 21, 2011
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed a new law that prohibits the sale of shisha and certain types of smoking paraphernalia to minors. Under this law, businesses offering these products for sale may only sell to individuals who are at least eighteen years of age with proper identification.
"Smoking has caused serious health repercussions for users of all ages and underage smokers are especially vulnerable to these dangers," Governor Cuomo said. "This bill will make it more difficult for minors to purchase smoking products and it protects their health in the long run. I thank Senator Golden and Assemblyman Brook-Krasny for their work in securing passage of this legislation."
Smoking tobacco and using related products poses harmful health risks to the public. In addition to emphasizing the severity of using these products, this law would help control and limit the sale of hookah products and other smoking paraphernalia to minors who are particularly susceptible to the negative health effects of using these products. This law will take effect on January 1, 2012.
Senator Martin Golden said, "It is a fact that smoking can seriously damage one's body and health. By widening the ban on certain smoking products, this new law will help prevent minors from purchasing these items and keep them from caving into the pressure to smoke, protecting them today and in the future. As hookah bars become more popular amongst teenagers, parents have raised significant concerns and I believe this legislation properly addresses those apprehensions. I thank Governor Cuomo for signing this bill and together, we will continue building a healthy, strong New York."
Assemblyman Alec Brook-Krasny said, "I commend Governor Cuomo for signing this bill into law today and protecting the health of our children and communities. No matter if you are smoking tobacco, shisha or herbal cigarettes, this habit is extremely hazardous to the health of all smokers. We have made great strides in educating young people about the dangers of cigarettes. However, in our community, hookah and water pipes are a dangerous and unfortunately available alternative means for smoking tobacco and this bill will help block access for minors to these products and keep the health of more New Yorkers safe."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/071511hookahs
