Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Law Requiring Convex Mirrors On Large Trucks
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 18, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed a law that requires convex mirrors to be placed on the front of large trucks being driven in New York City.
"Convex mirrors are an effective tool to protect pedestrians from accidents caused by blind spots," Governor Cuomo said. "This law will allow truck operators to see pedestrians or objects directly in front of them and will offer new safety protections to many New Yorkers. I thank Senator Golden and Assemblywoman Millman for their efforts in seeing this bill passed."
The new law is designed to eliminate blind spots directly in front of large vehicles. Under the law, all large trucks registered in New York state with a maximum gross weight of 26,000 pounds are required to be equipped with a convex mirror on the front of the vehicle when driving in New York City.
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said, "The installation of crossover mirrors on large trucks will eliminate a dangerous blind spot for truck drivers, and help protect pedestrians in our city streets, particularly children, from being injured or killed when a truck first begins to move. The Assembly first introduced this legislation in 1994 following the deaths of two young boys in Brooklyn. Just this May a 4 year-old boy was killed while riding his tricycle. I commend the governor for signing this critical legislation, and for putting an end to this pattern of truck/pedestrian accidents."
Senator Martin Golden said, "This new law will help reduce the potential risk of pedestrian fatalities and injuries in New York. I am proud to have introduced this legislation which will enable truck drivers to be more aware of pedestrians walking in front of their vehicles while driving in New York City. I thank Governor Cuomo for his leadership and signing into law a bill that will make New York's streets safer for all."
Assemblywoman Joan Millman said, "This bill was a response to several fatalities that have occurred because truck drivers were not able to see youngsters walking in front of their vehicles. Requiring trucks to be equipped with special convex mirrors is an important addition to our pedestrian protection laws. With these new mirrors we will hopefully see fewer tragic incidents that have occurred due to truck drivers' inability to properly see directly in front of their vehicles. I commend Governor Cuomo and my colleagues in the Legislature for working to pass this legislation."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/07182011LawRequiringConvexMirrors
