Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs United Nations Bill
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 15, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed legislation that will allow the United Nations to expand its facilities and build on public parkland in Manhattan. The bill calls for the renovation and the addition of other parkland to replace the open space that will be lost.
"For over 60 years the United Nations has been an important part of New York, bringing jobs, tourism, and economic development to the City," Governor Cuomo said. "This law allows the U.N. to expand its facilities, bringing hundreds of millions of dollars in new investment, and helping it better serve its vital mission. I thank the legislature for passing this important bill."
The legislation requires a Memorandum of Understanding to be signed in October 2011 that together with this law will authorize New York City to designate a portion of state parkland between East 41st and 42nd Street on the east side of First Avenue in Manhattan to be used by the U.N. to build a new facility. Additionally, funds will be designated for substantial improvements to park and public lands in Manhattan.
Senator Liz Krueger said, "I commend Governor Cuomo for signing this legislation that will enhance the strong bond that both the City and State have had for decades with the United Nations. This legislation allows for the UN to consolidate its personnel in a more secure 21st century campus while providing new opportunities to expand park space, reconnect East Midtown to the waterfront and help close the gap in the Greenway around Manhattan. I look forward to a continued partnership that will bring many more wonderful things to the East Side Waterfront."
Assemblyman Brian Kavanagh said, "This legislation sets in motion a process that we hope will enable our community, the City, the State, and the United Nations to achieve some very big things on the East Side of Manhattan. For many years people have sought way to expand and improve our local parkland, transform our iconic Manhattan waterfront to create continuous public access, and better accommodate the operational and security needs of the UN--an institution of great significance to the world and a major economic engine in our State. With Governor Cuomo's approval of this legislation, there will now be an intensive 12-week conversation among all parties to see if we can move toward these objectives. I thank the Governor, Mayor Bloomberg, Speaker Silver, Senator Krueger, and Councilmember Garodnick and his colleagues on the City Council for their leadership. With their continued engagement, I am confident we will reach agreement by October 10th."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/071511UNbill
