Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Adirondack Park Affordable Housing Law
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 15, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed a law that will improve affordable housing options for residents of the Adirondack Park.
"No matter where in New York, affordable housing should be available to residents of this state," Governor Cuomo said. "This law will give those of modest means living in the Adirondack Park the ability to reduce housing costs and will also bring new building projects to local economies in the Adirondacks. I thank Assemblyman Sweeney and Senator Little for their work to see this legislation passed."
The new law amends the Adirondack Park Agency Act to allow for "smart housing" options for residents of the Adirondacks that meet certain income criteria. Under the measure, up to four housing units will now be allowed per building area in certain parts of the Adirondacks where only one housing unit was generally allowed in the past. This will give families and residents living in the Adirondack Park more flexibility in making housing decisions and increase affordable housing options.
Senator Betty Little said, "This legislation provides communities greater flexibility to deal with the very pressing issue of affordable housing. This is a limited change under the APA Act, but a very important one given the need. By allowing for some clustering of modest homes on one parcel, it limits sprawl and will keep the price of new homes at a level more people can afford."
Assemblyman Robert Sweeney said, "In today's economy, our state government must continue to do more to help create jobs and keep housing affordable for New Yorkers. This bill applies "smart growth" principles to accomplish that by supporting special community housing projects in the Adirondack Park. I thank Governor Cuomo for signing this bill that I sponsored, and I look forward making more progress together as we rebuild the state of New York."
Executive Director of Adirondack Community Housing Trust Alan Hipps said, "Affordable housing is a necessity to all New Yorkers and today's signing is a major step forward for many who live in the Adirondack Park. The new legislation provides an important tool to allow local governments to meet this need. The new initiative is a low-impact means of addressing this problem. Allowing a moderate increase in density provides for an efficient use of resources. It balances the ideals embedded in environmental stewardship while allowing for community sustainability. We appreciate the work of the Legislature and Governor Cuomo to adopt this progressive legislation."
Executive Director of Adirondack Park Local Government Review Board Frederick H. Monroe said, "Today Governor Cuomo signs into law legislation that will radically improve the availability and affordability of housing in the Adirondack Park community. By increasing the number of dwellings allowed on a parcel of land, the new law will allow for homeowners to have say over housing decisions and bring economic growth to local communities. I applaud the Legislature and Governor Cuomo for their hard work on this bill."
Executive Director of Adirondack Mountain Club Neil Woodworth said, "I thank Governor Cuomo for signing this legislation that will have an enormous and positive impact on the Adirondack community. In particular, ADK employs many young people to maintain trails, operate our lodge facilities, and educate the many visitors to the Adirondacks. They will directly benefit from an increased availability of affordable housing. On behalf of the 30,000 members of the ADK, I thank Governor Cuomo and the Legislature for this law."
Executive Director of the Adirondack Council Brian Houseal said, "We commend Governor Cuomo for signing the APA affordable housing bill into law. This is an important step toward revitalizing rural communities across the Adirondack region by providing additional housing opportunities close to village centers where services are located."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/07152011adkparkaffordablehousinglaw
