Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Historic Property Tax Cap Legislation in Monroe County
Press Release
By: James Alesi Joe Morelle Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 6, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today traveled to Monroe County to sign New York's first property tax cap..
The tax cap, a hallmark of Governor Cuomo's campaign and a priority of his administration's first year, will finally deliver relief to millions of homeowners and business owners across the state who for too long have been burdened by out-of-control property taxes..
Governor Cuomo signed the property tax cap at the home of Mike and Amanda Ostrander in Irondequoit. Like many taxpayers in Monroe County, the Ostranders, parents of two children, have made sacrifices to afford the state's skyrocketing property taxes. Mike is an attorney and Amanda is an Adult literacy teacher who also volunteers at a local day care. They pay nearly $5,000 annually in property taxes, well above the median property tax bill in New York state. This law will provide meaningful tax relief to the Ostrander family and other homeowners across New York..
"Families like the Ostranders in Monroe County and across the state have dealt with overwhelming property taxes for far too long," Governor Cuomo said. "This cap brings much-needed relief from the crushing tax burden that has hindered businesses and driven families out of New York. It will help revitalize the state's economy and send a message to the rest of the country that New York is no longer the tax capital of the nation.".
Taxpayers in Monroe County, like the Ostranders, pay among the highest property taxes in the nation, with a median property tax bill of 3,585 per household. Based on 2009 census data, Monroe County residents pay property taxes equal to 2.89 percent of the value of their home, some of the highest in the nation. In comparison, the median U.S. property tax bill is $1,917, while in New York the median property tax bill is $3,755. .







Source:
