Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Encourages New York's County Fairs to Apply for $5 Million Infrastructure Improvement Grant Program
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 20, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

With county fair season underway, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today encouraged New York's county fairs to apply for a $5 million Agricultural Fairgrounds Infrastructure Improvement Program this fall. Funding for the program was appropriated in the 2016-17 New York State Budget, and will help offset the cost of improvement and renovation projects, including new construction, at eligible county fairs. This is the first time in nearly a decade that the New York State Budget has included funding for the state's more than four dozen county fairs.
"Our county fairs are a vibrant part of New York's culture and history and play an integral role in generating economic activity in communities across the state," Governor Cuomo said. "By facilitating key infrastructural improvements and renovations at county fairs statewide, this funding will help ensure visitors come back year after year. I encourage fairs to put their best projects forward and apply this fall."
The New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets, which is administering the grant program, will release detailed eligibility requirements and the application this fall, allowing the county fairs time to prepare project proposals that are shovel-ready and that could be implemented starting next year. Grant funding will not exceed $200,000 and will be awarded on a first-come basis. All county fairs interested in applying for funding are encouraged to register in the Grants Gateway in advance here. If any county fairs need assistance with the Grants Gateway, they can call the Department at 518-457-2195.
Agriculture & Markets Commissioner Richard Ball said, "Every summer, millions of New Yorkers visit their local fairs to experience the family-friendly fun and learn first-hand about our growing agriculture industry so it's vital we support our fairs' success. This new grant funding program will allow county fairs across the State to address some of their critical infrastructure needs and bridge the financial gap on construction projects. I thank the Governor and the Legislature for their partnership on this and look forward to seeing some excellent project applications this fall."

Source:
