Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Independent Review Of I-287 Project
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 8, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that he has ordered an independent and comprehensive review of the I-287 Cross Westchester Expressway Corridor project, which has been plagued by significant unexpected costs and delays. Peter Lehrer, a renowned national construction expert, will work on the project on a pro bono basis, with other experts to be retained as needed.
The complex roadway construction project began 15 years ago. The original planned cost of the project in 1994 was $350 million with a planned completion date of 2010. However, the project was divided into a series of six contracts that were bid from 1996 to 2010, for a total of over $540 million. Subsequently, an additional $70 million in unexpected costs ensued. The project is still ongoing.
"It is long past time to get the I-287 project back on track," Governor Cuomo said. "I have ordered this independent review to bring accountability and transparency to this project and to protect taxpayer resources. New Yorkers expect that we will invest their tax dollars wisely and that their government will perform efficiently and effectively. Our review gives us the opportunity to realign this project with the proper timeline and budget and will help prevent problems such as these in the future."
The review will examine the prior phases of the project, some of which are complete, to identify the cause of cost escalations and delays. The review will also identify opportunities for improved procurements, review project management, and look for new cost controls.
Mr. Lehrer's work includes cultural and educational institutions, hospitals, commercial and residential buildings, and major transportation hubs. Significant projects include the restorations of the Statue of Liberty, Ellis Island, and Grand Central Terminal as well as the American Museum of Natural History, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the New York Vietnam Veterans Memorial. Mr. Lehrer's recent work with the Office of General Services on the New York State Capitol restoration project will result in savings of $2.3 million and will bring the project to completion two and half years ahead of schedule.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/06082011IndependentReview
