Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces More Than $11.5 Million to Upgrade Local Drinking Water and Wastewater Systems Across New York State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 1, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the New York State Environmental Facilities Corporation Board of Directors approved more than $11.5 million in grants, interest-free loans, and low-cost loans to support vital drinking water and wastewater infrastructure projects across New York. This funding will provide assistance for drinking water and wastewater projects in Upstate communities. Today's Board approval includes nearly $3.4 million in grants awarded under the Water Infrastructure Improvement Act.
"Investments in our water infrastructure are vital to the growth and prosperity of communities across New York," Governor Cuomo said. "These projects address the specific water infrastructure needs of each community to ensure clean, safe water, and provide meaningful savings to hardworking taxpayers, while laying the foundation for future growth."

To date, $225 million in Water Infrastructure Improvement Act grants have leveraged over $1 billion in total project costs for over 120 projects in New York State. These grants resulted in over $629 million in taxpayer savings.

Additionally, as part of the $2.5 billion Clean Water Infrastructure Act of 2017, $255 million in funding for vital drinking water and wastewater infrastructure upgrades is currently available. $225 million is available through WIIA and $30 million is available under the new Intermunicipal Water Infrastructure Grants Program. For more information on the Water Infrastructure Improvement Act and Intermunicipal grant programs, as well as an application, visit www.efc.ny.gov/NYSWaterGrants. EFC will be accepting applications for these two grant programs until June 23, 2017 at 5:00 p.m.

Environmental Facilities Corporation President and CEO Sabrina M. Ty said, "Under Governor Cuomo, New York leads the nation in its commitment to upgrading or replacing our aging water infrastructure. EFC works with municipalities across the State to provide low-cost capital and grants for water quality projects at the lowest possible cost."

Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner and Environmental Facilities Corporation Chair Basil Seggos said, "Governor Cuomo continues to lead the nation in making record investments to update wastewater infrastructure and ensure all of New York's communities have access to clean drinking water. The grants and funding announced today are critical investments that will help support the state's economy and strengthen communities statewide."

Department of Health Commissioner Dr. Howard Zucker said, "We know that the investments that we make today through the Environmental Facilities Corporation will ensure that generations of New Yorkers to come have access to clean drinking water. Today's announcement builds on Governor Cuomo's exceptional commitment to improving drinking water and wastewater infrastructure across the State and protecting the health and wellbeing of all New Yorkers."

The grants approved today, along with the interest-free and low-interest loans provided by EFC allow municipalities to finance these projects at a significantly lower rate than financing on their own.

The projects approved at the June 1 meeting include:


Source:
