Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $191 Million in Project Awards to Increase Renewable Energy in New York State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 2, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) and the Public Service Commission (PSC) have awarded $191 million to 17 power projects across the state that will produce and deliver renewable electricity to New Yorkers.
In addition to producing clean, renewable energy, NYSERDA estimates that these power projects will produce nearly $500 million in economic benefits over the expected 20-year life of the facilities. The projects will be funded through the state's Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS), which is tasked with obtaining at least 30 percent of New York's electricity come from renewable sources by 2015.
The projects competitively selected include four wind projects, four hydroelectric projects, seven landfill gas-to-electricity projects, and two anaerobic digester projects located at dairy farms. Once operational, the 17 projects will add 315 megawatts of renewable capacity to New York's generator resource base and produce about 1 million megawatt-hours per year of clean renewable energy. That's enough clean energy to supply approximately 145,000 homes per year.
"For New York to lead the way in innovation and technology, we must provide the resources and support necessary to enhance clean energy projects today," Governor Cuomo said. "New York has one of the most ambitious and responsible renewable energy targets in the nation: 30 percent by 2015. These projects represent the future of energy in New York State and will result in a grid that is efficient, affordable, clean and reliable for generations to come. I congratulate the recipients of these awards and thank NYSERDA and the PSC for administering this important program."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/06012011RenewableEnergyinNewYorkState
