Public Statements
Letter to Speaker Boehner and Leader Reid
Letter
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 13, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today urged House Speaker John Boehner and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to block a proposal to slash federal homeland security funding given to the states by 50 percent. In his letter, Governor Cuomo said the dramatic cut would hamper New York's efforts to prevent terrorist attacks and protect New Yorkers. House Republicans have proposed reducing the grant funding from $2.2 billion this year to $1 billion next year.
"These cuts would significantly impact our ability to train and equip police, firefighters, and other first responders and otherwise maintain the highest level of security New Yorkers need and deserve," Governor Cuomo wrote.
The Governor's letter can be found here:
Dear Speaker Boehner and Leader Reid,
At a time when the federal government is warning that we may see retaliatory attacks for the death of Osama Bin Laden, congressionally proposed cuts to state and local homeland security grants for the FY2012 federal budget would undermine the very initiatives that have been put in place to protect our nation and people from the persistent and evolving threat of terrorism.
Since September 11th, New York State has been the target of thirteen terrorist plots. Most were thwarted through the collaborative investigative prowess among local, state and federal law enforcement officials, as well as citizens who reported suspicious activity. Some plots, including Faisal Shazad's attempted bombing of Times Square and the crowded Theatre District, failed. Under all scenarios, federal support to the state and local officials who are literally on the front lines of the war of terrorism being waged against us is essential. The capability to prevent, protect against, respond to and recover from a terrorist attack requires the full participation of all levels of government. That is exactly what the funding made available through the State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) and Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) grants has as its goal.
Thursday's arrest by the NYPD of two suspects who were targeting multiple synagogues and the Empire State Building demonstrate that the death of Bin Laden does not mean the threat of terrorism has abated. With the 10th anniversary of September 11th and the opening of World Trade Center Memorial only months away, this plot was simultaneously the latest success story and sober reminder that our city and state remains in the crosshairs of those who use bombs and bullets to make their points. Osama Bin Laden himself cited the 10th anniversary as a date his followers should target for attack. Now is not the time for the federal government to step back from the partnership with state and local governments in defense of our nation.
Your leadership is needed to prevent these harmful cuts and to ensure that our nation does not degrade its abilities to meet the threat of terrorism.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/homelandsecurityfunding
