Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Deploys Commissioners to Assess State Recovery Efforts in Storm Damaged Areas
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 5, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today deployed key members of his cabinet to areas of the state that were damaged by recent storms in order to assess progress in state recovery efforts.
"It is the responsibility of state government to ensure a swift recovery for the areas of our state that suffered damage as a result of these storms," Governor Cuomo said. "I have deployed senior members of my administration to survey the current state of damage and assess the ongoing recovery effort to ensure the state is doing what it can and should be doing to help communities recover. These communities deserve to reopen their businesses and return to their daily lives as quickly as possible."
The following visits will occur today:
* Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Joseph Martens and President and CEO of the Environmental Facilities Corporation Matthew Driscoll
will tour flood damaged areas of Clinton and Franklin Counties.
o 10:30am -- Plattsburgh International Airport, Fixed Based Operations, Alabama and Idaho streets, Plattsburgh
o Noon -- Tupper Lake Village Hall, 53 Park Street, Tupper Lake.
* Commissioner of the NYS Department of Transportation Joan McDonald will visit damaged transportation infrastructure and assess recovery and rebuilding efforts.
o 11:30am -- City of Norwich Police Department, 18 East Main Street, Norwich
* Director of NYS Canal Corporation Brian Stratton and Director of NYS Office of Emergency Management Andrew Feeney will conduct a fact-finding tour of flood-stricken areas in Onondaga and Cayuga counties and meet with local officials.
o 10:30am -- Onondaga Park Lake Marina, 106 Lake Drive, Liverpool
o Noon -- NY State Police Barracks, Clark Street Road, Routes 5 & 20, Auburn
On April 29, Governor Cuomo visited the site of the Broad Street Bridge collapse in the Town of Moriah. The Governor declared a State Disaster Emergency in Essex County that was hit by heavy rains and strong wind that caused widespread flooding, power outages and damage to roadways, homes and businesses throughout the country.
In announcing the disaster declaration, the Governor directed the implementation of the State Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan. The State Office of Emergency Management (OEM) is coordinating state agency assistance to local governments and individuals recovering from the storms. In addition, the Department of Environmental Conservation is assisting with flood prevention efforts and will expedite permits for communities making emergency repairs.
Last Thursday, Governor Cuomo activated the State Emergency Operations Center to ensure a rapid and coordinated response to severe weather events occurring across New York.
Among the State's preparedness and response activities:
* The State OEM remains in contact with affected counties and local governments for a continual and real-time assessment of safety risks and clean-up operations
* OEM field staff have been deployed to impacted areas
* Yesterday, the Department of Transportation had 800 personnel and 100 pieces of equipment deployed in flood- and storm-related activities across the state
* New York State Police are continuing to monitor the affected areas, and providing law enforcement assistance in the areas of traffic control and emergency operations to those impacted areas as necessary.
* DOCS had two crews with a total of 91 inmates and 10 corrections officers deployed in Central and Northern New York to fill sand bags.
* DEC Operations staff have assisted with sandbagging, incident management and field inspections in Saranac Lake and Tupper Lake.
For more information on what to do in an emergency, visit the State Office of Emergency Management website at
www.dhses.ny.gov/oem/.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/5052011StateRecoveryEfforts
