Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Unveils the 'People First Tour' to Build Support for His Reform Agenda
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 4, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today held a cabinet meeting to outline plans for his "People First Tour" in which he will deliver his message of reform directly to New Yorkers. During the "People First Tour" the Governor and his team will deliver detailed presentations outlining the administration's top priorities for the current legislative session and how the public can support them.
Beginning next week and continuing throughout the legislative session, the "People First Tour" will feature the Governor and Lt. Governor visiting communities across New York to build support for his legislative priorities, specifically, a property tax cap, ethics reform, and marriage equality. In addition, the Governor will deploy certain members of his cabinet in order to bring his message and ideas to as many New Yorkers as possible.
The Governor and his cabinet will meet with local media and community groups, as well as the general public.
Governor Cuomo has repeatedly indicated that for real reform to occur in New York, he must make his case directly to the people of the state. Explaining the issues and maintaining an open dialogue allows New Yorkers to form an opinion, organize, and make the politicians in Albany act.
"From the early days of my campaign, I have said we need to bring the people back into government," Governor Cuomo said. "That is what we did during the budget process and we achieved historic reform. Now, we must do it again in order to keep moving forward. The people want their property taxes capped, they want Albany cleaned up through real ethics reform, and they want marriage equality. We are going to engage the people of this state to build a broad coalition behind this agenda so that these reforms are not just talked about but actually passed this session."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/050411peoplefirsttour
