Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Kawasaki Rail Car, INC. Will invest $25 Million in Yonkers
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 28, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Kawasaki Rail Car, Inc. (Kawasaki) will invest $25 million into their Yonkers facility and retain all 375 current positions.
Kawasaki has operated its U.S. corporate headquarters and manufacturing facility in the Hudson Valley since 1985 with the inaugural order of 95 subway cars for the Port Authority Trans-Hudson (PATH) system between New York and New Jersey.
"Kawasaki's decision to reinvest in Yonkers speaks volumes about New York's commitment to business," Governor Cuomo said. "It means that hundreds of good jobs will stay right here in New York. We look forward to the company's continued growth and prosperity in the Lower Hudson Valley."
Empire State Development (ESD) awarded Kawasaki a capital grant in the amount of $500,000 for the retention of 375 full-time manufacturing employees and an investment by the company of $25 million for the purchase and renovation of its currently leased facility located in Yonkers.
ESD President and CEO Kenneth Adams said, "Today's announcement symbolizes the commitment of a world-renowned and well-respected manufacturer to the State of New York. It also reinforces Governor Cuomo's message that New York is open for business. We are thrilled that Kawasaki will continue to call New York home."
Kawasaki secures an average of $460 million a year in contracts and produces an average of 180 rail cars a year for various transportation authorities, including the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's (MTA) New York City Transit, Long Island Rail Road, Metro-North Railroad, as well as the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, and Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority.
"We are very happy to stay in our New York home," said Mr. Hiroji Iwasaki, the Chief Executive Officer of Kawasaki Rail Car Inc. "We had considered locations outside New York State for this, but based upon the tremendous quality of our workforce here as well as the help provided by Empire State Development, the decision was an easy one to make. Kawasaki's philosophy is 'customer first,' and this proximity will allow us to respond to our customer's needs in a timely manner. We are very appreciative to Governor Cuomo, ESD, Mayor Amicone of Yonkers and all our local partners and look forward to many decades of growth ahead of us."
Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins said, "I would like to thank Governor Cuomo and Empire State Development for working to secure this investment in the Mid-Hudson Valley and for helping to retain 375 jobs right here in Westchester County. Kawasaki Rail Car, Inc. comprises a large part of the Hudson Valley's transportation industry, which is critical to maintaining our region's ties to upstate New York as well as New York City and Long Island. Incidentally, their facility is located right next door to my district office, and they have been excellent neighbors. I am very pleased that they will maintain a strong presence in Yonkers."
Assemblyman J. Gary Pretlow said, "Kawasaki's decision to keep its U.S. corporate headquarters in New York is a true testament to our State's assets and strengths--from its strategic location to its highly skilled workforce. I applaud Governor Cuomo, Empire State Development and all the partners involved in this project, which will not only retain hundreds of employees here in the Hudson Valley but secure this global company's presence in New York for the long-term. I look forward to our continued partnerships as we work toward economic recovery in New York State."
Westchester County Executive Robert P. Astorino said, "I am pleased that Kawasaki Rail Car will continue its strong presence in our community. This is a great illustration of Westchester's attractiveness as a place to do business."
Yonkers Mayor Phil Amicone said, "Kawasaki has been an important member of our corporate community in Yonkers for decades, and we are thrilled they will be staying here for years to come. At a time when other manufacturers are leaving New York State, it is crucial that we work in partnership with New York State to provide incentive packages that will keep jobs in New York. And Kawasaki provides good paying, quality jobs. We could not be more proud to have them in our community. I want to thank Governor Cuomo and Empire State Development for their efforts."
In 2009, KawasakiRail Car, Inc. received a mandate from its parent company, KawasakiHeavy Industries, Ltd., to identify and secure a permanent base for its U.S. operations where "Made in the USA" cars can be built and delivered to its customers. After careful consideration and review of multiple sites, including New Jersey and Nebraska, Kawasaki made a final determination to stay in Yonkers. The Hudson Valley location is at the center of the U.S.'s busiest passenger rail corridor, the Northeast corridor--a site Kawasaki believes will enable it to cost effectively support its ongoing and projected rail car manufacturing operations in the United States.
In 2001, Kawasaki expanded its U.S. operations with a state-of-the-art rail car manufacturing facility in Lincoln, Nebraska--the only facility currently in the U.S. that is capable of mass-producing heavy rail, commuter rail and high-speed rail cars from the bottom-up. This expansion to Lincoln allowed Kawasaki to increase production and respond to growing customer demands of U.S. made products. This has also benefited Kawasaki's partners in allowing for greater production flexibility. With U.S. capabilities beyond any other manufacturer, Kawasaki is uniquely poised to design, build and deliver American-made rail cars to this country's emerging mass transportation and high speed intercity passenger rail market well into the future.
About Kawasaki Rail Car, Inc.
KawasakiRail Car, Inc. is a subsidiary of KawasakiHeavy Industries, Ltd., an international transportation equipment manufacturer headquartered in Japan. The Kawasaki group, founded in 1878, is a leading global manufacturer of transportation equipment and industrial products. With a broad technological base that encompasses mastery of the land, sea, and air, Kawasaki manufactures ships, rolling stock, aircraft and jet engines, gas turbine power generators, environmental and industrial plants, and a wide range of manufacturing equipment and systems. Kawasaki also produces such world-famous consumer products as motorcycles and JETSKI® personal watercraft.
Kawasaki Rail Car Inc. was founded in 1989 as Kawasaki's North American headquarters for its rail car business. Kawasaki as a group has been supplying rail cars to North America since 1979 to major U.S. transit authorities and its delivery record and backlogs combined now exceeds 4,000 cars. Kawasaki manufactures its rail cars for the U.S. mainly from its facilities in Yonkers, New York and Lincoln, Nebraska.
About ESD
Empire State Development is New York's chief economic development agency and administrator of the statewide business resource portal New York First (www.NYfirst.NY.gov). ESD is committed to being recognized on a global scale as the economic development engine driving job growth, strategic investment and prosperity in New York State. ESD is intent on paving the way for New York State to become the leader of the innovation economy and one of the most business friendly, productive and competitive economic development climates in the world. ESD also oversees the marketing of "I LOVE NY," the State's iconic tourism brand. For more information on Empire State Development, visit www.esd.ny.gov.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/press/042811kawasaki_rail
