Public Statements
Letter to The Honorable Harry Reid Majority Leader, The Honorable Mitch McConnell Minority Leader, The Honorable John Boehner Speaker of the House, The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Minority Leader
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 4, 2011
Location: Unknown

Dear Majority Leader Reid, Minority Leader McConnell, Speaker Boehner, and Minority Leader Pelosi:
I am writing to express New York State's opposition to a congressionally-mandated block grant offederal Medicaid spending. Such a drastic overhaul of the Medicaid program is neither necessary nor desirable.
Just last week, the New York State Legislature approved budget recommendations that will substantially redesign the State's Medicaid program. As a result, Medicaid spending will be reduced below last year's level and future growth will be controlled. At the same time, program
quality will be enhanced and there will be no new restrictions on eligibility. I believe our experience clearly demonstrates that the States already have the flexibility we need to assure that Medicaid growth can be controlled without limiting access to necessary health care.
By contrast, a Medicaid block grant imposed unilaterally by Congress on all states couId lead to inadequate funding for all or some states, in part, because it fails to recognize the unique characteristics of the programs of individual states. As we know from our own experience, the costs associated with enrollment increases, aging populations, economic downturns, natural
disasters, new diseases or epidemics are not uniform across states.
I extend my appreciation to our federal partners for the flexibility they have demonstrated as New York redesigns its Medicaid program and welcome a productive conversation with Congress about how the federal government can maintain its critical role in funding the health care safety net while continuing to facilitate state-level innovation.
Sincerely,
ANDREW M. CUOMO

Source: http://democrats.energycommerce.house.gov/sites/default/files/documents/NYChamber_040511.pdf
