Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Unveils Design of Reimagined MTA Subway Cars and Details Ambitious Plan to Enhance Subway Stations
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 18, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today unveiled the design features of 1,025 new and reimagined subway cars -- including vital enhancements to the exteriors and interiors of regular cars, wider doors, as well as the addition of up to 750 "Open Car End" designed-cars, which will reduce wait times and increase capacity. The Governor also previewed key elements that will be featured in the renovation of 31 subway stations throughout the New York Metropolitan Area, and announced that the first of several Requests for Proposals will be issued this week. The MTA is using design-build contracts to expedite the process and ensure the shortest timeframe for project completion. These vital investments are part of the $27 billion, five-year MTA Capital Program to renew and expand the MTA network. Governor Cuomo unveiled the ambitious design-plan at the Transit Museum in Brooklyn.
"New York deserves a world-class transportation network, worthy of its role as the heartbeat of the 21st century economy," Governor Cuomo said. "The MTA design team developed a bold and visionary reimagining of the quintessential commuter experience, incorporating best practices from global transit systems, and focusing on our core mission to renew, enhance and expand. We are going to do more than renovate -- we are bringing subway stations to a higher standard than ever before, and the new vision for subway cars will increase capacity and reduce overcrowding and delays. I congratulate the MTA for thinking creatively and working with the kind of passion and urgency it takes to move this state forward."
"The Governor gave the MTA a mandate to implement new, world-class designs as quickly as possible for all new subway cars and that's what you're seeing today -- innovation making the lives and commutes of all New Yorkers easier," MTA Chairman and CEO Thomas F. Prendergast said. "Coupled with new methods for redeveloping our stations at the Governor's direction, customers will see us get in, get done, and return new and improved stations to them in the most efficient way possible."



Source:
