Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Delivers Budget Message in Suffolk County
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 23, 2011
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today presented his proposed 2011-2012 Executive Budget to hundreds of New Yorkers at St. Joseph's College in Patchogue. The Governor's proposal transforms the state budget process to conform to fiscal realities and eliminates a $10 billion deficit without raising taxes or borrowing.
"Decades of overtaxing and overspending have taken our state to the brink," Governor Cuomo said. "To change our course, this year's budget is based on a very simple concept -- We can't spend more than we take in. But as families throughout Long Island know, we cannot tax our way to economic health. Instead, we need to cut costs and spend smarter. Now is the time to make the tough decisions we need to rebuild our economy and restore our state."
Our state spending has grown at over 5.7 percent per year over the last decade, outstripping tax receipts (3.8 percent), personal income (3.7 percent), or inflation (2.4 percent). Not only do we spend too much, but we get too little in return. Our state is number one in spending on education and number 34 in results. We are number one in spending on healthcare and number 21 in results. The goal is to return fiscal responsibility to the state so that we may strengthen the economy and create jobs.
A key step in beginning to redesign and realign New York's government is taking a look at the process used to create the budget.
First, we are redesigning how the budget is created. We are rejecting a system of automatic and unrealistic budget increases that, for years, has caused spending to skyrocket to unsustainable levels.
Second, the process is not just a budget exercise, but a management exercise. That means that we cannot just keep throwing money at the problem. More funds do not mean better healthcare, better schools, or better programs. The changes must start with a look at the programs: do they work for the patient, the student, or the New Yorker.





Source:
