Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Grant Program To Help Farmers Reduce Energy Usage, Control Costs
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 6, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $3.2 million in available grants through the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) to help farmers across the state reduce their energy use, save on operating costs, and cut greenhouse gas emissions through more efficient use of energy.
The program will provide financial incentives to support 75 percent of the cost of electricity and gas efficiency investments. Farms that are eligible for the grants include: orchards, dairies, vineyards, maple producers, egg and poultry farms, grain, specialty crops, and others. Upgrades covered in the grants include: process improvements, lighting upgrades, and high-efficiency fan, pump, and motor systems, and other measures. Small farms could be eligible for free energy audits to assist in identifying energy efficiency projects.
Lieutenant Governor Robert J. Duffy was joined by officials from NYSERDA and the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets in Liverpool today to launch the new $3.2 million Agriculture Energy Efficiency program at the 179th Annual Meeting and Forum of the New York State Agriculture Society in Liverpool.
"The state's agricultural sector helps fuel our economy and put food on our table, and we have a plan to make New York farms even more competitive," Governor Cuomo said. "These grants will improve the energy efficiency of farming operations and lower costs for farmers. This not only protects farming jobs, it creates green jobs for the people making the improvements."
Past NYSERDA programs demonstrate that a typical dairy farm can save 20 to 30 percent of its energy bill with cost-effective energy efficiency improvements at an average seven-year payback. The Agriculture Energy Efficiency Program can provide a typical dairy farm with $2,700 to $4,000 per year in savings from a farm investment of $4,800 to $7,000.

Source:
