Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $2.25 Million in Improvements at Hamlin Beach State Park
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 15, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the $1.5 million initiative to modernize and preserve the Depression-era bathhouse at Hamlin Beach State Park is complete. Construction has also begun on a $750,000 project to expand educational and recreational activities within the Park's Yanty Marsh -- an ecologically unique area, popular for birdwatching, fishing, paddling and nature observation. The enhancements will feature a new boardwalk nature trail and observation tower. The projects are funded by Governor Cuomo's NY Parks 2020 program, a multi-year commitment of $900 million in private and public funding to revitalize State Parks.
"New York's parks are gateways to the unique natural beauty that exists in every corner of the state," Governor Cuomo said. "Beyond their unrivaled aesthetics and array of recreational opportunity, our parks are places of solace for millions of New Yorkers and visitors alike. The improvements at Hamlin Beach State Park are essential to its long-term viability and preservation, and with new scenic trails and modern facilities, will continue to attract visitors and inject more tourism dollars into the Finger Lakes' economy."
"Hamlin Beach State Park has hosted memorable gatherings of friends and family for generations, and the historic bathhouse renovations and Yanty Marsh improvements will ensure these happy traditions continue," State Parks Commissioner Rose Harvey said. "I'm grateful that Governor Cuomo understands the importance of protecting and enhancing what is special about Hamlin Beach and all of our State Parks across New York."
Modernization of Depression-Era Bathhouse
The bathhouse, built of Medina sandstone in 1939-40 by members of the Depression-era Civilian Conservation Corps, underwent a complete renovation to protect the building's historic integrity and modernize public spaces. The project included:
Repurposing the front lobby area to allow for a new food services and public programs.
Renovating both the Men's and Women's Locker and Bathrooms to fully meet current codes, including the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Repairing the historic masonry and replacing the roof with material to reestablish the building's historic appearance.
Renovating the exterior area of the facility, including new stamped concrete walkways, an ADA compliant ramp, new landscaping, and outdoor shower towers.
Rehabilitating the lifeguard/first aid area.
Replacing the water, sewer and electrical systems of the building.
Yanty Marsh Nature Trail Rehabilitation and Improvements
State Parks has also begun a $750,000 project to enhance educational and recreational activities in the Yanty Marsh, an ecologically unique area of the park. The project calls for the construction of a new boardwalk over Yanty Marsh with a large turnaround, providing visitors a 360-degree view of the marsh. The boardwalk will enhance both recreational and educational opportunities within the Yanty Marsh area, providing visitors a closer view of the flora and fauna found within the marsh.
An existing observation platform, located northwest of the proposed boardwalk near the edge of the marsh, will be replaced with a new ADA-compliant platform at a higher elevation at the same location, offering visitors, such as bird watchers, an expansive view of the Yanty Marsh area.
Additional improvements include:
Rehabilitating and resurfacing the park's existing the self-guided Yanty Marsh Nature Trail;
Creating two "potholes" or open water pockets, one on either side of the proposed boardwalk, to provide new habitat for aquatic flora and fauna, increasing the diversity of species present within the Yanty Marsh area;
Constructing a new shelter within the picnic and parking area to enhance public use of this portion of the park;
Modernizing the area's outdated car-top boat launch to encourage public access to the park and Lake Ontario.
Visitors should be aware the Yanty Marsh area will be closed to the public during construction activities.
Senator Joe Robach said, "Hamlin Beach State Park is a summer destination for so many residents of Monroe County and all of New York State, and plays an important role in our local tourism economy. Renovations to the historic bathhouse, along with the additions of the new boardwalk and observation tower, will enhance the visitor experience and provide new amenities to one of our great New York State Parks. I would like thank the Governor for his commitment to improving our State Parks for residents and visitors to enjoy, not only in the summer months, but all year long."
Assemblyman Steve Hawley said, "I am thrilled to see that Hamlin Beach State Park will be receiving $2.25 million in upgrades thanks to the state's NY Parks 2020 program. The park is an extraordinary feature of our community and allows guests to experience Lake Ontario and the unique Yanty Marsh Area firsthand. New York State has some of the best parks in the country and their protection and maintenance are vital to ensuring that future generations have an opportunity to enjoy them just as we have. I applaud the state's initiative on this project and look forward to the new bathhouse, boardwalk nature trail and observation tower."
The park improvements reflect Governor Cuomo's commitment to revitalizing the state park system and expanding access to outdoor recreation. The Governor's NY Parks 2020 program is a multi-year commitment to leverage $900 million in private and public funding for State Parks from 2011 to 2020. The Governor's 2016-17 Executive Budget allocates $90 million toward this initiative. In addition, this year the Governor announced the Connect Kids to Parks program, which provides free day-use park entry to fourth-grade students and their families, and creates a new transportation grant program to help students from underserved schools visit state parks and historic sites.
Accelerating Finger Lakes Forward
The projects also complement "Finger Lakes Forward," the region's comprehensive blueprint to generate robust economic growth and community development. The State has already invested more than $3.4 billion in the region since 2012 to lay the groundwork for the plan - investing in key industries including photonics, agriculture and food production, and advanced manufacturing. Today, unemployment is down to the lowest levels since before the Great Recession; personal and corporate income taxes are down; and businesses are choosing places like Rochester, Batavia and Canandaigua as a destination to grow and invest in.
Now, the region is accelerating Finger Lakes Forward with a $500 million State investment through the Upstate Revitalization Initiative, announced by Governor Cuomo in December 2015. The State's $500 million investment will incentivize private business to invest well over $2.5 billion -- and the region's plan, as submitted, projects up to 8,200 new jobs.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-225-million-improvements-hamlin-beach-state-park
