Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Issues Executive Order Requiring Ethics Training for All Chamber Staff and Top State Officials
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 2, 2011
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed an Executive Order requiring all Executive Chamber staff and other top state officials to participate in ethics training offered by the Commission on Public Integrity. The training will be available beginning no later than January 31st and must be completed within sixty days.
Individuals covered by this Executive Order also include agency commissioners and their respective counsels and ethics officers.
"Honor and integrity will be a hallmark of this administration, and I am confident that we have assembled a team that reflects that commitment," Governor Cuomo said. "Nonetheless, it is imperative that Chamber staff and other high ranking government officials be versed in the ethics rules and regulations that apply to them. Top government employees should have no questions, no gray areas, and no possibility of confusion regarding what is proper and what is not."
The Executive Order also requires officials to participate in this ethics training every two years. The training will focus on the rules about serving in government.
Blair Horner, Legislative Director of the New York Public Interest Research Group said, "Today's action by the governor not only addresses a real problem, but it sends a powerful message that Albany's ethics climate must change. We hope that this is the first step in a journey to overhaul New York's woefully inadequate ethics laws."
Barbara Bartoletti, Legislative Director for the New York State League of Women Voters said, "Governor Cuomo is setting a new tone in Albany by requiring top government officials to attend ethics training. With the ethical morass that has engulfed state government in recent years this is a welcomed development and The League of Women Voters applauds this important first step in restoring integrity to our state."

Source:
