Public Statements
The Daily News - Cuomo, in Local Stops, Says He'll Fight "Culture of Corruption'
News Article
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 26, 2010
Location: Batavia/Albion, NY

By Paul Mrozek and Tom Rivers
State Attorney General Andrew Cuomo spoke before enthusiastic local crowds Monday, telling them he will attack the "culture of corruption" and wild spending in Albany, problems that he said have disgraced the state and forced too many residents and businesses to leave it.
Cuomo, a Democrat and front-runner in the state's gubernatorial election, made campaign stops Monday afternoon in Batavia and Albion. He told a crowd of about 75 people who gathered inside Larry's Steak House on Main Street that he has two primary goals come January.
"Job one is to clean up Albany," he said.
The second objective is to "grow jobs, grow jobs, grow jobs," he said.
Cuomo was accompanied by his running mate, Rochester Mayor Bob Duffy, who is seeking the post of lieutenant governor.
Cuomo said he and Duffy understand what public service is all about, using government as a vehicle to do good.
"You work for the people of the state and remember it," he said.
New York has everything it needs to be a vibrant state with a healthy economy.
"I'm just ashamed that we've been going backward for so long. It doesn't have to be that way," he said.
Cuomo called on residents to join him in his campaign for new ethics standards for state officials and legislators. He wants to overhaul campaign finance laws, expand disclosure statements and have an independent commission redraw the boundaries of legislative districts.
Right now the districts so clearly favor incumbents they can act and vote with little threat of being removed by the voters.
"You have to have competition or else the people's voice is discounted," Cuomo said after addressing a crowd of more than 100 people at the Knights of Columbus in Albion.
Cuomo faces Buffalo developer and attorney Carl Paladino next Tuesday. Paladino shocked the political scene by trouncing Rick Lazio in the Republican primary. Cuomo has a big lead in the polls -- last week's Siena poll put him ahead of Paladino, 63 percent to 26 percent although other polls show a closer race. The Republican candidate has stirred controversy with anti-gay comments and has promoted an upstate-downstate divide.
"The more he talks, the better we look," Cuomo said about Paladino.
Cuomo said he wants to unite the state. He ripped the state government leaders for their bloated budgets and ethical scandals, but he wouldn't blame a party or geographic region.
"It's not New York City legislators and it's not Democrats and it's not Republicans," Cuomo told The Daily News. "It's the culture of Albany. If you misdiagnose the problem you're never going to solve it."
Cuomo said there is too much outside money controlling the state government.
"The culture of Albany is dominated by special interests and lobbyists," he said. "They have undue influence over the politicians."
Bob Duffy said Cuomo is the right man to raise the ethical bar in Albany and tackle many of the state's deep-rooted problems.
"If something goes wrong he goes after it. He's never backed down from going after wrongdoing," Duffy said about the current attorney general.
"He has the guts to stand up. He doesn't need a baseball bat to lead. He leads by what's inside. His moral compass is right on target," Duffy said.
The Rochester mayor said the state needs to better connect upstate's resources, including a well-trained workforce from many leading universities, with the thriving hub of commerce in New York City. Duffy called New York City "the economic capital of the country."
The Legislature and recent New York governors have continued to pass budgets far in excess of the rate of inflation, despite a slowing economy and the downsizing of family budgets, Cuomo said.
He also said New York has no economic future "if it going to be the highest taxed state in the nation."
Gone are the days of companies staying in the same place for years and years.
If the local economic climate is not healthy, "they fold up their laptops and leave," he said.
Cuomo called for eliminating some of the layers of government and paring down the state's generous Medicaid program. Cuomo wants a state cap on spending and frozen salaries for state employees as part of a one-year emergency financial plan.
He wants New York to enact a property tax cap, while eliminating mandates on schools and local governments so they can work to reduce their tax burden.
Cuomo said New Yorkers need to keep the pressure on Albany, insisting on the reforms and fiscal discipline.
"We can fix this state," Cuomo told reporters in Albion.
"It can be better. It doesn't have to be this way. Young people don't have to leave New York. Jobs don't have to leave New York. This is a great state, it really is. It can have a bright future if they are involved, if they stay involved in the political process and hold the politicians accountable."
Lorie Longhany, chairman of the Genesee County Democratic Committee, welcomed Cuomo supporters to Larry's Steak House in Batavia. The candidate and his staff stayed for about 45 minutes.
Local Democratic officials were seated in the front row of chairs in the Steak House cocktail lounge where Cuomo spoke. They included Genesee County Legislator Edward DeJaneiro Jr., City Council member Rosemary Christian, Genesee County election commissioner Dawn Cassidy and Wyoming County Democratic Committee Chairman Hank Bush.
Ward 2 City Councilwoman Patti Pacino, a Republican, was also present.
Cassidy said it was very nice to see Cuomo again.
"It's been a while since he's been here. He's an excellent speaker."
Former Genesee Democratic chairman Ray Yacuzzo also showed up to support Cuomo.
"He's no stranger to the area, always has some good points to make, should make a great governor."
Bill and Karen DesJardin of Clarendon were among the crowd at the K of C in Albion. The couple is active with the Democratic Committee in Clarendon. They believe Cuomo wants to do what's best for the entire state. They praised his choice of Duffy as his lieutenant governor.
Mr. DesJardin said Cuomo's long history in New York politics should help him build consensus with the state legislators.
"He has experience and he speaks with authority," Mr. DesJardin said.
************
Larry's Restaurant owner 'thrilled'
BATAVIA -- The owner of Larry's Steak House said he was glad that Democratic gubernatorial candidate Andrew Cuomo selected his restaurant for one of Monday's campaign stops.
"Quite honestly, we're thrilled. We expect a big crowd and will be ready for them," proprietor Stephen Mullen said Monday afternoon, before Cuomo and his entourage made an appearance.
Mullen said Cuomo's advance team had been in and out of the restaurant for about a week, checking out the venue.
Mullen joked that his patrons cut across party lines.
"I open the place to Democrats and Republicans alike," he said.
Cuomo showed some quick wit during his speech.
When he was talking about New York's property tax burden, the highest in the nation, a young girl in the crowd started giggling. He said that was the first time anyone's ever chuckled over the issue.
"She's laughing because she doesn't pay them."
Supporters inside the Steak House held up "Cuomo, Duffy" signs. Some wore buttons with the slogan, "I'm in Andrew's tent."
Cuomo made a pledge for continued diversity in New York, with people of all backgrounds and ethnicities united and working together.
"That's what made New York New York," he said.

Source: http://thedailynewsonline.com/news/article_a4e7d21c-e08b-11df-861b-001cc4c002e0.html
