Public Statements
Diverse Coalition Unites Under Cuomo's Big Tent in Rochester to Support Reform Agenda
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 24, 2010
Location: Unknown

Republican Assemblyman Joe Errigo, Assemblyman David Gantt, and Councilwoman Jackie Ortiz to Join Cuomo and Duffy's Bi-Partisan Coalition
Andrew Cuomo and Robert Duffy today welcomed Republican Assemblyman Joe Errigo, Assemblyman David Gantt, and Councilwoman Jackie Ortiz under their "big tent" for reform. Cuomo, Duffy were also joined by a diverse group of leaders representing the broad bi-partisan citizens' coalition who have signed on to support Cuomo's Plan for a New NY.
Since announcing his campaign in May, Cuomo and Duffy have traveled across the state, building support among Democrats, Republicans and Independents for their reform agenda to clean up the ethical mess in Albany, get New York's fiscal house in order, and get control of property taxes that are driving countless New Yorkers out of their homes and out of the state.
"The New Yorkers under our big tent represent the diverse, broad based coalition we are going to need in order to change Albany and make our government work for the people again. The coalition is not based on party labels but instead brought together by a common purpose and a common agenda: to restore performance, integrity and fiscal stability to New York State government. The focus of this campaign will be to continue to unite Republicans and Democrats, enlightened business and labor leaders all under one big tent not only to win an election in November, but to change Albany in January," Andrew Cuomo said.
"The Plan for a New NY is a comprehensive agenda for reform but in order to ensure we can see it is implemented, we need to build a broad coalition for reform that is strong enough to break through the partisan gridlock and politics as usual in Albany. I am proud to join Andrew Cuomo and these leaders to help make this big tent even larger so we can bring more New Yorkers together behind the Plan for a New NY," Robert Duffy said.
"Andrew Cuomo and Robert Duffy have made the focus of their campaign to bring the people of New York State together behind their agenda, which would finally make state government work for the people. We need to change the way state government works by breaking the stranglehold of powerful special interests and partisan politics and instead making the government an engine for job creation and economic growth," Republican Assemblyman Joe Errigo said.
"This election, New Yorkers need to come together as a people to ensure we bring change and reform to our state government. Neither Democrats nor Republicans nor Independents can't do it alone. Andrew Cuomo and Robert Duffy realize that and that is why I am proud to be a part of their bi-partisan coalition for reform," Assemblyman David Gantt said.
"With the state facing such a serious fiscal and ethical crisis, we need leaders in Albany who work together and listen to the people of the state of New York, not matter what their background, economic status or political party. Andrew Cuomo and Robert Duffy have a vision for the future that cleans up the ethical mess in Albany and reforms our state government so it once again works for the people," said Councilwoman Jackie Ortiz.

Last weekend, Cuomo and Duffy announced former State Republican Chairman and upstate businessman Pat Barrett would serve as a campaign co-chair, along with former New York City Comptroller Bill Thompson and Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez.

Source: http://www.andrewcuomo.com/CuomoCentral/press/press-release/2010-09-diverse-coalition-unites-under-cuomos-big-tent-in-ro
