Public Statements
Sen. Clinton Rallies Voters With McMahon in Run- Up to Tuesday's Primary
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo Hillary Clinton Michael McMahon
Date: Sept. 6, 2008
Location: Unknown

With Only Three Days Left Before Democratic Primary for Congress, Sen. Clinton, AG Cuomo, Local Elected Officials Rallied Voters with Mike McMahon At Wagner College Gymnasium
U.S. Senator Hillary Clinton today stood with Council Member Michael McMahon to rally voters for the Democratic Primary for the 13th Congressional District slated for Tuesday. The rally featured Senator Clinton, Council Member McMahon, Attorney General Andrew Cuomo, who endorsed McMahon in the race, and other local elected officials.
Hundreds of Wagner students, community residents and supporters braved the rain to see McMahon and Clinton at the rally.
"I'm thrilled to have Senator Clinton here today spreading the word that we have a chance to bring change to Staten Island and Brooklyn in this year's election. I look forward to working with Senator Clinton in Congress to bring real results home for the district, including increased transportation funding, more jobs, and better health care," McMahon said.
"Mike McMahon has a proven record of getting results for his constituents, and I know he'll continue that fight for all of Staten Island and Southern Brooklyn in Congress. He's made the tough choices and built the coalitions necessary to get things done. It's that kind of experience we need in Congress to make real progress for New York," said Clinton.
"I know that Mike McMahon has been a fighter for the North Shore of Staten Island, and he'll bring that fire to Congress for Staten Island and Southern Brooklyn. Mike will make New York's Congressional delegation stronger and more responsive to the needs of the working men and women of the district, and I look forward to working with him for results for New York," said Cuomo.
The rally comes on the heels of a series of good news for McMahon's campaign, including endorsements from the Staten Island Advance, New York Times, Brooklyn Paper, and Courier Life, key labor endorsements including the AFL-CIO, UFT and 1199 SEIU Healthcare East, and support from New York elected leaders including Senator Clinton, Senator Charles Schumer, Brooklyn Borough President Marty Markowitz, former Mayor Ed Koch, and members of the New York City Congressional Delegation. McMahon has also earned a spot on the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee's vaunted "Red to Blue" program, signaling that the campaign is a top national priority for the Democratic Party.
In Congress, McMahon has pledged to fight for federal transportation funding to improve mass transit in the 13th Congressional District, and for a comprehensive, 10-year green energy plan that reduces our dependence on foreign oil. He is committed to immediately beginning a safe withdrawal of our combat troops from Iraq, and fighting to protect a woman's right to choose. He also supports providing universal health care access to all Americans, and expanding the State Children's Health Insurance Program to working families across the country.

Source: http://www.mikemcmahonforcongress.com/PressHRC.pdf
