Public Statements
Transcript: Governor Cuomo Launches "Naturalize NY" - First Public-Private Partnership of its Kind to Promote U.S. Citizenship
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 14, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today launched "NaturalizeNY," the first public-private partnership of its kind to encourage and assist eligible immigrants in New York State with becoming U.S. citizens. The initiative provides comprehensive support through the naturalization process -- featuring free eligibility screenings, application assistance, naturalization exam preparation, and a lottery for 2,000 naturalization application fee vouchers for low-income citizenship-eligible immigrants.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below:
Thank you very much. Thank you very much. What a great day, what a great message, what a great accomplishment. I'm so happy and proud to be here. First, to be at John Jay, to be at CUNY, which is such a part of this story and part of the immigrant tradition of New York and the mobility strategy of New York. Let's give John Jay a round of applause for hosting us today. To Rossana Rosado, a great Secretary of State. Thank you Madam Secretary of State. To Guillermo Chacon who is a great advocate, thank you. Thank you for being here. Adriano Espaillat -- did he say he was Senator or Congressman? Do you remember what he said? It is so fitting that New York is going to send a proven-leader, a proven-advocate, the first Dominican elected to the state legislature, now to become a congressman in the United States of America -- our Dominican, our friend, our New Yorker -- Adriano Espaillat.
To Arthur Brown and the Daily News, we thank them for being here. They have been part of this story for many, many years. As Mr. Brown said, they take seriously the immigrant tradition of New York and they have been a powerful voice in helping to facilitate that. Their Citizen Now program, which is the first-of-its-kind, has been extraordinary, and then helping us with this effort to publicize the path to citizenship for all, it's difficult. They will also be selecting the 2,000 winners by this lottery. The Daily News will be making the selection, and that is good, because then we'll know that it is a fair selection. If the 2,000 people selected happen to all be Daily News subscribers, then we'll wonder. Other than that, we want to thank them very much for their participation. Let's give the Daily News and Arthur Brown a round of applause. To all of the partners who made this possible -- to Robin Hood and Community Trust, Stanford, the University of Albany, George Mason and the Daily News. Let's give them all a round of applause.

Source:
