Public Statements
Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces Oswego to Receive $10 Million in Downtown Revitalization Initiative
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 14, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Downtown Oswego was selected as the winner of the $10 million Downtown Revitalization Initiative in Central New York. The Downtown Revitalization Initiative, first laid out in the Governor's 2016 State of the State address, marks a comprehensive plan to transform local neighborhoods into vibrant communities where the next generation of New Yorkers will want to live and work. The plan aligns with "Central NY Rising" -- the region's successful Upstate Revitalization Initiative blueprint to generate robust economic growth and community development.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below:
Good afternoon, thank you. Thank you very much. Well, it's my pleasure to be back in Oswego. Many, many memories about Oswego back to the time when I was working in the Clinton Administration at HUD, Housing and Urban Development. We did a lot of work, economic development work along the Erie Canal. A lot of work with Oswego and Bolton and Syracuse and coming up with regional collaborative so it's a pleasure to be back. It's great to be with your mayor. We refer to your mayor in Albany as Old Man Barlow. That's what we refer to him. God bless him. He is one of the youngest, he's also one of the best in the state of New York. Let's give him a round of applause, Mayor Barlow.
It's a pleasure to be with my friend Chairman Kevin Gardner. We've done a lot of good work together, we are going to do more together. Kevin, a pleasure to be with you. Rob Simpson who is the chair of the regional economic development council which is doing great work coordinating the economy for the entire region. Rob, pleasure to be with you. My colleague from Albany who has a much bigger smile now that she's home, Senator Patty Ritchie, who is doing a great job.
As I mentioned, I spent a lot of time in Oswego in the past, a lot of work on economic development. I know how hard the past few decades actually have been. Because it has been a tough economy, it's been a tough economy for a long time in Upstate New York. A friend from Buffalo once said to me, "When it comes to the economy, it's been a bad 50 years." I started to laugh, and he said, "I'm not kidding, it's been a bad 50 years." If you think about it, for Upstate New York it has been 50 years of hardship. Really the economy started to turn around when this nation's economy turned from manufacturing and those jobs started to go overseas and Upstate New York did one thing, we manufactured. That was the business. It was the Erie Canal that was the location of all the manufacturing plants, that's what we did. The economy turns, the economy shifts through no fault of our own. But Upstate New York is now left without an economic rationale, and suffered many, many years of slow growth. What's worse is nobody came to help Upstate New York. You know, you want a city a county, a region to now go find a new economy, that doesn't just happen on its own. The old expression, it takes money to make money. Well someone has to help that area reinvest and find a new economy. The entity that should have done it was the state of New York. The state of New York should've focused on the economy and Upstate New York. I'm sad to say as Governor it didn't. That's the truth, and it's a blunt truth, and it's a candid truth. It's painful to acknowledge but I believe that if you don't acknowledge a problem you're never going to solve it. State of New York did not focus enough on Upstate New York. They were very focused on downstate New York, the New York City area. There were political reasons for it--most of the state legislature comes from Downstate New York. Most of the assembly, most of the senate, they come from Downstate New York. Politics gets very parochial. People tend to focus on the area that they come from. So a lot of attention went to Downstate New York. Probably my single proudest accomplishment is I reversed that 180 degrees and I said, "No." the states obligation is to help the parts of the state that need help. God bless Downstate New York, the economy is going great, Downstate New York. It could always be going better, but it's going well it has been going well for a long time. Upstate New York needs the help. So we have invested unprecedented amounts of money in Upstate New York and it's an investment. It's an investment for the entire state because as goes Upstate goes the whole state. There's not two states, Downstate and Upstate--we are one state. We are one set of books. If Upstate isn't doing well, Downstate is going to have to subsidize Upstate. So I argue to Downstate, this is an investment on all behalves. I'm proud to say I've invested more in Upstate New York than any governor in the history of the state of New York. Period.
We have invested over $25 billion in Upstate New York, helping transform the economy to the economy of tomorrow. It's all about three things, jobs, jobs, jobs. Just bring in jobs, create opportunity, keep our young people here, and bring our young people back. Keep the young people who are in SUNY's to stay in our community and hope, everything else will take care of itself. If jobs are coming in, there is going to be revenue, people are paying the taxes, the mayor is going to be happy, the county executive is going to be happy. It is all about jobs. The inverse is also true. If we are losing jobs, then we have serious, serious trouble. That is where we have been for a lot of years. Also, the way we have been doing economic development is much different. The whole old days, Albany would sit there in Albany and they would decide what was best for Oswego. Since they knew better, "This is really what Oswego needs, this is what Buffalo needs, and this is what Utica needs." We flipped that also. We said, "Look, I don't know what Oswego needs. I am sitting over here in Albany." In truth, there is no one state economy. There are ten different regions in this state and very region is a little bit different. The North Country is different than Central New York is different than Western New York is different than Long Island. Those plans, those strategies have to be homegrown. We started what we call Regional Economic Development Councils. A region, Central New York, put together the businessmen, the academics and the politicians, put them all in one room and say, "Give me a business plan that works to bring jobs for your region." It is a business plan. It is about jobs. If it is about creating jobs, then we will have a competition. If you win, we will invest in that region and that Regional Economic Development plan. That has been going extraordinarily well all across the state. Some regions better than others, some regions were further ahead, some regions further behind, but it has been working great all across the board.
The growth is normally tied to an institution of higher learning, if you are looking where the jobs are coming from nowadays. They are coming from schools that have developed the new idea, the new technology, and the new patent. That is why SUNY Oswego was such a beautiful asset. If you look at where the jobs are coming from, they are coming from tourism. We have invested in tourism and Upstate New York. When people see it and they see what we have here, they want to come back and they want to come back and they want to come back. You see investments that are smart and are working all across the state and you see them all across the region. Central New York region has won about $3 billion from the state over the past five years, $3 billion. We are investing in the water park, the business incubator, we are redoing Route 104 for about four miles so it connects better with I-81, the Hardwood Floor Transitions Company, tourism. We invested $130 million in the "I Love NY" campaign. We talked to the legislature about it at the time. They said, "Boy $130 million, that's a lot of money." $130 million. Tourism has gone up in the State of New York $6 billion from the $130 million investment. We are in an all-time high.
God gave you one of the greatest assets. There is no other Lake Ontario. There is nothing like it. If you are sports person, if you love to fish, that is one of the great places, literally, on the globe to do it. Tourism in Central New York has increased to the tune of about $2 billion. We have the Super DIRT Week that is going to come in. We are going to be advertising Harbor Fest. We have all these areas of economic growth that are going very well.
The second lesson we learned is economic growth is accelerated if the downtown area is vibrant. Why? Because people like people. More and more, people like people. They like to be associated with people. I don't know if it is a function of technology, and they spend so much time on the Internet that once in a while they want to see a human face. If you look at the regions that are growing, they are vibrant downtown areas. Besides the Regional Economic Development Councils and the partnerships with the SUNY systems that we have been working on, we challenged communities across the state, "Come up with a plan to revitalize your downtown area. Find a way to generate jobs, generate businesses, generate activity in your downtown because that is like dropping the stone in the pond and the rings will go out, out, out, and out." But you need that vibrant downtown area.
Oswego put in an application, they did a lot of work, and it is a smart application. In truth, you were doing a lot of work in the area to begin with. You had redone over 150 facades, Renaissance Oswego was working on developing the downtown area, but the plan is smart. It speaks of transit-oriented development, it speaks of walkability, and it ties to the anchor businesses that are in the area because you have to make that nexus between the downtown areas and the anchors. You have to make the nexus between the downtown areas and the port because all those connections are important. Your plan does all of that. It is a very smart plan.
The way the competition worked is we have ten first place winners which win $10 million. There are 122 applications. The competition is very, very stiff. Ten first place winners win $10 million. There are second place winners that win $8 million. There are third place winners that win $6 million and a fourth place winner that wins a plaque and a set of steak knives. You really don't want to be the fourth place winner even though they are nice knives. Everybody obviously wants to be a first place winner, I understand that, but there are only 10 slots out of 122. I also say, that there are no losers in this competition, because the exercise itself was a good one. Putting people together, and working on a plan for downtown; had to be done anyway. So whether or not you win the application, it was a good exercise, and, in essence, there are no losers. With that as a preface, I'm here to tell you today: Congratulations, you are a first place winner and you win $10 million. Congratulations! Congratulations!
I almost gave old-man Barlow a heart attack with that last one, he didn't know where I was going with that set of steak knives. You can get a set of steak knives also by the way, in addition to the first place. But let me say this, Congratulations. You deserve it. The competition was very, very stiff, 122 applications only 10 first place winners. You deserve it, it was hard work, and your plan is smart. I used to do community development and planning for many, many years on the federal government; you hit all the points. It's bottom up, it was a comprehensive plan, and you brought in the business community; and you deserve it. You need it and you deserve it.
My last point is this, I know it has been a hard road. It has been a very hard road in Oswego. It's been a hard road across all of upstate New York. But, this really is a different day. The arrows really are turned in a different direction. The state gets it. The state legislature gets it and understands. We have done a 180 in this state overall. We learned the lesson, you can't keep raising taxes on people and expect that businesses and people are going to come. They're smart. You keep raising taxes, they will leave and they did. We lost young people, we lost businesses as well as the economy shifting. We have done together an exact 180. We've been cutting taxes every time we do a budget. Our corporate taxes are the lowest rate since 1968. The manufacturing tax rate is the lowest level since 1917. Middle-class tax rate, up to $300,000, lowest level in 70 years. We get it.
State spending is at the lowest level of increase in fifty years. It is paying off. The state just brought in 800,000 new jobs over the past four years. Listen to this, we now have 7.9 million jobs in the state, more jobs than have ever existed before in the history of the State of New York. That's where we are now. It is not just Downstate. We have focused on Upstate. The growth Downstate is for the first time equal to the growth Upstate. When we started, unemployment in Central New York was 8 percent. It is now about 4 percent cut in half. The arrows are all heading in the right direction. I truly believe the best is yet to be. We are not building back what Oswego was. We are going to build an Oswego that has never been and we are on the track to do it. Congratulations.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-and-transcript-governor-cuomo-announces-oswego-receive-10-million-downtown
