Public Statements
Govenor Cuomo Announces $151 Million for Multi-Use Elevated Promenade to Strengthen Staten Island Coastal Resiliency
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 30, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you. Thank you very much. First, it's my pleasure to be back on Staten Island. A lot of friends. A lot of good memories. I'm a Queens boy, but a lot of good, good friends on Staten Island. So it's good to be back. First, to your Borough President. Let's give him a round of applause. He's doing a beautiful job. He is really someone special. And then you heard them acknowledged, but one more time, because they're my colleagues in Albany and they"re doing a great job and they just passed a great budget, part of which we're going to sign today. Let's give them a round of applause. Senator Savino and Assemblyman Cusick and Assemblyman Titone and Assemblyman Castorina. The Richmond County District Attorney Mike McMahon, let's give him a round of applause. The legend, Borough President Molinaro. Pleasure to be with you.
And I left Andrew Lanza for last. I did. I left him for last. Why? Well because there's a tension here. I want you to know. It has nothing to do with politics. It has nothing to do with ideology. I become Governor, I'm there. And maybe the first month, first time I meet Senator Lanza he comes up and he says, we have to talk about something. I say fine, whatever you want to talk about, be my pleasure to talk. Transparency, I believe in all of that. Cross the aisle. He says, you know it's causing confusion that your name is Andrew and my name is Andrew. I said, really? He said, yes. And we're both Italian. And we're both from downstate. So it's causing confusion. And I said, well what would you suggest? He said, I don't think you need to use the name Andrew. I said, really? Why? He says, well now your first name is Governor, so I think you can drop Andrew and it'll end all the confusion. I said, why should I drop Andrew? Why don't you drop Andrew and pick another name? He says, I was here first, and that's why you should drop Andrew. That is the kind of grit that your Senator brings. I have a different word than grit, but I don't want to say it. But that is the grit if you know what I mean that he brings. Senator Lanza is a great friend of mine. We do a lot of good work. And on the tough issues, when it takes a smart person who's reasonable to work it out and get it done, that's when they call in Senator Lanza, whatever his first name. Let's give him a round of applause.
And we're here to talk about a stronger Staten Island. The Borough President as usual did a great job framing the topic. And being stronger nowadays means being more resilient. Why? We can sit here and say, well Hurricane Sandy, that was one in 100 years. It's never going to happen again. I have been through in my short term as Governor about 10 one-in-100-year occurrences. That's what they always say. This is a one-in-100-year flood. Yeah, except it happens twice a year. Climate change, extreme weather, whatever you want to call it, it is an undeniable reality but that the weather pattern has changed, all around the world, and in New York. It defies facts to say, no these all happened to be random episodes. This past year, seven feet of snow in Buffalo, New York. Highest amount of snow that has ever fallen in Buffalo, New York. Now it snows in Buffalo. But not seven feet.
This past weekend I was on Lake Ontario. Lake Ontario is on the northern border of New York between New York and Canada -- thousand miles of coastline. Highest level in the lake ever recorded in history. It's coming right over the seawall, it's flooding homes. I was at a house that was washed away in a flood in Central New York. It had been there for 100 years -- multi-generations, never a drop of water in the basement and then the house was gone.
We have hurricanes in New York. We never had hurricanes. We have typhoons in New York. We never had typhoons. It floods in places we've never had it before. There's a different weather pattern. We can either say, I deny it, or it's all randomness, or you can learn from it and you can grow from it and you can get prepared for it.
One of the lessons we learned from Hurricane Sandy -- and we learned a number. We're building houses now that are raised on piles. We had a flood. We lost all gasoline and gas stations. If you remember, we had to do rationing, etcetera. Why? Because the gas was in the tanks in the gas stations, but the gas stations didn't have electricity. So now we're mandated gas stations to have generators onsite. We have reserve fuel deposits. On a stateside, my colleagues and I have purchased rescue equipment and prepositioned it all across the state so we never have to go through that again. Boats, high axle vehicles, etcetera, so we can save lives.
The way we're building buildings has changed. And here on Staten Island, we determined after Sandy that the shoreline is vulnerable to storms. Period. It can be Sandy, or it can be something else, but we should expect a reoccurrence of that vulnerability. The smart idea was let's build a seawall to block the vulnerable part of the island on the southern side. And that is a smart idea.
When you look at it, it's seven miles -- South Beach, Midland Beach, Oakwood, to Fort Wadsworth. I was here during Sandy, and I was in Oakwood and I was working with those families. Borough President Molinaro at that time did a phenomenal job, as did all of your elected officials. But we saw how ugly and mean Mother Nature can be. Now, the seven-foot wall, as proposed by the Army Corps of Engineers, is what? It's a wall. When they say a wall, they mean a wall. Believe me, they're in the army -- they're very specific, those people. They say we're going to build a wall, they're going to build a wall. What is the function of the wall? The function of the wall is to hold back the water. So you build the wall and you put a lot of big rocks in front of it and now you have a wall that holds back the water. That's very nice. This is supposed to be seven miles long, this wall. So that's a possible option. The state is going to pay $150 million towards the wall and we're going to sign a bill when we finish speaking here that is going to put $150 million towards the wall and it's our honor to work with the Army Corps of Engineers on the wall.
The question becomes, what do you want to build? And this is the functional wall. The question really is, is this the best we can do? We're going to build a seven-mile structure. Just think of it. And it's going to be visible and it's going to be there forever and our children are going to see it and our grandchildren are going to see it. Seven miles, all sorts of neighborhoods, thousands of homes, are going to be out looking at this wall.
So the question really becomes, what do we want to build? Borough President mentioned my father. My grandfather -- my father's father -- was Andrew, Andrea, and that's where I got my name. I was maybe twelve years old and my grandfather was going to build a patio in the back of the house in Queens. My father was busy because he was a workaholic, but my grandfather was going to build a patio. And I'm helping him at twelve years old, the last thing I wanted to do was help my grandfather build a patio, right? And he's getting ready to build the patio. He's a very methodical man. He was a magician with masonry and he has me carrying in all this slate and all these forms for the cement and all these different trowels, this size, this size, scallop trowel. And I said to him, grandpa. Why don't we just pour a bed of cement and then go home? Why do we need all the slate, all these different forms? He said, because this is going to be here for a long, long time. And yeah, functionally, you could just pour cement. That's all. And now you have a patio, or, you could pour the cement and then put in the slate and then draw decorations in the concrete and then put a scalloped edge and now you have a piece of art. And now you have a statement that says something about you and who you are. And you have something that actually enhances the value of the home. So, it's not just art. It's also a smart, financial investment.
So, is the wall the best thing we can do with $613 million? That is a lot of escarole, $613 million. Is that wall the best we can do? My answer is no. Let's not think about building a wall. Let's thing about building a promenade instead of a wall, okay? And start to see where your mind goes. You can build the wall, but on top of the wall, why don't we build a boardwalk? And why don't we really think about this as an attraction rather than just as a functional device. A boardwalk -- you can bicycle, you can ride, you can have vending stations, you can have benches, you can have shaded areas. We're going to spend $150 million through the state, $600 million altogether. Let's build something that enhances the island and enhances all the homes that are going to be looking at the promenade. When it comes to the Oakwood section, let's make that a nature preserve and let's have trails going through that, that connect to the promenade. I think we could build something that could really be a major enhancement to the whole island. I think homes that are near that promenade could actually go up in value as part of the island we're trying to redevelop. We're trying to bring back strong. I think it could be a locational asset to the homes that are located next to it and I think it could improve the quality of life. I think it could be an attraction for the entire island. I think it could be an attraction for the city. When you think about it, seven miles long, Manhattan's High Line, which has been a phenomenal success -- it's 1.3 miles long. Well, we go to Jones Beach boardwalk, two miles long, Jones Beach. We're talking about seven miles here. Coney Island, 2.7. Rockaway, 5.5 miles. It would be one of the longest boardwalk promenades in the city of New York and still do its function.
The question then is who should design it? Now I have some design ideas myself that I want to share with you today. Do you remember those plastic flamingoes that they used to have? How beautiful were they, tell the truth. And they're gone. I don't know what happened. They were in everybody's front yard. They had a nice stick that went in. Pink right next to the saint, it was beautiful. You can't find those flamingoes anywhere. I say we bring back those flamingoes on this boardwalk every few feet. So you don't want me designing the boardwalk, I can tell. I was kidding about the flamingoes. I don't even like live flamingoes, let alone plastic ones.
The people of Staten Island should design that boardwalk because it's going to be yours. So what we're going to do is New York State is going to begin a series of presentations and community forums all throughout the island. We'll have sketches. We'll have designs. We'll share them with communities. Commissioner Basil Seggos is the commissioner of the Department of Environmental Conservation. Borough President had a little trouble with his name. It's not an Italian name, it's understandable. He's going to do a series of community forums. And I really believe this is going to be something special and it's something that people should pay attention to and really put some thought into it. Because at the end of the day, and I'll end where the Borough President started, public service is about what? Public service is about using government as a vehicle to do good things. But it's not just public service. Every parent, every citizen has one fundamental obligation -- to leave this place better than we found it, right? It's about leaving our children a better home than we found it. Leaving New York stronger, fairer, sweeter than we found it and making them proud that this is their home. That's what this project should be all about to me. And it's what we're trying to do all across the state of New York. We're in the process of redoing the Verrazano now where we have cashless tolling. Why do you still have to stop at a toll booth, right? Brooklyn Battery Tunnel we're redoing back to the original architecture that was really magnificent. Because when they built, they cared. We're building a new LaGuardia Airport. Why? Because I'm ashamed to walk into this LaGuardia Airport, that's why. A new John F. Kennedy Airport. Leave our children a better place, a stronger place, a more resilient place, a place they can be proud of.
I still walk back to the patio in Queens and I see the slate and I see the design and I see the artistry that was in my grandfather. A simple man, never graduated high school, but he was an artist and he cared about what he did and he wanted to make a contribution and that's how he made a contribution. This is how we can make a contribution. We're not just building a wall. We're going to build a promenade and we're going to make Staten Island better than Staten Island has ever been and we're going to do it by working together.
Thank you and God bless you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-rush-transcript-govenor-cuomo-announces-151-million-multi-use-elevated-promenade
