Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Expedited Approvals to Allow Community Missions Charitable Duck Race to Proceed on Erie Canal
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 12, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Community Missions of Niagara Frontier, Inc.'s annual duck race for charity can proceed this year at Canal Fest. The time-honored tradition came to a halt earlier this month when Community Missions discovered that the fundraiser possibly flouted state law by not obtaining certain approvals. Governor Cuomo has taken action to ensure the charity event continues for the Western New York community, and has engaged the New York State Gaming Commission on expediting any and all approvals needed for Community Missions to move forward with this year's duck race.
"Each year, Community Missions' charitable duck race raises thousands of dollars to support the organization's important work for the city's most vulnerable populations," said Governor Cuomo. "After discussions with the New York State Gaming Commission, we've determined a lawful pathway for this popular event to take place on the Erie Canal this year and in the years ahead. The Commission has reached out to city officials and Community Missions to ensure the proper steps are taken so that the raffle may be legally conducted."
Governor Cuomo continued, "Additionally, I have requested that the Commission proactively contact similarly situated Western New York charitable organizations seeking to hold fundraisers on the Canal to advise them on how they too can proceed legally to raise funds. I am pleased that with this administrative fix, these important traditions will be able to continue for the entire Western New York community."
"We are thrilled that Governor Cuomo reached out to help us cut through the red tape to allow Community Missions to hold our fun, favorite fundraiser," said Robyn Krueger, Executive Director of Community Missions Of Niagara Frontier, Inc. "By expediting the application process to use a state waterway, the duck race can commence on Saturday, July 23 at Canal Fest, which helps support our mission of serving individuals and families in need. We've provided Compassion in Action to those in need in Niagara County since 1925. With Governor Cuomo's help, our wide range of services will continue."
Community Missions has been holding the annual duck race for decades to raise money for the services it provides. Individuals and organizations can buy plastic ducks which then float down the canal. The sponsors of the winning ducks receive a prize.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-expedited-approvals-allow-community-missions-charitable-duck-race
