Public Statements
Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces Groundbreaking on $35 Million Hyatt Place Hotel Project in Niagara Falls
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 12, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that construction has begun on the new $35 million Hyatt Place Hotel in Niagara Falls. The more than 111,000 square feet, 128-room hotel will be the first non-casino new development of this scale in more than 40 years in downtown Niagara Falls. The project is expected to create 35 new jobs. When the Hyatt Place is completed in fall 2017, the City of Niagara Falls will have "upscale" brands from the top three hotels chains--Hilton (DoubleTree), Hyatt (Place) and Marriott (Courtyard). The Governor made the announcement today at 310 Rainbow Boulevard, the site of the new Hyatt Place Hotel, in Niagara Falls.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below:
Thank you very much, good morning to all of you. What a great morning. Sun is shining, it is a really beautiful day on many, many levels. First to Assemblyman John Ceretto, who we did have a great legislative session, he is a great representative for his district. But beyond that he is a strong voice for the entire state. Let's give him a round of applause. Assemblyman Ceretto. To Mayor Paul Dyster, leadership matters, and the Mayor is doing a fantastic job. Most of the credit goes to Paul. And a large amount of the credit goes to the better half of the Dyster clan who is actually celebrating a birthday today, Becky. So let's wish her a happy birthday.
Mark Hamister of the Hamister family, Niagara Falls thanks you, New York State thanks you. Mr. Hamister went through the burdens of getting this project done, this was not an easy birth. I don't know that many births are easy. But this was an especially complicated birth. There were complications, let's say on this birth. It would have been very easy to walk away. I asked Mr. Hamister on a personal level that we were building we were coming back, this was an important project so please stay with Niagara Falls and Western New York and we would make sure we would get it done. He did and his son did. We are here today because of their commitment to do the right thing and to honor their relationship, and to honor their commitment, and to honor their community. So Mr. Hamister thank you, Dan we thank you.
We also have from ESD the "Z Man," as he is referred to, he is the economic development miracle maker, Howard Zemsky, pleasure to be with you. Sam Hoyt, who is "Mr. Western New York" for my administration. Sam, thank you very much for everything you did to make today a reality. Everybody has said it, "Niagara Falls is working! It's working! The comeback is happening! The turnaround is happening!" Today is yet more evidence of that. The Hamister Group believes in the community, wants to help the community. But this is a $35 million project. When somebody invests $35 million, I'll tell you what you means. It means they believe in the future of the community that they are investing $35 million in. Goldman Sachs, $24 million of the investment. Goldman Sachs is a nice company, but they don't invest $24 million just because they are nice. First investment by Goldman Sachs in Niagara falls because they believe in Niagara Falls that is what it means!

Source:
