Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $35 Million to Expand After-School Programs in High-Need School Districts
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 30, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $35 million in funding available for high-need school districts across New York to establish quality after-school programs. As one of the Governor's priorities included in the 2017 State of the State, this investment will support increased enrollment in after-school programs by 36 percent.
"This investment in our youngest New Yorkers is an investment in the very future of this state," Governor Cuomo said. "With this funding, we will further level the playing field for children in underserved cities across New York by expanding their access to programs and community resources that will help them get ahead and help create a stronger, fairer Empire State for all."
Eligible school districts may partner with non-profit agencies to provide after-school programs. Any school districts interested in applying must:
Be located in municipalities designated under the Empire State Poverty Reduction Initiative;
Be located in a county that had a child poverty rate of over 30 percent in 2015;
Have a district child poverty rate of over 30 percent in 2015; or
Had between 5,000 and 20,000 students living in poverty within the school district in 2015.
First announced in January as part of the Governor's 2017 State of the State, funding has been enacted in the 2017-2018 Budget allowing districts to receive five-year grants of $1,600 per student. Districts must adopt quality indicators assessing environment, staff-to-student interaction and student outcomes. The New York State Office of Children and Family Services, which will administer the grant, expects to announce awards this fall.
The Request for Proposals is available at: http://ocfs.ny.gov/main/bcm/rfp.asp.
Participation in after-school programs play a major role in helping to close the opportunity gap. These programs provide an ideal setting to reach underrepresented students, which has been associated with higher academic outcomes, lower drop-out rates, and a reduction in juvenile crime. When children have access to a quality education, including pre-k and wraparound services like after-school programs, their chances of getting a good-paying job and better quality of life increases exponentially. High quality after-school programs have also been found to have a $3 return on investment for every dollar spent.
"Research shows that after-school programs are associated with lower drop-out rates and reduced juvenile crime," said acting OCFS Commissioner Sheila J. Poole. "The addition of these 22,000 slots will contribute to both the academic and social success of our children."
"This program will help to close the achievement gap in communities with underserved children," said State Education Department Commissioner MaryEllen Elia. "Extending the school day will provide educational opportunity in a safe and learning-rich environment."
"Access to high quality after-school programs give children the opportunity to learn and grow in a safe environment," said Senator Carl L. Marcellino, chairman of the Senate Education Committee. "This needed investment will provide the kind of academic and social framework that keeps students focused on their schoolwork and out of trouble. These funds put kids on a path toward success, both in school and in life."
About the Empire State Poverty Reduction Initiative
The New York State Empire Poverty Reduction Initiative includes the cities with the highest concentration of poverty: Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo, Elmira, Jamestown, Oneonta, Oswego, Syracuse, Utica and Troy.
About OCFS
OCFS serves New York by promoting the safety, permanency and well-being of children, families, and communities. OCFS maintains an active social media presence. "Like" the New York State Office of Children and Family Services Facebook page and follow @NYSOCFS on Twitter in English or the Spanish-language Twitter account, @NYSOCFS Espanol.
About NYSED
The New York State Education Department is part of the State University of New York (SUNY), one of the most complete, interconnected systems of educational services in the United States. Follow the commissioner on Twitter @NYSEDNews.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-35-million-expand-after-school-programs-high-need-school-districts
