Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $11.7 Million Pavement Rehabilitation Project Between Exits 58 And 59 On New York State Thruway
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 11, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the $11.7 million project to rehabilitate the pavement on the New York State Thruway (I-90) between exits 58 and 59 is now underway. This project will replace 48 lane miles of asphalt (2 lanes in each direction for 12 miles) to improve the safety and quality of the roadway for its approximately 25,000 daily motorists.
"This project will not only improve the safety and travel experience for motorists in Western New York, but it will also strengthen the reliability of the roadway for businesses and the commercial drivers who transport their products," Governor Cuomo said. "Ensuring New York's infrastructure remains strong and dependable is the key to growing our economy and these repairs will help this stretch of the Thruway remain viable for years to come."
Along with replacing 48 lane miles of asphalt, the $11.7 million project will complete a number of additional safety and maintenance repairs. In order to expand the off-road recovery area for distressed vehicles, the slope along the sides of the roadway will be flattened. Additionally, new pavement striping and guiderails will be installed, along with new culverts to improve drainage throughout this stretch of roadway.
Work will be completed during the month of July and require overnight ramp closures in both directions at exit 58 (Silver Creek -- Irving -- NY Routes 5, 20, & 438). Motorists seeking to leave the Thruway via exit 58 during this time period should follow the posted detour routes and expect minor delays. More information about ramp closures can be found here.
All work is weather dependent and subject to change.
Acting New York State Thruway Authority Executive Director Bill Finch said, "Ensuring that our roadway is safe and reliable for drivers remains our number one priority. The pavement resurfacing and ramp improvements on I-90 near exit 58 reflects our commitment to our motorists and will benefit the thousands of commuters that travel in Western New York every day."
Senator Cathy Young said, "The Thruway is essential to daily commuters, tourists, and companies moving their goods, so it is vital to our economy and quality of life in Chautauqua County. These construction projects will ensure safety for the traveling public, and put people to work. The state Senate has been working together with the Governor to secure road and bridge capital projects, and the results will reap positive benefits for the people of the state."
Assemblyman Andrew Goodell said, "This $11.2 million repaving and rehabilitation project will provide thousands of drivers a day with a superb road surface for many years to come. The completion of this project by the end of July continues the strong commitment by the Thruway Authority to maintaining a high quality roadway. With this new pavement in place, both local and out-of-town visitors can enjoy their ride through beautiful Chautauqua County! We look forward to the successful completion of negotiations between the Thruway Authority and the Seneca Nation so that the next section of the Thruway can also enjoy this level of improvement."
Chautauqua County Executive Vince Horrigan said, "Chautauqua County depends on I-90 to sustain our commercial and tourism industries. The harsh winter conditions take a toll the pavement and I applaud the Governor Cuomo for this Thruway rehabilitation project to ensure this major transportation route is maintained in a high quality condition."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-117-million-pavement-rehabilitation-project-between-exits-58-and-59
