Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Delivers Remarks on Legislation Improving Access to and Coverage For Breast Cancer Screenings at Breast Cancer Motorcycle Ride Stop in Victor, NY
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 8, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you, thank you. Boy what an emotional day and emotional time. First, to all of the people who are participating today, we have a great group that has been going all the way across the state. We had a little challenge on the way here, just a few raindrops but it did not slow us down. Some of us turned around and went the other way but none of us slowed down. Joe Robach was supposed to be with us but he informed me he is a fair-weather rider, he said today. Sam Roberts, who is commissioner of OTDA, thank you for taking the ride with us. County Executive Joanie Mahoney took the ride with us from Syracuse. We have about 100 bikers who have been making it with us all across the state, let's give them a round of applause.
Before I talk to the topic of the day, it's been an emotional time. This is a difficult time for the country, let alone the state, let alone the Morelle family. You can feel the anger that people have been feeling over the past few months. You can feel the frustration, you can feel the anxiety. But the past few days we have seen acts of violence that almost rival anything that we have seen in their brutality. What happened in Louisiana, what happened in Minnesota, last night 12 police officers deliberately shot. What's frightening is the anger that is generating it. The racial anger, the focus and the anger at the differences among us, which is frightening for this country because we are all about the differences among us. This country, unlike any other country, wasn't founded on one religion, one nationality, we were the exact opposite. We said we are going to invite people from all over the globe. And when they come here we are going to invite them to join the community of America. Yes, we are black, we are white, we are brown, we are Asian, we are women, we are men. But that is what makes us, us. Diversity is what makes America, America. When you now demonize diversity, when you make diversity the enemy, you attack the core of what this country is all about.
The past few days have been ugly indeed. We are going to light the World Trade Center, One World Trade Center, which is on the 9/11 site, red, white, and blue this evening. We want to say to this nation, "Remember what this nation is about. Remember the red, white and blue. Remember freedom and democracy and who we are and what we are. Remember that we are founded on diversity and we focus on the commonalities among us." Only America can defeat America and only division and separation within our country can ever be a real threat to us. The good news is we are at our best as a people I believe when things are at their worst. That's what the 9/11 site says. We saw the worst of humanity that day in the cowardice that launched the attack. And we saw the best of humanity when those emergency workers, and firefighters, and police ran in that burning building to save their brothers and sisters knowing they were putting their own life in jeopardy. So that is what the 9/11 memorial means and the red, white and blue will remind this nation. Come together, look at the commonality, remember who we are. We are all Americans wherever we come from.

Source:
