Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 18th Annual "Cycle the Erie Canal" Bike Tour Kick Off
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 8, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the 18th annual Cycle the Erie Canal, a 400-mile, eight-day cycling tour that begins in Buffalo on Sunday, July 10 and concludes in Albany on Sunday, July 17. The eight-day tour will highlight the recreational appeal of the Erie Canal and the Erie Canalway Trail, both popular destinations in New York State. As the largest expected tour to date, this year's event has attracted more than 650 cyclists from 38 states, as well as international participants from as far away as Australia.
"Apart from its breathtaking beauty, the Erie Canal corridor plays a vital role in this state's history and present economy and we're proud to showcase all these aspects in our 18th annual cycle ride," Governor Cuomo said. "I welcome the cyclists who are coming from far and wide to participate in this world-renowned tour and encourage them to indulge in all New York has to offer."
Roughly 360 miles of the 400-mile bicycle tour takes place on the completed portion of the Erie Canalway Trail. Participants will have the opportunity to partake in guided tours of the Canal, historic sites, museums, and attractions such as the Women's Rights National Historical Park and the Montezuma National Wildlife Refuge in Seneca Falls, the Erie Canal Museum in Syracuse, and the Fort Stanwix National Monument in Rome.
Canal Corporation Director Brian U. Stratton said, "The New York State Canal Corporation is honored to once again sponsor Cycle the Erie Canal. The Erie Canal is a beautiful and historical treasure not only to New York, but the entire country, as demonstrated by our record-breaking participant roster. I thank Governor Cuomo and Parks & Trails New York for their continued support that is critical in making this event a success year after year."
Executive Director of Parks & Trails New York Robin Dropkin said, "We are proud to partner with Governor Cuomo and the New York State Canal Corporation in promoting the Erie Canal and Canalway Trail. The Cycle the Erie Canal tour provides an opportunity for cyclists from around the world to enjoy the best of New York State. Our 18th tour is the largest to date, demonstrating the growing importance of tourism along the Erie Canalway Trail and Upstate New York."
Participating cyclists arrive in Buffalo on Saturday, July 9, to register and participate in optional bike rides and an opening reception. The tour officially begins at 8:00 a.m. on Sunday, July 10. Community members are encouraged to come out and show their support for registered riders along the route.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-18th-annual-cycle-erie-canal-bike-tour-kick
