Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches Second Leg of First-Ever Breast Cancer Motorcycle Ride in Upstate New York
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 8, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you, thank you. Thank you very much, it is a pleasure to be back in Syracuse and a pleasure to be at the Fairgrounds. Doesn't it look great? How about that new entrance way, isn't it fantastic? First, it is a pleasure to be with your County Executive who is a real superstar and does great work all across the state, great work for the state with the Thruway Authority on top of everything else. Let's give a big round of applause. Joanie Mahoney. To Juli Boeheim, thank you so much for sharing your story and thank you for all the good work you do for the community. Thank you. Beth and Carol Baldwin and all the good work you've done over these years bringing this important issue to light, we thank you very much. We thank you for being here.
Before I make the comments about today and the message that Sandra is bringing across the state, let's take a moment to just reflect on what has gone on in this country in the past few days. We have seen some real ugliness and some frightening images that really should shake us to the core and make us think. There is no doubt that you feel an anger and a frustration among the people of this country. You see it playing out in politics and you see it all different ways. But, what we have seen over the past few days is really disturbing. What happened in Louisiana, what happened in Minnesota, and then yesterday in Dallas, Texas, 12 police officers purposefully shot is really shocking. I have said earlier that in some ways it seems like America's demons are challenging America's better angels. For a person they say your greatest weakness can be your greatest strength just depends on what side of the line you are on. The greatest strength that this country has is its diversity. That is what makes us who we are. That was the founding premise. This country is unlike any other country on the globe. We are not one religion or one nationality. We did it the exact opposite way. We said we can invite people from everywhere and then make one community from that diversity. That made us strong because we have people from all different countries, they all brought their individual talents. When you brought those individual talents together, the collective was very strong. That is our strength.
The demons and the hate mongers are trying to make that diversity a weakness. Rather than finding similarities and commonalities and celebrating the commonality, they want to point to the differences and create fear and anger about the differences. Different color skin, different race, different sexual orientation and make that the enemy. Only America can defeat America. This is the strongest country on the planet. No one can come close. The only enemy that we could have, that is formidable, is if we have division within and among ourselves. That is the great fear for this country. That is why I would ask you, in honor of the past few days, to let us have a moment of silence for those who have lost their lives. Thank you.
This past legislative session in Albany. The legislative session goes from January to June. It ended recently. It lasts for six months. Sometimes it feels like six years, but it's really only six months. When the dust settles and you look at what we did this year, you are going to see that it was an extraordinarily productive year. We did a lot of good things on a lot of levels. We cut taxes for the middle class to the lowest level in 70 years, believe it or not. We funded more for public education than ever before in the history of the state of New York. We are investing in economic development especially in Upstate New York, bringing back jobs, which is so important. But for me, in some ways the three most important issues are all people focused. The three most important accomplishments. We passed the best heroin program in the United States. We are going to make those insurance companies actually provide treatment to people who need it rather than playing this game that they play where you need approval from the insurance company before you can get the treatment. By the way, they never give you the approval. We did that. We passed the best paid family leave program in the United States. We passed this breast cancer legislation that we are going to talk about today, which is unique in the nation. No state has done what New York has done in combatting breast cancer.
As you heard from Sandy, the past year has been extraordinarily difficult for her and for our family because breast cancer, as soon as you hear that word, as you soon as you get that diagnosis and as soon as you hear that "C" word, your heart stops. Breast cancer, I thought, was going to be a relatively short period of time. You would have an operation, it's over. But it's not that at all. It is long-term, it has many phases, it is physical, it is emotional, and I've had quite an education over the past year trying to help Sandy deal with it, and what stuck in my mind was the first thing the doctor said when he was talking to us about the diagnosis. He said, "Well Sandy is lucky because we caught it early." I thought about that ever since. She's lucky because we caught it early. Well why should anyone ever be unlucky? Why shouldn't you catch it early? If you can catch it early, catch it early! When you look at the numbers and the probability on the success rate, it is dramatically different depending on when you catch it. So why should you be lucky to catch it early? Why isn't everyone getting screened? Over the past year doctors, nurses, women, waiting rooms, we've been talking to women saying, "Why haven't you gotten screened? 30 percent of women, 30-40 percent of women don't go for screenings when they should and we are inquiring why. Two basic reasons. Time and money are normally the obstacles. Women say, "You know I have family, I have work, etcetera, and the time the hospitals and the clinics are open to actually do the mammogram and go for the screening, that's when I'm working, that's when I have the kids, I can't get there!"
So the first thing this bill does is it mandates that hospitals and clinics stay open four more hours per week after five o'clock and on weekends so the hospitals and the clinic is open when a woman can actually go and get the test. That takes care of the first obstacle. The second obstacle was the money. Women said, "You know, I don't want to make my family pay the copay, or the deductible to the insurance company." Just because you have insurance, which Americans have now, doesn't mean it doesn't cost you. There's a copay or a deductible, and it can be significant. The economy is very, very tough and families are struggling, and I've talked to many women who said, "You know I feel guilty making the family pay the bill when I'm not really sure that I need it in the first place." What we did there is we went to the insurance companies and for the first time ever mandate that the insurance companies waive any copay or deductible when it comes to screening or follow-up testing from the screening so it is entirely free for women. There is no cost whatsoever to the test. So the two main obstacles, time and money, are eliminated. Evening hours, weekend hours, the clinic, the hospital will be ready when you're ready! And it costs you absolutely nothing to get the screening done and it can be all the difference in the world. It's not overly dramatic to say it is the difference between life and death when you get that screening done.
Now, the past year has been difficult for me, it has been hellacious for Sandy. But I just want to say, I believe you can really tell about a person when times are tough. When things are going well it's easy to be upbeat, to be happy. But when things are tough, that's when you see what a person is really made of. All through this, Sandra has gotten smarter and more resilient and tougher and more giving. She documented everything that she went through. So if another woman is in this situation God forbid, she has the benefit of all the doctors and all the homework that Sandy did to take her to the point that she did. One year later she is cancer free and she is smarter, tougher, and more beautiful than she's ever been. The point of today is you know government has its limits. We've done everything that we can do. We have the best law in the United States of America. I believe that other states will now copy the New York law. I hope other states copy the New York law. But, women still have to take the first step. Women have to take the first step. And that's the point of this motorcycle ride. We wanted a dramatic fashion to get the word out. We wanted to get people's attention, we wanted to find a way to connect with people and get them to actually focus with all that's going on. That's what this motorcycle ride is all about. A woman said to me the day before yesterday, she said, "You know I saw you on TV riding the motorcycle." I said, "Yes." She said, "You know governors don't ride motorcycles." I said, "Where does it say that? In the bible does it say Governors shall not?" She said, "Well, I've never seen a Governor ride a motorcycle." I said, "Well now you have!" I said, "Well did you know what I was talking about?" She said, "No, I just knew you were riding a motorcycle!" So we have a little more work to do. But, it is about saying to women, saying to families, "Please get tested, get screened, there's no reason not to." Women have to take the first step. Husbands should ask their wives, sons should ask their wives. Sisters should ask their sister," Have you gone for the screening? Why not?" and if you're of the range for where your doctor says you should get the screening, please, please, please get it screened. In New York, there is no reason why every woman who is of the right age should not have gotten that screening done. And we will save lives with this law. Thank you very much and God bless you!

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-and-transcript-governor-cuomo-launches-second-leg-first-ever-breast-cancer
