Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $7 Million Available for Homeowners Impacted by Flooding on Lake Ontario and St. Lawrence River
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 29, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

It's my pleasure to join with the County Executive Dinolfo and Greece Town Supervisor Bill Reilich and my colleague from Albany, Senator Joe Robach. I want to thank the Burgios for opening their home and allowing several dozen people to traipse through their home to see the situation of flooding which is really devastating. The crawl space is all finished. There are pumps running and they're keeping water at this level just static. And if it got any worse, it would come through the crawl space and it would ruin the home so it's truly a dramatic picture of how bad the situation is.

Let me first wish everybody a happy Memorial Day, despite the difficulties that we're having here. It is Memorial Day and it's a time to remember all the Americans who gave their lives so we could live the way we live. I think this Memorial Day is especially poignant. We have boys overseas and women overseas who are defending this country. I also think these constant terrorist attacks make us all feel more anxious, more insecure and more vulnerable frankly. And I think it reminds us that this country stands for freedom and there are a lot of people who see that as the enemy and see democracy as the enemy. So I think this is an especially poignant Memorial Day.

The situation here in the Town of Greece is devastating. Their families have lived through this for weeks now. God bless their stamina, the amount of stress that they're under. This is not just in Greece but roughly 1000 miles of shoreline in the state. It goes from Niagara to Watertown. The lake is at the highest level in recorded history. Period. It's my second visit here and it actually seems worse on this visit than it was several weeks ago. We're doing everything we can on a state level, some of the actions I want to talk to you about today.

First I've been through a number of emergencies, more than I care to remember, in just a few years as Governor. We had Hurricane Sandy. We had Hurricane Irene. We had seven feet of snow in Buffalo. So we've seen it all. The so-called new normal of the extreme weather is very true. This is another example with the highest record in history. The best way to handle for an emergency is to prepare before. Once it has happened, it is too late. If you are not prepared, you're not going to prepare once the emergency happens. We have brought in equipment from all across the state, pumps, generators, boats, light towers, et cetera. National Guard, over one million sandbags have been filled and we're still doing it. We've purchased more sandbagging equipment. So we're doing everything we can in terms of preparation if God forbid this situation gets worse. The state has declared has a state of emergency for the eight counties -- Cayuga, Jefferson, Monroe, Niagara, Orleans, Oswego, St. Lawrence and Wayne. When you declare a state of emergency, that gives the state government additional flexibility and frankly speed. We don't have to go through so much of the bureaucracy to get things done.

As I just mentioned, National Guard -- hundreds of National Guard have been deployed. We've done over 1.3 million sandbags, we're going to keep deploying the National Guard until this is done. Depending on who you talk to, you're talking at a minimum -- weeks, before the situation gets better. Nobody can really tell you. It's a function of Mother Nature. But six weeks, seven weeks, eight weeks, would not surprise me. We want to be ready whatever happens.

We have dispatched a Mobile Command Center from the Department of Financial Services that can help people with insurance claims. Insurance companies are very good when they're trying to get you to sign on the dotted line -- they're not as fast when you're trying to get recovery. The state regulates insurance companies through the Department of Financial Services so if you're having trouble getting an insurance company to respond to you, the Department of Financial Services can actually be helpful.

Memorial Day weekend, people are going to start to come up and use their vacation homes, etcetera, we're going to have the DEC offices -- Department of Environmental Conservation offices -- open on the weekends so if people need permits, they want to do work in their yard, want to put up walls, repair walls, and they need DEC approval, DEC will be open during the weekends.

We have $10 million for local governments who sustained damage, road damage, pumping station, Supervisor Reilich has sustained damage here in the town, we have a $10 million fund to reimburse local governments. We have a $5 million fund to reimburse small businesses. Many small businesses are going to be wiped out by this situation. They are reliant on tourism, they are reliant on the summer income and many of these restaurants and establishments, you just can't get to. They don't have the traffic and their season is going to be over and that's an economic disaster in and of itself. So the state has $5 million to help those small businesses. Today I'm announcing another three actions that we're going to take.

Number One: Memorial Day brings boaters, it's a beautiful lake, the boaters are going to get on the lake and they are going to hit the gas and they're going to go fast and they're going to have fun. That's going to generate waves and large wakes. We just saw at the Burgio house, a wave comes in, it goes almost directly right into the basement. We are going to place an emergency order today by the Department of Parks, I'm going to sign it, that establishes a five mile per hour speed limit within 600 feet of the shoreline. Different municipalities have put in their own speed limits. They can authorize speed limits up to 500 feet from shore. We're going to go further -- 600 -- and we're going to make it statewide so you don't have to guess what municipality you're in front of and for the entire shoreline it will be 600 feet, five miles per hour.

We assume people will understand. Enjoy the lake, but your wake shouldn't swamp somebody's basement. So be considerate, think about other people, and that is going to go into effect today. The Department of Parks and DEC are going to be putting out buoys, but we want to get the word out to the public because it is 1000 miles, five miles per hour, within 600 feet. If you don't, you'll be violating the law and you can receive a summons. Number two, the legislature passed a bill that accelerates a municipality's ability to receive funding under what's called the Clean Water Infrastructure Act. I've signed that bill today, which will accelerate funding availability. Number three, the state is going to make $7 million available to homeowners to reimburse them for damage to their homes -- up to $40,000 per home depending on income level. This is for foundation work, deck work, basement work, et cetera because many of these homes have sustained significant damage. If we can get insurance coverage, we will get insurance coverage. We will work with you to fight for insurance coverage. If you get turned down by the insurance coverage, I don't want you to think you have no place to turn because the state will help you out with the situation. With the Homeowner Assistance Program, there's an income limit except for senior citizens. Any damage done to a senior citizen's home, the state will cover. We're going to continue to monitor the situation.

As I've said, we can help with insurance company, we can help governments, we can help businesses, homeowners. We're going to be open on weekends. I'd like to give a phone number if you need help in any of the above 518-474-2057. To the homeowners who are living through this, I say God bless you. The stamina and stress and fear. If there's a significant northeast storm, the damage could be horrendous, it could be horrendous and people are living on pins and needles. I want you to know that New Yorkers are behind you. As I mentioned before, I've been through a number of emergencies and I'll tell you this, when things are at their worst, New Yorkers are at their best. No one rallies around other people who need support like New Yorkers. It's like one family when push comes to shove. You need help, your brothers and sisters in New York are going to be there and they act through the government and we are going to be there. Whatever it takes, we're going to get through this. We've been through worse and we're going to make it through this and we're going to make it through this together.

It's my pleasure and my honor and my privilege and responsibility as governor to make sure that Greece and towns like Greece have everything they need and we are one phone call away and I'm not going anywhere. I will be back time and time and time again until this situation is resolved. With that, let me turn it over to County Executive Dinolfo and thank her for her leadership and partnership.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/videos-photos-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-announces-7-million-available-homeowners-impacted
