Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 750,000 Additional Working Families Now Eligible For Nutrition Assistance
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 7, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 750,000 additional working families are now eligible for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program -- or SNAP-- which helps fight hunger among working New Yorkers. As outlined in the Governor's State of the State Address, the state has adopted the recommendation of the Governor's Anti-Hunger Task Force to increase the amount working households can earn and still qualify for SNAP. The SNAP expansion, effective July 1, is expected to bring as much as $688.5 million annually in additional federally-funded SNAP benefits to New York State, with an estimated annual economic impact of up to $1.27 billion.
"We are one New York and allowing any of our neighbors to go hungry is unacceptable and is against the very values this state was founded upon," Governor Cuomo said. "This action will help put food on the table for hundreds of thousands more New York families and is a bold step toward stamping out hunger in Empire State once and for all."
Eligibility for SNAP is determined by income and household size, though other factors, such as age and disability of household members, can also impact benefit levels. Applicants for SNAP must pass a two-part test to determine whether they are eligible. Before there is a careful review of a person's actual, or net, income and expenses, there is an initial hurdle -- the Gross Income Test -- which requires that the applicant's total household income is below 130 percent of the federal poverty level, or $2,177 a month for a family of three.
The Governor has directed the New York State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, which oversees SNAP, to raise the Gross Income Test level to 150 percent of poverty, or $2,512 a month for a family of three, for all working households. This will extend eligibility to as many as 750,000 households that currently do not receive SNAP benefits.
New York State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance Commissioner Samuel D. Roberts said, "Thanks to Governor Cuomo's leadership, low-income working families will be able to access the help they need to overcome food insecurity. We are committed to furthering the Governor's agenda in addressing hunger and to ensure that anyone eligible for nutrition assistance is receiving it."







Source:
