Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Paperless Registration Renewals Now Available at DMV Offices Across the State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 6, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced new paperless registration renewals, saving customers time when visiting state and county-run New York State Department of Motor Vehicles offices by eliminating the need to submit a completed paper application. This improvement expands on the Department of Motor Vehicle's Customer Service Initiative, an agency-wide directive by Governor Cuomo in 2012, meant to streamline and increase the efficiency of DMV services.
"Paperless registration renewals will save customers time and create a better registration process for New Yorkers visiting DMV offices," Governor Cuomo said. "This innovation will build on the progress we've already made in reducing wait times and is another step forward in establishing a smarter, more convenient DMV experience. I encourage all New Yorkers to take advantage of this time-saving option and look forward to continuing to make a trip to the DMV as seamless as possible."
Customers only need to show a New York State-issued photo ID or have a Motor Vehicle Representative look up their image in DMV's database. For corporate and government customers, simply having a registration on file with DMV is acceptable proof of identification. Transactions are then processed through a touch-screen terminal device.
DMV Executive Deputy Commissioner Terri Egan said: "We recommend customers always check our website first to see if their transactions are available online, but if an office visit is required, paperless transactions are a real time-saver and convenience. The registration renewal form, for example, can take ten to 15 minutes to fill out. Now, a customer renewing a registration can simply get in line, show ID, and complete the transaction. This is just one of many ways we continue to modernize DMV and make it more responsive to our customers' needs under Governor Cuomo's leadership."
In addition to registration transactions, other transactions -- such as ordering a duplicate license, non-driver ID renewal, or driving record abstract -- can be done without a paper application.
The DMV Customer Service Initiative
The DMV Customer Service Initiative includes improvements to its offices, website, and call centers. In September 2014, the average wait time at state-run DMV offices was reduced to 30 minutes, down from an average of 72 minutes in March 2013. The average wait time has remained at around 30 minutes since then. In 2013, DMV implemented an online reservation system at state-run offices to allow customers to reserve a day and time convenient for them without a wait. Motorists may also sign up online to receive license, registration, and inspection renewal reminders via email and text message.
Self-serve kiosks have been placed in most state-run DMV offices, allowing customers to process their own registration renewals and replacements, driver license and non-driver ID renewals and replacements, permit replacements, address changes and driver license record requests. DMV averages more than 300,000 kiosk transactions per year.
DMV's website, which was redesigned in February 2014, makes dozens of transactions available to New Yorkers, including renewing and replacing driver licenses, renewing and replacing registrations and ordering driving record abstracts. In 2015, it was named one of the nation's best DMV websites and won a Pinnacle Award. More than six million transactions were processed on the DMV website in 2015, which is half a million more than in 2014 and more than two million more than in 2011.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-paperless-registration-renewals-now-available-dmv-offices-across-state
