Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Middletown to Receive $10 Million in Downtown Revitalization Initiative
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 6, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you, thank you, very, very much. It is my pleasure to be at the Paramount Theater today. How beautiful is this theater? I always wanted to play a theater. First to your mayor, who's doing an extraordinary job, and his performance, without giving away the point of the visit, his performance is really vindicated today, because he's done an extraordinary job, especially when it comes to economic development in focusing on downtown areas. Let's give him a big round of applause. To my colleagues, Senator Bonacic and Assemblywoman Gunther, we were together just last week in Bethel Woods, we had the Catskill Challenge, which is basically a tourism event, and we bring people in from all across the state to see the tourism opportunities that are in the Catskill area and we have very serious competitions during the Catskill Challenge. I challenged the Senate and Assembly to a rafting race on the Delaware River. Let's just say the Senate was not successful. Let's just say that. I don't want to say that Senator Bonacic is a spoiled sport but he would not come to the closing ceremony at which the awards were there. Assemblywomen Gunther I think won every award just because she had the best smile in the place. You should know, they are really an extraordinary duo. We went through last year basically the issue of casinos and bringing in gaming to New York, and you couldn't have had better champions and better advocates to make the point that there are places in this state that don't have the luxury of choosing what type of economic engine they want, its options. In that, in some areas, gaming is the single greatest single option. We got it after many, many, many years of trying, and it wouldn't have happened without John Bonacic and Aileen Gunther. Let's give them a big round of applause.
We have our Secretary of State Rossana Rosado; she really deserves the applause because she runs the program that we're here to talk about today, the Downtown Revitalization Initiative. Madame Secretary of State. Secretary of State was also at the Catskill Challenge and won the Dirty Dancing award, I don't really know what that meant, and I don't really want to know what that meant, but she won the Dirty Dancing award. So give her a big round of applause for the Dirty Dancing award. Today is a much different day in the State of New York. When you talk about Hudson valley, Mid-Hudson Valley, Upstate, anything north of the Bronx, the economy has been very, very tough for a very long time. A person in Buffalo said to me once, "You know when it comes to the economy, it's been a bad 40 years." I thought he was joking. He wasn't joking. It's a bad 40 years. When you look at when the arrows changed in Upstate New York and the environment when did the economy start to go down?
It's when the manufacturing economy started to turn down when those manufacturing companies went overseas, which was part of this country's trade policy, which didn't make a lot of sense then, doesn't make a lot of sense now. We gave away those manufacturing jobs. There was nothing there to replace it. More than nothing there to replace it, there was no one there to help communities replace it because now the challenge is you have to find the economy of tomorrow, right? You need help in transforming your economy to the economy of tomorrow. It pains me to say, the State government, which should have been there with a helping hand, was not there, and was not there for a lot of years. The State government in Albany in truth was hyper focused on downstate New York. It was about the metropolitan region and it was about the city. That's where the majority of the elected officials in Albany come from. No doubt it's a very big economic factor in this state. But there's also the rest of the state. The State government was just focused on the metropolitan area and basically left the Hudson Valley, Upstate New York to fend for themselves. That doesn't work. That doesn't work. You can't have a place that is under economic hardship and has no financial partner. Pull yourself up by your own bootstraps, you don't have boots! What are you supposed to do? We reversed that 180 degrees under this administration. I said openly that the State government was too focused on New York City. I said openly that we had to do a 180 degree turn and I am very proud that this administration has invested more in Upstate New York and the Hudson Valley than any administration in the history of the State of New York.
We invested over $25 billion and it is an investment, it's not a gift, we are invested in bring back jobs, bringing back communities and I believe that $25 billion is going to reap a dividend. By the way, that helps Upstate, helps the Hudson Valley, and helps New York City, because we are one state, we are one set of books. When Upstate, Hudson Valley does well, New York City does well. Upstate, Hudson Valley doesn't do well, New York City is going to have to pay the price anyway. It was prudent for everyone that we invest in bringing jobs back to the communities that were struggling. We also had a totally different way of doing it. We just changed the methodology 180 degrees. Rather than having bureaucrats sit in Albany and tell communities what they needed or what they thought they needed, we flipped it. We said to the local communities, you tell us what you need. We said, rather than focusing on localities we want to focus on regions. Why? Because that's how the economy works. The economy works in regions. It doesn't work in a county or a town or a city. Either the regional economy is going to work or the regional economy is not going to work. We said we have to get out of this mentality of just doing these episodic redevelopments where we're going to work on housing or transportation or economic development. They either all work together or none of them work. Really, you have to have that comprehensive regional plan that invests the local community.
We said there are two generators to build on: one, where are the jobs coming from nationwide? They are coming out of institutes of higher education. They are the new idea, the new tech idea, the new biotech idea that then becomes a spinoff company. It's what made Silicon Valley Silicon Valley. We invested a lot of money in improving the SUNY system, so the SUNY system delivers those ideas and those ideas then germinate in businesses of the State of New York. The other area where the economic development occurs is in communities that attract people which are now downtown areas. It's interesting, people predicted at one time when there was the internet that it might actually have people separate themselves that we don't need to congregate because you can stay at home and do everything from your home computer. You can shop from your home computer, you can go to school from your computer, and you can find a date on a computer. You don't have to go anywhere, you can just stay at your computer. Actually, the opposite happened because it left out a factor: people like people, generally. Most people like people. Most people like some people. Some people nobody likes. But people like to be in the company of people. A downtown area where people congregate that has recreation, culture, restaurants where you can meet other people and enjoy yourself, those areas are thriving. Bringing back the downtown areas winds up stimulating economic generators. We have dedicated ourselves now to redeveloping the best downtown areas across the state.
How do we do it? We don't do it in Albany. We had a competition. I believe in competition because it brings up everybody's game. We said to Mayor de Stefano, "you want to compete for a Downtown Revitalization Grant?" By the way, "you are competing against over 100 other downtown areas." The best downtown redevelopment plan will win a grant of up to $10 million. All the downtowns put together committees and they worked very hard and they came up with their most creative ideas. By the way, even if they didn't win, they are better for having gone through the planning process and having those meetings and discussions. I really believe there are no losers because the process itself was a good process.
But your application spoke about how Touro was coming in and how the community college was growing. The investment you have made already, over $60 million in infrastructure to make their downtown work. It was a very, very powerful application. I'm here to tell you congratulations, you won the full $10 million.
Congratulations, congratulations because it was a tough competition and a lot of people worked very hard, but you really did an extraordinary job. Cream rises to the top and you won and you should've won because it was really a job well done. I also think this is not just a moment, but the arrows really are turned around and a trajectory really is different. We made a lot of progress in the past few years and there is a lot that you should be proud of because we have made a lot of progress. Five years ago, in this state we were hemorrhaging jobs and we were one of the highest tax states in the country. We have now brought down taxes where our income tax rate for the middle class up to $300,000, lowest income rate in 70 years, believe it or not, 70 years.
We have more private sectors jobs in this state than have ever existed in history: 7.9 million jobs. Unemployment is down all across the state. Unemployment is down as much in Upstate and the Hudson Valley as it is in New York City, which has never happened before. The economic growth is now all across the state. 70,000 new jobs in the Mid-Hudson alone. The best is yet to be. You are committed to the community, it shows, you put together a great product. I am excited to see this downtown grow. Together, I think the goal is not to make the Mid-Hudson what it was. The goal is to make it better than it ever was before. That's what we're going to do. Congratulations.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-and-transcript-governor-cuomo-announces-middletown-receive-10-million-downtown
