Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Accelerated Rollout of the MTA eTix Mobile Ticketing AppGovernor Cuomo Announces Accelerated Rollout of the MTA eTix Mobile Ticketing App
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 5, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you very much. Welcome back after a July 4th weekend. I trust and hope everyone had a healthy and a safe one. Mark Heavey, I want to thank him very much for a great presentation. Great job that he just did. Mr. Heavey has many talents. He also happens to be a great fisherman, I want you to know. You would not know that, but I know that because he came up to the Catskill Challenge last week which brought the attention to the Catskills. He caught a really beautiful trout fly-fishing, which is an art form. So the demonstration he did was extraordinary. Frankly, I found it more extraordinary that he caught that over 20-inch trout. So let's give him a round of applause.
To Chairman Prendergast, who I have said before, has the hardest job of most people -- almost any job in public service. He also has a harder job than his predecessors. Why? Because his predecessors' job was primarily to operate the system. You have an MTA system, 9 million people are walking in the door every day and you have to make 9 million people happy with the way you operate it. That is an impossible job, but it's not just 9 million people. These are 9 million New Yorkers. So making 9 million New Yorkers happy every morning is really difficult and that's what most of the predecessors in Tom's job did. They operated the system. Tom has a broader -- and I think a more impactful -- challenge. He has to operate the system. He also has to simultaneously build a new system. Not rebuild the existing system, not fix the existing, he has to build anew. Why? Because the MTA system, as we now have it, was built in a different time and in a different place, and it cannot handle the volume and the scale that we are talking about today in New York. You can't do it with band aids and you can't stretch it any more than we've stretched it. The system is just too small to manage this population. It's that simple.
Behind me is a board that gives you an example of what the old-time MTA was about, where they would literally write with chalk, what the next train is. They would erase it and then change it with chalk. That was the train system that we developed. And we haven't really developed a new system going forward. Listen to these numbers: the subway system was built in 1904 for a population of 3.4 million. Today it handles 8.2 million people. Basically, the same system, same tracks, same operating protocol from 3 million to 8 million. The LIRR was built in the year 1840 for a population of 78,000. Today you have 7.6 million people using that system. Metro-North was built in 1850 for a population of 131,000, now 1.4 million. You can't make a system that was designed and constructed for that scale, work for the current day scale.

Source:
