Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $200 Million Bridge NY Program to Rehabilitate and Replace Bridges Throughout the State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 5, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the availability of $200 million in enhanced assistance for local governments over the next two years to rehabilitate and replace bridges and culverts statewide. This funding, provided through the Governor's BRIDGE NY initiative, is being administered by the New York State Department of Transportation as part of its $21.1 billion five-year Capital Plan. The BRIDGE NY program provides emphasis on projects that address poor structural conditions; mitigate weight restrictions or long detours; facilitate economic development or increase competitiveness; and/or reduce the risk of flooding.
"Modernizing and improving transportation infrastructure is a vital component of enhancing New York's economic competitiveness," Governor Cuomo said. "By helping local governments make investments to ensure the safety and reliability of their bridges, the BRIDGE NY program will literally strengthen our communities and bolster their viability."
The $200 million in BRIDGE NY funding is available to all municipalities authorized to receive and administer State and federal transportation funding. Awards will be made through a competitive process and will support all phases of project development including design, right-of-way and construction. Evaluations will be based on the resiliency of the structure, the current bridge and culvert structural conditions, and the significance and importance of the bridge based on traffic volumes, detour considerations, the number and types of businesses served and the overall impact on commerce.
Applications for BRIDGE NY funding will be accepted through September 9, 2016. Applications may be found at: https://www.dot.ny.gov/bridgeny.
Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "As a former mayor and councilor, I recognize that local bridges matter. Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, the State is taking the steps necessary to ensure that our diverse economic regions continue to grow and compete nationally and internationally."
Tracy J. Eldridge, President of the New York State County Highway Superintendents Association said "Governor Cuomo and our state legislators are to be commended for their response to the critical needs of the statewide transportation system and for initiating these new programs, PAVE NY and now BRIDGE NY. Our association has been a strong advocate for an increased multi-year funding commitment from the state for the local transportation system, one that specifically includes culvert rehabilitation and replacement. With these BRIDGE NY funds available, my colleagues and I look forward to continuing to work with the Governor and the Department of Transportation to improve the condition, safety and functionality of our aging and ailing local bridge and culvert infrastructure for the benefit of our communities and the traveling public."
Jeffrey Griswold, President of the New York State Association of Town Superintendents of Highways, and Town of Preble Highway Superintendent, Cortland County said, "Local roads are a crucial part of the state's infrastructure. As much as half of all vehicle miles traveled in New York State are on local roads. On behalf of the more than 900 town Superintendents of Highways I want to extend our sincere appreciation to Governor Andrew M. Cuomo for his leadership in providing $100 million this year, and in each of the next three years through the BRIDGE NY program. These funds will help us repair and maintain the more than 8,000 local bridges and thousands of culverts throughout the state. Providing these much-needed funds for local roads and bridges not only allows us to provide a safe reliable system but also sustains jobs -- both public and private sectors - in highway related industries and professions."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-200-million-bridge-ny-program-rehabilitate-and-replace-bridges
