Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New $4 Million Beach Bathhouse at Allegany State Park
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 5, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a new $4 million bathhouse at Quaker Lake Beach in the Quaker Run Area of Allegany State Park is now open. The new bathhouse is the first major improvement to the popular beachfront in nearly 50 years, and features new and improved food service, playground and public gathering areas. The project was funded by Governor Cuomo's NY Parks 2020 initiative as well as $1.75 million from the federal Land and Water Conservation Fund.
"The natural splendor of our state parks is unparalleled and our investments in the park system bring more visitors and more tourism dollars into local economies," Governor Cuomo said. "The Allegany State Park project will do just that by making the Quaker Lake Beach an even better destination and center of activity in the park. I encourage everyone to visit this park and experience its vast and impressive wilderness for themselves."
"For generations Quaker Lake Beach has provided families with great summer memories, and with this new bathhouse and other improvements that tradition continues," Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul said. "We are fortunate to have one of the nation's great park systems and a Governor who understands the importance of preserving and protecting these precious resources. They are essential to our state's tourism industry and economy, and they are the gateways to the incredible natural beauty New York has to offer."
The modern 10,000-square-foot energy efficient facility includes a three-season multi-purpose 'Great Room' which will be used for interpretive and nature lectures as well as Friends Group meetings, training programs and private gatherings for nearly 100 people. Other features of the project include:
A new lifeguard/first aid station;
An improved snack bar/catering kitchen with additional outdoor seating;
Modern restroom facilities, including a men's group bathroom, women's group bathroom, two family restrooms and new outdoor showers;
A new nature-themed playground; and
Updated parking lot, including new lighting, curbing and sidewalks.
State Parks Commissioner Rose Harvey said, "Swimming is one of Allegany State Park's staple summer activities, and Quaker Lake is one of the park's most popular destinations due to its beauty. I'm grateful to Governor Cuomo for providing the resources for this new bathhouse, which will provide the public with an amazing facility from which to enjoy the lake and landscape for generations to come."
Senator Catharine Young said, "Everyone loves Allegany State Park, and the new bathhouse will create family memories for generations to come. This is a major turn-around, because the state had threatened to close Quaker Lake in March of 2010. We organized a rally in support of keeping the area open, and succeed. It is because of park lovers, and a commitment from the Legislature and Governor Cuomo, that Quaker Lake not only stayed open but has brand new facilities. It was great to work with the Governor and Assemblyman Gigilo to shepherd the state park's capital funding through the budget process. We are grateful for the Governor's commitment to the treasures of New York, our state park system."
Assemblyman Joseph M. Giglio said, "It was a real pleasure to join Lieutenant Governor Hochul and others at the ribbon-cutting ceremony for the Quaker bathhouse at Allegany State Park. I am extremely grateful for the $4 million investment in the park, which will benefit visitors by providing a beautiful new facility We are very fortunate to have this resource in our area, and I encourage everyone to visit Allegany State Park."
With over 65,000 acres, Allegany State Park is one of the largest state parks in New York State and attracts 1.5 million visitors annually for swimming, year-round camping, fishing, hiking, biking, snowmobiling, cross-country skiing and more.
The park improvements reflect Governor Cuomo's commitment to revitalizing the state park system and expanding access to outdoor recreation. The Governor's NY Parks 2020 program is a multi-year commitment to leverage $900 million in private and public funding for State Parks from 2011 to 2020. The Governor's 2016-17 Executive Budget allocates $90 million toward this initiative. In addition, this year the Governor announced the Connect Kids to Parks program, which provides free day-use park entry to fourth-grade students and their families, and creates a new transportation grant program to help students from underserved schools visit state parks and historic sites.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-new-4-million-beach-bathhouse-allegany-state-park
