Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Extensive Improvements to Outdoor Recreation Facilities Across New York State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: July 1, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced widespread improvements to outdoor recreation facilities across the state to provide higher quality experiences for New Yorkers and visitors. Many of the enhancements are to facilities in the Adirondacks and Catskill Regions and serve to facilitate easier access, including the additions of new roadways and parking areas. Today's announcement comes ahead of the 4th of July weekend to encourage everyone to camp, hike, boat, bike, paddle, and fish this summer.
"New York is home to unparalleled natural beauty that is on display in our spectacular state parks in every corner of the state," Governor Cuomo said. "These improvements will increase access to our parks and enhance the outdoor experience for New Yorkers and visitors alike and I encourage all to see it for themselves."
Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Basil Seggos said, "Department of Environmental Conservation facilities offer a unique opportunity for the whole family to enjoy some the most beautiful natural resources in New York State. From camping to hiking to fishing, there is plenty to do at our access points and thanks to Governor Cuomo's continued investments in our facilities, these upgrades are enhancing that experience for all visitors."
Improvements in the Adirondacks
Essex County
Lincoln Pond Campground: Construction of a new picnic pavilion in the day use area.
Putnam Pond Campground: Paved the entrance roadway and the roadway to boat launch.
Franklin County
Meacham Lake Campground: Construction of a new playground and picnic pavilion in the day use area.
Fish Creek Campground: Return of the children's Nature Recreation Program.
Hamilton County
County Line Flow Hand Launch: Construction of a new roadway, parking area and access trail to provide paddlers and anglers access to County Line Flow and Fishing Brook.
Fishing Brook Hand Launch: A new parking area on Pickwacket Pond Road provides access to Fishing Brook approximately 0.75 miles upstream of County Line Flow. Located on the northern side of State Route 28, between the communities of Long Lake and Newcomb.
Lewey Lake Campground: Construction of two new eight-unit shower buildings with bathroom facilities and renovation of a comfort station, which now includes running water and flush toilets.
Warren County
Hearthstone Point Campground: Renovations made to the interior and exterior of the Upper Shower Building.
Prospect Mountain Veterans Memorial Highway Day Use Area: Construction of an accessible pathway on the summit allowing visitors of all abilities to access the picnic pavilion and Bull Wheel observation point.
Improvements in the Catskill Region
Delaware County
Bear Spring Mountain: Construction of a new playground and fishing pier.
Ulster County
Kenneth L. Wilson Campground: New facilities include a nature trail including a pedestrian bridge and an observation platform, hand launch for paddlers, 0.25-mile observation trail with a footbridge, fishing access site and picnic area.
Other Improvements
Delaware County
Bear Spring Mountain Campground: Installed a new playground and ADA Accessible fishing pier.
Green County
North-South Lake Campground: Upgraded electrical service to include electric and water at the South lake pavilion.
All new and upgraded facilities now have accessible features allowing use by people of all abilities. In addition, the Department of Environmental Conservation continues to improve worn campsites in all of its campgrounds through its Campsite Restoration Project. This includes hardening of entrances, new fireplaces, improved drainage, and planting native trees and shrubs.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-extensive-improvements-outdoor-recreation-facilities-across-new-york
