Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches New Tourism Initiatives at First-Ever Catskill Summer Challenge
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 30, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Well thank you very much. I didn't know those were old jokes. I still use them. And nobody laughs. What a special day this is. We have so many special honors today. Let's begin with the fact that Robert De Niro is up here today and is promoting the Catskills and one-hundred percent believes it. He has a beautiful place here. I've had the pleasure of visiting him there. He loves it, he comes up whenever he gets a chance and we didn't have to ask twice. He believes in the Catskills, he believes in the community, he believes in the people and you couldn't have a better spokesperson.
On a personal level, Alan brought up my father a couple of times. One of the great pleasures I had with my father who we lost last year, was we would sit around and watch Robert De Niro movies. My father would say the same thing through every movie, "He's the best in terms of acting. But he's also a quality guy. He is also a quality human being." He has been there for New York State whenever we asked him. He was a spokesperson for the I Love New York Campaign. What he did with the Tribeca Film Festival after 9/11 to revitalize downtown Manhattan, which is now an international phenomenon. He has been fantastic. That's what my father meant by a quality guy. He's not just a fantastic performer. He remembers where he came from and he is here to give back and he is here to share and whenever he can help, he does. That's about his character. We know his talent and we know his character and they are extraordinary. As a token of our appreciation for doing this today, this is a ceremonial key to the Catskills -- exactly where the gate is, I'm not sure. And where the lock is, I'm not sure. But please accept this as a token. Let's give him another round of applause, Robert De Niro.
Alan Gerry is Mr. Sullivan County. By the way, I forgot about that regulating of the cable industry that my father tried. It may be a selective recall. I would never try to regulate the cable industry, I want you to know. I want you to know the Senate was talking about regulating the cable industry and I said, "No, no, you can't do that." Alan Gerry wouldn't like that. I don't want to mention names, but Senator Bonacic and Senator Flanagan -- I'm kidding. Alan Gerry is a phenomenon in the business community, a pioneer in the cable industry, we know. But he is Mr. Sullivan County. What you've done for Bethel Woods, what you've done for the arts, and what you've done for the entire neighborhood, the entire region, is really beautiful, and your entire family. So thank you very much.
We have Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul here, let's give her a round of applause. And our colleagues from the legislature and the assembly Aileen Gunther and your senator John Bonacic and the leader of the entire senate John Flanagan is here, so we thank you very much. We just finished our legislative session in Albany, Alan was talking about our form of government and how much exposure we have to our form of government and how accessible it is. I think after the past few weeks I think we would like to have less touching between the legislature and the governor and a little more distance but we actually had a great legislative session and we got a lot of great things done and it ended a couple of weeks ago. But we passed the best paid family leave program in the United States which is really going to help people lead a decent life. We have more funding for education than in any time in history and we cut taxes. I bet people on this every day, I make money on it, it is my outside income. We cut taxes in the state of New York to the lowest level for the middle class in over seventy years believe it or not.
So a lot of good work and a lot of the focus has been on economic development. Why? Because what makes the state run is the business community and generating jobs and generating opportunity and then generating revenue and one of the great economic engines that we have developed is tourism. Tourism is probably the single smartest investment that we have made in the state of New York. When you look at the numbers we invested about a $100 million in tourism in the I Love New York ad campaign and advertising, promotion etc. and it sounds like a lot of money because it is. The $130 million investment increased tourism revenue $8.5 billion, to the highest level in the state's history, $62 billion in tourism we do.
So it is a smart investment, it works and we can do even more. We have been working here in the Catskills, the number of tourists is up about 11 percent and we had about 4 million tourists come to the Catskills and generating about $1.1 billion in economic activity just for the Catskills. But if there is a region of the state that has more potential for tourism activity it is the Catskills. Mr. De Niro and I were talking on the way up, it is still basically a secret for generations of New Yorkers. Now, if you remember Kutchers and the time of the great resorts that is one thing but that is now two generations ago and a lot of people haven't been exposed to the Catskills and it is so close to New York City, it is basically New York City's backyard. That exposure is the key, if they see the Catskills and they know what we have here than they will come we just have to do the exposure and that is what today is all about. Telling the people of this state and the people of this country the story of the Catskills. Look at the history we have here. The natural beauty. Thomas Coal, Hudson River School of painting; just because the Catskills were there period. Just standing there in their natural beauty. It inspired an entire school of artists and really did inspire spirit. Washington Irving, Woodstock in the 60's and the activities that we have here. We have fly fishing in the Catskills that is as good as anywhere in the country.
You have rock climbing in the Gunks that is as good as anywhere in the country. We are going to do some rafting on the Delaware River. There is a whole set of activities here. And then in the winter we have Belleayre, we have Hunter, we have snowshoeing.
So, it's a story that needs to be told. And today is part of telling that story. And with a partnership and with a little more energy I think we are going to see those numbers go even higher. And that is what today is all about. We are going to announce today that part of doing this is making sure we do it intelligently. We balance tourism and economic activity with preserving the asset, which is the natural beauty of the Catskills.
Mr. De Niro's joke, "I love the Catskills. You can visit, but leave because I want it for myself." Preserving the asset is important. So, the state is going to do two grants total in $700,000 for smart growth for local communities.
We are also going to be working with the Woodstock owners to have Woodstock itself be placed on the register of state and national historic places, which would increase tourism. And we are going to do a special I Love NY ad just about the Catskills and we are going to increase spending for the Catskills ad an additional 5 million dollars because we want people really to get the message of what is in the Catskills.
You have 50 million tourists coming into New York City every year. Fifty million tourists coming into New York City. We want to say that's great New York City, we're proud of it, we love it, enjoy it, visit it. But, come see what else we have. Yes, we have the greatest urban area on the planet. We also have some of the most beautiful rural communities on the planet. Some of the most beautiful mountains, some of the most beautiful wilderness and by the way, it is just a couple of hours from that urban center. So come see the Catskills also.
I will end where I started. It is all about exposure. If people know what we have and they see what we have, they will come. And keeping the balance between preserving the asset and doing economic development. But the economy has to work. We have to get the revenue in otherwise none of it works.
I want to thank my colleagues in the legislature who we have a great partnership with: both the Assembly and the Senate. We are looking at a Federal government that is grid lock and does not work and sits there and points fingers all day. Rather than point fingers, we find a common path forward. And we find compromise and I applaud them for that because I myself am not that compromising, but luckily they are. And that's why the relationship works. But again, another round of applause for John Flanagan, John Bonacic and Aileen Gunther.
We are going to show you the Catskill ad and then we are going to depart in different activities. We have hiking, fly fishing, rock climbing, golfing. I am going to be doing a little rafting where I will compete with the Senate and Assembly to see who wins. Whoever wins the race, they get the bill of their choice passed next year. So, there are very, very high stakes because just once I would like to get a bill passed my way. Just once. And I think I'm going to accomplish that today.
Thank you, god bless you. Alan Gerry thank you very much. Bob De Niro thank you very much.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-and-transcript-governor-cuomo-launches-new-tourism-initiatives-first-ever-catskill
