Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches New Tourism Initiatives at First-Ever Catskill Summer Challenge
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 30, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today hosted the first-ever Catskill Summer Challenge highlighting the world-class attractions and activities readily available in the Catskills with the goal of driving tourism and boosting the region's economy. The event kicked off at the Bethel Woods Center for the Performing Arts and will continue at outdoor locations throughout the region. The Challenge brings together local elected officials, tourism industry leaders and outdoor enthusiasts to participate in a variety of outdoor recreational activities including rafting, biking, hiking and fly fishing. Actor Robert De Niro, who is a longtime Catskills resident, also joined the Governor at the event. The Catskills Challenge is modeled after the Governor's successful Adirondack Challenge, which continues to strengthen tourism in upstate New York.
Before participating in the Challenge, the Governor unveiled a number of initiatives that will continue to support the growth of tourism in the region. These initiatives include a $5 million ad campaign featuring a new "I Love New York" television ad and advertisements on MTA's subways, buses and commuter rails focused on the Catskills, and new funding for municipal projects and hundreds of thousands of dollars in grants to help Catskill communities strengthen their tourism infrastructure. At the event, the Governor also announced that the state will nominate the site of the 1969 Woodstock Music and Art Fair's location in Bethel to the State and National Registers of Historic Places. The Woodstock festival drew an audience of over 400,000 people and is widely regarded as a pivotal moment in popular music history.
"The Catskills are one of New York's greatest natural treasures, and today we are shining the spotlight on what makes this region so special," Governor Cuomo said. "This challenge is about showcasing the Catskills' natural assets -- its pristine lakes, breathtaking views and scenic trails -- to drive tourism, support local businesses and generate continued economic growth. We are investing in this region like never before and I am proud to continue that focus so that tourism remains a source of economic prosperity and opportunity in the Hudson Valley for years to come."
"Governor Cuomo recognizes the powerful allure that our natural resources possess and his plan to help revitalize the Upstate economy includes harnessing that power," said Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul. "Events like the Catskill Challenge provide an excellent opportunity to showcase all this region has to offer and the ripple effect of their economic benefits can be felt throughout the region."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-launches-new-tourism-initiatives-first-ever-catskill-summer-challenge
