Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Awards $10.5 Million to Support New Centers to Help Those in Recovery From Addiction
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 29, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $10.5 million in funding over five years to support six new Recovery Community and Outreach Centers in communities across New York. The new centers, funded by the New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services, will provide health, wellness and other critical support for individuals and families who are recovering from a substance use disorder or are seeking recovery services.
"Addiction devastates the lives of far too many New Yorkers and their families," Governor Cuomo said. "These new centers will provide the necessary resources and support to those seeking recovery and will help us build a stronger and healthier New York for all."
These model recovery centers are the latest addition to the Governor's multi-pronged approach to addressing substance use disorders in New York State. The Governor's Heroin Task Force has heard from New Yorkers about the importance of ongoing, locally-based recovery services. These new centers will respond directly to that need expressed by Task Force meeting participants. The centers will engage peers and volunteers to assist those in recovery on their path toward wellness. Center staff will provide resources and host activities that foster a lifetime of wellness for individuals, families and community members. New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services Commissioner Arlene Gonz치lez-S치nchez announced the awards at a press conference today at the Family & Children's Association in Mineola, New York, joined by representatives from the recovery community.
New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services Commissioner Arlene Gonz치lez-S치nchez said, "Recovery from the disease of addiction is real and it is attainable with community-based supports and services. These organizations that have been selected to provide recovery and outreach services have a track record of providing quality services to those suffering from the disease of addiction. With these new awards, they will be able to continue their good work and help more New Yorkers obtain the tools they need to maintain a healthy, substance-free lifestyle, right in their own communities."

Source:
