Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Acquisition of More Than 6,000 Acres of Protected Land in Oswego County
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 24, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you. What a pleasure. First so many friends and so many distinguished guests who are here today. Basil Seggos, who is the DEC Commissioner who is doing an extraordinary, extraordinary job. Let's give him a round of applause. And his big sister, little sister, I don't want to get into that. There's no way we'll win. His younger sister, Rose Harvey, Commissioner of Parks. Let's give her a round of applause because she's doing a great job. My friend Kevin Gardner, who is doing a great job for Oswego County. Good to be with you Kevin. Let's give him a round of applause. Mayor Barlow and Norm Swanson, who is running the lodge that is dependent on tourism and fishing and really makes the point of why we're here today.
Well it's my pleasure to be here. I've always wanted to be at the Salmon River. I've talked about coming up many, many times, but that was to fish. So they finally say to me, "We're going to go to the Salmon River." I said, "To fish?" They said, "No Governor, to sign. You're going to sign." So I am here to sign a great acquisition that I'm very proud of. But one day when none of you are here I'm going to sneak back and I'm going to fish. I love to fish. Some of my best memories with my family and my father and my grandfather and my kids have been fishing and being outdoors, so this is really a sacred spot for those of us who enjoy fishing. Salmon River is an internationally known spot. People come from all over the world, literally, to fish at the Salmon River.
What the Commissioner said is very true. Protecting the environment, conserving the environment is something we should all take very seriously. You know 20 years ago, you could argue back and forth, what kind of conditions we were in. I think it's clearer now that what we have taken for granted growing up is something that we're going to have to consciously preserve if it's going to remain. The amount of degradation to this land that is happening, the effect of the poisons that we have put into this land, what we're finding in our water systems, what we're finding in the air, the chemicals that have been in the water systems for a long time and we never knew they were dangerous, but now we're testing and we're actually finding out they are dangerous, is alarming. So preserving the gift that God gave us is very important.

Source:
