Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $100 Million For Local Highway and Road Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 28, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that $100 million has been awarded to almost 1,600 municipalities throughout the state to support the rehabilitation and reconstruction of local highways and roads. This funding, provided under the Governor's PAVE NY initiative, is being administered by the New York State Department of Transportation as part of its $21.1 billion five-year Capital Plan. The PAVE NY program emphasizes projects that improve the physical condition of local roadways, create jobs and enhance local economic competitiveness.
"From replacing the Tappan Zee Bridge to the transformative redesign of LaGuardia Airport, New York has been leading the way in reshaping our infrastructure to meet the demands of the 21st century," Governor Cuomo said. "PAVE NY funds strategic investments in local roadways, helping ensure roadways across the state are in good repair, remain reliable for motorists and able to help foster regional economic growth for years to come."
PAVE NY funds are awarded to New York City and cities, counties, towns and villages for activities such as roadway resurfacing, widening and realignment; construction of turning lanes at intersections; and new drainage to mitigate the harmful effects of flooding.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew Driscoll said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo for recognizing the importance of investing in our State's local roads. This investment in improving local roads will reduce driver delays and increase economic activity and tourism statewide."
President of the New York State Association of Town Superintendents of Highways President and Town of Preble Highway Superintendent Jeffrey Griswold said, "On behalf of the state's 932 town Superintendents of Highways, I thank Governor Andrew M. Cuomo for committing a record level of state funding to assist our municipalities maintain the local road system in our state. The PAVE NY program will provide $100 million to local governments this year, and in each of the next three years, to invest in critical local infrastructure. Our membership is responsible for the safe operation of nearly seventy percent of the state's public roads, a quarter of local bridges, and plowing not only this huge system but also a portion of the New York State Department of Transportation's roads. Our association and the constituencies and communities we serve appreciate the support of our state elected officials who partner with us to ensure we provide the public with a safe and functional statewide transportation system; one that supports jobs and economic growth for our communities."
New York State County Highway Superintendents Association President and Hamilton County DPW Superintendent Tracy Eldridge said, "We commend the Governor and Legislature for initiating the PAVE NY program. This program will enable the Counties of this State to expand their paving programs, which is so desperately needed, and which will allow the citizens of this State to have safe roads to travel on."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-100-million-local-highway-and-road-rehabilitation-and-reconstruction
