Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Suspension of Construction-Related Lane Closures to Ease Travel During July 4th Weekend
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 28, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that lane closures for road and bridge construction projects on New York State highways will be suspended from 6 a.m. on Friday, July 1, to 6 a.m. on Tuesday, July 5, in order to accommodate travelers during the busy Independence Day holiday weekend. Some work may continue behind permanent concrete barriers or for emergency repairs.
The construction suspension is in keeping with Governor Cuomo's Drivers First program, which prioritizes the convenience of motorists to minimize traffic congestion and travel delays due to road and bridge work.
"Independence Day weekend is one of the busiest travel times of the year and by putting drivers first we are helping to ensure travelers get where they need to go as quickly and with as little delay as possible," Governor Cuomo said. "I wish New Yorkers a Happy Fourth of July and encourage everyone to drive smart and be safe this holiday weekend."
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "I am happy to once again join with Governor Cuomo and the Thruway Authority to make a busy holiday travel weekend a little less stressful for New Yorkers by limiting construction activities that require lane closures. Travelers should check 511NY before starting any trips to find the best route and avoid traffic congestion due to crashes."
Thruway Authority Acting Executive Director Bill Finch said, "Year after year, Governor Cuomo demonstrates his commitment to ensuring that holiday weekends run as smoothly as possible for motorists in New York by limiting construction projects on highways across the state. This tradition allows families who are traveling to spend more time visiting their loved ones and less time facing impacts of major delays and inconveniences from roadwork."
There will be slight variations for certain Thruway projects based on previous traffic volume. A detailed schedule of Thruway lane closures throughout the holiday weekend is available here.
AAA predicts that of the more than 43 million people traveling more than 50 miles from home this weekend, an estimated 36 million of them will be traveling by car. This July 4th weekend is expected to have the fourth highest travel volume on record, with a 1.2 percent increase in vehicle travel over last year, due to low gas prices.
Travelers are reminded to check 511NY by calling 511 or by accessing www.511ny.org before departing. The free service allows users to check road conditions or link to air and transit information.
Mobile users can download the updated, free 511NY mobile app from the iTunes or Google Play stores. The app now features Drive mode, which provides audible alerts along a chosen route while a user is driving, warning them about incidents and construction. Users can set a destination prior to departing and receive information on up to three routes.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-suspension-construction-related-lane-closures-ease-travel-during-jul-0
