Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Delivers Remarks at New Paltz Breast Cancer Motorcycle Ride Stop
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 27, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you, thank you very much. Thank you. Today I'm a wonderful man. Yesterday, not so much. Tomorrow is a question mark. But today I'll take. First, to Mike Hein, who's doing a great job as the County Executive. Let's give him a round of applause. To all the riders who got up very early this morning who rode up from Long Island. We had a pretty morning, we had a steamy late morning, and then we just had a rainy ride coming up the throughway. Let's give them a round of applause, they did a really great job. To Sandy, you know you think you know someone. We've been together eleven years. And, what I saw and heard this past year was really amazing. Her strength of character, her conviction, and how she took a true negative and turned it into a positive. And took her pain and rather than feeling bad for herself and wallowing in her pain, she said, "How do I flip this, and how do I turn this, and how do I help other people?" It really is a testament to who she is, and let's give her a round of applause.
We did a lot of good work this year on the state side. We passed a lot of laws that I think are going to make a big difference. We passed the best family leave program in the country. We raised the minimum wage to $15 so people can actually have a decent living. More money for education than ever before and the lowest middle class tax rate in 70 years believe it or not. So we did a lot of good work but I believe that this is in many ways the most important piece of legislation because I believe this is going to actually going to save lives. We signed it earlier today. You know, in life I believe that everything happens for a reason. And the past year has been a really difficult, difficult year, because cancer doesn't just affect the individual, it affects the entire family, and everyone who is near that person, and everyone who was living with that person. We had just lost my father last year, last January. He passed away on the day of my inauguration. He waited for me to be inaugurated and then literally on that day he passed away.
Then just a few weeks later, we heard Sandy's diagnosis. I remember when we talked on the phone she told me about it and I didn't want to ask her a lot of questions so I called the doctor afterwards. It's just shocking when you hear that, and Sandy's a young woman, and you wouldn't expect it, and there's no family history. And the doctor said in the fog that I was in, "Luckily we caught it early." And I remember saying to myself, "luckily we caught it early?" Why should it be a matter of luck that we caught it early? I mean this is a matter of life and death! You look at the numbers, if depending on when you detect the breast cancer, can make a difference between whether or not you live or die, literally. Why should it be luck that it was an early detection? Sandy said she missed one she happened to make this year. Why should it be a matter of luck? And that question never left my mind. All through this period, everything for a reason, everything for a reason, as a matter of luck.
I took every opportunity I could in the hospital, with the doctors, with the nurses, with patients, asking women why didn't you get screened earlier. Why didn't you get screened earlier? We were just with a woman at Bear Mountain, stage four cancer, and she was crying in the audience. She said, "If I had gotten screened earlier, my life would be totally different. And I said to the women, "Why didn't you get screened earlier?" And literally, you could have made a list of what they said. This legislation then answers all those questions.
First question was, well I didn't go because it was too expensive. Don't you have insurance? Well I have insurance, but I have a co-pay, I have a deductible -- it's too expensive. This legislation, for the first time in history, only state in the nation, makes the insurance companies pay the full cost of the screening. Think about that. There is no co-pay, there is no deductible, they pay the full cost and they pay the full cost of any secondary screening. If you have to go for a second test, or a follow up, or a whatever, they pay for the full cost of screening.
The second reason was, no time. I have the kids, I'm working, and there's just no time. This legislation says the 200 hospitals across the State of New York must stay open additional hours per week after 5:00 and on weekends so women can get the screenings done at a time that works for them. That is the second thing it does.
And the third reason was people said, "Well you know, it is just too complicated. I don't know where to start." We set up a website. We set up a system of what we call navigators. There is a phone number you can call. You actually get a person, and the person will walk you through the system, the insurance, what hospitals are in your area, what time they are open and can actually help you set up the appointment for the screening.
So we say there are no excuses. Couldn't afford it? The insurance company is going to pay. Couldn't find the time? We will change the hours. They will be available when you are available. Well it was too complicated? There is a website. There is a person who will talk you through the whole system. There is no excuse. It should not be a matter of luck. You just have to do it. You just have to do it and that is what this motorcycle ride is all about, bringing attention to it in a somewhat novel way, but trying to say to people, you have to do this and think about it differently. Because we took care of the first three. But government can only do so much. It is still up to the individual to take that step, get past the fear, get past the denial, get past whatever block is keeping you from not scheduling that screening and go.
Literally we will save lives with this law. 15,000 new cases every year. 15,000 new cases every year. That is in addition, another 15, another 15, another 15. It is all the difference in the world. It is literally the difference between life and death. You can do it. We can do it. We are going to do it. The only state in America that has this program is the State of New York. You use it. Thank you and God bless you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-and-transcript-governor-cuomo-delivers-remarks-new-paltz-breast-cancer-motorcycle
