Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Legislation to Improve Access to and Coverage For Breast Cancer Screening
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 27, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you. Thank you very much. First, to Hader and the Wilpons and the Mets, let's thank them for their hospitality today. As a Queens boy, it's a special honor for me to be here today with the Mets. To all my colleagues in the legislature that are here; the assembly and the senate who actually passed the bill, let's give them a round of applause. To Assemblywoman Didi Barrett who's worked on this issue for a long time and to Senator John Flannigan who's been working on it for years and years, and really addressed the density issue which is a major issue in screening. We thank them very much. And let's give them a round of applause. To the pilot who's flying that plane, let's make sure he lands safely. And to Billy Joel who is a good friend, but, more than a personal friend, he's a great friend to the State of New York, and whenever we need him, whatever the issue; whether it's hurricane sandy, an environmental issue a philanthropic issue, he is always there for New York, he's there today. Let's give him another round of applause.
And to Sandra Lee, who has taken a really long, negative situation and breast cancer, I was, I had so many wrong preconceptions. I thought it was going to be a difficult period but it would be a short period and then it would be over. It's over a year and it's still not over. And it's every day and it changes your life and it's something you live with every day. And she has taken a negative, a personal negative and she has, through strength of character, found a way to turn it into a positive by her advocacy efforts and education efforts and helping other women so they don't have to go through it. And to me that is the most beautiful test of a person, who can take a negative impulse and rather going down and rather than feeling sorry for themselves, can turn it around and make it a benefit to others. And let's give her a round of applause, Sandra Lee.
You know Senator Flannigan said we get criticized for working together, because we're people of a different party. And today in politics, they think people of different parties shouldn't work together. That's why this country is in the state that this country is in, that's Washington. That's gridlock. That's politics over public policy. We took a different approach in Albany. We said we're sent here to do good things, and we're sent here to get things done, and we work together and we get things done. And this past session we got a lot of great things done for this state and this city. We passed the best paid family leave law in the country, we have the highest amount of education spending ever. We have middle class taxes down to the lowest level in 30 years. We signed a great heroin policy that's really going to wind up making a major difference in addiction and opioid use. We're rebuilding New York, La Guardia airport over here, Penn Station, Farley.


Source:
