Public Statements
On First-Ever Breast Cancer Motorcycle Awareness Ride, Governor Cuomo Signs Legislation to Improve Access to and Coverage For Breast Cancer Screening
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 27, 2016
Location: Unknown

As part of the "Get Screened, No Excuses" campaign, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed legislation to increase access to breast cancer screenings and build on the series of breast cancer initiatives outlined in the 2016 State of the State address. Governor Cuomo signed the legislation at Citi Field during New York State's first-ever breast cancer motorcycle ride. Hundreds of participants, including Sandra Lee and Billy Joel, joined the Governor on the ride to raise awareness of the disease across New York State.
The comprehensive legislative package is the nation's most aggressive breast cancer screening action plan, ensuring that woman across the state have access to the health care and services they need and deserve. The new law will require extended hours for screening at 210 hospital-based mammography facilities across the state and eliminate insurance hurdles for mammograms and other screening and diagnostic imaging procedures to detect breast cancer.
As part of a $91 million plan announced in January, Governor Cuomo today also launched a series of new initiatives to combat breast cancer and raise awareness about the importance of getting screened. The new initiatives include mobile mammography vans, patient navigators, a public awareness campaign, community-based peer education programs, and investments through the state-backed venture capital fund to support promising cancer-related technologies. The Governor also announced the launch of a new "Text Line" to help women find mammogram locations. New Yorkers can text "Get Screened" to 81336 and after submitting their zip code; they will receive information about screening locations with extended hours near their home.
"Breast cancer affects women of all walks of life, and in New York, we have put forward the most aggressive plan in the nation to increase awareness about this disease and expand access to live-saving resources and services," Governor Cuomo said. "Sandy fortunately caught this disease early and with today's legislation, we are taking action to ensure that every woman, regardless of her schedule or financial situation, has access to the best cancer treatment possible -- early detection. This legislation is an example of our unrelenting commitment to protecting our mothers, sisters and daughters in the fight against this disease and I thank my partners in the Legislature for passing this bill. By hitting the road today, we are helping all of those who face a road ahead in their fight against preventing and curing this disease and we will continue to our efforts to build a stronger and healthier New York."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/first-ever-breast-cancer-motorcycle-awareness-ride-governor-cuomo-signs-legislation-improve
