Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Delivers Remarks at Breast Cancer Motorcycle Ride Kick-Off
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 27, 2016
Location: Unknown

Thank you very much. Well, it is really a pleasure to be here. How beautiful is Sunken Meadow? Really is special. To our County Executives, Nassau, Suffolk -- I'm not going to get into the Nassau/Suffolk debate, it is always ferocious. I love Long Island, all of it. Let's give Ed Mangano and Steve Bellone a big round of applause and thank them for their leadership.
To my friend Bill Joel who is such a great New Yorker. Everybody knows it, everybody feels it and that's part of why he is who he is. He is authentic, he is genuine, he loves his music, but he loves his state and he loves his community even more and whenever we need him to help us in any way, like today, he's there. Billy Joel. Billy also brings his own specials fans with him where ever he goes.
And Sandra Lee. You know, you think you know someone, we've been together many, many years and this year was one of the hardest that I've ever gone through personally, going through Sandy's situation, we had just lost my father. And you think you know a person. She has a strength and a resilience in her core that was unbelievable. Because to get through this breast cancer surgery, that's exactly what you need. It really questions one to their core and she taught me a lot personally and I learned a lot about the issue. And if there is a silver lining to the situation that we went through, it's that we are going to make the situation better for millions of New Yorkers.
Like most cancers, but especially breast cancer, the best prevention is detection. You don't get detected unless you get screened. You need to get screened. And over the past year, we've been in hospitals talking to doctors, talking to patients. "Why haven't you gotten screened?" And basically, we made a list of the reasons why people didn't get screened and then we resolved those issues.
The first one was, "I can't afford it, it's too much money." This state, we're going to sign a law, in a little bit this morning that eliminates any payment by the patient for a screening test. No co-pay, no deductible, no cost, whatsoever. Second reason people said, "I can't find the time. I work 9-5, the hospitals closed, the clinics closed." The law is going to says the hospital has to stay open another four hours every week after five o'clock and on weekends so that people will be able to find the screening accessible. The third was, "it's too complicated, I can't figure it out." We have a full website and a personal navigator service where you can call an actual person on the telephone who will walk you through how to do it, where to go, how to get coverage if you don't have it.
The fourth reason was, "I'm afraid." They wouldn't say it that way, but "I'm afraid. I don't want to know. I want to avoid it." And that's what today is all about. There's no excuse not to get screened. It's not going to cost you anything. The hospital will be open the hours that you're ready. There will be someone to walk you through it. But, the first step is up to you and you have to take the first step. You have to go for the screening and there is no excuse not to.
We've gotten a lot done in this state over the past few years -- we're building things, we're passing great laws. This law is going to save lives. It will literally save lives and I can't tell you how excited I am. Now we just have to get people out to take that first step to get screened and that's what today is all about and the only way we're going to do it is by getting on those motorcycles and riding all across this state. So let's ride. Thank you and God bless you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-and-transcript-governor-cuomo-delivers-remarks-breast-cancer-motorcycle-ride-kick
