Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Appears on PIX11 Ahead of Breast Cancer Motorcycle Ride Kick-Off
Interview
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 27, 2016
Location: Unknown

Sukanya Krishnan: Breast cancer, you know that it's very close to home.
Scott Stanford: And before he heads out he's talking with us, Pix11's Kala Rama with the governor right now in Kings Park, Long Island. Hey Kala!
Kala Rama: Yes, hey, good morning Scott and Sukanya! We're out here in Long Island, Sunken Meadow Park. It's an amazing day for a bike ride. Look who's joining me: the Governor and Sandra Lee. I'm so glad to have you guys, thanks so much for joining us. Tell us how special this ride is, the first annual.
Governor Cuomo: Thank you, it is a special ride. When you're in government it's about trying to make a difference. And, we're doing a lot of good things, but this is actually about saving lives, and I believe we will. We went through a horrific experience with Sandra who had breast cancer and she's been dealing with it for over a year, and I learned a lot through that. And we learned about some of the problems people have with the healthcare system. And the state is going to sign a piece of legislation that we're very excited about, that makes it much, much easier to get screened for breast cancer -- it eliminates the cost, it allows people more hours in hospitals so they can go at a convenient time.
Kala Rama: And for all state employees, right?
Governor Cuomo: And all public employees get paid time off. So really, there's no excuse not to get screened. And screening saves lives. Now we just need to get the word out and that's what this ride is about today. Women need to get screened if they're in the appropriate age group. They should do it. Denial is not an answer and it's easier than ever before in New York.
Kala Rama: I know 15,000 people are diagnosed every year. Just under 3,000 pass away, lose their fight with this. This is obviously so close to you. You went through your procedure in the public eye. So, this legislation, what does that do for you? I mean this is pretty amazing, isn't it?
Sandra Lee: Well, what it does, you know, this past year was probably one of the worst years of my life. It was very challenging and I don't want anybody to have to go through this, but we need to be able to catch it early. Early detection is everything. And, allowing women, and providing for women's health by getting screened, so that there are No Excuses, which is what the bill is called. Whether it is going to your clinics, you know, from 5:00-7:00 or on the weekends or one of the ten mobile units that's out on the streets. This is a place where women can go and get that detection and there's no reason why the kids and the husband and the workload should get in the way of that. So if anything great came out of this horrific last year, it was that.
Kala Rama: Okay and I see you're in your leathers. Are you comfortable riding on the back of a motorcycle here?
Sandra Lee: Very.
Kala Rama: With the governor behind the wheel?
Sandra Lee: Very, very, very.
Governor Cuomo: And we have been joined by a really special New Yorker who is going to help us bring attention to this issue. He is a good buddy of mine. He's a motorcycle guy. He's a New York icon and his name is Billy Joel.
Kala Rama: The Piano Man himself! Hello, sir. Thank you so much for joining us.
Billy Joel: Make up!
Kala Rama: You don't need any, trust me. So who's a better motorcycle rider, you or the Governor?
Billy Joel: Well he's got a heavier bike here, and he's going to be riding two -- are you riding two?
Governor Cuomo: I'm riding two.
Billy Joel: So that takes a certain amount of skill. I say today he's probably the better rider.
Governor Cuomo: Who's the politician, me or Bill?

Kala Rama: Is anyone special riding on the back of your motorcycle?
Billy Joel: No, because I don't have a seat on the back of this motorcycle.
Kala Rama: Alright, well I'm available, just to let you know.
Billy Joel: It's going to be a hard ride on the back.
Governor Cuomo: You'd sit on the fender.
Kala Rama: Well thank you so much. Governor, just show us the bike. This is especially made for you. It's a Harley Davidson, right? You're going to auction it off to raise money for breast cancer, isn't that right?
Governor Cuomo: It is a Harley Davidson. This is my personal bike, which has some accents. It has the state logo, 56 because I'm the 56th Governor, but Harley Davidson is actually helping us with this ride. They are going to provide a new top of the line Harley Davidson which is going to be auctioned off and the proceeds are going to go to breast cancer research. Billy has a really cool bike that he rode out today, which is a retro New York State police bike and he's going to be showing us, previewing that today.
Kala Rama: No leather chaps for you? Can I ask the Governor that?
Governor Cuomo: No leather.
Sandra Lee: We have to get him lighter leather, he only has the heavy stuff.
Governor Cuomo: Leather is, for me, leather gets hot on a day like today but it is the smartest thing to ride with. It stops the wind. It is protective if, God forbid, you fall. So it becomes a question of preference.
Kala Rama: Alright, amazing. Thank you so much for joining us. Have a safe ride, we're so glad to be here with you. This all kicks off around 9:00, and they'll go to Citi Field to sign that legislation. That happens around 11:30.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/transcript-governor-cuomo-appears-pix11-ahead-breast-cancer-motorcycle-ride-kick
