Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Executive Order to Establish LGBT Memorial Commission for Monument Honoring Fight for Equal Rights and All Victims of Hate, Intolerance and Violence
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 26, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Good Morning and thank you all for being here this morning. I am surprise by how quickly Glenda gave me away to the state of Florida, I heard that love is fleeting but that was fast. He is great but you can have him. Story of my life, you are not the first one that has done that to me. That's right, I have been rejected before.
To my team who has worked so hard on these issues and made such progress, Alphonso David, lets give him a round of applause. David Turley who is here and Jill DesRosiers and Melissa DeRosa and Commissioner Reardon and all of the people who have worked so hard I think this is going to be the best pride parade ever and that is in tribute to Orlando and we want you to know that it is your energy that is driving us forward. Let's also give Christine Quinn who is really a pioneer and a champion a big round of applause. To my colleagues from Albany who have been mentioned, Senator Hoylman and Dick Gottfried, Jimmy Vacca, Corey Johnson, my colleagues in government it is a pleasure to be with you.
Let me talk to Terry for a moment if you don't mind because you have all heard me many, many times, some would say too many times. Terry first, we welcome you to New York, we truly do and we want you to understand where we are coming from today and where we have been coming from since we heard what had happened in Orlando. People talk about New York and they talk about New York as the financial center, the fashion center, great health care, great schools, that is all true, but that is what we do, he said as a arrogant New Yorker. That is what we do and we are proud of what we do but it is not who we are. Who we are is one of the most diverse communities on this planet and that diversity has actually forged a community and there is a connective tissue that runs through this community and it is in our DNA. New York within a few years within the founding of New York, we were already a majority minority. The Dutch were less than half the population within just a few years. So we have developed that diversity is not a weakness, diversity is not something to be afraid of, diversity is a strength and that is inherent in who we are. New York has become a sanctuary for people seeking asylum because they were different and they were diverse in one way or the other. Christopher Street, Stonewall was in many ways a sanctuary. We have been a religious sanctuary, we have been a sanctuary for people seeking asylum from political protest and along with that sanctuary came the role of being a champion and being a fighter and standing up whenever diversity is attacked or when ever anyone is trying to demonize diversity. New York's role is to stand up and fight. That is why when you look throughout our history, so many of the movements of justice, fundamental justice, equal rights, equal protection, they all started here. Workers rights movements started right here a few blocks from where we are today. The women's rights movement in Seneca Falls, it all started here because that is who we are, that is how we live. And Glenda's point, the rules of the community are acceptance and tolerance and we have no tolerance for those who would discriminate against any of us by race, color, creed or sex. That is who we are and that is what we live.
That is not only our history but it is also our present. When Glenda went through the list of things that we got done recently it was important for us to be the first big state to stand up on marriage, that was our role, that was our voice. If you want to know the progressive future look to the state of New York because they are the ones who will do it. And that is on transgender rights, that's on conversion therapy, it is true on the issue of guns which is a social madness in this country. With all that is going on, this government won't move forward. So it is who we are.
When we heard about Orlando, it touched each and every one of us because it went to the core of who we are and what we believe. And it was everyone's neighbor, everyone's brother, everyone's sister. That is exactly how we felt. The thousands who showed up in front of Stonewall almost spontaneously were there united with an energy and a positivism that was palpable. It just radiated through the crowd. You are in our prayers, you are in our thoughts, there are no words that will give you solace.
But think about this: sometimes from the greatest pain comes the greatest progress. Stonewall was not without pain. You could say that Stonewall was driven by pain. Very few social movements don't have pain, don't have hardship, don't have death. I hope you find solace in knowing the unity that this issue has brought internationally, and the energy that it has brought. It has reawakened this community, which by the way never sleeps in the first place, but it has opened the eyes of this world to the injustice that is still done against the LGBTQ community.
And we're going to seize the movement and I believe this will be another Stonewall movement, a modern day Stonewall moment, where the movement is reinvigorated. What we're going to do here in New York, just if it gives you any solace, we are going to appoint a commission today, of ten people. That commission is going to pick an artist, a design, and we want a monument built to the victims of Orlando and the victims of hate crimes everywhere. We want the monument to be either in Christopher Park, or Hudson River Park, or Battery Park City in the gaze of the Statue of Liberty. Those are the three -- The commission will pick the artist that will design in one of those three locations. The State of New York pledges up to $1 Million to make that monument a reality. We have the commission that is going to be named today. Because we want -- we want this terrible event remembered. And we want the lesson learned so it never happens again.
We're also going to be running televisions ads as a state that reminds this country that we're founded on diversity. Because this did not -- Orlando didn't happen in a vacuum, right? There's an anti-diversity sentiment all across this country. And we're going to run TV ads that say, "If you feel threatened by diversity, come to New York." Because we invite everyone to come to the great state of New York, where we celebrate diversity. We wish you peace, we wish you strength, you are with friends, whatever you need, we are there for you. Thank you, God bless you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-transcript-governor-cuomo-signs-executive-order-establish-lgbt-memorial-commission
