Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches First-Ever Statewide Breast Cancer Motorcycle Ride to Raise Awareness Across New York
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 26, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

On Monday, June 27, 2016, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo will launch the first-ever statewide breast cancer motorcycle ride to raise awareness of the disease across New York State. The ride supports Governor Cuomo's comprehensive "Get Screened, No Excuses" campaign -- the nation's most aggressive effort to eliminate the barriers that often prevent women from getting screened, such as difficulty scheduling mammograms or burdensome insurance hurdles.
Beginning in Kings Park on Long Island, Governor Cuomo, Sandra Lee, and hundreds of participants will ride motorcycles across the state to raise awareness about breast cancer and support families fighting against the disease. Legendary musician Billy Joel will also join the first leg of the ride on June 27. The second and third legs of the ride will take place on Friday, July 8 and Wednesday, July 13.
Each stop along the route will be an opportunity to educate New Yorkers about the importance of early detection and diagnosis and help women find resources -- such as mammogram locations -- near them. On Monday, the Governor will also sign legislation to expand screening hours at hospitals and eliminate insurance hurdles for mammograms and other diagnostic imaging procedures.
As part of the 2016 Breast Cancer Ride, Harley Davidson is donating a custom motorcycle that will be used by Governor Cuomo throughout the ride and then auctioned off by the Breast Cancer Research Foundation to raise money to prevent and cure the disease.
"Early detection is the best possible treatment for breast cancer, but far too many women face burdensome scheduling and insurance barriers that prevent them from gaining access to the diagnostic services they need any deserve," Governor Cuomo said. "New York State has put forward the most robust plan in the nation to eliminate those hurdles and ensure that nothing stands in between women and their health and we will continue to build on these efforts. When Sandy was diagnosed, she fortunately caught it early and used her story to spread the word that getting screened can truly make a lifetime of difference. This ride is about spreading awareness and sending that message loud and clear, because when it comes to getting screened for cancer, waiting is simply not worth the risk."




Source:
