Public Statements
NYS Homes and Community Renewal Releases RFP With Additional State Financing for Construction of 1,200 Supportive Housing Units
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 24, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

New York State Homes and Community Renewal today announced that additional state financing to build 1,200 supportive housing units has been made available through a competitive Request for Proposals (RFP), as part of the Supportive Housing Opportunity Plan (SHOP). The new state financing, in addition to previously allocated funding from the budget, will ensure timely completion of the first 1,200 units of the state's plan to combat homelessness by providing 6,000 new supportive housing units with services over the next five years. The FY 2017 Budget invests nearly $2 billion for comprehensive statewide housing and homelessness action plans.
The capital funding complements the recently released Request for Proposals to finance the operation of and services provided by the 1,200 new supportive housing units. Together, the capital, services and operating funds put the state on track to complete the construction of 6,000 units of supportive housing over the next five years, 20,000 units of supportive housing over the next fifteen years, and the creation or preservation of 100,000 units of affordable housing over the next five years as part of an unprecedented $20 billion housing and homeless initiative.
"Governor Cuomo promised strong, meaningful action to create new comprehensive, collaborative and innovative ways to address our affordable housing crisis and prevent homelessness across the state," said NYS Homes and Community Renewal Commissioner James S. Rubin. "HCR has worked hard to create these programs and this plan to meet the Governor's ambitious goals for affordable housing creation and preservation. Now the talk stops and the work begins: the programs are there, the money is there and over the next five years, starting right now, with this historic commitment, we will put the state's affordable housing efforts into high gear."
The RFP released today also includes funding for nine other HCR construction and preservation programs. Applications for funding for existing and new programs may be submitted any time before March 1, 2017, or until all allocations of resources are committed. Applications will be reviewed as received and funding determinations will be made throughout the year.

Source:
