Public Statements
Statement from Governor Andrew M. Cuomo Applauding President Obama's Historic Designation of Stonewall National Monument
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 24, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

"There is no more fitting location for the first monument to LGBT history than Christopher Park across from the Stonewall Inn. Since 1969, New York has led the nation in the fight for LGBT rights. The Stonewall Uprising sparked a movement that we still feel to this day, and I am proud that we uphold that legacy by continuing to push for equal rights for all New Yorkers. From marriage equality, which I signed into law five years ago today, to groundbreaking hate crimes legislation, to securing and protecting transgender rights, New York is a state of unrelenting progress in the LGBT movement. The Stonewall National Monument will honor that history of progress, and I am proud to have signed legislation to help create a symbol that demonstrates to the world how much we have achieved and how much more we must accomplish for equality for all."
The new Stonewall National Monument will preserve Christopher Park, located directly across from the Stonewall Inn, and be the first ever monument to LGBT history in our nation allowing visitors and residents to honor the many brave individuals who have, and continue to, stand up for their rights.
In April, Governor Cuomo signed legislation (S.6891/A.9454) which made President Obama's historic designation possible by allowing the city of New York to transfer Christopher Park to the United States government in order to create a park, monument, or for another historic or recreational purpose.
Throughout Governor Cuomo's time in office, New York State has been a national leader in championing LGBT rights. In 2011, New York passed the historic Marriage Equality Act and sent a message to the nation that it was time to end one of society's greatest inequities. In 2015, Governor Cuomo implemented regulations affirming that all transgender individuals are protected under the State's Human Rights Law, and all public and private employers, housing providers, businesses, creditors and others should know that discrimination against transgender persons is unlawful and will not be tolerated anywhere in the State of New York.
In addition to those groundbreaking actions supporting the LGBT community, Governor Cuomo has committed to making New York the first state in the nation to end the HIV/AIDS epidemic, banned the deplorable practice of conversion therapy, strengthened health care and insurance regulations to protect transgender New Yorkers, and just this week announced that all HIV-Positive individuals in New York City will now be eligible for housing, transportation and nutritional support through a significant expansion of Emergency Shelter Assistance.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/statement-governor-andrew-m-cuomo-applauding-president-obamas-historic-designation-stonewall
