Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Maple Syrup Production in New York Increases Nearly 18 Percent
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 24, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that maple syrup production in New York has increased by 18 percent, breaking last year's 70-year production record by more than 100,000 gallons and maintaining the state's standing as the second leading producer of fresh maple syrup in the nation. New York's maple farmers produced more than 700,000 gallons of maple syrup in 2016, a record that can be attributed to warmer-than-normal temperatures, which allowed for an extended season.
"New York produces some of the best maple syrup anywhere on the globe, a product that remains a key part of this state's agriculture industry," Governor Cuomo said. "I congratulate our hard-working maple producers on their sweet success and another recording breaking season."
According to the USDA's National Agricultural Statistics Service, New York's maple production constituted about 16.8 percent of the national total, or about 1/6th of the nation's output. This year's increase was up 18 percent from the 601,000 gallons produced in 2015, which held a 70-year record. The number of maple taps also continues to climb, with more than 2.5 million taps in production in 2016, the highest number of taps since 1947.
The USDA also estimates that the average maple syrup collecting season in New York in 2016 was 36 days, ten days longer than the previous year, which was limited by harsh winter weather. By comparison, the season was 40 days long on average in 2013.
Governor Cuomo's Taste NY program is proud to partner with many New York State maple producers to offer their products at Taste NY stores and cafés throughout the state. They are also featured at Taste NY sampling events annually, and at the popular Maple Producers booth in the Horticulture Building at the Great New York State Fair, where maple popcorn, ice cream, and cotton candy are among the treats available.
State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball said: "I enjoyed visiting many of our maple producers during Maple Weekends this year, and am pleased to see that the early start of the season and warm weather led to fantastic results for them this year. We have so much to be proud of when it comes to agriculture in New York State and our maple farmers, as major contributors to the growth of the industry and the State's economic success, are helping to lead the way."
NYS Maple Producers' Association President Tony Van Glad said: "Congratulations to the Maple Producers of New York State for once again doing a great job producing the sweet amber liquid our maple trees supply. In cooperation with Mother Nature we were able to increase the amount of maple made this year in the state, keeping us #2 in the nation, shooting for #1! The NYS Maple Producers' Association is grateful for the support of our legislators and the governor to help us promote and sell this increased production."
Pure maple syrup is a 100 percent natural, unrefined sweetener. It is a good source of vitamins and minerals that are important to a healthy diet, such as calcium, potassium and manganese. Pure maple syrup is not only a wholesome natural flavor, but it contains no additives and has one of the lowest caloric counts of the common sweeteners.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-maple-syrup-production-new-york-increases-nearly-18-percent
