Public Statements
In New York City, Governor Cuomo Signs Legislation to Combat the Blight of Vacant and Abandoned Properties Across the State
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 23, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you, thank you very much. Well, what a pleasure to be here, pleasure to be home. First to Alan van Capelle and the Educational Alliance, thank you for your hospitality and thank you for having us here today. Let's give them a round of applause.
To Christie Peale thank you and your organization for all your good work on making today possible. Christie, thank you for such a good job. We have two members of my administration who are here who have been integrally involved in this and have been recently confirmed and are now officially in their positions. The Department of Financial Services Superintendent Maria Vullo who is here and the Commissioner of Housing and Community Renewal Jamie Rubin.
The way legislation passes, sometimes it seems like it passes overnight, which is what this legislation apparently did. It was quiet all session and then at the end of the session we actually scrambled and we got it done. But that is deceptive. This was in the works for many, many, many years and many people worked very hard on it. And nobody worked harder on it than Assemblyperson Helene Weinstein and Senator Jeff Klein and let's give them a round of applause.
And it is a pleasure to be with all my colleagues from Albany. They are looking much better and much happier now that they are home. The legislative session is over. The way it works in Albany is the legislative session goes from January to June and when you get towards June and the end, everybody starts to get a little tired and a little homesick and they are ready to go home and they are like the horse going back to the barn. They look much happier. They look much less gray. They look rested, so it is a pleasure to be with them.
And as Senator Klein said, we had a great, productive session and it was a bad year overall for state government in the public perception. There were some scandals that really took people's breath away and they were right. And the best antidote is to say we got it and reform and produce and produce, and this session produced for the people of this state.
You know, what government is supposed to do is actually make people's lives better. It is not theoretical. It is not conceptual. It is not a debating society. It is a service bureau. Get something done and get it done for me, and even if it is not the perfect solution, avoid gridlock and get things done, and we got things done. Jeff went through them. $15, best minimum wage law in the United States, best paid family law in the United States. First state in the nation to have every school test the water for lead. First state in the nation, that's the State of New York. Long overdue. Highest level of education funding in the history of the state of New York, $ 25.8 billion. Right?
We passed a plan that is going to deal with a growing crisis, which is the abuse of heroin and opioids. It is a plan that is so good that the White House said to us can they use our plan as a model plan for the other states on what the other states should be doing, and we got that passed also. Plus a middle class tax-cut, plus the bill we're talking about today. So we did a lot of good work and I applaud my colleagues, from the bottom of my heart, because to get a piece of legislation passed, you have to be willing to do something that is very hard and that is called compromise. And compromise is a lost art in government now. It's easy to remain rigid. I'm right and you're wrong. Right? That's Washington. "I'm right and you're wrong. And I insist on my way or I'm going to do nothing." And that's gridlock. And then everybody loses.
We have a Democratic Senate, a Democratic Assembly, Republican Senate, and you need to compromise to get things done. This legislature, once again, met in the middle, compromised, got great things done, and let's give them a round of applause. And this law is a perfect example. This is a problem that went on for many, many years, and it was one of those problems that just went from year to year and it seemed like it defied solution. In NY, we love to take those problems that have gone on for many years that have eluded solution, and tackle the tough ones. And this was a tough one. And this was an outrageous one in many ways. And it was an injustice that was appalling and insulting. Because this, in many ways, is a legacy from the mortgage meltdown crisis of 2007. This was the legacy of banks and Wall Street perpetrating a fraud on the people of this nation and the people of this state.
That mortgage Ponzi scheme -- which is what it really was -- where the banks got together and they decided that they had a model for real estate values that showed real estate going up every, every year. And if the real estate is going to go up every year, you can't make a bad mortgage because the real estate value are always going to go up. So they gave everybody who wanted one a mortgage. They gave people who couldn't afford a mortgage a mortgage. They gave people who couldn't afford that size mortgage a mortgage. And it was a great scheme until it didn't work. And then it collapsed like a house of cards. And the country suffered. And the banks got bailed out. This is a legacy of that. Then, the banks needed to work out their portfolios, they had to untangle the mess that they created.
The banks needed to work out the portfolios, they had to untangle the mess that they created. And they had to take those mortgages and find out what bundles they were in and what pools they were in, and pull out those mortgages and resolve them. And some of the banks decided, well we don't want to do that. Why? Because if you foreclose on a home and you resell it they would have to mark down the mortgage. And they would have to take that loss. If they foreclose they were then responsible for the maintenance, and they didn't want to do that either. So you have these homes in limbo. And what happened? They deteriorated, which not only brought down the value of that home for the original owner but then it brought down the value of the homes in the neighborhood and the community, which were already brought down by the mortgage meltdown in the first place which devalued their homes. And this was now adding insult to injury by having a physical tombstone in the neighborhood as a monument to the first mortgage meltdown. And it has gone on for years. And this law is going to resolve it.
First, it has a Bill of Rights, because whenever we can keep the owner in the house that's what we want to do. And we have a settlement conference in this piece of legislation because whenever you can work out the mortgage that's what we want to do. Come up with better terms so the owner can make those payments and keep the house. But worst case scenario, you can't work it out, you can't come up with terms with the owner. The bank is then responsible for the maintenance of the home upon vacancy, not upon foreclosure, upon vacancy. Or at a point of time when they should've known that it was vacant, which means they have responsibility much earlier. And they have to maintain that property like any good neighbor would have to maintain that property. If they don't, $500 per day fine. And the local government or the state can come in and take over the property. So we are going to end the insult to injury. Zombie properties--why-- to me, because it has been a continuation of the 2007 nightmare. And it is the legacy of that nightmare. And that nightmare has to be over, because we have to move on. New York State has about seven to 12,000 of these abandoned properties, which are depreciating communities across the state--769 approximately in New York City. Many of them for years have just sat there, depreciating the homes around them. And today we say no more. The homeowners didn't deserve to pay the price in the first instance with the mortgage meltdown. They shouldn't have had to pay the price all these years. It has to end, it's going to end today as soon as we sign that bill. Thank you and God bless you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-transcript-new-york-city-governor-cuomo-signs-legislation-combat-blight-vacant-and
