Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Opening of New SiGNa Plant at Eastman Business Park in Rochester
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 23, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the grand opening of SiGNa Chemistry's pilot manufacturing plant and technical center at Kodak's Eastman Business Park, highlighting the company's role in the high-tech energy ecosystem thriving in Rochester. SiGNa Chemistry joins fellow innovative firms at EBP in industries including biomaterials, information technology, healthcare, and manufacturing. The 25,000-square-foot facility is expected to create 37 permanent jobs and 75 ancillary jobs over a three-year period.
"Our administration is committed to helping manufacturing companies like SiGNa expand and grow right in New York," Governor Cuomo said. "This new facility will create jobs, drive economic growth and further cement this region's role as a leader in 21st century technology and innovation."
"As a major piece of the Governor's strategy focused on Upstate revitalization, the Finger Lakes Forward plan is a game-changer for Rochester and the whole region," said Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul. "Today's announcement from manufacturer SiGNa Chemistry continues this region's trend of growth and development with high-tech jobs. The progress that's happening at the Eastman Business Park is just the tip of the iceberg of what's to come for the region."
SiGNa Chemistry is a specialty chemical manufacturer that produces a portfolio of stabilized alkali metal products. The company focuses on developing clean, innovative chemical technologies that benefit a variety of industries, including industrial chemicals, pharmaceuticals and oil and gas recovery.
"We are very grateful for the State's support, which helped SiGNa to expand its manufacturing capacity and meet the demands of our customers in the global heavy oil industry," said SiGNa President & CEO, Michael Lefenfeld. "Our Rochester facilities will also be the home for exciting new research programs that are designed to develop green industrial chemicals that leave a smaller footprint."

Source:
