Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $44.2 Million in Interstate Upgrades in Steuben County
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 23, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the $44.2 million rehabilitation of Interstates 86 and 390, two major thoroughfares in Steuben County. Construction of the roadway will strengthen the ability for commerce to move in and out of the area, enhancing the Southern Tier economy and reinforcing the State's overall commitment to investing in the region's infrastructure. Construction on Interstates 86 and 390 will begin with re-pavement and the addition of new guardrails, and is expected to be completed by next fall.
"Southern Tier residents depend on these two roadways, which are also essential to tourism and international trade," said Governor Cuomo. "The upkeep and modernization of these roads and bridges is critical to economic development and increased opportunity in the Southern Tier, and we look forward to supporting the continued growth of the region for years to come."
The $44.2 million investment includes a $24.1 million project along Interstate 86 that will replace a six-mile section of deteriorated concrete between Exit 46 and the Chemung County Line with a new asphalt surface. It will also replace outdated Interstate 86 drainage system and median barriers with updated systems and barriers.
The $20.1 million project along Interstate 390 will repave the 5.7-mile section of concrete between Exit 2 and Exit 3 and rehabilitate the two bridges at the Cochton exits with new concrete decks and various other safety improvements.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "Interstates 86 and 390 are some of the most heavily traveled roads in Steuben County and must be kept in optimal condition. Governor Cuomo understands well the link between a strong transportation infrastructure and a thriving economy in communities throughout New York State."
Interstate 86 Project -- Corning to Chemung County Line
The $24.1 million Interstate 86 project will replace a six mile section of deteriorated concrete pavement with a new asphalt surface. The drainage system will be upgraded, new concrete median barrier will be built and new guiderail, signs and pavement markings will be installed. Four bridges along this stretch will undergo minor repairs and deck preservation treatments as well.
Due to public and stakeholder feedback, combined with heavy commuter and summer tourist traffic volumes during the day, most work will take place at night. Portions of the highway will be closed and traffic will be detoured onto State Route 352. This will provide a safer construction zone for workers and minimize travel impacts. The construction contractor for the project is Dolomite Products (DBA A.L. Blades) of Hornell, Steuben County. Work is expected to be completed in the fall of 2017.
Interstate 86 is a major freight and tourist route and is a vital economic corridor for the Southern Tier. This section, from the city of Corning to the Chemung County line, is one of the most heavily traveled, and serves approximately 34,000 vehicles each day. The highway is critical for delivering goods and services that support the local and regional economies and for tourism in the Finger Lakes and Greater Corning area.
Interstate 390 Project -- Wayland to Cohocton
The $20.1 million Interstate 390 project involves placing new concrete pavement on a 5.7-mile section between Exits 2 and Exit 3. The two bridges at the Cohocton exit that carry Interstate 390 over Loon Lake Road will be rehabilitated with new concrete decks. Safety improvements on the project will include new guiderail, signs and pavement markings. The contractor for the project is Cold Spring Construction of Akron, Erie County and work is expected to be completed next fall.
Interstate 390 serves 11,000 vehicles per day and is one of the major transportation corridors in the Southern Tier. Nearly 40 percent of the vehicles are trucks that are essential to delivering goods to support the local and regional economies. The highway is also a key link between the New York State Thruway and the US 15/Interstate 99 Corridor, connecting international trade routes from Canada to major trucking routes on the east coast.
Continued Commitment to Southern Tier
Both of these major pavement rehabilitation projects demonstrate New York State's continued commitment to the Southern Tier. Since 2000, more than $454.5 million has been spent to convert State Route 17 to Interstate 86 and US Route 15 to Interstate 99 within Allegany, Steuben, and Chemung counties.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-442-million-interstate-upgrades-steuben-county
