Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $5 Million in Small Business Grants Available For Those Impacted By Lake Ontario Flooding
Press Release
By: Kathy Hochul Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 24, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced up to $5 million in grants available for small businesses that have experienced physical damage or loss as a result of the flooding in communities along Lake Ontario. The program provides up to $20,000 to small businesses to support the repair or replacement of damaged or destroyed real property and other tangible assets, including equipment, furniture, fixtures, supplies and inventory. Funding will be provided through Empire State Development and applications will be made available in June. Governor Cuomo also announced that DEC permitting offices and the state's Emergency Response Mobile Command Centers will offer weekend hours throughout the summer to assist residents and businesses.

"We are doing everything in our power to help New Yorkers impacted by flooding," Governor Cuomo said. "Small businesses are the backbone of communities across the state, and these grants will help businesses and residents rebuild and get back to their everyday lives. By offering weekend hours at our Emergency Response Mobile Command Centers and DEC permitting offices, we are also making it easy for impacted communities to access information and resources at their convenience."

The grant program is open to eligible applicants in the counties identified in the Governor's state of emergency declaration announced on May 2: Cayuga, Jefferson, Monroe, Niagara, Orleans, Oswego, St. Lawrence, and Wayne counties. Grants will be provided for flood-related costs that have not or will not be compensated by any other federal, state or local recovery program or any third-party payers.

Earlier this week, Governor Cuomo announced $10 million in state funding will be available to assist eligible local municipalities that have been impacted by the recent flooding.
Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul said, "During my visits to the affected Lake Ontario communities over the past few weeks, I have seen the devastation to property as well as to the livelihoods of countless small businesses. This $5 million in small business grants will hopefully bring much needed relief to alleviate the damages and assist in recovering their losses. I was also proud to announce the $10 million Governor Cuomo provided to assist municipalities with infrastructure repairs. We are committed to continuing our ongoing support to the affected communities."
State Offering Weekend Hours at Emergency Response Mobile Command Centers and DEC Permitting Offices Throughout the Summer
To continue the state's efforts in helping residents and businesses recover from flooding and damage, the NYS Emergency Response Mobile Command Centers and DEC permitting offices will offer weekend hours throughout the summer, starting Memorial Day weekend. In addition, those who are not able to visit the Emergency Response Mobile Command Center can call the Lake Ontario Flood Assistance Hotline at 1-866-244-3839, seven days a week, from 8 a.m. through 8 p.m. for help with insurance-related issues, assistance with flood mitigation measures such as sandbags, and for technical guidance regarding on-site repairs to their property.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-5-million-small-business-grants-available-those-impacted-lake-ontario
