Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $200 Million Airport Redesign Competition Accepting Applications Until July 1
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 22, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that New York State is in the process of accepting applications for the new $200 million Upstate Airport Economic Development and Revitalization competition and will continue to accept applications until July 1. The initiative includes $190 million to support the competition, which will solicit proposals to promote, revitalize and accelerate investments in Upstate commercial passenger and cargo service airports. This plan builds upon the success of Governor Cuomo's Master Plan Design Competition for LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy Airports, as well as the transformative efforts already underway Downstate. The remaining $10 million will be allocated through the Governor's Aviation Capital Grant Program, which supports safety, infrastructure, and economic development projects at smaller airports across the State.
"Investing in our upstate infrastructure is critical to this state's future economic prosperity," Governor Cuomo said. "Through this competition, we are transforming these Upstate airports into 21st century transportation hubs to ensure they generate economic opportunity for local economies for generations to come. We are committed to making smart investments to create jobs and opportunity in every corner of this state and I encourage interested airports to apply today."
This new investment opportunity, administered by the New York State Department of Transportation, is open to all owners of Upstate public-use airports that currently provide, or propose to provide, scheduled commercial passenger air and/or cargo service. The State will award capital funding for no less than five projects with a maximum project award not to exceed $40 million. Funding for this competition was included in the new $21.1 billion five-year Department of Transportation Capital Plan. The New York State Department of Transportation will be accepting applications for competition through July 1. \
Eligible project activities include development of retail, hotel and conference centers; enhanced highway and transit airport access; improved security-screening; terminal expansion and rehabilitation; runway extension and rehabilitation; state-of-the art boarding concourse and concession areas; and on-airport projects to develop aviation-related technology incubators.
To be considered for this investment opportunity, eligible applicants are required to submit an initial project proposal detailing the scope, schedule and costs for the proposed project or program of projects. Initial project proposals will be reviewed by a panel of industry experts. Those project proposals selected for consideration will receive consultant service support from NYSDOT to further develop applications for funding.
"I applaud Governor Cuomo for his leadership and vision for rejuvenating the Upstate economy," New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said. "As a former Upstate Mayor, I recognize the importance of airports to economic development, local stability and a community sense of place. Governor Cuomo continues to make strategic investments in our State's infrastructure to ensure that our Upstate cites can compete globally."
Proposals selected for funding under the Upstate Airport Economic Development and Revitalization competition will be evaluated based on innovation in design; provision of passenger amenities and customer experience enhancements; cargo facility expansion; ability to leverage private participation; long-term job creation; and economic opportunities created at and around the airport.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-200-million-airport-redesign-competition-accepting-applications-until
