Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Start of Construction on Wellwood Avenue Bridge Replacement Project
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 21, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced construction is underway on a $20.4 million project to remove and reconstruct the Wellwood Avenue (County Route 3) Bridge over Sunrise Highway (New York State Route 27) in the Town of Babylon, Suffolk County. Approximately 90,000 drivers pass over and under the Wellwood Avenue Bridge each day.
"Wellwood Avenue is a highly traveled roadway that is depended upon by residents and businesses in the greater Babylon area and beyond," Governor Cuomo said. "Replacing this overpass will help ensure its viability for years to come, as well as enhance mobility and support economic growth in Suffolk County and on Long Island as a whole."
"This project will replace an aging bridge in order to keep traffic moving along this busy corridor," New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said. "In accordance with Governor Cuomo's Drivers First initiative, construction will be done in stages to both accelerate the work and minimize its impact on motorists."
The Wellwood Avenue Bridge was built in 1961 and is being replaced with a wider span that will feature shoulders, sidewalks and two travel lanes in each direction that meet current engineering and American with Disabilities Act standards. The project also includes reconstruction of the roadway approaches to the bridge, new guide rails and parapet walls, new pavement and pavement markings. The slight widening of Wellwood Avenue to accommodate the bridge improvements will require selective tree removal, which will have minimal impact on traffic. Construction is scheduled for completion next summer.
NYSDOT is minimizing traffic impacts by limiting active construction activities to off-peak day and/or night-time hours, by performing construction in phases, and by shifting travel lanes during construction to keep the bridge open while it is being demolished and reconstructed. Vehicular and pedestrian traffic will be maintained over the bridge throughout the project.
Temporary stop signs will be constructed on entrance ramps from NY Route 27/Sunrise Highway to Wellwood Avenue during construction. Off-peak lane closures will be required on both NY Route 27/Sunrise Highway and Wellwood Avenue, but travel advisories and community notifications will be issued when construction activities require a change in travel patterns.
The construction contractor for this design-build project is Posillico Civil, Inc. of Farmingdale, New York.
Senator Michael Venditto said, "Our local roads represent the heart of transportation on Long Island, and Wellwood Avenue is one of the main arteries in Suffolk County. These improvements represent a $20 million commitment to safety and efficiency, not only for the motorists who use this road, but also pedestrians and local small businesses. Our economic vitality is directly related to the condition of our local infrastructure. In fact, this project will create construction jobs immediately, which will have a positive ripple effect on economic growth in the future. It should also be noted that this project is designed in stages designed to create the least amount of disruption to local communities."
Senator Phil Boyle said, "I would like to thank the Governor on this important infrastructure initiative. Not only will it provide jobs and strengthen the area's economic growth but, this project will help protect the safety and welfare of all those who traverse over and under the bridge on a regular basis."
Assemblyperson Kimberly Jean-Pierre said, "This is a critically important project for Lindenhurst and the entire Suffolk County community. Replacing the Wellwood Avenue Bridge will allow drivers -- whether it's Long Islanders, commuters, or businesses -- to travel to their destinations more efficiently and safely."
Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone said, "Critical investments in our infrastructure are needed and with the replacement of the Wellwood Avenue Bridge additional improvements will be made to ensure ease of mobility of pedestrian traffic and improve the traverse of vehicles on our roadways. I thank Governor Cuomo and the NYSDOT for providing the funding that will lead to an improved commute and enhanced public safety for our residents."
Babylon Town Supervisor Richard Schafer said, "As one of the main thoroughfares in the Town of Babylon, Wellwood Avenue serves both our residential and business communities, and is in need of repairs and upgrades. I applaud Governor Cuomo, Senators Boyle and Venditto, and Assemblywoman Jean-Pierre for this crucial initiative that modernizes our infrastructure and makes our streets safer for our pedestrians."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-start-construction-wellwood-avenue-bridge-replacement-project
