Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Next Phase of Major Jacob K. Javits Center Expansion
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 20, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a Request for Proposals will be released to three pre-qualified Design-Build teams that will compete for a contract to complete a major expansion to the Jacob K. Javits Center. The Governor also announced that the Convention Center Development Corporation will start early construction work this fall, enabling the project to progress on an accelerated timeframe. These steps mark a milestone in advancing Governor Cuomo's plan announced in the 2016 State of the State address to expand the Javits Center and cement New York's status as the premier destination for large-scale, world-class events.
"The Javits Center is one of New York's greatest economic assets, and this project will help to ensure it remains a source of jobs and economic activity for years to come," Governor Cuomo said. "This is an important milestone in our plan to transform Javits into a 21st century venue for the next generation and I look forward to seeing this project get off the ground."
The RFP will be sent to the three pre-qualified Design-Build teams, who will submit proposals for design and construction of the Javits expansion, including a fixed price for completing the work. The new portions of the convention center will be contiguous to the existing facilities at the exposition and concourse levels and will be designed to be capable of operating separately for certain events.
Responses are due October 31, 2016. The Design-Build contract will be awarded to the winning bidder by early 2017.
The three teams are among several that had responded to a Request for Qualifications in May and were recently chosen to submit proposals to complete the project. The teams are led by:
Gilbane Building Company
Lendlease Turner, a Joint Venture
Skanska Javits Design-Build Joint Venture
Responses to the RFQ were reviewed by a selection committee and evaluated based on specific criteria, including:
Experience in similar projects of this scale;
Past performance with a record of quality and completion of projects within budget;
Project understanding and ability to undertake specific risks related to Design-Build construction;
Organization capabilities;
Key personnel who have successfully managed all aspects of similar projects;
Diversity practices and a record of MWBE subcontracting; and
Financial capability and bonding capacity.
CCDC's early construction work includes building a new elevated platform that will house an upgraded transformer yard, as well as relocating a water main and other utilities. By starting this critical utility and infrastructure work before a Design Build team is selected, CCDC will position the project for expedited completion. This preliminary work will begin in fall 2016.
"Clearly the RFQ process was a success, with three strong teams selected to compete for the right to design and build a major expansion to one of New York's most iconic and exciting event spaces," said ESD President, CEO & Commissioner Howard Zemsky. "We look forward to seeing the proposals the teams submit and to watching an improved Javits take shape."
"Thanks to Governor Cuomo, this expansion will make the Javits Center stronger than ever," said Alan Steel, President and CEO of the New York Convention Center Operating Corporation, which operates the Javits Center. "We plan on maintaining our normally packed schedule through construction and filling the new space as soon as it opens. With the new ballroom and rooftop terrace, plus more meeting room space, we will be able to attract a new generation of customers to the Empire State, leading to the creation of new jobs and new business opportunities for New Yorkers."
The project includes the following major components:
A four-level, on-site truck marshaling facility, including 27 new loading docks;
New prime exhibit space, to be combined with the existing exhibit space, to create an approximately 500,000-square-foot exhibition hall;
New state-of-the-art meeting room and ballroom space;
Roof terrace and pavilion accommodating 1,500 people for outdoor events, including an expanded green room area;
New kitchen and food service areas;
Back-of-House and administrative space; and
LEED Silver certification.
The Design-Build process, first implemented by Governor Cuomo in 2011, allows the State to combine design and construction services into a single contract to help expedite vital infrastructure projects and save taxpayer money. The Design-Build delivery method provides incentives to the private contractor ýto accelerate the completion of large-scale infrastructure projects and shifts the risk of cost-overruns and delays to the private sector. It is an approach that is currently being successfully used to reconstruct the Tappan Zee and Kosciusko Bridges, as well as to advance a number of priority transportation projects throughout the State. The Design-Build procurement method was made possible for this project by the New York Transformational Economic Development Infrastructure and Revitalization Projects Act, which went into effect in April 2016.
Consistent with Governor Cuomo's nation-leading goal of 30 percent participation of Minority and Women-owned Business Enterprises, construction of the project will provide extensive economic opportunities for MWBE contractors.
The project will be funded through a state appropriation of $1 billion, bond issuance proceeds, finances available on hand, and other sources as needed.
The Javits Center is the busiest convention center in the United States and hosted events on 337 days in 2015. Located on Manhattan"s West Side on 11th Avenue between West 34th and West 40th Streets, the six-block facility encompasses 2.1 million square feet , of which 840,000 square feet is exhibition space. It hosts trade shows, conventions, and special events that spur economic activity and job creation. In 2014, the facility hosted 177 events and more than 2 million visitors -- ultimately supporting 17,500 jobs locally and generating an estimated 478,000 nightly hotel room reservations. In total, the Javits Center had an economic impact of $1.8 billion in 2014.
Ultimately, the Governor's proposal will strengthen the regional economy, create more permanent jobs, and increase tourism and business involved with the Javits Center. Specifically, it is projected to:
Create 4,000 full-time jobs, 2,000 part-time jobs and 3,100 construction jobs;
Generate $393 million in new economic activity a year, a 22 percent increase to the $1.8 billion of activity generated in 2014; and
Generate 200,000 additional hotel room nights a year, a 42 percent increase in the number of room nights booked by event guests.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-next-phase-major-jacob-k-javits-center-expansion
