Public Statements
Municipalities Encouraged to Apply; $50 Million Program Will Support Projects to Revitalize Urban Areas and Neighborhoods
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 20, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today launched Round 4 of the Restore New York Communities Initiative -- a $50 million program that will provide municipalities with funding to support efforts to revitalize and stabilize urban areas and neighborhoods across the state. This program provides local governments with financial assistance in order to encourage economic development and revitalization urban centers and neighborhoods throughout the state.
"Restore NY is a critical piece of New York State's efforts to bring positive change to distressed areas, attract new investment to our urban centers, and create jobs in every region of the state," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding not only supports the transformation of blighted and abandoned buildings, but it also enables communities to make long-needed infrastructure improvements that are key to economic growth."
Since the program's inception, more than $200 million has been invested in the removal and restoration of blighted properties -- particularly in urban centers and distressed cities throughout New York State. Now in Round 4, $50 million in funding is available to continue these efforts.
Cities, towns and villages are eligible to apply for support for projects that include demolition, deconstruction, rehabilitation, or reconstruction of vacant, abandoned, condemned and surplus properties. In addition, funds can be used for site development needs including, but not limited to water, sewer and parking. The program places a strong emphasis on projects in economically distressed communities.
Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Howard Zemsky said, "Our efforts to attract commercial investment and revitalize urban centers through the Restore NY Program are a critical component of our economic development strategy. Through the Restore NY Program, municipalities will leverage both public and private funds to encourage business growth, create jobs and strengthen our communities by transforming economically distressed areas across the state."

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-round-four-restore-new-york-funding-support-community-redevelopment
