Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $10.9 Million First Phase of Transformative I-390/490/Lyell Avenue Interchange Project in Monroe County
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 20, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a $10.9 million project that begins the fabrication of steel for the new Route 31 (Lyell Avenue) bridge over Route 390 and implements improvements to seven bridges within the I-390/I-390/Route 31 interchange. This project is the first phase of a larger initiative to improve traffic flow at the convergence of Interstates 390, 490, Route 390 and Route 31 in the town of Gates. This corridor serves as a vital link for its nearly 200,000 daily motorists to the Greater Rochester International Airport, Rochester Technology Park and the Eastman Business Park which has been identified as a key to regional economic development by the Finger Lakes Economic Development Council.
"Ensuring our infrastructure is able to meet the needs of the modern economy is key to generating growth across New York," Governor Cuomo said. "This work is the first step of a larger plan to ease traffic, and improve safety and mobility in one of the most critical commerce corridors in the greater Rochester area."
The process to fabricate the steel for the new Lyell Avenue bridge is now underway. The existing structure will be removed early next spring and replaced with a longer bridge. The work will be done in two stages in order to maintain travel in both directions throughout the duration of the project. The south side of the bridge will be removed and reconstructed first, while traffic is maintained on the north side of the bridge with two westbound lanes and one eastbound lane. The second stage will shift traffic to the south side of the bridge while the north side is demolished and rebuilt.
The replacement bridge and paved approaches between Matilda Street and Lee Road will provide a wider roadway on Lyell Avenue to facilitate the addition of bicycle lanes and sidewalks in each direction. The traffic signal at the exit ramp from I-390 southbound will be replaced with a new signal system that includes enhanced pedestrian crossing indications.
Painting and other preventive maintenance treatments on the seven bridges within the interchange, are also now underway and generally will take place during the overnight hours to minimize impacts to traffic. Most will include shoulder and lane closures. A detour will be posted when a connecting ramp is fully closed.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "With today's announcement, we continue to see that Governor Cuomo trusts and supports the Finger Lakes' plan for economic growth. We know that a sound transportation system is critical to economic development and quality of life, and the State's investment in this vital interchange ensures that this region prospers and New York remains competitive in a global market. The Finger Lakes clearly are moving forward."
Congresswoman Louise Slaughter said, "Transportation and infrastructure upgrades like this are key to expanding our economy and keeping quality jobs right here in Rochester. This project will also help ease congestion and expand access to Eastman Business Park while making travel safer across Monroe County."
Assembly Majority Leader Joseph D. Morelle said, "Thanks to Governor Cuomo's commitment to supporting the infrastructure needs of our community, we continue to make significant progress toward enhancing the reliability and safety of one of our regions most traveled roadways. This targeted, ongoing investment will strengthen and ensure the long-term vitality of our community's transportation system, which is essential to the success of Rochester's economic resurgence."
Senator Joseph Robach said, "The I-390/490 interchange is one of the most frequently-used roadways in the Rochester region, and serves as an important commuter route for so many area residents. These improvements will not only help ease traffic congestion, but will also help improve commuter safety by providing much needed upgrades to our local infrastructure."
Monroe County Executive Cheryl Dinolfo said, "It is no secret that our community has several roads and bridges in need of repair, so I want to thank Governor Cuomo for his ongoing commitment to address our critical infrastructure needs here in Monroe County. Public infrastructure is the backbone of our everyday life and this project improves traffic flow and keeps travelers safe while supporting economic development and local jobs."
The contractor for the project is Cold Spring Construction from Akron, Erie County. The project is scheduled to be completed by fall 2018.
Accelerating Finger Lakes Forward
Today's announcement complements "Finger Lakes Forward," the region's comprehensive blueprint to generate robust economic growth and community development. The State has already invested more than $3.4 billion in the region since 2012 to lay the groundwork for the plan -- investing in key industries including photonics, agricultureý and food production, and advanced manufacturing. Today, unemployment is down to the lowest levels since before the Great Recession; personal and corporate income taxes are down; and businesses are choosing places like Rochester, Batavia and Canandaigua as a destination to grow and invest in.
Now, the region is accelerating Finger Lakes Forward with a $500 million State investment through the Upstate Revitalization Initiative, announced by Governor Cuomo in December 2015. The State's $500 million investment will incentivize private business to invest well over $2.5 billion -- and the region's plan, as submitted, projects up to 8,200 new jobs.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-109-million-first-phase-transformative-i-390490lyell-avenue
