Public Statements
Governor Cuomo and Legislative Leaders Announce Agreement on 5 Point Ethics Reform Plan
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 17, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo, Senate Majority Leader John Flanagan, Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie and Senate Independent Democratic Conference Leader Jeffrey Klein today announced an agreement on a 5 Point Ethics Reform Plan to toughen election, lobbying, and ethics enforcement laws, including first-in-the-nation legislation to curb the power of independent expenditure campaigns unleashed by the 2010 Supreme Court case Citizens United vs. Federal Election Commission, and require elected officials and policy makers convicted of corruption to forfeit their pension.
The 5 Point Plan includes:
1.) The nation's strongest independent expenditure reforms to end coordination in political campaigns
2.) Pension Forfeiture
3.) First Time Disclosure Requirements for Political Consultants
4.) Lobbying Disclosure Reforms
5.) Issue Advocacy Reforms
"Citizens United is one of the worst Supreme Court decisions in history and in just six years has already had a profoundly corrosive impact on our democracy. It decimates the right to free speech by allowing it to be eclipsed by paid speech, devaluing the right of individuals to participate in the political system," said Governor Cuomo. "For the first time, independent expenditure groups and PACs will be required to adhere to unprecedented disclosure requirements, and New York will have the nation's strongest rules defining and governing coordination and independence. Until the Supreme Court reverses its decision or Congress acts to change the law, states should follow New York's lead and use their powers to rein in the devastating impact of Citizens United. This reform package includes new disclosure requirements and stiffer penalties that will shine a light on what now is the shadowy intersection of government, lobbying, and political consulting. Together, this legislation will help bring more transparency, trust, and faith to state government."































Source:
