Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Grand Opening of "Cool Globes" Exhibit at Canalside in Buffalo
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 15, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the installation of the "Cool Globes" public art exhibit, which will run through the beginning of November, at Canalside in Buffalo, NY. The exhibition, sponsored by Cool Globes, Inc., features 12 globe sculptures with messages on how both the public and businesses can take action to combat climate change.
"New York has led the nation on climate change and this project highlights our continued commitment to protecting our planet for future generations," Governor Cuomo said. ""Cool Globes' encourages New Yorkers to take simple steps to preserve our environment, and I am proud to host this exhibit as we work to build a cleaner, greener and more sustainable New York."
Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, New York has taken bold action to tackle climate change, preserve the environment and grow the state's clean energy economy. Through Reforming the Energy Vision, New York has committed to supply 50 percent of the state's electricity needs with renewable resources by 2030 and achieve the internationally-recognized target of an 80 percent reduction in carbon emissions by 2050.
"We are delighted to work with Governor Cuomo to bring "Cool Globes' to Buffalo to celebrate New Yorkers' commitment to addressing climate change and building a more sustainable future," said Wendy Abrams, founder of Cool Globes, Inc. "The globes promote solutions to climate change with simple actions by individuals and businesses."
"Canalside is the perfect site for this public art exhibition and to raise awareness of solutions to climate change," said Erie Canal Harbor Development Corporation Chairman Robert Gioia. "Situated right on the Great Lakes, Canalside celebrates our region's connectivity to water but the potential economic impact of climate change on water levels is significant and must be recognized. We are thrilled to host "Cool Globes' and use this exhibit to educate our visitors."
The "Cool Globes" exhibit originally premiered in Chicago in 2007 in partnership with the Field Museum of Natural History and Mayor Daley's Office of Environment. The exhibit saw more than three million viewers. Since then, "Cool Globes" has traveled the world, making stops in New York City, Washington D.C., San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego, Houston, Vancouver, Sundance, Cleveland, Boston, Copenhagen, Geneva, Marseilles, Amsterdam and Jerusalem.
The state is also hosting another "Cool Globes" exhibit in Battery Park City in Lower Manhattan. People have enjoyed viewing the exhibit on the Pier A Plaza for the past several months. "Cool Globes" will remain on display through November 20, 2016.
Key Energy and Environmental Accomplishments
New York State is committed to protecting our environment, conserving open space, increasing access to the state's vast and magnificent natural resources -- launching numerous groundbreaking clean energy initiatives and preparing for the effects of climate change. Governor Cuomo's key energy and environmental accomplishments include:
Launching the Clean Energy Standard: Governor Cuomo directed the Public Service Commission to expand large scale renewable power so that it provides 50 percent of power generation by 2030, as laid out in the 2015 State Energy Plan, and to propose a plan to support New York's existing zero-emission nuclear fleet.
Signed the Under 2 MOU: In 2015, Governor Cuomo signed the Under 2 MOU, an agreement among states, provinces and cities worldwide to affirm their commitment to reduce emissions 80 percent by 2050 to help keep the earth's average temperature from increasing two degrees Celsius (or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) by 2100. As part of the 2015 State Energy Plan, New York set one of the most aggressive targets in the nation to reduce emissions 40 percent by 2030 and 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050.
Securing a Coal Free New York by 2020: Coal is one of the highest greenhouse gas emitting and environmentally harmful fuel sources for power generation. In line with the state's goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions from the energy sector 40 percent by 2030, the Governor has directed the Department of Public Service and DEC to develop a regulatory framework that will close the state's two remaining coal burning power plants or repower them to cleaner fuel sources by 2020.
Leading on Transportation and Climate: As transportation emissions are the largest greenhouse gas emissions sector, New York has launched ambitious actions to drive down these emissions. Governor Cuomo has signed onto the Zero Emission Vehicle (ZEV) MOU, and the International ZEV Alliance to move the state forward on reducing emissions from cars, as well as embarking in the Transportation and Climate Initiative with a coalition of 12 Northeastern states. The EPF will now provide major new funding to help communities mitigate and adapt to climate change, including new incentives for clean vehicle purchases and infrastructure. This will support NYSERDA's forthcoming consumer zero emission vehicle rebate program.
Adopted a 10-year, $5 billion Clean Energy Fund: Over the next ten years, NYSERDA's Clean Energy Fund will drive greater private sector investment to support the deployment of clean energy and energy efficiency solutions to New York's homes, buildings, and communities; invest in cutting edge research and development to accelerate clean energy innovation; provide $1 billion for the Governor's NY-Sun program; and capitalize the nation's largest Green Bank. Through the CEF, the state will also reduce ratepayer surcharges by $90 million in 2016 and by a total $1.5 billion by 2025. It complements the Clean Energy Standard by driving down the cost and scaling up clean energy technologies to meet our 50 percent renewable electricity goal.
Launched the Nation's Largest Green Bank: New York is home to a $1 billion green bank, the largest green bank in the nation. In 2015, NY Green Bank provided $49 million to support three deals that will enable greater deployment of residential solar and energy efficiency projects as well as small-scale wind on residential, agricultural, and small commercial properties. Green Bank capital leveraged an additional $179 million in financing from private sector partners.
Developed Official Sea Level Rise Projections: As directed by the Community Risk and Resilience Act, New York State will adopt state sea level rise projections based on the best available science and rigorous public review; these projections will better prepare coastal communities and business owners for extreme weather events like Superstorm Sandy.
Climate Smart Communities Take Action: More than 170 local governments, encompassing 6.6 million New Yorkers, have joined the state program to support local climate change adaptation and mitigation and seven communities have completed a rigorous certification process. The enacted 2016-17 budget includes $11 million in new EPF funds for Climate Smart Communities grants, providing communities the ability to transform resiliency and adaptation plans into action.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-grand-opening-cool-globes-exhibit-canalside-buffalo
