Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $4 Million GENIUS NY Competition Now Accepting Applications
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 14, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the Growing Entrepreneurs & Innovators in Upstate New York -- or GENIUS NY -- business competition is now accepting applications from entrepreneurs, startup companies and early-stage businesses. The program, administered by CenterState CEO in Syracuse, will invest more than $4 million in participating companies, including three grand prizes valued at up to $1 million, $600,000 and $400,000 -- making it one of the largest business competitions in the world. The advancement of the GENIUS NY program builds on the progress of "CNY Rising," the region's strategic plan to generate robust economic growth and community development.
"Time and time again, we have seen that by encouraging competition and capitalizing on regional assets, we can lure entrepreneurs and promising startup ventures from around the world to invest in New York State's growing economy," Governor Cuomo said. "The GENIUS NY program will build upon the progress started by the Upstate Revitalization Initiative and help the next generation of Central New York businesses create new jobs and generate economic opportunity across the region."
Building on regional industry strengths and emerging opportunities, the business competition will target companies in the unmanned aerial, ground, and marine systems and cross-connected platforms sectors. Subsets may include precision and remote sensing, data collection, guidance systems, communication systems, sensors, and data analytics among other technological categories.
Applications will be evaluated by a panel of judges and 12 semi-finalists will be selected to present live demos and pitches this fall. Six companies will advance to participate in the competition, which is structured as a unique programmed incubator and accelerator experience. These six teams will enter the in-residence accelerator at CenterState CEO's Tech Garden, and will be immersed in the incubator's events, resource pool, and mentoring.
Throughout the program, companies will also engage with area civic groups, including Leadership Greater Syracuse and the Downtown Committee of Syracuse to learn about the Central New York community. The goal is to encourage all participants to establish roots in Central New York. Participants will be required to operate their business in Central New York for one year during the competition.

Source:
