Public Statements
Letter to Members of the New York State Legislature - End of Session Priorities
Letter
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 13, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

This year presents the most difficult and challenging political environment in decades. In New York and across the nation, people are plagued by economic anxiety and international unrest that has made many uncertain about the future. Our federal government has made gridlock become the new normal.
Despite these challenges, New York saw the State Legislature pass one of the best budgets in modern history. From the largest middle class tax cut in 70 years to a statewide $15 minimum wage, the country's strongest paid family leave plan, controlled government spending, and more than $100 billion in infrastructure projects across New York, this year's budget was a great bipartisan win for the entire state.
But with all we have done, we have more to do. As the old skeptic's adage goes, "That's great, but what have you done for me lately?" We can't rest on our laurels -- we have much more to accomplish this session.
Right now, we have a chance to complete an ambitious agenda that will conclude one of the most effective and successful legislative sessions to date while improving the lives of millions of New Yorkers. I believe we can reach consensus on the following issues:
1. Combating the heroin epidemic;
2. Increasing access to breast cancer screening and treatment;
3. Passing comprehensive ethics reform;
4. Combating Citizens United;
5. Improving safety at rail crossings; and
6. Updating the Alcohol Beverage Control Law.
We know the issues. We know the solutions. What has distinguished our state government in the nation has been our ability to defeat gridlock and get results for the people we serve. We get things done and have made real progress for our state. We have one week to keep the momentum going. Let's once again rise to the occasion and conclude this session with a record we can all be proud to bring home.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-sends-letter-members-new-york-state-legislature-end-session-priorities
