Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Grand Opening of Port of Rochester Marina
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 13, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the grand opening of the marina at the Port of Rochester. The new marina is the centerpiece of a $22 million project to enhance public waterfront recreational facilities and encourage and support further private development. The project was supported by more than $4 million in grants from New York State and is expected to provide significant stimulus to the Rochester economy by generating $3.25 million in direct and indirect economic activity each year, as well as creating 300 permanent jobs.
"The new Port of Rochester Marina has transformed a public eyesore into a premier waterfront attraction, reinforcing Rochester's reputation as a first class Great Lakes destination," Governor Cuomo said. "This project is proof positive that by investing in unique and underutilized regional assets, the public and private sectors can come together to create jobs and set the stage for sustained economic growth."
The Port of Rochester Marina project, which also created 2,500 construction jobs, is expected be an important amenity for the planned hotel and condominium development on North River Street proposed by Edgewater Resources. The state-of-the-art marina basin now offers 54 seasonal boats slips and 30 transient slips with modern amenities including potable water, electricity, Wi-Fi and pump-out facilities. Visitors can enjoy the new public promenade, benches, picnic tables, barbeque grills, and park areas that surround the marina and connect to the Charlotte Pier and the Genesee River Trail System.
The project also features a new extension and connection of North River Street from Corrigan Street south to Latta Road which provides additional on-street parking spaces and a new alternative roadway connection to Ontario Beach Park. Improvements were made to the public boat launch docks and the parking lot. New transient boater broadside dockage was installed on the terminal dock wall.
"Rochester's waterways were the key to its role as an early American boom town, and the redevelopment of its port will be central to its future promise as well," said Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul. "The new marina will make Rochester a Great Lakes tourist destination and true gateway to this region while creating hundreds of new jobs. We are seeing the result of Governor Cuomo's commitment to rebuilding the Upstate economy and moving the Finger Lakes forward."







Source:
