Public Statements
Statement from Governor Andrew M. Cuomo on the Tragic Attacks in Orlando, Florida
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 12, 2016
Location: Orlando, FL

"I am shocked and saddened by the senseless attack that occurred early this morning in Orlando. On behalf of all New Yorkers, our thoughts and prayers are with the victims, the injured and their loved ones during this unimaginably difficult time. New Yorkers stand in solidarity with the people of Florida and the LGBT community, and I have directed flags at state buildings to be flown at half-staff in the memory of those who were lost in this terrible act of mass murder.
"This is just one more horrific reminder of the need for Congress to pass real and sensible gun safety legislation, just as we did in New York. It is far past time for Washington to act.
"Early reports indicate this was likely an act of domestic terrorism. While there is no specific intelligence that suggests any link between the attacks that occurred in Orlando with New York, out of an abundance of caution, I have directed additional security measures at key points around the state as a precaution. The safety of New Yorkers and our state's visitors is our number one priority, and we are remaining vigilant and in close contact with local and federal officials and our partner law enforcement agencies."
Division of Homeland Security & Emergency Services
DHSES has been in contact with key local public safety officials following the attacks in Orlando. The DHSES Watch Center, as a precaution, has increased monitoring of various large public gatherings, including various sporting venues throughout the State. DHSES remains in a state of readiness and prepared to disseminate information to our public safety partners statewide as necessary.
State Police & National Guard
The New York State Police and the National Guard have also been in contact with federal officials as well as local law enforcement partners, including the New York City Police Department. At the Governor's direction, as a precaution, the State Police and National Guard have increased surveillance of critical infrastructure including transportation hubs and will be deploying additional resources to large public gatherings.
Port Authority of New York & New Jersey
Port Authority Police are on heightened alert at all of the agency's bridge, tunnel, rail, World Trade Center and other facilities, following the attacks in Orlando. Actions include increased patrols and checks of bags, buses, trucks and trains at agency locations. Travelers are reminded to remain vigilant and report any suspicious activities to police or other authorities.
Metropolitan Transportation Authority
The MTA has increased its patrols and surveillance in order to provide heightened protection across all its agencies. The MTA Police Department has stepped up its uniformed and plainclothes presence in Penn Station and Grand Central Terminal as well as other major stations throughout the Metro-North Railroad and Long Island Rail Road network. Police canine teams and units with heavy weapons will provide extra protection as well as a noticeable sign of increased security. Railroad customers will also see surge patrols, increased step-on/step-off patrols of trains, and random bag checks at various locations.
As always, New Yorkers can report any suspicious activities that may indicate a threat to public safety. Any suspicious activities can be reported to:
Counter Terrorism Center via the New York State Intelligence Center

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/statement-governor-andrew-m-cuomo-tragic-attacks-orlando-florida
