Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Start to Construction of $2.9 Million Route 26 Intersection Realignment
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 10, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the start to the $2.9 million reconstruction of the intersection of Route 26 and with Oneida and Ontario Avenues at a common access point to Fort Drum. The reconfigured roadway will shift the flow of vehicles, reducing congestion and increasing safety. This project is a key component of the $25 million investment to improve Route 26 within Fort Drum, announced by Governor Cuomo in the 2015-16 State Budget.
"As the largest employer in North Country, more than 50,000 residents rely on Fort Drum for economic stability," Governor Cuomo said, "This project will enhance accessibility for the region and further ensure this base remains a worthy home for the 10th Mountain Division, and a strong anchor for the region."
This portion of Route 26, also known as Gasoline Alley, is a common access point for soldiers reporting to Fort Drum for physical training, as well as for commercial deliveries to the facility. The area is currently split into two intersections, one for traffic entering and one for traffic exiting the base -- thus making traffic backups common. The new roadway will combine the two intersections into one wider intersection, adding slip ramps and turning lanes to facilitate easier access for drivers.
Fort Drum, home to the 10th Mountain Division, is the largest employer in the North Country.This project is expected to be built by the end of 2017; work will be completed by Prime Highway of Albany.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "This project is just one example of Governor Cuomo's investment in Fort Drum and commitment to improving access and resources on the critical military base. Route 26 intersection work will make the corridor safer and more efficient for travelers, visitors and the community."
Senator Patty Ritchie said, "Fort Drum is one of our region's--as well as our state's--most important economic drivers, and if we want it to remain as such, we need to continue to make it a priority to invest in, as well as enhance the post. I would like to thank the Governor for recognizing the importance of this project, and look forward to seeing how it makes access to Fort Drum easier and safer for the soldiers, families and others regularly traveling to the post."
Assemblyman Ken Blankenbush said, "I am pleased to see the governor making an investment in our community's infrastructure. This project will improve the safety of those traveling in the vicinity of Route 26 and Fort Drum, as well as the efficiency of the surrounding area's operations. It is nice to see our concerns regarding the traffic congestion have been heard and a proper course of action is going to take place."
Drivers are reminded that fines are doubled for speeding in a work zone. In accordance with the Work Zone Safety Act of 2005, convictions of two or more speeding violations in a work zone could result in the suspension of an individual's driver's license.
For real-time travel information, call 511, visit www.511NY.org, or log on to the new mobile site at m.511ny.org. You can also follow New York State DOT on Twitter at @NYSDOT and Facebook at facebook.com/NYSDOT.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-start-construction-29-million-route-26-intersection-realignment
