Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $6.5 Million I-190 Resurfacing Project on Grand Island
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 10, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that a $6.5 million pavement resurfacing project on the Niagara Thruway (I-190) on Grand Island is scheduled to begin next week. Preliminary work alongside the Thruway, including slope flattening and culvert rehabilitation, will be completed first followed by the repaving of the roadway starting in mid-July.
"The Thruway is a vital part of this state's transportation network and an engine for both national and international commerce and tourism all across upstate, particularly in Western New York," said Governor Cuomo. "Repaving the Niagara Thruway on Grand Island will improve passage for both residents and commercial drivers who are just passing through, helping to ensure a smooth ride for all motorists."
The $6.5 million resurfacing project includes both lanes northbound and southbound on the Niagara Thruway (I-190) between the South Grand Island Bridges (milepost 14.9) and the North Grand Island Bridges (milepost 20.22). Contracted work includes two-inch pavement rehabilitation on the driving and passing lanes, both shoulders, and all on-ramps and off-ramps.
This project is expected to be completed in the fall of 2016.
"The Thruway Authority is dedicated to making sure the tolls our motorists pay are reinvested wisely back into the Thruway that they travel each day, and this project reflects that commitment," said Interim Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer, Maria Lehman P.E. "Grand Island is a jewel of New York State and the rehabilitation of this section of I-190 will encourage New Yorkers and visitors alike to cross the Niagara River and enjoy this Island experience."
Assemblyman John D. Ceretto said, "Revitalizing our economy in Western New York requires a strong investment in rebuilding our infrastructure. This resurfacing project is crucial for Grand Island residents and commuters from around the region. I look forward to ensuring future improvements in our area that will keep our economy moving."
The tolls on the Grand Island bridges (9 cents for Grand Island residents) have generated nearly $120 million for capital improvement projects over the last five years. Between the spring of 2016 and fall of 2018, the Thruway Authority will invest an additional $47 million in capital improvement projects that will include a new deck overlay on the northbound North Grand Island Bridge and the painting of both of the North Grand Island bridges.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-65-million-i-190-resurfacing-project-grand-island
