Public Statements
Video, Photos & Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces More Than $17 Million in Funding to Enhance Niagara Falls State Park
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 9, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Earlier today, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced more than $17 million in State funding for improvements to enhance the natural beauty of Niagara Falls State Park. The improvements are part of the Governor's $70 million commitment to restore the Park. Governor Cuomo also announced that, after a month-long competition and review, "Niagara Scenic Parkway" has been selected as the new name for the former Robert Moses Parkway.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below.
Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, it is truly my pleasure to be back. What a beautiful day. I tell you, when you're at the Falls and you're looking at the Falls and we had the full rainbow and the Maid of the Mist in the picture -- it was really spectacular. My pleasure to be back on such a beautiful day.
First, to your Mayor Paul Dyster, who is my kind of an elected official. He is a get-it-done guy, he's doing a great job. Let's give him a round of applause. Rose Harvey is a gift to New York and a gift to New York public service. When you hear her, and you hear her energy and passion it just communicates. She sincerely believes in the mission and she's extraordinarily good at getting it done. You put those two qualities together and that is a phenomenal public servant and that's just what Rose Harvey is. Rose -- Commissioner Harvey -- thank you very much.
I've been spending a lot of time with Commissioner Harvey. We're coming into tourism season now. We're actually in tourism season. We've been looking at our State Parks and the project we have underway with State Parks. State Parks have, in the past, been overlooked and they've been undervalued. They really are very important places, you know, and sometimes you say, "Park" and they said, "Well, that's recreational; that's non-essential." The exact opposite is true. The Parks system and those pieces of property and those assets are essential to who we are as an individuals and essential to what we are as a state. I use the expression that it's "food for the soul." You go to the Parks, you get back in touch with nature -- Mother Nature -- you're bringing a sense of spirituality to yourself. They are also the places that tell our story. Civilizations have stories and they pass on stories. One of the ways we pass on our stories are through our parks. They tell our story of development; they tell the story of warfare; they tell the system of the best of times in New York and the worst of times in New York and some of the great natural gifts we have in New York. We missed that for a long time.
It was undervalued and we did not maintain the Parks system the way we should for many, many years and it just continually degraded. My generation -- I just saw parks continually degrade. I can remember from the time I was about ten to about 20 years old, they just got worse. They just got worse. They got so bad that they were almost embarrassingly bad, you know. Had facilities that were unusable. The decay -- the degradation. They made that point that people just don't care. The exact opposite statement of what you were trying to make with the Parks system, which is, "These are special places. You should visit them." The disrepair and the degradation made the opposite statement -- that we ourselves devalue these great assets.
We reversed all of that with the Parks 2020 plan, which Commissioner Harvey was a phenomenal asset and tenacious advocate and it's close to $1 billion. Now, it was in the State Budget; different parameters. A billion dollars is a lot of money. I don't care whose budget you're talking about. A billion dollars is a lot of money. This was a major investment. It was controversial because we did have budget deficits. We were cutting taxes at the same time; I'm very conscious of cutting taxes and getting costs down. A $1 billion investment in Parks was a major initiative for us. We did it. It was right. You know it's right because you see it coming to fruition and you see it in Parks all across the state and you see it right here in the jewel of the Parks system at the Falls. This is going to be an entirely different experience and from where that newspaper that shall go nameless said it had gotten to be shabby -- this is now going to be a first-class experience [inaudible].
Now, it's not just about preserving the asset and our legacy, which I take seriously that we should turn over these assets to our children in a better position than we inherited them. That's part of our citizen trust. Our parental trust. There's also an economic component to this. The Parks are actually great economic generators for the State of New York. We spent $1 billion to repair the Parks. I argue, "No, we invested $1 billion in assets that will drive tourism."
Listen to this, I have always believed that especially in Upstate New York, we have more beauty and a better story than people even appreciate and all we have to do is get them to come once and see what we have and they will be sold. We invested very heavily in tourism and we invested in the "I Love NY" campaign. $130 million. State Parks are really at the heart of the "I Love NY" campaign, they are really one of the biggest sets of attractions around the state. We invest $130 million in "I Love NY" -- a lot of money again -- we invested $130 million and what happened? We have an increase in tourism which is twice the national rate. Tourism has gone up $6 billion on a $130 million investment to over $60 billion in economic activity for the state of New York.
One of the big generators in jobs for upstate New York is tourism and the State Park development and the investment in "I Love NY" they are hand in glove, working together and that is why you are seeing that industry taking off and it is doing even more and it is going to continue to do even more. We have eight, nine million visitors now, wait until they see this new facility and see how beautiful it is, you are going to see those numbers go up even higher -- which is good for Niagara Falls, it is good for the economy, it is good for Upstate overall and that is the point of the entire exercise.
You know, we talk about jobs for Western New York. "What is the big issue?" "Jobs, we need jobs, we need jobs." "Well how do you get jobs?" "Well you have to bring businesses." It is not as easy and as simple as just bringing businesses because businesses come when the overall community is working, right? You can't bring businesses to places that are failing. You can't bring young people back to places that are failing. So really to get jobs back, you need to revitalize the entire community.
I have a buddy of mine who went to the doctor a couple of weeks ago and the doctor says he had a heart problem and he has to do some things to take care of his heart. I asked what he had to do, he said, "Well I have to lose weight, I can't eat this, I can't eat that, I have to stop smoking, I have to stop drinking, I have to exercise and I have to lose 20 pounds." I said, "It might be better if you die." I said, "Don't they just have a pill that you can take and it fixes the heart? Do you really have to do all this?" He said, "No they really need me to do all this and change my whole lifestyle to cure this heart problem." I said, "Why?" But life is better -- jobs are like that. Jobs are better, we want jobs in Western New York and it is not that you just get jobs, jobs come when the transportation system works and the schools work and the recreation works and the downtown works and there are attractions and the community is safe. You really need to make the entire body work to keep the heart healthy and the heart is economic development and the jobs. Really the jobs are a product of everything else you did, and jobs are coming back to Western New York at a faster rate than I could have imagined.
We have more private sector jobs in the state of New York today than we have ever had in the history of the state of New York. Just think about that. $7.9 million jobs. Upstate New York we have [inaudible] new jobs. In three years, the unemployment rate went from 7.9 down to 4.7 percent. Just look at that drop in that period of time. The jobs are coming back -- why? Because the community is coming back and because you had the courage to take on long-term problems that were allowed to fester for years. That's what's interesting about Western New York -- we didn't solve any new problems, we didn't come up with any new formula -- we just solved problems that were allowed to linger and fester for decades. For decades. I had the same conversation in Western New York for twenty years. Always the same problems but we just couldn't bring ourselves to tackle them.
Peace Bridge is the greatest example. That Peace Bridge argument went on for 20 years. Reminded me of the married couple next door to the house I grew up in -- they argued for 20 years. It never got resolved. "What are we going to do about the Buffalo Bills; we don't know what we're going to do about the Buffalo Bills; are they going to stay? Are they going to go? Are we going to have a new stadium or not a new stadium? What are we going to do about the Maid of the Mist? We don't know about the Maid of the Mist? How do we build Canalside, what do we do on Canalside and Harborside? What do we do with the Outer Harbor, we don't know what to do." Same conversation for years. We never grabbed the problem and tackled the problem. You know what we're doing now? We're not just getting things done -- we're going back and grabbing these old thorny problems nobody wanted to resolve and we're rolling up our sleeves and we are resolving them. That's what's happening.
That's why I credit the Mayor and I credit the Council and I credit the entire community for having the courage to solve the problems that we ran from for a long, long time. You're never going to solve a problem that you deny. The only way to deal with it is to get your arms around it and understand that you have to solve it if you're going to move forward and we did. A perfect illustration of that is the Robert Moses Parkway. The Robert Moses Parkway we have been talking about for more than 20 years.
Now Robert Moses himself is a controversial figure and I don't want to get into Robert Moses. He did a lot of good in a lot of places. You saw the slides at Jones Beach State Park, which is out on Long Island which was a phenomenal vision of a really positive, beautiful thing. He also did some things that were not good and he also made mistakes, like anybody else in life. The Robert Moses Parkway was a mistake. It was a mistake. You don't block off your greatest asset, which is your waterfront. You don't close off communities. It was a mistake. And we've been saying it was a mistake for 20 years. Some people have been saying it louder than others. Mamie Simonson has been saying this loudest of all, and she wouldn't let us forget.
So it was a mistake. So what are we going to do? Fix it. That's what we're going to do. Go out there, get a hammer. It's asphalt -- get a big hammer, like a sledgehammer. Hit it enough times it will crack, and we'll take out the old road and you put in a new road where it should be, you open access to the water and you make it pedestrian-friendly and community friendly and that is the project that we are in the midst of. It was a mistake, we're changing it, we're fixing it, and it is part of the new Niagara County. It is part of the new Western New York. It is part of the new mentality and culture that says, "We're not just going to stand by and bemoan our plight. We're going to go out and we're going to fix it and we're not going to duck the tough problems." We're going to grab them and we're going to fix them and we're going to make this place a better place and that's what you're doing everywhere and the signs are everywhere. The cranes are everywhere, the progress is everywhere.
Today we saw it at the state park but you can see it everywhere you look and you can see it on the Robert Moses State Parkway. As a memorialization of the new day, we are going to rename the Robert Moses Parkway because there is no longer the Robert Moses Parkway, I like the name the Andrew Cuomo Parkway. Nobody agreed with me. The Mayor likes Paul Dyster Parkway and the Commissioner liked Rose Harvey Parkway so that was a stalemate so instead we came up with another name which really incorporates it all: the Niagara Scenic Parkway. That says it al. Let me ask the Mayor and the Commissioner and Cindy Abbott Letro and Mamie Simonson who has been a stalwart champion for change who never gave up, never gave up and who today shows that the proof is in the pudding. We heard you, you were right, we now have a new parkway all thanks to your advocacy. Come up and let's unveil the new sign.
Three, two, one. Thank you all for everything and God bless.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-transcript-governor-cuomo-announces-more-17-million-funding-enhance-niagara-falls
