Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $10 Million Effort to Support Mobility Needs of Older Adults and People with Disabilities
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 9, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the State is making available $10 million in new funding to enhance the mobility of older adults and persons with disabilities by removing barriers to existing transportation services and expanding transportation alternatives.
"Ensuring that older adults and people with disabilities have access to reliable transportation options builds upon our commitment to make New York State the home of economic promise, fairness and opportunity," Governor Cuomo said. "Funding for these programs is essential for communities across our state and will make a genuine difference in the quality of people's lives."
This new funding opportunity, administered by the New York State Department of Transportation is open to private not-for-profit corporations; public bodies approved by the State to coordinate transportation services; and public bodies that certify that no non-profit corporations are readily available in an area to provide transportation services to older adults and persons with disabilities.
Eligible program activities include purchasing accessible buses and vans; implementing mobility management programs; providing travel training; and improving the accessibility of bus stops, including sidewalks, curb-cuts, and improving signage or wayfinding technology. Funding for this program is provided through a grant from the Federal Transit Administration.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "I want to personally thank Governor Cuomo for his commitment to ensuring that no individual gets left behind. I encourage qualifying organizations to apply for funding from this important program."
The New York State Department of Transportation will be accepting applications through July 1, 2016.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-10-million-effort-support-mobility-needs-older-adults-and-people
