Public Statements
Video & Photos: Governor Cuomo Presents First Empire State Excellence in Teaching Award
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 9, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Earlier today, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced the first recipient of the Empire State Excellence in Teaching Award. The award recognizes outstanding educators who exemplify the highest professional standards and work to inspire students, instill a love of learning and ensure school is exciting, motivating and challenging.
These individuals will serve as Teacher Ambassadors and have the opportunity to share their insights on professional learning with leaders in education, regional development experts, and policymakers. The Governor presented the first award to Adam Norris, an Advanced Placement high school social studies teacher at Maryvale High School in Cheektowaga.
Empire State Excellence in Teaching Award Winner
Adam Norris has taught social studies at Maryvale High School since 2006. His professional dedication to education and the students of Maryvale is shown in his distinguished teaching and instructional methods and results. His instructional techniques -- including a form of instruction that incorporates traditional face-to-face teaching with web-based multi-media delivery -- have been shared with teachers across the United States and from countries including China, Japan, Thailand, India, Germany, Mexico and Russia.
He was recognized by the Maryvale Board of Education for outstanding U.S. History Advanced Placement scores, which were the highest in the School's history. Most recently, he was listed as one of the 2015 Top 25 Teachers of Merit by the Buffalo Business First magazine. In addition to winning today's award, Mr. Norris was one of ten semi-finalists for the 2014-15 New York State Teacher of the Year Award. Among the courses he teaches are A.P. U.S. History, U.S. History and Geography and Participation in Government. Mr. Norris earned an M.A. in Social Studies and Education from SUNY Albany, and a B.A. in History from SUNY Buffalo.



Source:
