Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $10 Million for Improvements to Airport Infrastructure
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 8, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $10 million has been awarded for airport capital project improvements across New York State. This funding, from the Governor's Aviation Capital Grant Program, will support safety, infrastructure, and economic development projects across the State.
"Our airports are the gateways to New York and serve as key drivers of job creation and economic growth for communities across the state," Governor Cuomo said. "These improvements will help make our airports safer and more accessible to millions of travelers and ensure they remain viable transportation hubs and economic engines for years to come."
New York State Department of Transportation Matthew J. Driscoll said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo for recognizing airport modernization as a top economic development priority. This investment will go a long way towards enhancing airport infrastructure and safety and will create a better experience for airport users."
New York State awarded $10 million to 20 applicants through a competitive solicitation process. This investment will upgrade existing airport infrastructure, construct additional hangar space and help accommodate future passenger demands. Additionally, it will address airport needs beyond the resources available through the Federal Aviation Administration and local funds. An additional $8.7 million in private and local funding is being leveraged through this state initiative.
The list of grant recipients and awards follows:
Capital District
Albany International, Albany County- $616,000 for a Terminal Ramp Deicing Drainage System Replacement
Columbia County Airport, Columbia County - $463,503 for safety-related T-Hangar Improvements
Schenectady County Airport, Schenectady County - $197,000 to Upgrade Control Tower Cab Equipment
Central New York
Chase Field, Cortland County - $490,500 for Installation of a New Jet-A Fuel Facility/Upgrades to Existing Fuel Systems
Finger Lakes
Canandaigua Airport, Ontario County - $720,000 for Construction of a Conventional Hangar
Finger Lakes Regional Airport, Seneca County - $720,000 for Construction of a Conventional Hangar
Genesee County Airport, Genesee County, $498,750 for Construction of a Capacity-Enhancing Storage T-Hangar
Greater Rochester International Airport, Monroe County - $428,000 for the Rehabilitation of an Existing Hangar and Related Aircraft Parking Apron
Long Island
Francis S. Gabreski Airport, Suffolk County - $70,000 for the purchase of Self-Propelled Airport Marking Vehicle
Mid-Hudson
Dutchess County Airport, Dutchess County - $889,650 for Airport Terminal Building Renovations
Orange County Airport, Orange County - $882,000 for a Corporate Storage Hangar
Warwick Municipal Airport, Orange County - $23,400 for Taxiway Edge Repair and Resurfacing
Sky Acres Airport, Dutchess County - $139,875 for Installation of a Self-Service Jet-A Fueling Station
Mohawk Valley
Fulton County Airport, Fulton County - $13,500 for Facility Improvements, Including Energy Efficient Upgrades
Griffiss International Airport, Oneida County - $525,000 to Expand Airport Nose Docking Space
North Country
Adirondack Regional Airport, Franklin County - $258,300 for Fuel Farm Upgrades, Including a 15,000 Gallon Jet-A Tank and Dispensing System
Plattsburgh International Airport, Clinton County - $760,000 for Rehabilitation of Airport Nose Docking Space
Southern Tier
Elmira Corning Regional Airport, Chemung County - $1 Million for the Relocation of the Existing Fuel Farm
Ithaca-Tompkins Regional Airport, Tompkins County - $619,935 for Construction of a Flight Academy Building
Sidney Municipal Airport, Delaware County - $675,000 for Construction of a New Conventional Hangar
This funding is in addition to a new $200 million Upstate Airport Economic Development and Revitalization competition included in the 2016-17 budget agreement. The initiative will solicit proposals to promote, revitalize and accelerate investments in Upstate commercial passenger and cargo service airports. The State will award capital funding for no less than five projects with a maximum project award not to exceed $40 million. This initiative builds upon the success of Governor Cuomo's Master Plan Design Competition for LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy Airports, as well as the transformative efforts already underway Downstate.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-10-million-improvements-airport-infrastructure
