Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $16.3 Million in Rail Infrastructure Improvements Statewide
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 7, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $16.3 million to fund rail and port improvement projects across New York State. These grants, from the Governor's Passenger and Freight Rail Assistance Program, will support projects that strengthen infrastructure vital to the movement of goods throughout the state, as well as support economic development by leveraging an additional $12.8 million in additional public and private investments.
"Continuing to invest in and strengthen our infrastructure is critical to New York State's future economic prosperity," Governor Cuomo said. "These grants will help modernize and rebuild our state's aging rail infrastructure, which will not only support existing commercial activities, but attract new business investments as well."
New York State awarded $16.3 million to twelve applicants, through a competitive solicitation process. These investments will support track rehabilitation, capacity expansion, railroad bridge repairs, and economic development opportunities. An additional $12.8 million in private and local funding is being leveraged through this State initiative.
New York State Department of Transportation Matthew J. Driscoll said, "Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, New York continues to make smart, strategic investments in rail and port infrastructure to foster economic growth. Freight goods movement helps drive the economy and improvements at rail and port facilities across the state will strengthen our State's overall competitiveness."
The list of grant recipients and awards are:
Capital Region
CSX Transportation, Albany County - $3.5 million to add 5.4 miles of signaled main track and sidings.
Batten Kill Railroad Company, Inc., Washington County - $1.3 million to rehabilitate rail exiting line.
Finger Lakes
Depew, Lancaster & Western Railroad Co. of Batavia, Genesee County - $930,120 to construct an extension to the existing warehouse.
Livonia, Avon and Lakeville Railroad Corporation of Lakeville, Monroe County - $750,000 to replace the Genesee River railroad bridge.
Mohawk Valley
Mohawk, Adirondack and Northern Railroad Corp. of Batavia, Oneida County - $895,200 to upgrade and rehabilitate Rome Industrial Track.
New York City
Long Island Rail Road, Queens County - $1.8 million to rehabilitate the 89th Avenue railroad bridge.
North Country
Ogdensburg Bridge and Port Authority, St. Lawrence County - $1.1 million to rehabilitate the New York and Ogdensburg Railway Raquette River Bridge.
Southern Tier
New York, Susquehanna and Western Railway Corp., Broome County - $1.4 million for construction of a state of the art Rail Terminal in Binghamton.
Tioga County Industrial Development Agency, Tioga County - $295,200 to expand the capacity of a rail-to-truck transload facility constructed at the Waverly Trade Center.
Western New York
Chautauqua, Cattaraugus, Allegany and Steuben South Tier Extension Railroad Authority, Cattaraugus and Chautauqua Counties - $1.6 million to install and repair five concrete bridge structures.
Erie County Industrial Development Agency, Erie County - $2.0 million for completion of a tie replacement and ballast project to upgrade mainline track connecting businesses.
New York & Lake Erie Railroad, Inc., Cattaraugus and Chautauqua Counties - $732,768 for rail line rehabilitation between South Dayton and Cherry Creek.
The Passenger and Freight Rail Assistance Program provides state investments improve and enhance the movement of freight goods and support economic development statewide. Program funding supports track and bridge rehabilitation to improve reliability; track capacity expansion to alleviate bottlenecks; and the modernization and expansion of rail yards and port facilities.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-163-million-rail-infrastructure-improvements-statewide
