Public Statements
State Police Search Committee Unanimously Recommends Lt. Colonel George Beach to Serve as Superintendent of the New York State Police
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 7, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Following a month-long review, the New York State Police Search Committee unanimously recommended Lieutenant Colonel George P. Beach to serve as superintendent of the State Police. The committee, first launched by Governor Cuomo in April, was comprised of a diverse coalition of individuals with experience in law enforcement, legal and legislative affairs, national security and local government.
Governor Cuomo also nominated Lieutenant Colonel Beach as the next superintendent of the State Police. Lieutenant Colonel Beach is an experienced law enforcement professional with more than 30 years of expertise in crisis response, operational planning, emergency management and public policy. Lieutenant Colonel Beach will replace Joseph D'Amico who has served as superintendent of the New York State Police since 2011.
"Lt. Colonel Beach is supremely qualified to serve as superintendent of the New York State Police," Governor Cuomo said. "From serving as troop commander to staff inspector, Lt. Colonel Beach has led the State Police with tremendous courage, pride and honor. Lt. Colonel Beach has demonstrated unparalleled integrity throughout his 33-year career and he is truly one of New York's finest public servants. I congratulate Lt. Colonel Beach on his nomination, and I look forward to working together to protect and serve the people of New York State."
Governor Cuomo continued, "I would also like to thank Superintendent D'Amico for his years of dedicated service at the helm of the State Police. Finally, I want to extend my gratitude to the members of the search committee whose diligent work played an integral role in this process."
"I am incredibly honored to be nominated to serve as superintendent of the New York State Police," Lt. Colonel Beach said. "I have spent my entire career serving the people of New York State, and there is no greater privilege than having the opportunity to continue that good work at the highest level. I am grateful to Governor Cuomo for this nomination and am proud to work side-by-side with him."
Mr. Beach was named Lt. Colonel of the New York State Police in 2013, where he supervised, managed and led a uniformed force of 3,200. In this senior role, Lt. Colonel Beach was an executive committee member of the policy development team and a technology working group co-chair. Lt. Colonel Beach also worked closely with the superintendent of State Police and state government officials to coordinate resources, exchange information and manage statewide emergency response efforts.
Previously, Lt. Colonel Beach worked as staff inspector for the New York State Police. From 2007 -- 2013, Lt. Colonel Beach managed internal affairs and audits for 1,000 sworn members and civilian staff of the State Police, and served as the reviewing official on evaluations and integrity issues. Lt. Colonel Beach also approved disciplinary actions and provided administrative and budgetary leadership on more than 200 personnel and criminal complaints per year.
Throughout his career, Lt. Colonel Beach has served in a number of roles for the New York State Police, including as commander of Troop T for the New York State thruway and canal systems. Prior to that, Lt. Colonel Beach was the captain of Troop D and Troop F, overseeing 100 sworn members and providing police services to a diverse group of communities in a three-county area running from Kingston to North Syracuse. Lt. Colonel Beach was also a sergeant, and later lieutenant, with Troop F from 1987 -- 1997.
Lt. Colonel Beach began his career as a firefighter in Irvington, New Jersey at the Municipal Fire Department. He graduated from the New York State Police Academy in 1983 and the FBI National Academy in 1992. Lt. Colonel Beach is a graduate of the University of Idaho, and holds a master's degree in criminal justice administration from the State University at Albany New York.
Ray Kelly, Vice Chairman of K2 Intelligence and former Commissioner of the New York City Police Department, said, "Lt. Colonel Beach is very well qualified to serve as superintendent of the New York State Police. Having worked for more than two decades in leadership roles in the Division, he has exhibited skill and judgment in a variety of demanding positions as an investigator, supervisor and commander. I am proud to have been part of the committee that recommended him and I commend Governor Cuomo on his selection."
Bob Duffy, Former Lt. Governor, Mayor of Rochester and Police Department Chief, said, "I congratulate Lt. Colonel Beach on his nomination to become the next superintendent of the New York State Police. Lt. Colonel Beach is well known and highly regarded as a compelling and ethical law enforcement professional who has handled complex police matters with great skill. I am confident his leadership will build on the good work the State Police are doing to keep our communities safe, and I look forward to seeing him continue to excel in this new role."
Mylan Denerstein, Partner at Gibson, Dunn and Crutcher LLP and former Counsel to the Governor, said, "Lt. Colonel Beach is an outstanding choice to lead the State Police. Lt. Colonel Beach has the perfect combination of experience, judgment and talent to succeed in this important position. With more than 30 years of diverse experience in the Department, Lt. Colonel Beach was the right choice to keep the State Police moving forward. I commend Governor Cuomo on this nomination, and thank Lt. Colonel Beach for his commitment to keeping New Yorkers safe."
Michael Balboni, President and Managing Director of Redland Strategies, former New York State Senator and Deputy Secretary for Public Safety, said, "Few things are more important than ensuring the safety of New York's communities and strong leadership at the head of the State Police is imperative to achieving that goal. Lt. Colonel Beach has earned a reputation as being a first-rate law enforcement leader with a deep commitment to the highest ethical standards. I congratulate him on this nomination, and I applaud Governor Cuomo on the selection of this extraordinarily-qualified candidate."
Thomas Zugibe, Rockland County District Attorney and President of the District Attorneys Association of the State of New York, said, "From serving as staff inspector to his work as Lt. Colonel of the Uniform Force, Lt. Colonel Beach has the experience needed to lead the New York State Police. Over the course of his stellar career, he has transformed departmental operations, enhanced technology at the Department and led dozens of emergency response operations. I applaud Governor Cuomo on this nomination, and I look forward to the invaluable leadership and expertise Lt. Colonel Beach will bring to this critical position."
Senator Patrick Gallivan, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Crime Victims, Crime and Corrections and former Erie County Sheriff, said, "With decades of experience in key leadership and management positions within the State Police, Lt. Colonel Beach has the expertise necessary to lead the Department. I look forward to working with him, and congratulate Governor Cuomo on this outstanding nomination."
Rachel Small, Deputy Secretary for Public Safety, said, "Lt. Colonel Beach is a proven leader with decades of experience in managerial and investigative roles within the State Police. Throughout his career, Lt. Colonel Beach has demonstrated an unprecedented commitment to the highest ethical standards and I know he will continue to lead the Troopers with honor and pride. This is a tremendous selection for an outstanding agency, and I look forward to working with Lt. Colonel Beach to build on the good work the State Police are doing to keep New Yorkers safe."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/state-police-search-committee-unanimously-recommends-lt-colonel-george-beach-serve
