Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $5.5 Million Effort to Construct New Gateway Visitor Centers on Both Ends of the Walkway Over the Hudson
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 6, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $5.5 million in projects to construct new energy efficient gateway visitor centers to adorn both the east and west entrances of the Walkway Over the Hudson State Historic Park. Both gateways will feature new services and modern facilities designed to enhance aesthetics, visitor experience and overall function. The projects are part of Governor Cuomo's NY Parks 2020 initiative, a multi-year commitment to improving and expanding access to outdoor recreation by leveraging $900 million in private and public funding through 2020.
"The natural beauty found in our state parks is unparalleled and we're investing additional resources to help ensure visitors stay longer, explore more of what they have to offer, and bring more tourism dollars into local economies," Governor Cuomo said. "The Walkway Over the Hudson project will do just that by better connecting residents and visitors to the Hudson Valley's history, culture and recreational opportunities. I encourage everyone to visit this park and experience this unique and unrivaled view for themselves."
On the East approach of the Walkway, $2.5 million in state funding will support the construction of a visitor center gateway located in the City of Poughkeepsie. It will feature food vendors, open and covered outdoor seating, a dog friendly water fountain, bike racks, relocated signage, landscaping, and new restrooms. New York State will commit $1 million towards the project, while the remaining $1.5 million will be raised by the not-for-profit Walkway Over the Hudson friends group.
The $3 million sustainable West approach visitor center gateway in the Town of Lloyd will feature both open and covered outdoor seating and be powered by an array of solar panels . It will also provide new concessions, amphitheater seating for relaxing and special events, new and improved signage, enhanced landscaping, bus drop-off location to provide easier access, upgraded and environmentally friendly pathways that will improve connections for those entering and exiting the park and new restrooms.

Source:
