Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $10 Million to Repair Roads, Floodwalls and Public Water Infrastructure in Impacted Communities Along Lake Ontario
Press Release
By: Kathy Hochul Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 22, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $10 million in state funding is available to assist eligible local municipalities that have been impacted by the recent flooding along the Lake Ontario coastline. The new investment program will support flood recovery efforts, including repairs to flood walls, roads, sidewalks, and culverts, as well as public water and sewer infrastructure. The funding is available through New York State Homes and Community Renewal. The program will be open to applications for funding from municipal governments in counties that were identified in Governor Cuomo's May 2, 2017 emergency declaration this week.
Earlier this month, the Governor declared a State of Emergency in Cayuga, Jefferson, Monroe, Niagara, Orleans, Oswego, St. Lawrence, and Wayne counties for the region in order to expedite repairs to impacted structures and construction of shoreline stabilization projects. Additionally, staff from the Lake Ontario Rapid Response Team continue to be deployed to assist residents and monitor response efforts along the Lake Ontario shoreline.
"As Lake Ontario and the St. Lawrence River continue to slowly rise, we must do everything in our power to ease the financial and personal toll on our families and communities, while fortifying our infrastructure to ensure its continued viability," Governor Cuomo said. "With this available funding, we are ramping up our multi-agency response efforts to help these communities and provide the assistance that they need now."
Since the end of April, more than 1.2 million sandbags have been deployed to help localities mitigate against damage to their homes and businesses, along with 11 sandbagging machines -- at least one in each effected county. In addition, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has deployed field teams to provide on-the-ground technical assistance and coordination with state and local emergency management personnel.
"Our communities on Lake Ontario are working hard to fight off flood damage to roads, floodwalls and the public water infrastructure in several locations along the lakefront spanning from Jefferson County to Niagara," Lieutenant Governor Hochul said during the announcement in Fair Haven today. "Governor Cuomo has committed $10 million in state funding to help make needed infrastructure repairs in these communities, and we will continue our ongoing support in manpower, sandbagging and assistance at our Mobile Command Center."
Report Suspected Price Gouging
The Governor is asking residents to report suspected price gouging to the Lake Ontario Flood Assistance Hotline at 866-244-3839. The hotline is available for residents and businesses concerned about potential price gouging or other exploitative practices by service providers in the area. If you believe you are being charged excessive prices for any essential consumer goods or services during the present disaster situation, you are urged to call the hotline and staff will connect you to the Department of State Division of Consumer Protection.
Emergency Response Mobile Command Centers
In addition, the state will continue to deploy Emergency Response Mobile Command Centers staffed by Department of Financial Services personnel who can help residents navigate the insurance claim process. Since the deployment of the Emergency Response Mobile Command Centers, over 700 individuals have asked for insurance assistance at the various locations in the eight affected counties.
Department of Environmental Conservation experts are also available at the Mobile Command Centers to help answer questions on the Storm Recovery General Permit, describe the specific types of repair and stabilization work authorized, and provide assistance in completing the application form. In certain instances, based on the available information provided by applicants, DEC will provide permits on-site or expedite further review and field visits necessary to issue permits. To obtain the required authorization under this General Permit, residents should come prepared by reading the General Permit and Application Instructions; determine whether or not the proposed work is within the scope of the General Permit; fill out the Application for General Permit GP-0-17-006 and provide drawings, plans, photos (if available) and a location map.
In addition, DEC has deployed a team of experienced coastal engineers to Lake Ontario to meet with property owners, conduct site visits and offer technical assistance. DEC's engineers stand ready to work with property owners so that protective structures can be repaired and homeowners can take appropriate actions expeditiously. To date, DEC has issued 247 permits.
The NYS Emergency Response Mobile Command Centers will be at the below locations over the next five days. In addition, those who are not able to visit the Emergency Response Mobile Command Center can call the Department of Financial Service's Disaster Hotline at 1-800-339-1759, Monday through Friday, 8 am to 8 p.m. for help with insurance-related issues.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-10-million-repair-roads-floodwalls-and-public-water-infrastructure
