Public Statements
Governor Cuomo, Majority Leader Flanagan and Speaker Heastie Receive Recommendations from Business Regulation Council
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 3, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo, Senate Majority Leader John Flanagan and Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie today received 26 recommendations from the Business Regulation Council. The Council submitted recommendations on ways to decrease the cost of doing business in New York State without compromising protections for workers. The Council arrived at its recommendations after conducting a review the state's business climate, including soliciting feedback from businesses and individual stakeholders.
"From lowering taxes, to holding spending, we have taken great strides to improve this state's business climate and today we are continuing to build on our efforts," Governor Cuomo said. "I thank the members for their commitment to helping us find more ways to keep New York State open for business and I look forward to reviewing these recommendations."
Charged with conducting a comprehensive review of the state's business climate, the seven-member Council has met weekly since its formation to discuss a range of issues. Among the issues the Council studied are unemployment insurance, workers' compensation, temporary disability insurance, energy, taxes and other business related costs.
The Council has grouped the 26 recommendations into items that can be addressed in the short-term and items that can be addressed in the long-term. Additionally, the Council identified 11 further recommendations which require further discussion and analysis.
Governor Andrew M. Cuomo, Senate Majority Leader John Flanagan and Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie thank the Business Regulation Council for their efforts.
Senate Majority Leader John J. Flanagan said: "I welcome the recommendations advanced by the state's Business Regulation Council, a series of reforms designed to ease the burdensome regulations that make it difficult for businesses to create jobs, grow and thrive in New York. These proposals will build on the work done by our Senate Republican conference to cut taxes, reduce energy costs and clear away the obstacles to economic growth, and are necessary to create real opportunities for workers so they can live and raise their families here. If we truly want to move this state forward, action on these recommendations must be a top priority before the session concludes later this month. In addition, we will continue to have a dialogue on the recommendations earmarked for future action. I thank the members of the panel for their important work."
Speaker Carl Heastie said: "We are grateful for the collaborative efforts of the Business Regulation Council and look forward to reviewing the recommendations and finding new ways to support hardworking New Yorkers and their families. The Assembly remains committed to making sure that New York continues to be a progressive leader by crafting legislation that builds on the progress we have made this year including paid family leave and a higher minimum wage."
The Business Regulation Council members are:
Governor Cuomo's appointees:
Mario Cilento, President of the New York State AFL-CIO
Ted Potrikus, President and CEO of the Retail Council of New York State
Kathryn Wylde, President and CEO of the Partnership for New York City
Senate Majority Leader Flanagan's appointees:
Heather Briccetti, President and CEO, The Business Council of New York State, Inc.
Dean Norton, President, New York Farm Bureau
Assembly Speaker Heastie's appointees:
Gary LaBarbera, President, Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York
Robert Grey, Chair, New York Workers' Compensation Alliance

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-majority-leader-flanagan-and-speaker-heastie-receive-recommendations-business
