Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Nine Pin Ciderworks to Expand Craft Beverage Manufacturing Operations in Albany
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 3, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced Nine Pin Ciderworks, LLC, which was granted the first New York State farm cidery license in 2014, will expand its manufacturing operations in Albany. Nine Pin will invest more than $510,000 to upgrade and expand its production facility to meet the increase in demand for New York State hard cider, while retaining six current employees and creating seven new full-time jobs.
"When we invest in New York producers and manufacturers, we invest in the continued growth of the craft beverage industry's resurgence here in the Empire State," Governor Cuomo said. "We are proud to see the state's first farm cidery expand to increase production and create jobs in the Capital Region, and we look forward to growing the industry and supporting local orchards in the process."
Nine Pin Ciderworks will expand its operations by 7,000 square-feet at its leased facility in Albany's warehouse district; investing $511,000 to upgrade its fermentation and aging processes to increase cider production by 20 percent. Through Governor Cuomo's Regional Economic Development Council initiative, Empire State Development is providing a $100,000 grant to support the purchase of new equipment and machinery and leasehold improvements as part of the company's expansion of operations. Nine Pin has made a commitment to retain six current employees and create seven new full-time jobs with the completion of this project.
On January 21, 2014, Nine Pin applied for a farm cidery license and was approved by the State Liquor Authority in February, making Nine Pin Ciderworks the first licensed farm cidery in New York State. Since then, Nine Pin has also joined the Governor's Taste NY initiative, which was created to promote New York's agricultural products, and growing food and beverage industry. The Taste NY partnership has allowed Nine Pin the opportunity to expand its exposure and market its unique products to residents and visitors in New York State and to a global consumer base. Its products can now be found at the Times Union Center in Albany, the home stadium of the Tri-City Valleycats in Troy, and the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, as well as numerous Taste NY events held throughout the year.
Nine Pin Ciderworks co-founder and cider maker Alejandro del Peral said, "Nine Pin's significant expansion of its cider making operations, through the purchase and installation of the largest fermentation and aging tanks in the Capital Region, adds further support to the local orchards that grow such high quality New York apples. The grant commitment by Empire State Development has allowed us to further leverage our original investment in our downtown Albany farm cidery. Governor Cuomo has been a tremendous advocate for our growing industry and we look forward to continuing to help make Taste NY competitive on a national and global scale."
Today, Nine Pin celebrates its most recent step taken to increase its hard cider production, the expansion of its production facility, and the addition of seven 6,000 gallon fermentation tanks, standing 18 feet tall -- the largest fermentation tanks used to produce craft beverages in the Capital Region.
Cider-related events and an open house featuring Nine Pin's new fermentation tanks will take place during Hudson Valley Cider Week, June 3 -- 12. For a full list of Hudson Valley Cider Week events, visit: http://ciderweekhv.com.
Empire State Development President, CEO and Commissioner Howard Zemsky said, "We applaud Nine Pin Ciderworks for investing in the expansion of their Albany manufacturing facility, just two years after obtaining the first farm cidery license in New York State. Thanks to Nine Pin's commitment to producing top-notch cider using apple varieties sourced here in the Empire State, New Yorkers can look forward to seeing new jobs and new cider for years to come."
State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball said, "Nine Pin Ciderworks is a true New York success story for both the growing beverage industry and for agriculture. The company led the way for the expansion of farm cideries across the State and its commitment to sourcing local ingredients benefits New York farmers and the agricultural economy as a whole."
Senator Neil Breslin said, "The expansion of Nine Pin Ciderworks reinforces what a tremendous success the newly formed Albany Craft Beverage Trail has become. Not only does this expansion create new jobs at Ninepin Ciderworks, because all of their ingredients are sourced locally, the economic benefits can be felt throughout the different reaches of our economy. I applaud Governor Cuomo and Commissioner Zemsky for their commitment to this industry and want to applaud Ninepin for the success."
Assemblymember John T. McDonald III said, "I am pleased to see the award to Nine Pin Ciderworks to expand their manufacturing operations in the Warehouse District in Albany, which I have had the honor to represent. Since the day they have opened their doors, I am continually impressed at the hard work and success they have garnered in this short period of time. At the same time, due to the leadership of Governor Cuomo with the support of the legislature, we have seen a coordinated effort to grow this industry even more as it creates jobs both within the industry but also the agricultural community. A true win-win for our economy statewide and I am confident this award of $100,000 will lead to even greater success."
Albany County Executive Daniel P. McCoy said, "Nine Pin Ciderworks is a great success story and is an example of the growth in manufacturing jobs reported by the New York State Department of Labor last week. This ESD grant will help Nine Pin not only expand its production facility and output, but also allow the company to double its workforce in just over two years."
Albany Mayor Kathy M. Sheehan said, "This is a powerful example of what a successful home-grown Albany business can do with its own investment and a smart government grant. This expansion is good news for Albany jobs, for the City's fast-growing Warehouse District, and for our regional economy because an expanded cidery means more business for area apple orchards."
The Farm Cidery Law, enacted by Governor Cuomo in 2014, was created to provide licenses to cider manufacturers to grow craft beverage industry and support the state's farm orchards. In order to obtain a farm cidery license, the hard cider must be made exclusively from apples and other pome fruits grown in New York State. As the nation's second largest producer of apples, New York State produced more than 1.4 billion pounds of apples valued at over $237 million in 2014.
About Empire State Development
Empire State Development (ESD) is New York's chief economic development agency (www.esd.ny.gov). The mission of ESD is to promote a vigorous and growing economy, encourage the creation of new job and economic opportunities, increase revenues to the State and its municipalities, and achieve stable and diversified local economies. Through the use of loans, grants, tax credits and other forms of financial assistance, ESD strives to enhance private business investment and growth to spur job creation and support prosperous communities across New York State. ESD is also the primary administrative agency overseeing Governor Cuomo's Regional Economic Development Councils and the marketing of "I Love NY," the State's iconic tourism brand. For more information on Regional Councils and Empire State Development, visit www.nyworks.ny.gov and www.esd.ny.gov.
About Taste NY
Taste NY is an initiative launched by Governor Cuomo in 2013 to promote New York's food and beverage industries. It is overseen by the Department of Agriculture and Markets and has created opportunities for local producers to showcase their goods at large public events, such as the Great New York State Fair. The program has also opened stores at Thruway rest stops along the state's highways and in transportation hubs, enabling travelers to buy New York State's homegrown and homemade products. Approximately 1,100 local companies have participated in these opportunities, further linking their products and the state's growing food and beverage market to consumers from across the globe. For more information about Taste NY, please visit www.taste.ny.gov. Connect with Taste NY through Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Pinterest.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-nine-pin-ciderworks-expand-craft-beverage-manufacturing-operations
