Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New I Love NY Summer Advertising Campaign to Spotlight New York's Top Vacation Destinations
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 2, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a new I Love NY advertising campaign to promote travel throughout New York State's 11 vacation regions. As the summer season gets underway, the campaign encourages New Yorkers and visitors to take advantage of the state's diverse tourism destinations which will feature a number of promotions including I Love New York Bus Getaways, the I Love New York Mobile Pod, Path Through History Weekend and Pride Events throughout the state. The new I Love NY ads are part of a $50 million statewide marketing initiative, enacted by Governor Cuomo in the 2016-2017 Executive Budget.
"The tourism industry is a critical piece of New York's economy, and this new campaign will attract visitors this summer to explore our state's natural beauty, rich history and world-class recreational activities," Governor Cuomo said. "New York has something for everyone and I encourage those from near and far to look to the Empire State whether planning a vacation or looking for weekend trip."
As part of the campaign, television ads are currently being aired in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, western Massachusetts, the eastern and central portions of both Pennsylvania and Ohio and locations in Canada including Montreal, Toronto and Ottawa. The ads will run through the summer until August 7.
The first ad features Niagara Falls USA, Storm King Art Center in New Windsor, Main Beach in East Hampton, the Antique Boat Museum in Clayton, Roseland Wake Park in Canandaigua, and the Saratoga Race Course in Saratoga Springs.
The second ad features The Adirondacks of Northern New York, Long Island Aquarium in Riverhead, the Strong National Museum of Play in Rochester, Lake George Steamboat Cruises in Lake George, Ski High Adventure Park in Ellicottville, The Spa at Glenmore Mansion in Chester, and Boldt Castle in Alexandria Bay.
A third ad will feature the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, Corning Museum of Glass, Watkins Glen International and Lake Placid while the final ad of the campaign will promote attractions throughout the Catskills.
Empire State Development President, CEO and Commissioner Howard Zemsky said, "New York State tourism is a key economic driver for our regional economies, and as the fourth largest employer in the state, the industry continues to flourish thanks to investments made by Governor Cuomo. Through I Love NY promotions we have welcomed more visitors, experienced more direct spending, and felt the largest economic impact ever in New York State history and we look forward to continued growth this year."
In addition to the advertising campaign, there are a number of ways residents and travelers from out of state can enjoy the summer season in New York State:
I Love NY Bus Getaways
I Love NY announced the launch of the 2016 Summer Bus Trip schedule to encourage residents to explore destinations and attractions found across the New York's vacation regions. Residents are encouraged to book their vacations soon, as bus trips begin in July. I Love New York Bus service, offers easy and affordable getaways from New York City and Long Island to destinations across New York. This summer, the bus service is offering rich opportunities to experience the state's heritage with tours to various destinations, including overnight trips to Cooperstown and day trips to Long Island's Hamptons beaches and Splish Splash Water Park. For more information, visit www.iloveny.com/bus.
I Love NY Pod
The I Love NY Pod kicked off its summer tour of the state at Jones Beach, Long Island over Memorial Day weekend to encourage travelers to explore unmatched vacation destinations throughout the state. This highly interactive mobile Pod includes a green screen where: visitors can have their picture imposed on images from around the state; pop quizzes test Pod visitors about the state's world-renowned attractions and landmarks; and itineraries can be personalized and e-mailed to visitors right from the Pod. In addition, I Love NY ambassadors are on hand to answer questions about the state's 11 vacation regions and to help plan your next trip.
Path Through History Weekend: June 18-19
Celebrate Path Through History Weekend June 18 and 19 by experiencing the rich culture and heritage of New York at more than 425 events taking place at historic sites and attractions found across the state. Launched by Governor Cuomo in 2012, the Path Through History initiative features 13 themes of New York State history, including Arts & Culture, Canals & Transportation, Civil Rights, Colonial History, Immigration, Innovation, Native Americans, Natural History, Revolutionary War, Sports History, U.S. Presidents, War of 1812, and Women's Rights. The initiative highlights not only New York's vast history and diverse culture, but encourages tourism and travel to support economic growth in every region of the state. For more information, visit http://paththroughhistory.iloveny.com/.
I LOVE LGBT: June is Pride Month.
Celebrate at Pride activities and events taking place across the state. Nearly 20 LGBT Pride celebrations are happening throughout June and July, including parades, marches, festivals, and other live entertainment available for everyone to enjoy. To find an event near you and plan your next I Love NY LGBT getaway, visit www.iloveny.com/lgbt.
About New York State
New York State features 11 beautiful vacation regions. New York's attractions span from landmarks such as Niagara Falls to the wine trails of Hudson Valley and treasures like the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown. Whether it's wide-ranging outdoor activities for the whole family like hiking, culinary wonders and farm-to-table fresh foods, or exploring the rich history and culture of one of the 13 original colonies, New York State offers diverse activities for all travelers. For more information, visit www.iloveny.com. Media can find press releases and more at http://www.iloveny.com/thebeat/.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-new-i-love-ny-summer-advertising-campaign-spotlight-new-yorks-top
