Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Major Milestone in Route 219 Bridge Replacement Project
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 2, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today marked a major milestone in the $17 million bridge replacement project for the former Route 219 Bridge over Cattaraugus Creek. The project will replace an aging, structurally deficient bridge and provide a critical connector route between Erie and Cattaraugus Counties in the towns of Concord and Ashford. The project is expected to create 100 jobs.
The Governor kicked off the start of the bridge replacement with a controlled implosion of the Route 219 Bridge. The implosion cleared the path for a new, modern structure, which will be known as the South Cascade Drive - Miller Road Bridge, to be built in its place. The new connector route will significantly improve access for motorists and commercial traffic between the Village of Springville and the towns north and south of the bridge.
"New York continues to lead the nation in investing in superior infrastructure and transforming our transportation network for the 21st century," Governor Cuomo said."The Rt. 219 Bridge project is about stimulating the economy, creating jobs, and making Upstate New York stronger and more competitive than ever before. By building for the future, we are changing the landscape of Western New York and generating long-term growth and prosperity for the region."
The former Route 219 Bridge was completed in 1956, but has required costly emergency maintenance and occasional closing as it has aged. Initial plans called for the bridge's permanent removal when the adjacent Route 219 Expressway was extended in 2010. However, through widespread community support it became clear the bridge was still an important connector for local traffic and, for some, the only way to get to and from the business district in the Village of Springville.
The new bridge on Old Route 219 is going to carry on the tradition of serving as a vital connector between Concord and Ashford and a conduit for local commerce and economic activity. It will be built on the same alignment as the old 652-foot span, and will increase safety and efficiency for motorists.
Construction on the new $17 million design-build bridge began last fall and will be open to traffic in June 2017. A rendering of the new bridge is available here.
Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "Through responsive leadership, Governor Cuomo found a solution that benefits communities on both sides of the bridge. It's another smart investment in transportation that helps support the local economy."
Senator Patrick Gallivan said, "Today's implosion is an exciting milestone in the re-construction of this bridge, which is critical to the communities and businesses on both sides of Cattaraugus Creek and the thousands of people who cross it each day. The new bridge will ensure our transportation infrastructure meets the highest standards and will provide a reliable, structurally sound thoroughfare for years to come."
Senator Catharine Young said, "People heavily depend on having the bridge open, and that is why we worked so hard to secure this investment in a state-of-the-art new bridge. Safety, access, jobs and opportunities all are part of the package. The new structure will last for decades and will enhance the quality of life for everyone in the region."
Springville Mayor William Krebs said, "The implosion of the old Rt. 219 Bridge signifies a new beginning for the Springville area. We are thrilled that Governor Cuomo has invested $17 million in transportation infrastructure for southern Erie county and northern Cattaraugus County."
Springville Chamber of Commerce President Bill Gugino said, "We are excited that today both counties came together to take this bridge down. We look forward to a year from today when we cut the ribbon on the new bridge."
Today's implosion was conducted by Controlled Demolition Inc. from Phoenix, Maryland.
The design-build team for this project includes Cold Spring Construction Company (construction), Erdman Anthony and Associates, Inc. (design) Greenman-Pederson Inc., (quality control), Ravi Engineering and Land Surveying (inspection services), Owels Engineering, Inc. (geotechnical services) and Atlantic Testing Laboratories, Limited (material testing).

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-major-milestone-route-219-bridge-replacement-project
