Public Statements
Video, Photos and Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Attends Grand Opening of Cadillac House in New York
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: June 1, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today attended the grand opening of Cadillac House in New York, an iconic 12,000 square foot luxury showroom and event space located at 330 Hudson Street in Lower Manhattan. The announcement follows the recent relocation of Cadillac's global headquarters to New York City in 2015 -- made possible through a $1 million grant from Empire State Development. The award funding leveraged a substantial investment from General Motors and currently supports 150 jobs at this location, tripling the state's return on investment in terms of jobs created.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below:
First to Johan and Cadillac, we say welcome to New York and let's give them a big round of applause. I just had a tour of Cadillac. It was very exciting and Johan was explaining his vision for the transformation of Cadillac and he is a great visionary leader in this industry. He has worked with Infiniti, he's worked with Audi, he's worked with all sorts of companies and he brings tremendous wisdom, but also a progressive sense to the Cadillac brand and it's very exciting.
The Cadillac house is in many ways a metaphor for what New York is all about. You heard Johan explain it and the Cadillac House is a meeting place. It's a place where people from different areas, different talents, different areas of expertise come, socialize, understand the product and discuss the product. That's what New York is. What makes New York New York is the blend of energy and talent that we bring in one place. First, we invite people from all over the globe so we have every race, every religion, every creed. Then we have every industry, every trade. We encourage ingenuity, we encourage entrepreneurship and we bring all of those people into one place. That energy that develops when you bring all that talent to one place creates a synergy that generates creative products all across the board and that's what Cadillac House has that feel. It's thinking, it's new, it's different, it's hip, and it's bringing people together.
So I am so excited to be part of this project. There is a practical side to this as well. I am in government and government in practical, not just hip and cool, the practical side is that Cadillac is bringing 150 new jobs to New York and that is exactly what we need. I want to applaud Howard Zemsky who runs the empire state development corporation that worked with Cadillac to put together an incentive package to open Cadillac House. Let's give him a round of applause. We also have with us Robert Vancavage who is head of the auto dealers association on New York and Lou Roberti who runs the arroway and owns the arroway dealership which is one of the premier auto dealers and I want to thank them also for their help in making this possible. The job development in New York is key and as Johan was talking about the transformation of the Cadillac brand, we have been working on the transformation of the New York brand.
For many years New York was seen as anti-business. It was high tax, it was high regulation and it was a difficult place to do business and that cost New York. There was a whole period where people basically gave up on New York and locating businesses in New York. We learned from that and we have done a 180 and New York is now open for business, we are reducing taxes in this state, we have middle class taxes down to the lowest level in 70 years. We are soliciting business, we are incentivizing business and we are facilitating business because what you see here today is what makes New York grow. New businesses, exciting businesses that bring new jobs and new people.
So it is our pleasure to be a part of it, I am also a car buff, so for me it was especially fun. There is a great 1950's Cadillac Lemonte coupe which is one of four ever made inside which is really a piece of art. So I am going to go back in and study that a little bit more but welcome Cadillac, congratulations to Cadillac in New York style and performance. That is what it is about.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-and-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-attends-grand-opening-cadillac-house-new-york
