Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Completion of Patroon Island Bridge Rehabilitation Project
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 31, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the completion of the $148 million project to rehabilitate the Patroon Island Bridge which carries I-90 over the Hudson River between Rensselaer and Albany. When construction began in 2013, it was one of the largest New York State Department of Transportation projects in upstate New York.
"The Patroon Island Bridge is a key part of this state's transportation infrastructure, as well as an economic driver, that is depended upon by millions of New Yorkers, travelers and businesses from the Capital Region and beyond," Governor Cuomo said. "These critical repairs will help ensure its viability for years to come."
The project involved rehabilitating the Patroon Island Bridge and all the ramps comprising the I-90 interchange with I-787 at the western end of the bridge. Work included replacing the bridge decks and bearings, repairing steel, painting the bridges, and replacing and repairing the substructures of the interchange. Work also included building new concrete piers to support the interchange ramps, as well as installing new traffic monitoring systems. New concrete barriers were installed on and between the bridges. Pre-cast concrete deck panels were used to speed construction.
The project's staging area located in part of the city of Albany's Corning Preserve has been restored and landscaping was performed throughout the project limits.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "Governor Cuomo knows that a safe, efficient and reliable transportation system is the key to economic growth. The Patroon Island Bridge is of vital importance not only for daily Capital Region commuters, but also for tourists, truckers and businesspeople traveling from downstate and Massachusetts to Albany and points beyond along the I-90 corridor."
Work was structured to have the least amount of impact on traffic as possible as part of the Drivers First initiative developed by Governor Cuomo. The project plans went through a rigorous review to ensure that there were minimal impacts on highway users.
The project was funded through the NY Works program, which focuses on improving the condition of bridges from fair condition to good condition in order to extend their service life. This major rehabilitation will better preserve the heavily traveled bridge and ensure safety and mobility for decades.
At its highest point, the roadway of the Patroon Island Bridge is 106 feet over the Hudson River. The bridge carries an average of 70,000 motor vehicles per day, with an average of 84,000 vehicles daily using the I-90 and I-787 interchange.
Congressman Paul Tonko said, "Capital Region roads are some of the most highly-trafficked in the state, and this project enhances the local infrastructure that gets New Yorkers to school, work, church, or a recreational destination. I applaud the quality work done over the years by DOT workers to make our commutes smoother and safer -- and my thanks go out to Governor Cuomo for continued recognition of the infrastructure challenges we face here in the Capital Region. In Washington, I will continue to support ambitious yet responsible budgets that invest in the American worker as well as our nation's infrastructure -- and give our states the tools they need to repair and replace our roads and bridges."
Senator Neil Breslin said, "The Patroon Island Bridge is a critical part of the Capital Region's infrastructure. Ensuring its structural integrity for the tens of thousands of vehicles and motorists who use it every day is of the utmost importance. I applaud Governor Cuomo and Commissioner Driscoll for recognizing the importance of a safe infrastructure and the vital role it plays it moving our economy forward."
Assemblyman John McDonald said, "I am pleased to see the completion of this critical project in the Capital Region that transports up to 70,000 vehicles a day. I recall several years ago as the former Chairman of the Capital District Transportation Committee a discussion of a total replacement of this bridge, which ran estimates into the several hundreds of millions of dollars and significant impact on the environment and traffic patterns that would have been extremely disruptive. Thanks to the leadership of Governor Cuomo and the NYSDOT, we instead focused on a cost effective repair project that had limited disruption to the traveling public and has left us with a bridge that will last us generations to come."
Albany County Executive Daniel P. McCoy said, "The Patroon Island Bridge is a critical roadway for commuters traveling for business and pleasure to and from Albany County. One of the biggest challenges the rehabilitation project was dealing with was how to keep traffic moving with an average 70,000 vehicles traveling over the bridge each day and even more using the I-90 and I-787 exchanges. The completion of the work ensures drivers will be safe and the life of the bridge extended."
Rensselaer County Executive Kathleen Jimino said, "Maintaining and improving our infrastructure is vital to the safety of our residents and visitors as well as essential to attracting new businesses and the jobs that are vital to our local economy. The completion of this project ensures safe and efficient travel on this vital roadway and I want to commend the state for making this investment as well as for their efforts to minimize the impact this project would have on motorists during construction."
Albany City Mayor Kathy Sheehan said, "The rehabilitation of the Patroon Island Bridge is a welcome and long-awaited project. The bridge is an important gateway into Albany, safely and conveniently bringing people to and from our Capital City, connecting the Capital Region and helping boost our local economy. Thank you to Governor Cuomo, Commissioner Driscoll and the Department of Transportation for investing in our great city and for making this important project happen."
Capital Region Chamber CEO Mark Eagan said, "I commend Governor Cuomo for accelerating major infrastructure projects like the Patroon Island Bridge rehabilitation in order to maintain vital access between Rensselaer and Albany counties. A critical element to keeping the Capital Region's dynamic economy moving is to ensure this essential Hudson River crossing is available not only for our many visitors, but for the businesses that rely on Interstate 90 as a key shipping corridor."
Follow New York State DOT on Twitter: @NYSDOT. Find us on Facebook at facebook.com/NYSDOT.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-completion-patroon-island-bridge-rehabilitation-project
