Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $1.1 Million to Support the Development of the Agricultural Industry
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 27, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $1.1 million for projects that strengthen the research, promotion and development of New York State's agricultural industry. The funding, approved by the Genesee Valley Regional Market Authority, supports efforts range from upgrading equipment at the New York Wine & Culinary Center, to developing a marketing plan for the Lake Ontario Wine Trail, to boosting the craft beverage industry through research at the New York State Agricultural Experimental Station.
The Upstate revitalization Award-winning Finger Lakes Forward plan for investing state resources recognizes the centrality of agriculture in the region's economy. The Finger Lakes produces approximately a quarter of New York State's total agricultural output and the industry supports 19,000 jobs in the region.
"Agriculture remains a key economic engine for New York and we must do all we can to ensure its continued strength," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding will support the thousands of farms and agricultural businesses that call the Finger Lakes home, as well as the research that has been critical in the growth of New York's craft beverage industry."
The Genesee Valley Regional Market Authority, in cooperation with the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets, solicits applications each year to assist in the development of agriculture and agriculture-related businesses in nine counties in the Finger Lakes and Southern Tier regions: Genesee, Livingston, Monroe, Ontario, Orleans, Steuben, Wayne, Wyoming and Yates. The Authority has awarded more than $6.5 million to 60 projects in the region through the Agriculture Development Grant Program since 2011.
The Genesee Valley Regional Market Authority Board of Directors has voted to fund the following projects in 2016:
New York Wine and Culinary Center: $192,000 for the purchase of audio visual equipment, purchase of new kitchen equipment, food truck improvements, 2017 CSA Fair, guest chef events, and marketing and promotion material and collateral.
New York Wine & Grape Foundation: $195,000 to support the NY Drinks NY program.
Cornell Cooperative Extension of Orleans County: $25,675 to establish a teaching kitchen at the Orleans County fairgrounds.
Lake Ontario Wine Trail: $27,750 to implement the Lake Ontario Wine Trail Marketing Plan.
New York Apple Association: $82,701 to assess the economic contribution of the apple industry in New York State and to enhance the industry's economic development activities.
New York State Agricultural Experimental Station: $100,000 for plant growth chamber renovation and purchase of a bench top refractometer.
New York State Agricultural Experimental Station: $220,000 for research to support accelerated production of organic grains, corn and soybeans.
New York State Agricultural Experimental Station: $200,000 for the third year of a multi-year plan to research malting barley production.
New York State Agricultural Experimental Station: $56,874 to support the development and testing of apple varieties for the production of hard cider.
State Agriculture Commissioner Richard A. Ball said, "These counties are home to some of New York's most diverse agricultural producers and are vital to the success of the industry throughout the State. These key investments in research, facility upgrades, and marketing will benefit both the producers and the public, and this funding will help to ensure the success of agriculture in the State and drive the industry forward."
Genesee Valley Regional Market Authority Administrator William Mulligan, Jr. said, "The Agriculture Development Grant Program is a really positive program that allows the Genesee Valley Regional Market Authority to invest in important projects that will benefit the agricultural industry. From assisting the Wine & Grape Foundation gain entry into new markets to ensuring the critical research being done by the Ag Experiment Station continues, these projects will help promote the region's agri-businesses and support the growth of the agricultural industry."
Assembly Majority Leader Joseph D. Morelle said, "This investment provides essential support for the continued development and promotion of our agricultural industry, ultimately bolstering the growth of our regional food system and economy and ensuring our many farmers and agribusinesses remain productive and sustainable well into the future. I thank Governor Cuomo and our partners at the Genesee Valley Regional Market authority for their extraordinary commitment to building a brighter future for the Finger Lakes region."
Senator Mike Nozzolio said, "Agriculture is the backbone of our local economy in the Finger Lakes Region and I am very grateful for Governor Cuomo's welcomed efforts to provide over $500,000 of additional state funding for the New York State Agricultural Experiment Station in Geneva. Combined with the state funding we obtained last fall to secure a state-of-the-art Hiperbaric High Pressure Processing machine and establish the Institute for Food Safety at the Cornell Experiment Station this effort will further cultivate the booming agricultural industry by creating new jobs and economic development for our entire region,"
Cornell University College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Associate Dean and Goichman Family Director of the New York State Agricultural Experiment Station Dr. Susan K. Brown said, "We greatly appreciate this generous investment, which helps support the College of Agriculture and Life Science's (CALS) and its New York State Agricultural Experiment Station's (NYSAES) commitment to deliver outstanding science and outreach essential to the expanding brewing and farm-based beverage industry in New York State. Our partnership with growers, producers, and entrepreneurs, fosters economic development, and expands the diversity and quality of New York beverages available to consumers."
New York Wine & Grape Foundation President Jim Trezise said, "Grants from the Genesee Valley Regional Market Authority have enabled us to pursue a challenging goal: Getting New York wines into New York City. Our highly successful NY Drinks NY "exchange program" brings New York City restaurateurs, wine store managers, and media to the Finger Lakes to experience the region, meet the people, and taste the wines on site. Then each March we take wine industry representatives into New York City to better understand that tough market. The results have been dramatic, and we're very grateful for the opportunity to do this."
New York Wine and Culinary Center General Manager John Berndt said, "We are thrilled to receive the generous support to enable NYWCC to upgrade our classroom technology, kitchen and bar service, production equipment and marketing tools to support our renewed focus on industry specific education and training and to expand our healthy eating and nutritional educational programs for youth and seniors."
For more information on the Genesee Valley Regional Market Authority, please visit: http://www.geneseevalleyregionalmarketauthority.com/Pages/default.aspx.
Accelerating Finger Lakes Forward
Today's announcement complements "Finger Lakes Forward," the region's comprehensive blueprint to generate robust economic growth and community development. The State has already invested more than $3.4 billion in the region since 2012 to lay the groundwork for the plan -- investing in key industries including photonics, agriculture and food production, and advanced manufacturing. Today, unemployment is down to the lowest levels since before the Great Recession; personal and corporate income taxes are down; and businesses are choosing places like Rochester, Batavia and Canandaigua as a destination to grow and invest in.
Now, the region is accelerating Finger Lakes Forward with a $500 million State investment through the Upstate Revitalization Initiative, announced by Governor Cuomo in December 2015. The State's $500 million investment will incentivize private business to invest well over $2.5 billion -- and the region's plan, as submitted, projects up to 8,200 new jobs

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-11-million-support-development-agricultural-industry
