Public Statements
Video, Photos & Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces $36 Million in Projects to Restore Historic Jones Beach State Park
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 26, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

This afternoon, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced more than $36 million in improvements, including new Taste NY vendors, to enhance the visitor experience at Jones Beach State Park. In addition to the improvement projects, the Governor also announced a new prototype mobile app to assist visitors with parking as well as the return of the annual Memorial Day weekend Bethpage Air Show at Jones Beach, Fourth of July Fireworks Spectacular and the I LOVE NY Tourism Pod.
The improvements and events are part of Governor Cuomo's $65 million commitment to restore the park's historic grandeur, attract new visitors and create new recreational facilities.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below:
Thank you. Thank you very much. What a treat. First, to Rose Harvey and the whole team at the Department of Parks that has done an extraordinary job here, but I'll tell you something, they are doing an extraordinary job all across the state. Let's give the Commissioner and her team a round of applause.
To all our partners and one thing the Department of Parks does extraordinarily well. There's a whole citizen's action group that is part of this effort. Lucy Waletzky Rockefeller who is here is in many ways, the champion of it. Let's give her a round of applause and thank her.
And it's a pleasure to be with my colleagues from Albany. You know, we sit there in state government and we're in that Capitol day after day after day and sometimes you lose the context for what you're doing and we talk about initiatives and we talk about plans and we go back and forth, but being here today and actually seeing the results and seeing the product, makes it all worthwhile. Let me call your name. They were acknowledged, but I want to do it again because, you know as Governor, I take credit for the good things like today. I don't have a problem with it because I get the blame when anything goes wrong. But in truth, this was a major initiative by the legislature. This was a lot of money. It wouldn't have happened without the support of the Assembly and the Senate and they were champions and the Long Island delegation really got it and they were champions. So, when I call your name, just stand so we can say thank you and also acknowledge how good looking you are. Let's start with Senator Michael Venditto. Senator Phil Boyle. Assemblyman Dave McDonough. Assemblyman Chuck Lavine. Assemblyman Joe Saladino. And Assemblyman Michael Fitzpatrick. Thank you.

Source:
