Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $59.3 Million in Upstate Transit Funding
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 26, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $59.3 million in state and federal funding for upstate transit authorities and small urban, rural, tribal and intercity bus public transportation systems. This funding will be used to purchase new buses and related equipment and support transit infrastructure improvements, employment services and operating assistance in rural areas across the State. Collectively, these systems help transport more than five million passengers annually.
"Strong and reliable public transportation systems are critical to supporting growth in every corner of New York," Governor Cuomo said. "With this funding, we are helping to modernize our transportation infrastructure, which in turn will open the door to more opportunities for residents and businesses, and continue moving regional economies forward."
Provided through grants from the Federal Transit Administration and administered by the New York State Department of Transportation, the funding is being awarded to 51 transit systems, including: 38 municipalities; three transportation authorities; one tribal nation and nine intercity bus operators serving rural areas throughout the State.
Grant awardees will receive $36.8 million in transit capital grants and $22.5 million in operating assistance. This $59.3 million investment will leverage more than $85.3 million in new projects.
The grants are expected to be used to purchase 212 new clean-fuel vehicles, representing approximately 20 percent of the total rural transit fleet. In addition, this funding will support vehicle maintenance and storage facility rehabilitation and modernization; enhanced passenger amenities such as shelters, communication systems and security; and provide mobility management services.
A list of counties, cities upstate regional transportation authorities, tribal nations and intercity bus operators receiving this year's FTA rural transit grants is available here.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "With today's transit investment, we are able to support essential transportation investments that enhance mobility and strengthen communities by modernizing their transportation systems to continue delivering high quality and efficient service. Public transportation is key to maintaining strong local economies throughout New York and Governor Cuomo's investment today will help drive New York's economy forward."
Congressman Brian Higgins said, "Transportation plays an important role in a community's economy including access to jobs and tourist destinations. This funding will help to support new transit efficiencies and expand accessibility for Niagara Falls residents and visitors."
Congressman Paul Tonko said, "Public transportation is key to getting people where they need to go, reducing our carbon footprint, and maintaining our aging infrastructure as we work to improve our roads and bridges. A robust and developed public transit is especially critical in rural areas where other modes of transportation are impractical. Operational assistance will get a big boost in places like Rensselaer and Montgomery counties, which is just one piece of the puzzle to make an area more attractive for new businesses to hire and expand. My thanks go out to Governor Cuomo for identifying and acting upon critical transportation needs in the Capital Region, Mohawk Valley, and throughout the state. In Congress, I will continue to fight for ambitious and responsible transportation budgets that contain major federal investments that put people to work and repair our aging infrastructure network."
Congressman Tom Reed said, "We care about creating long term funding stability so local and state governments can make much need improvements to our roads and bridges and keep the mass transit agencies that so many rely on moving forward. That is why we supported the passage of the first long term funding highway bill in a decade late last year. The funding bill helps to ensure state level programs like these stay in place for the benefit of everyone across our region."
Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney, Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said, "My neighbors in the Hudson Valley rely on public transit -- like Metro North -- to get to school, work, and other everyday activities. I thank Governor Cuomo for his investment of nearly a million dollars to Orange, Putnam, and Dutchess counties to offset the cost of public transit systems which are essential to our community's safety, health, and local economy."
Congresswoman Elise Stefanik said, "An effective public transit system is critical to our local economy and our community. These grants will go a long way to help North Country families and infrastructure."
Find NYSDOT on Facebook at www.facebook.com/NYSDOTand follow @NYSDOT on Twitter.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-593-million-upstate-transit-funding
