Public Statements
Video, Photos & Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces Milestone in Sweeping $50 Million Transformation of the New York State Fairgrounds
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 25, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Earlier today, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced substantial construction progress has been made on the sweeping $50 million transformation of the State Fairgrounds in Onondaga County. Following a tour of the Fairgrounds, the Governor unveiled a new date stone in the redesigned Main Entry Gate honoring the history of the nation's first state fair -- one of many components of the plan underway to build the Fairgrounds into a year-round, premier multi-use facility.
The Governor additionally announced the launch of the State Fairgrounds Privatization Task Force to evaluate options to maximize the State's historic investment and grow the region's economy. Renderings unveiled today of key components of the plan, which will be displayed at construction zones throughout the Fairgrounds, can be viewed here.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below:
Thank you. Thank you very much. Well it is exciting to be here. It's exciting to be back. It felt just like yesterday that we were here to blow up the grandstand -- in a nice way -- it wasn't a hostile act. It's amazing to see how much work has been done in a relatively short period of time. I want to acknowledge the commissioners from the state who have really been working overtime. Commissioner RoAnn Destitio, Commissioner Ball and Commissioner Sam Roberts. Let's give them a round of applause. Your County Executive is always on the ball and is always getting things done and has been a tremendous vehicle for progress. Joanie Mahoney, it's a pleasure to be with you. My friends in local government, Ryan McMahon, Van Robinson, Manny Falcone, Ron Benedetti, it's a pleasure to be with you and thank you very much for being here. Rob Simpson, who has brought great economic vision to the effort, Greg Lancette, who has been a great partner in actually getting the work done, because someone had to do the work. So let's thank Greg Lancette and the men and women who have done all of the hard work and who have done an extraordinary job. We thank you very much.
The New Yoke State Fair -- I've been coming here for more years than I care to remember. I was brought here first as a young fella, and we went through the fair. The story, when you would go through the fair, everything was about the history of the fair and the great buildings and the great architecture and how it started. The first fair in the nation - the first state fair in the nation, 1840 -- 116 years. And it was all about the history and what it was, and when it started, and the vision when it started. It's amazing that the fair has done as well as it has for as long as it has, basically relying on its history with very little renovation, very little investment, older buildings, older facilities but still over one million visitors coming to the fair based on tradition, based on history.
I would always say to myself, especially since I was Attorney General and then Governor, it is not enough to rely on history. That is a great tradition, but what are we doing about the future, and where is the improvement? Where is the investment? What are we doing to keep up with the changing competition, because competition is creating and recreating and what are we doing? When was the last time we looked at the state fair and we said, "You know what? This is a tremendous economic opportunity." And we basically have been relying on what was done 50, 60 years ago. Why don't we reinvest and actually make it an economic generator going forward, make it even stronger than it is today? The state has stepped up and we said that we would invest $50 million in the state fair which has not had an investment for many, many years and that is what we are seeing the results of today. As well as feeling a few rain drops, so I am doing to speak even faster.
You now have a new midway that is going to be fantastic and an overall facelift that is being done and it is envisioning a fair for the next 50 years. The work is going great this is now a much more competitive vehicle we are going to look for private sector partners and investors because we now have an asset that I believe will attract private sector operators. Now that we have invested that $50 million dollars, we have a 300 unit RV park and we are going to start looking to take the next step. Let's bring in a private sector developer, a private sector operator to partner with us and let's go forward together.
This carriage gate respects the future, it is modeled after the original carriage gate that was first put up in 1840 and you see the tradition and the history and this fair is in many ways a metaphor for all of upstate, and I believe that. Upstate New York has a great history and a proud history, going back to the Erie Canal and investment in the manufacturing era, and what we did for this country. There hasn't been enough concentration and focus on what we're going to do going forward. It can't just be about what we did yesterday. It has to be about what we're going to do tomorrow.
Upstate New York did lag behind economically. That's the true for two reasons. Taxes were out of control in the state and high taxes were driving people out of Upstate New York, especially, young people. We've gotten taxes under control. Taxes have gone down in the state of New York and we're controlling property taxes for the first time ever. And as the County Executive said, Upstate was overlooked by the state government in Albany -- that is the truth, and it had very little investment. And if you care about Upstate New York like everyone professes to care about Upstate New York, then let's put our money where our mouth is. We have in this administration. We're investing in Upstate New York.
Central New York last year was awarded $500 million in the Central New York Rising competition. So that is a significant infusion of money to really jumpstart the economy. You see it everywhere you look. You see signs of birth. What the county has done, changing the access roads into this facility. What the county has done, building a new amphitheater, what we're doing with Bridge Street in Solvay, you feel the piece coming together. And those individual pieces of redevelopment then are synergistic and build one on the other. I believe this fair is at the center of it all. You're bringing one million people here. Think of all the potential when you have one million people coming from across the state and country and what you can do. And with this investment, we're really going to take the next step. It's not a leap of faith, because look at the facts, we know that it is working. Unemployment is down in Upstate New York. It's down below what it was before the Great Recession. Over the past five years, we created 150,000 jobs in Upstate New York. We have more private sector jobs in Upstate New York than ever before in the history of Upstate New York. Just think about that.
We are on the right track -- keep taxes down, control property taxes, invest in economic opportunity, create jobs, focus on upstate New York. That's the future for this state. That's exactly what we are doing. The fair is a symbol of that strategy and that progress. A lot of progress since January, now they have promised me. Ryan McMahon gave me his word. Van gave me his word. Joanie gave me her word. Greg gave me his word -- and I know where you live, Greg. Billy Gilbane gave me his word, the mid-way will be finished for the Syracuse Nationals, and I am going to be back for the Syracuse Nations and enjoy seeing the new midway. Congratulations to all of you, thank you and God bless.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-announces-milestone-sweeping-50-million
