Public Statements
Video, Photos & Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Hosts Heroin Task Force Listening Session on Staten Island
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 25, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

This afternoon, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo hosted a Heroin Task Force public listening session on Staten Island, where nearly 200 elected officials, health experts, community members and families impacted by addiction convened to discuss strategies and solutions to combat the opioid epidemic in New York State. Members of the Task Force received testimony on recommended changes to law, as well as new policies and best practices regarding heroin and opioid addiction prevention, treatment and recovery. Community input received at listening sessions will be included in the Task Force's final report. The Task Force will complete its review and deliver final recommendations to the Governor in June.
Governor Cuomo's opening remarks:
Thank you all very much -- not just for being here today, but for all the work. This is a Task Force that has been put together, that is traveling across the entire state that will be coming up with a comprehensive game plan that hopefully we pass into law this year, so they have a very aggressive timetable. They've been working very hard, so let's give them a round of applause and thank them for their work.
I also want to thank the Lieutenant Governor who has been heading the Task Force and has a very aggressive schedule. She really has been very tireless in this efforts, so we thank you Lieutenant Governor.
We know the topic for today is abuse of heroin, opioids. As the District Attorney said, it's a crisis, it's a plague. I think it's even worse than people imagine at this point. It's a relatively recent phenomenon and I don't think it's fully communicated. It's communicated to people who have been directly involved, people who work with young people, but I don't think society at large gets it. We've gone through heroin in the 1970s, we went through cocaine and crack in the 1980s and in the 1990s, but I think this is worse than that. The numbers of increase in the number of deaths is staggering. This is a drug that is increasing like fire through dry grass. There are a number of reasons why, but that doesn't change the end result -- that we have a public health crisis on our hands, and it's only getting worse.

Source:
