Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New Masters-In-Education Teacher Incentive Scholarship Program for Future Top Educators
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 23, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the Masters-in-Education Teacher Incentive Scholarship Program will begin accepting applications on May 26. The program provides a full SUNY or CUNY tuition scholarship to high-achieving college undergraduates or professionals for their master's studies in education. Up to 500 new awards will be granted annually for two academic years of full-time study.
"Expanding access to higher education today will help foster top notch talent to be the educators of tomorrow," Governor Cuomo said. "This program will help ensure that our future teachers have access to the resources necessary to become leaders in the classroom and continue to shape and inspire students across New York for years to come."
Honorees must be New York State residents and have maintained a grade point average of 3.5 or higher at a college or university located in the state. Recipients must agree to teach at a public elementary or secondary school in the state for five years after completing their degree. The application deadline is July 10, 2016, and awards will be announced in August.
"The launch of the Governor's Masters-in-Education scholarship, coupled with the launch of TeachNY, offers our future teachers unprecedented financial and professional support to ensure their success," said New York State Higher Education Services Corporation Acting President Elsa Magee. "This scholarship will help provide a pool of top teacher candidates at the time the State's need for teachers is growing."
"The need for teacher recruitment and retention is at an all-time high in New York State, as we face a significant -- and growing teacher shortage," said SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher. "Governor Cuomo's Teacher Incentive Scholarship Program is an excellent complement to TeachNY, one that is certain bring more excellent teachers to New York's classrooms and students. SUNY is proud to be a part of this important initiative and we look forward to welcoming the inaugural recipients to SUNY campuses throughout New York State."
"I commend Governor Cuomo for this timely and important initiative to support New York's future educators," said CUNY Chancellor James B. Milliken. "The City University of New York has long recognized the importance of teacher preparation and retention, and CUNY is the largest provider of public school teachers for New York City. The Masters-in-Education Program demonstrates the State's commitment to supporting high quality preparation for the next generation of New York teachers."
For more information, visit www.hesc.ny.gov/mastersineducation.
About New York State Higher Education Services Corporation:
The New York State Higher Education Services Corporation is the State's student financial aid agency that helps people pay for college and a national leader in providing need based grant and scholarship award money to college-going students. At the Corporation's core are programs like the Tuition Assistance Program, numerous state scholarships, federal college access grants and a highly successful College Savings program. The Corporation puts college within the reach of hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers each year through programs like these and through the guidance it provides to students, families and counselors. In 2013-14, the Corporation helped more than 388,000 students achieve their college dreams by providing more than $984 million in grants, scholarships and loan forgiveness benefits, including $935.5 million awarded through the Tuition Assistance Program.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-new-masters-education-teacher-incentive-scholarship-program-future-top
