Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Opening of Brewerton Pier Along the Erie Canal
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 20, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the grand opening of the new $2.9 million pier at the west end of Oneida Lake along the Erie Canal. The shoreline redevelopment project, one of Governor Cuomo's "Capital for a Day" initiatives in Central New York, will increase local waterfront access, improve amenities for boaters and enrich tourism.
"The Erie Canal waterfront is an iconic part of Central New York's identity and with this action, we are building on what makes the region so special," Governor Cuomo said. "The revitalized Brewerton Pier will improve access to the waterfront while bringing jobs and new investment to the surrounding communities and I am proud to see this important project completed."
The rebuilt pier demonstrates Governor Cuomo's continued commitment to revitalizing the Upstate economy through investments in infrastructure and innovation. Since 2012, the State has invested nearly $3 billion in the Central New York economy and seen major transformations across the area. In 2015, the region was awarded $500 million to implement "Central NY Rising," the region's successful Upstate Revitalization Initiative blueprint to build an advanced economy and create new opportunities.
"The Brewerton Pier Wall was a major concern to mariners who could no longer use the old collapsed pier thus making the initiative a priority to both local and state officials," said Canal Corporation Director Brian U. Stratton. "This project continues to demonstrate our commitment to the region as well as our focus on maintaining a safe and reliable Canal system for all."
Located in the Town of Hastings, the pier is a critical stopping point for barges, especially if rough weather on Oneida Lake prevents safe passage. The pier is located in a very popular area for boating and provides a safe docking area for tour boats and pleasure boats. The new pier, which replaces the original pier that was built in 1911 and had recently fallen into disrepair, is in close proximity to restaurants and other attractions in the Hamlet of Brewerton and will provide new opportunities for increased tourism and recreation in Oswego County.
The Brewerton Pier Reconstruction Project was recently given the bronze award for excellence in concrete design and installation by the Central New York Chapter of the American Concrete Institute.
In addition to the Brewerton Pier Wall, the Department of State has funded approximately $262,500 in improvements on the opposite side of the canal which is undertaken by the Town of Cicero, Onondaga County for the design and construction of improvements at Brewerton Riverfront Park including walkway widening and resurfacing and bench lighting installation.
The Department of State is also providing $127,275 for the design and construction of streetscape improvements within the Hamlet of Brewerton to strengthen the business district, improve community appearance and enhance the town's waterfront.
"We are extremely proud of what our Thruway Authority and Canal Corporation employees have accomplished," said Interim Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer Maria Lehman, P.E. "We have a team of very dedicated individuals and their continuous drive for excellence is recognized throughout their work."
"The New York Department of State has a history of supporting projects in Brewerton that connect the waterfront to downtown and help drive economic development," said Acting Secretary of State Rossana Rosado. "I congratulate the Thruway and Canal Corporation for the completion of this pier wall and the Governor for his continued commitment to the area."
"Governor Cuomo continues to make Upstate New York a priority and the restoration of the Brewerton pier is another example," said New York State Thruway Authority Chair and Onondaga County Executive Joanie Mahoney. "Residents of Onondaga and Oswego county as well as boaters from all over will enjoy the improvements."
State Senator Patty Ritchie said, "In recent years I've been proud to advocate for the state's rebuilding of the Brewerton Pier and today, I couldn't be more pleased to see the project completed. This pier is more than just a pier--it's a vitally important asset that will help boost tourism, create jobs and provide increased opportunities for people to enjoy the one of Central New York's greatest natural resources."
Assemblyman Will Barclay said, "The restored pier will be a valuable asset to the community. The pier will attract new visitors to the Town of Hastings improving economic activity. I want to thank the Canal Corporation for their efforts in making this restoration a reality."
Hastings Town Supervisor Tony Bush said, "Great things happen when local and state governments cooperate. Under Governor Cuomo's "Capital for the Day" and CNY Rising Programs, and Senator Patty Ritchie's advocacy with the assistance of the NYS Thruway Authority and NYS Canal Corporation, the Brewerton Pier was reconstructed and will continue to be an important asset to the community for years to come."
Cicero Town Supervisor Mark Venesky said, "Governor Cuomo's support of the Brewerton Pier reconstruction in the Town of Hastings and the Brewerton waterfront redevelopment in the Town of Cicero make both sides of the river a welcoming and inviting area for our residents and the thousands of people who will be visiting our communities for the first time. Together with the new Central New York Raceway Park, these projects will provide a needed economic boost to the entire region."
Oswego County Community Development Director David Turner said, "Bordered in part by two rivers and lakes, Oswego County's residents and visitors enjoy well over 100 miles of waterfront access. Fishing, boating, and other water dependent or water enhanced outdoor recreation activities are a major part of our thriving tourism economy and the Brewerton Pier has long been a key waterfront asset in the Town of Hastings. We are pleased to have been a part of the Governor's team to help restore and revitalize this historic piece of our tourism infrastructure. We applaud Governor Cuomo for his recognition of tourism as an integral part of New York's economy and look forward to working with him and his administration on future endeavors."
The New York State Canal System is comprised of four historic waterways, the Erie, the Champlain, the Oswego and the Cayuga-Seneca Canals. Spanning 524 miles, the waterways link the Hudson River, Lake Champlain, Lake Ontario, the Finger Lakes, Niagara River and Lake Erie with communities rich in history and culture. For more information about the New York State Canal System, vacation opportunities and events call 1-800-4CANAL4 or visit www.canals.ny.gov.
Like Canals on Facebook at NYS Canal Corporation
Follow Canals on Twitter at @NYSCanalCorp

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-opening-brewerton-pier-along-erie-canal
