Public Statements
Video, Photos & Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces New Legislation to Modernize Alcoholic Beverage Control Law
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 18, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Earlier today, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced that he is advancing legislation to modernize New York's 80-year-old Alcoholic Beverage Control Law to consolidate licensing and ease regulatory requirements for wineries, breweries, distilleries and cideries across the state. The Governor announced the changes at a ribbon-cutting ceremony at Three Heads Brewing in Rochester. More information is available here.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below:
Thank you, thank you. Well it is my pleasure to be back in Rochester today. I am an honorary Rochesterian, I guess you could call me. To Dan and to Jeff and to Todd, let's give them a round of applause for pursuing a dream and making that dream come true. This is really exciting and your story is really exciting. How quickly you went from just an idea to a vision and you had the courage to go for it so really we all admire you. We all wish you well, it feels right and it think you are going to be a great success. Another round of applause for Three Heads. I do have one question though, who is the model on this box? That is what I am wondering. Did they tell you they were doing that?
To Mayor Lovely Warren who is doing a great job leading this city, Mayor it is a pleasure to be with you. Let's give her a round of applause. To our new supervisor, Dan Seeley. Congratulations for having had a chance. To Paul Leone who is doing a great job with the industry, thank you very much Paul. We have Commissioner Richard Ball, the Commissioner of Agriculture and Chairman Vince Bradley who is chair of the State Liquor Authority.
They have both been working very hard on proposals that we are unveiling today to change the state liquor laws. Change is very, very hard. Change is hard in your own personal life and the bigger the societal collective the harder it gets to go through what they went through and to change these laws and bring these changes to Albany it is a tremendous undertaking and I thank them so much for the work that they did. Chairman Bradley and Commissioner Richard Ball, let's give them a round of applause.
You know, life is perspective. We are in this facility -- if I asked most of you what is the first four letter word that comes to mind, you would probably say beer. If you ask me what is the first four letter word that comes to mind, I say jobs. I say beer second but I say jobs first because the focus for me and the focus for the administration has been on the economy primarily on the upstate economy. If this state has had a long term problem that went unrealized and unaddressed, it was the problem of the upstate economy. Downstate economy frankly, has been doing great. New York City, all of the numbers have been up in New York City for the past two decades, but Upstate New York had the exact opposite situation. Upstate New York was losing jobs, losing people and was not getting the attention that it needed to deal with those issues. So my focus has turned a total 180 with state government -- make the Upstate economy work. Make it work better than it has ever worked. We'll make the entire state stronger and it's possible, but it just takes time, attention and it takes investment. During that same period of time that Upstate was going down, New York City was going up, the District of Albany did very, very well, because the state invested billions of dollars in new, high-tech companies in Albany, but really ignored the rest of Upstate New York.
So for me it's about the Upstate economy and that focus. When you think about the Upstate economy and bringing back the Upstate economy, you try to do it with big projects, big jobs, big employers, and photonics etcetera -- these big moves that are going to bring in hundreds of jobs. But in truth, that's not the way the economy works anymore. You're not going to replace the void left by Kodak by bringing in a new Kodak. There is no new Kodak. There is no new employer with thousands of jobs. The economy now is all about small businesses and creating hundreds of small businesses to fill the void where you had one big business before. It's where we are today. It's entrepreneurs who have courage, have vision. Make an investment of $4 million and create 15 jobs. This is the economy. This is the new economy -- this type of venture is the new economy and we have to be oriented towards assisting this type of venture. That's exactly what we're doing.
We have invested very heavily in the wine, beer and spirits industry. We have then combined that industry with the tourism industry, which is one of the strongest economic engines for Upstate New York. When people see Upstate New York they are blown away. All we have to do is get them to come up. You get them to come ones, we'll get them to come back. You just have to get them to come once -- that's advertising those special events, that's the I Love NY campaign. But those two industries have a synergy between them that is dynamite. They're going to make great beer here -- well, I shouldn't say that -- I haven't tasted it the beer, and I'm a Governor, and I want to make sure that what I say is right. So, I'll make that decision after the tasting. But they're going to make beer here at least in great cartons, right? That we know for sure and this can be a cool tourism facility. People would want to come in here, see how it's made. Brand new looks cool, so this synergy between the wine/beer industry and tourism, both of them have been rockets for us.
The wine and beer industry, when you look at wine, beer and ciders, we are now at 1,000 in the state of New York. Close to 1,000 - a $27 billion industry. Just imagine that growth. A few years ago it was Finger Lakes wine and some wine on Long Island, right? That was our wine, beer and cider industry. Now, we have over 1,000 and a $27 billion industry. We invested in tourism very heavily. The state invested $60 million in tourism. The revenue in tourism went up $4 billion with that $60 million investment. If we get that return on our money, I will do that every day of the week. So we have a tourism rocket, we have a wine, beer and cideries rocket and we're combining them to get synergy and it's working especially in Upstate New York.
Today we want to take the next step. Too often government is more of a hindrance than help, which is the exact wrong place that government should be. Government has this attitude, "Well I should be the regulator of business." Yes to a certain extent, we want to make sure workers are safe etcetera, but you want to be a facilitator of business, you want to be an expediter of business. I have a concept I call entrepreneurial government. I want to make our government entrepreneurial. People say "Oh no you can't do that -- that's an oxymoron, entrepreneurial government." I say, "Why an oxymoron?" "Well, government is not entrepreneurial." "Why not? Why does government have to be this slow, bureaucratic impediment?" Entrepreneurial government -- you have an idea, you want to start a wine/beer distillery? We want to be with you. What do you need? How do we help? And certainly how do we remove the obstacles?
A tremendous obstacle for the wine, beer and cider industry has been the state law -- what they call the ABC Law -- Alcoholic Beverage Control Law. The law was created 80 years ago right after prohibition and that's when the law was written. It is the most bizarre, arcane, frustrating, maddening law that you could imagine. It has all these categories that are just designed from decades and decades ago, that now stifle the industry and especially stifle the new industry that really doesn't fit within the old boxes anymore. This law has been impossible.
The last few years, we have been tinkering around the edges, trying to change this, trying to change this, trying to change this. Last year, we got together and had a wine beer summit and said you know what, let's just throw out the whole law and let's start over with a blank piece of paper because trying to fix this law is more work than writing a new law. Sometimes it's easier to tear down the house, than try to rebuild the house. But the law was really frustrating all types of creative energy. If you had a winery, you couldn't sell beer, you couldn't sell whiskey. If you sold whiskey, you couldn't sell beer, you couldn't sell wine. If you didn't sell food, you couldn't sell this. I mean it was a crazy hodgepodge. You had to have a wall between where you sold the wine and where you sold the beer. Literally all from the 1930's and 1940's.
We have, by this task force report, dramatically redone that law. I think it will unleash even more entrepreneurial activity. More job generation, more facilities like the one we are in today, because we want to make it easier. You tell me what you think you can sell, here, what can generate income, what can bring tourists in the door, and that is exactly what we want to do. We have made great progress on the numbers. New York State now has more private sector jobs than ever before in the history of the state of New York. Just think about that. And you feel the energy changing. You can feel more of a positive energy in Upstate New York than we felt before. You have more people now talking about the future as opposed to just the past.
Upstate New York was always, "Well, we were this." Everything was always in the retrospect. "We used to do this. We were this. My father did this. My grandfather did this." There wasn't enough about tomorrow and the future and where we're headed. Now, you feel a change in that culture. Young people are moving back. Young people are moving back to downtown areas. People are investing and they feel a future and an economic future in Upstate New York. It is literally going to be industry by industry and changing the attitude of government so we are an active partner in entrepreneurial government. Tell us what you need. Let us help you grow your business; we want you to do well. If you do well, you're creating jobs. That's opportunity and the state does well.
That's the road we're on. We've made great progress with this industry. The Legislature should pass this reorganization bill. There's about five weeks left of the Legislature. We passed a great budget for the state. We passed it virtually on time and did a lot of good work, but there is more work to be done in Albany. This is one of the bills that has to be taken up. These laws should have been reformed 80 years ago. They should definitely be reformed this year. There's no excuse for the Legislature to leave Albany without changing this law. We know the potential in this industry. We know how great it can grow. We know the good things it's doing. Let's unleash even more entrepreneurial energy by passing legislative reform with these alcohol beverage control laws. It is good for everyone. Thank you and God bless you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-announces-new-legislation-modernize-alcoholic
