Public Statements
Photos, Audio & Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Visits Site of Fire at 118th Street in Manhattan
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 18, 2016
Location: Manhatten, NY

This evening, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo received a briefing from first responders and MTA officials at the site of a fire at 118th Street under Metro-North Railroad's Park Avenue Viaduct in Manhattan. Due to the fire, Metro-North service will remain suspended to and from Grand Central for the remainder of Tuesday night. Metro-North riders are urged to check www.mta.info for updates ahead of Wednesday morning's commute. The fire is currently under investigation.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below:
I am pleased and proud to be joined with the President of the Metro-North Joe Giulietti and we have a little bit more information from the assessment that has been done by the engineers. As you know, there was a serious fire that was started in a private business. It generated a tremendous amount of heat. So much heat that it actually bent the steel girders that support the overpass. You can see the main column itself is actually bent. Several of the stringers were also damaged. All the trains coming into Grand Central are basically coming over this overpass and from the MTA's point of view, safety is always the first concern.
The MTA works very hard to make sure trains are on time, busses are on time, et cetera, but safety really is the first concern and you see a situation like this, first of all, thank God that nobody died tonight and there was no loss of life in this situation because it was horrendous. [inaudible] Police Department and the MTA personnel who did an extraordinary job. That nobody lost their life, really is extraordinary.
The MTA now has mobilized very quickly. They are bringing in repair crews that will work through the night. The optimum goal is that they can shore everything up by the morning rush hour -- the support columns, the stringers, et cetera -- and they can actually run trains over the overpass by the morning. It's an ambitious goal. It's the best case scenario, but if everything works tonight and they get it all shored up and the engineers clear it, then you could have a commute tomorrow, which is basically normal with mild delays.
They're going to run several trains over the overpass before the morning rush hour to make sure that it is safe, but it has been extraordinary the way they've been mobilizing and again that is the best case scenario and as the President will tell you, commuters should check before they get on the trains in the morning, but this was a wholly unexpected circumstance. It was a private business, I heard that it was generator that went on fire and there were chemicals because there was a garden supply company, which then ignited and create extraordinarily hot fire. Literally, bolts popped off the bridge. So you know there was a certain amount of movement in the bridge for those bolts literally to shear off. But, the MTA is doing everything that it can, as we speak the repairs are already starting, the assessment is already been done. You have dozens and dozens of personnel that have been mobilized so the best-case scenario delays, but basic service tomorrow. And with that, let me turn it over to the MTA President.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/photos-audio-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-visits-site-fire-118th-street-manhattan
