Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New Legislation to Modernize New York's Alcoholic Beverage Control Law
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 18, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that he is advancing legislation to modernize New York's 80-year-old Alcoholic Beverage Control Law. The legislation is a direct result of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law Working Group, a blue ribbon panel created by Governor Cuomo in November 2015 tasked with developing recommendations to modernize the laws governing the manufacturing, wholesale and retail of alcoholic beverages in New York State. The Governor announced the changes at a ribbon cutting ceremony at Three Heads Brewing in Rochester -- the region's newest craft beer destination.
"New York's investments in the craft beverage industry have driven growth, created hundreds of jobs and unleashed a new optimism and energy amongst wineries, breweries, distilleries and cideries across the state," Governor Cuomo said. "This new legislation will build on that progress by modernizing the state's Blue Laws, cutting through the red tape and removing artificial barriers to growth. The grand opening of Three Head's Brewery in Rochester is a testament to our continued success, and I look forward to working together to keep the momentum moving forward in the years ahead.
The new legislation builds on the progress made by the Governor over the past five years, including enacting the Craft New York Act, to cut burdensome requirements on producers and ease restrictions regarding the marketing of craft products. Since 2011, the state has implemented a number of significant reforms and expanded programs to grow the craft beverage industry, including creating new farm-based manufacturing licenses, launching a $60 million statewide promotional campaign and hosting wine, beer and spirits summits across the state.
The success of New York's investments in the craft beverage industry can be seen from the Finger Lakes to the Capital Region, with the number of microbreweries in New York increasing 248 percent since 2010. The grand-opening of Three Heads Brewing in Rochester, NY, is further proof of that growth -- with the brewery expected to begin full operations next week and hire an additional 15 new employees. The $4 million project includes a 15,000 square foot space for brewing, a 30-barrel fermenter to allow Three Heads Brewing to offer different seasonal and one-off beers every three weeks in the 2,100 square foot tasting room.







Source:
