Public Statements
Governor Cuomo, Majority Leader Flanagan and Speaker Heastie Announce Business Regulation Council to Accept Comments and Recommendations Online
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 18, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo, Senate Majority Leader John Flanagan and Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie today announced that the temporary Business Regulation Council is accepting comments and recommendations online through May 26. Recommendations can be submitted to brcnys@exec.ny.gov.
"We are committed to reducing the cost of doing business in New York State and this action builds upon the progress we've made," Governor Cuomo said. "I look forward to receiving the recommendations and I thank the committee members for their work to help us build a stronger New York for all."
Senate Majority Leader John J. Flanagan said, "The Business Regulation Council is critical to our overall efforts to reduce barriers and make it easier for businesses to create new jobs, invest and grow in New York. I am pleased that the Business Regulation Council has begun its important work and look forward to receiving their recommendations on June 3."
Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie said, "The Assembly has always been committed to passing legislation that offers hardworking New Yorkers comprehensive benefits that are also good for businesses. The inclusion of Paid Family Leave and a higher minimum wage in this year's budget reflect that commitment. We look forward to hearing the recommendations and finding more ways to ensure a brighter economic future for New York."
Charged with conducting a comprehensive review of the state's business climate, the council will make recommendations to the Governor, Senate Majority Leader and Assembly Speaker by June 3 on ways to decrease the cost of doing business in New York State without compromising protections for workers.
Since its formation last month, the seven-member Council has met weekly to discuss a range of issues, including unemployment insurance, workers' compensation, temporary disability insurance, energy and taxes, among other costs to businesses. The Council has solicited input over the past several weeks from business associations and labor groups and is reaching out to businesses and all stakeholders to ensure their voices are heard.
The Business Regulation Council members are:
Governor Cuomo's appointees:
Mario Cilento, President of the New York State AFL-CIO
Ted Potrikus, President and CEO of the Retail Council of New York State
Kathryn Wylde, President and CEO of the Partnership for New York City
Senate Majority Leader Flanagan's appointees:
Heather Briccetti, President and CEO, The Business Council of New York State, Inc.
Dean Norton, President, New York Farm Bureau
Assembly Speaker Heastie's appointees:
Gary LaBarbera, President, Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York
Robert Grey, Chair, New York Workers' Compensation Alliance
The Council will review each online submission.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-majority-leader-flanagan-and-speaker-heastie-announce-business-regulation
