Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Additional Mobile Command Centers to Assist Flood Victims with Insurance Claims on Lake Ontario
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 12, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo today announced additional Department of Financial Services Mobile Command Centers will be deployed to the Lake Ontario region to provide insurance help to residents affected by the flooding.
"As water levels continue to rise, we remain vigilant and continue to take aggressive action to protect the people who live and work in the Lake Ontario region," Governor Cuomo said. "By deploying additional mobile command centers and resources, we will help residents with insurance claims and support the needs of the affected communities."
Governor Cuomo last week declared a State of Emergency in Cayuga, Jefferson, Monroe, Niagara, Orleans, Oswego, St. Lawrence, and Wayne counties in order to expedite repair to impacted structures and construction of shoreline stabilization projects. Additionally, at the Governor's direction, a coordinated Lake Ontario Rapid Response Team was sent to the region which includes experts from the State Department of Environmental Conservation, the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services, State Police and Office of General Services, along with city and county agencies.
The Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services' Office of Emergency Management continues to coordinate with county and local partners in monitoring the rising levels of Lake Ontario and additional resources from state stockpiles have been shifted to locations in Monroe county in the event that conditions worsen.
The DFS Mobile Command Center will be at the below locations over the next five days. In addition, those who are not able to visit the Mobile Command Centers can call the Department's Disaster Hotline at 1-800-339-1759, Monday through Friday, 8:30 am to 4:30 p.m. for help with insurance-related issues.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-additional-mobile-command-centers-assist-flood-victims-insurance
