Public Statements
Video, Photos & Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces 75 State-of-the-Art MTA Buses Hit the Streets in Queens
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 17, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Earlier today, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced the arrival of the first of 75 new buses that are being deployed into service this year as part of a concentrated effort to address overcrowding and modernize the MTA. In March, the Governor announced the addition of 2,042 buses, equipped with Wi-Fi and USB charging ports, to the MTA fleet over the next five years, replacing 40 percent of the current fleet.
At an event at the Michael J. Quill Bus Depot in Manhattan, the Governor also announced the success of a field test for MTA eTix, a free app that will allow Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North customers to purchase train tickets anytime, anywhere on their mobile devices, instead of using paper tickets. The app will be rolled out on select lines next month and available to all LIRR & Metro-North customers by the end of 2016. More information is available here.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below:
Thank you very much. Good afternoon to everyone. First, to Chairman Tom Prendergast, I want to applaud him on today. I tease Tom in private that he has the hard job and I have the easy job. But the MTA Chairman is really one of the most difficult and challenging public service positions, I think, in the country. It's hard to move the bureaucracy. It's hard to bring change to the bureaucracy, it's hard to make people happy and he has a lot of people every morning and every evening that he has to make happy. And he has really done an extraordinary job. Let's give him a round of applause, Tom Prendergast.
To Mark Heavy and Ronnie Hakim and the whole MTA team, you're doing a great job. Let's give them a round of applause, please. Mr. Phillips and the TWU, the Union that represents the workers, has been a great partner to us. We have a great relationship and the progress that we're making, we couldn't make without that partnership. So I thank you very much.
Let me give you in a couple of minutes, a little context on today and what the MTA is doing and the progress of the MTA. New York State is particular and it is unique in many ways. I like to say New York is where great ambition meets great capacity. You look at the city and you look at the state -- it didn't just happen, right? This did not happen as a function of evolution. This place was made and it was made by very ambitious people with broad visions, courage of conviction and tremendous drive. They built the greatest state on the planet. But they built it. They made it happen. The challenge for us, then, is now looking forward. What are we doing to make sure this place stays the best place on the planet to do business, to bring your family, to live, to work?
They project that the New York City metropolitan area will grow by another 1.6 million people over the next several decades. Where do they go? How do they move? Where do they live? How do they work? How can you absorb more people into this region and move people even faster than you're moving people today? The answer is not going to be, everybody moves to the suburbs and buys a car and drives in to the city. That is not going to happen. The answer is not more people on the long island expressway and more people on the northern state parkway and more people on the saw mill and more people coming over the George Washington Bridge. That is not the answer. The answer is more people on mass transit and a mass transit system that is growing and has the capacity to handle the additional people and a mass transit system that is so proficient in customer service that people like taking mass transit. Not that they have to take mass transit because there is no alternative, they actually like it.
When Chairman Prendergast talks about the customer experience and how it needs to be a pleasurable experience, that means the MTA has to grow. It has to get bigger and better and more sophisticated. That means money and investments and resources in the MTA. That is what the Chairman is referring to when he says the capital plan. The capital plan is: how much are we going to invest in the MTA to build and buy more of a system? And we are investing $27 billion in the MTA. How much is $27 billion? It is more money than has ever been invested in the MTA in history and it is the greatest single investment by the state of New York.
I am from Queens and it is very simple in Queens. In Queens they say put your money where your mouth is, right? You believe in mass transit? Fine, $27 billion largest single commitment in the state because we want to see the MTA have the ability to do what they want to do. By the way, when the Chairman was going through the new routes for the new buses, there was a predominance of the buses going to Queens. That is coincidental for those of you who believe in the conspiratorial model. It just so happens that I am from Queens and the buses are going to Queens. Well maybe not, but that is my story and I am sticking with it.
So we are making the investments in the MTA and we are proud of it and that is when you see the acceleration of many projects that are critical. The Second Avenue subway is critical. Eastside access is critical. New cars and new buses are critical. 2,000 new buses here over the next couple of years. These are critical investments to do what we need to do. What we are doing with the Long Island Railroad on the second and the third track, the new subway cars -- if you want to expand the system and build the system for more capacity, then you're going to have to invest and that's what we are going to have to do. Also, you have to change the system because the system now has to adapt to the new technology.
People don't get on a bus a read a newspaper anymore. People get on a bus and they expect to have that digital connectivity that they need to lead their life. They're on the bus for 25 minutes. That can't be a wasted 25 minutes. They want to be able to plug in, get their Wi-Fi, have a USB port, do their work on their phone or their device or whatever the device of the future is and that's what these buses now have. On these buses, not only will you have that time on the bus, hopefully shorter with a more efficient system, but you can use the time more and the time will be more valuable because you won't be out of touch and you won't be out of connection. That's also what this e-ticket system is all about. People are no longer paying cash, taking a credit card, swiping a credit card. They tested an e-ticket application for the Long Island Railroad and the MTA. The test worked, 92 percent satisfied. That's great. There's some people you're never going to make happy in life, but 92 percent is a great result. So they're going forward with the e-tickets on the LIRR and Metro North.
And going out for a proposal to do an electronic device in the subway system where we don't now have Wi-Fi -- that is also very exciting, and then interoperability, so you can use the same device everywhere. That is now the technology that works when you go into a movie theater, when you go to a ballpark, it should also work when you get on a bus, or the train, or a subway and that's exactly what they're doing. When you combine the MTA investment with the MTA technology with the physical construction program we are doing, it is the largest investment in the New York City infrastructure transportation arena in modern political history. $27 billion for the MTA and then we have a whole construction program. We're building a new La Guardia Airport, finally, finally, finally. We're accelerating investing in a new Penn Station, rebuilding Kennedy Airport. All of these capital investments will then merge and work with the new MTA system. So you have a new physical system, a new operating system and the two will actually merge.
We are very excited about it. We are getting it done and we are getting it done on an accelerated basis. That all bodes well for our efforts to not just keep this the greatest city and the greatest state on the planet, but maybe even leave it a little bit better than we found it. And that's the obligation and aspiration of every citizen, every parent, to leave your fellow citizens, to leave your children a home that is a little bit better and a little bit sweeter than you found it. And we're going to leave New York a little bit better than we found it, and we are on the road (pardon the pun) to doing that today.
To the designers of this bus, I want to second the chairman's opinion. I am not a design expert but I think it is a good looking bus. I like the blue, I like the sense of motion and the graphics. It is sophisticated, yet not tedious. It is playful, but serious. It is a beautiful bus -- and I love that blue. I have an old GTO the same color blue. So it looks fast, that bus, god's speed, and it really does represent the new MTA and an MTA on the move. And the credit for that goes to every person who's been dedicated to the MTA for so many years. So congratulations, and thank you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-announces-75-state-art-mta-buses-hit-streets-queens
