Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $1 Million in Funding to Connect More New Yorkers to Addiction Services
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 17, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $1 million in funding to expand access to addiction treatment services and family supports in the Southern Tier, Western New York, the Finger Lakes and the North Country. The funding will support on-call peer outreach services to connect patients in hospital Emergency Departments to appropriate addiction treatment and a family support navigator program to assist families as they access substance use disorder care for a loved one. Each county will receive $250,000 to support these new services. The initiatives were developed by the NYS Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services.
"Substance abuse has impacted the lives of many New Yorkers and their families and with this funding, we are helping to ensure more resources and treatment options are available to those in need," Governor Cuomo said. "This is one more step toward building a healthier and stronger New York for all."
These new initiatives are the latest addition to the Governor's multi-pronged approach to addressing substance use disorders in New York State. Services will be delivered by county-based addiction treatment providers.
"The disease of addiction is a powerful adversary, but it is one that can be overcome with treatment and supports," said NYS OASAS Commissioner Arlene González-Sánchez. "These services are the latest addition to our ongoing efforts to improve access to substance use disorder care. They will help guide individuals and families to the treatment and services they need so that they can begin their journey towards recovery."
The on-call peer outreach coordinator, who is knowledgeable about the alcohol and substance abuse treatment system, will work with hospital Emergency Department personnel and in other settings to help patients establish connections to addiction treatment after an opioid overdose reversal, after discharge from another addiction-related ED visit, or as needed in other settings. This connection to treatment after an opioid overdose reversal is critical to a person's start on the path to recovery, and can help prevent relapse and a potential overdose reoccurrence.
The family support navigator will develop relationships with local addiction prevention, treatment and recovery services, managed care organizations, local substance use disorder councils and community stakeholders to assist families with accessing local treatment and support services.
In the Southern Tier:
$250,000 was awarded to Addiction Center of Broome County in Binghamton to support on-call peer outreach services and the family support navigator initiative.
These programs will serve those in need in Broome and neighboring Counties. The Addiction Center is readying for these services to be available by June 1. The Addiction Care Center can be reached at (607) 723-7308.
Broome County Executive Debbie Preston said, "The family navigator and the peer advocates are two more tools to help in our fight against opioids in our community. The peer advocate will be an important piece in helping addicts get the treatment they need while the family navigator will help families dealing with an opioid addiction right from the start. I'd like to thank the Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services for funding these two critical positions and working with us in our fight against opioid addiction."
In Western New York:
$250,000 was awarded to Western New York Independent Living, Inc. to support Mental Health Peer Connection in providing on-call peer outreach and family support navigator services.
Mental Health Peer Connection has hired on-call peer outreach coordinators and a search for a family support navigator to serve those in need in Erie County is underway. Contact the Mental Health PEER Connection at (716) 836-0822.
Erie County Executive Mark C. Poloncarz said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo and the State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse for bringing these initiatives to better connect individuals to care in Erie County. By working together to improve access to services, we are not only helping people struggling with addiction, we are helping families heal and making our community a better place to live."
In the Finger Lakes:
$250,000 was awarded to Liberty Resources in collaboration with Syracuse Behavioral Health to provide both on-call peer outreach and family support navigator services.
Monroe County Executive Cheryl Dinolfo said, "Monroe County is thankful to receive this important funding for increased access to addiction treatment services and family support. Through collaboration with the New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse and our neighboring counties, we will ensure that every individual battling addiction and substance abuse in our community has the resources and support they need in their journey to recovery."
These programs will serve those in need in Monroe and neighboring counties. The collaboration is readying for these services to be available by June 1. Syracuse Behavioral Health can be reached at their Corporate Offices at (315) 474-5506 and Liberty Resources can be contacted at their Main Office at (315) 425-1004.
In the North Country:
$250,000 was awarded to Seaway Valley Council for Alcoholism/Substance Abuse Prevention, Inc. to support on-call peer outreach and family support navigator services.
St. Lawrence County Administrator Ruth A. Doyle said, "The opportunity for St. Lawrence County to receive new funding for a Family Support Navigator and to access On-Call Peer Services is an important acknowledgment by Governor Cuomo of the need for these types of services here in the County. The systems in place designed to provide assistance can often be a challenge to work through and it is my hope that with resources like these, it will be easier for those who are in need to get the support that is available."
Contact Seaway Valley Prevention Council at (315) 713-4861.
New Yorkers struggling with an addiction, or whose loved ones are struggling, can find help and hope by calling the State's HOPEline at 1-877-8-HOPENY (1-877-846-7369) or by texting HOPENY (Short Code 467369). New Yorkers can find an OASAS-certified substance use disorder treatment provider by using the OASAS Bed Availability Dashboard. For help with accessing care and insurance coverage, New Yorkers can visit the Access Treatmentpage on the OASAS website. To find a naloxone overdose reversal medication training near you, visit theOASAS Addiction Treatment Center opioid overdose prevention trainingspage. Visit www.combatheroin.ny.gov for more information on addressing heroin and prescription opioid abuse, including a Kitchen Table Tool Kit to help start the conversation about the warning signs of addiction and where to get help. For additional tools to use in talking to a young person about preventing underage drinking or drug use, visit the State's Talk2Prevent website.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-1-million-funding-connect-more-new-yorkers-addiction-services
