Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Empire State Excellence in Teaching Program
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 16, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the Empire State Excellence in Teaching Program which recognizes teachers across New York who are successfully preparing a new generation of learners for the future. The program honors outstanding individuals who exemplify the highest standards of teaching, working to foster creativity, instill a love of learning, and inspire independent thinking and student initiative.
"New York State has thousands of excellent teachers who prepare our students for the future and help them reach their full potential," Governor Cuomo said. "This new program will recognize our most outstanding educators, while supporting their professional growth. I commend all teachers for their dedication to making a difference in the lives of students across the state."
Each year, the Empire State Excellence in Teaching Program will recognize teachers from 10 different regions of New York, spanning from the North Country to New York City. Public school teachers are eligible to apply for recognition. Any member of the public can nominate a teacher by filling out a recommendation here by June 1, 2016. Teachers who are nominated will be notified via email and asked to submit an application.
New York teachers are invited to submit an application for final consideration by a panel of leaders from several New York professional education associations. Applications are due by June 10, 2016 and recipients will be announced on June 17, 2016.
Members of the panel include:
Kevin Casey, Executive Director, School Administrators Association of NYS
Catalina Fortino, Vice President of the New York State United Teachers
Michael Mulgrew, President of the United Federation of Teachers
Robert Reidy, Executive Director of the NYS Council of School Superintendents
Bonnie Russell, President of the NYS Parent Teacher Association
Nancy Zimpher, Chancellor of SUNY
Honorees will receive a $5,000 stipend to support their professional development interests and will also be invited to meet with university, workforce and policy leaders across the state to share their expertise and insights.
For more information on the Empire State Excellence in Teaching Program, please visit: www.ny.gov/NYSTeachingExcellence.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-empire-state-excellence-teaching-program
