Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces More Than $62 Million to Upgrade Local Drinking Water and Wastewater Systems Across New York State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 11, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the New York State Environmental Facilities Corporation Board of Directors approved more than $62 million in grants, interest-free loans, and low-cost loans to support vital drinking water and wastewater infrastructure projects across New York State. This funding will provide much-needed assistance for drinking water and wastewater projects in communities statewide. Today's Board approval includes over $9 million in grants awarded in the second round of funding from the 2015 Water Infrastructure Improvement Act.
"These projects are critical to helping communities upgrade their aging water infrastructure, which builds the foundation for future growth and vitality," Governor Cuomo said. "This continued investment in drinking and wastewater systems will improve water quality in cities across the state and bring us closer to a stronger, healthier New York for all."
Under the Water Infrastructure Improvement Act, $225 million in grant has leveraged over $1 billion in total project costs for over 120 projects in New York State. These grants resulted in over $629 million in taxpayer savings.
The Governor also recently announced that applications are available for $255 million in funding for vital drinking water and wastewater infrastructure upgrades as part of the $2.5 billion Clean Water Infrastructure Act of 2017. $225 million is available through the Water Infrastructure Improvement Act and $30 million is available for the new Intermunicipal Water Infrastructure Grants Program. For more information on the Water Infrastructure Improvement Act and IMG grant programs, as well as an application, visit www.efc.ny.gov/NYSWaterGrants.
Environmental Facilities Corporation President and CEO Sabrina M. Ty said, "Strengthening our water systems is critical for improving the quality of life for communities across the state. The Water Infrastructure Improvement Act of 2017 and the new Intermunicipal Water Infrastructure Grants Program will allow EFC to provide financial assistance to more communities than ever before."
Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner and Environmental Facilities Corporation Chair Basil Seggos said, "Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, New York has become a national leader making record investments to ensure our communities have access to clean drinking water and updated wastewater infrastructure. This funding will help protect vital drinking water, make necessary updates to wastewater infrastructure, support the state's economy, and help strengthen these communities."
Department of Health Commissioner Dr. Howard Zucker said, "Investing in water infrastructure protects the health of millions of New Yorkers who rely upon these systems for clean drinking water. Governor Cuomo's $2.5 billion Clean Water Infrastructure Act and his continued investment in water systems through the Environmental Facilities Corporation will help ensure that New York's water remains safe to drink, while creating a national model for the protection of water."
The grants approved today, along with the interest-free and low-interest loans provided by EFC allow municipalities to finance these projects at a significantly lower rate than financing on their own.
The projects approved at the May 11 meeting include:
Capital Region
Village of Corinth (Saratoga County) -- $24.2 million, including a $5 million WIIA 2015 grant and a $16.5 million zero-interest loan to finance costs associated with the planning, design and construction of a new Wastewater Treatment Plant, Sanitary Sewer replacement and Pump Station replacement for the Village.
City of Watervliet (Albany County) -- A $2.3 million WIIA 2015 grant for the identification and replacement of several sections of the raw water transmission main and sections of the finished water distribution main and appurtenances. This project will also upgrade the City's water storage tank and will make improvements to an existing emergency interconnection with the Village of Menands.
Long Island
Village of Ocean Beach (Suffolk County) -- $3.7 million, including a $1.9 million zero-interest loan and a $1.2 million low-interest loan for the construction of a new water supply well to serve as a redundant water source for the Village.
Mid-Hudson
Village of Woodridge (Sullivan County) -- $1.8 million, including a $1.6 million zero interest loan to finance the costs associated with the planning, design and construction of measures to make the Village sanitary sewer system more resilient to future storm events.
Mohawk Valley
Town of Verona (Oneida Country) -- $6.5 million, including a $5.3 million low-interest loan to finance the costs associated with the planning, design and construction of the Verona Sewer District.
North Country
Town of Champlain (Clinton Country) -- $13.9 million, including a $1 million WIIA 2015 grant, a $2 million Drinking Water State Revolving Loan Fund grant, and a $10.9 million zero-interest loan to finance the costs of the installation of new storage tanks and improvements to the distribution system within the Town and Village of Champlain. The Village water treatment system will also be upgraded to include water softening equipment.
Southern Tier
Village of Delhi (Delaware County) -- $2.3 million, including a $1.4 million WIIA 2015 grant and a $911,835 low-interest loan for the development of a new well and treatment facility to provide a redundant water source for the Village, installation of a new water main to connect the new well to the existing distribution system, and replacement of an aged, undersized distribution main in the Village.
Village of Greene (Chenango Country) -- $7.7 million, including a $1.7 million Clean Water State Revolving Loan Fund grant, and a $5.9 million zero-interest loan to finance the costs associated with the planning, design and construction of measures to make the Village sanitary sewer system more resilient to future storm events.

New York State leads the nation with the largest annual investment in water-quality infrastructure of any state. Since 2011, EFC has provided more than $11.5 billion in subsidized loans, grants and loan re-financings to local governments.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-more-62-million-upgrade-local-drinking-water-and-wastewater-systems
