Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces USA Luge to Remain in Lake Placid
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 14, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that USA Luge will remain in Lake Placid. The announcement follows the association's annual meeting, in Park City, Utah, in which the USA Luge board of directors voted unanimously to keep their headquarters in upstate New York for the next five years.
Last year, USA Luge issued a Request for Proposals to determine the future location of the National Governing Body's headquarters. Bids were received by both Lake Placid and Park City.
"USA Luge plays a central role in Lake Placid's storied history, and we are thrilled they will remain in the region," Governor Cuomo said. "Today's vote ensures that USA Luge will continue to drive significant economic growth, create well-paying jobs and inspire the next generation of Olympians in New York State."
Since 2011, the state has dedicated over $43 million in upgrades and improvements to Lake Placid's Olympic facilities. In addition, Empire State Development and the Olympic Regional Development Authority, are making significant commitments to USA Luge.
ESD will invest $1 million in the marketing and promotion of USA Luge, including $200,000 per year over five years to support the association's televised events. Additionally, $5 million in state funds, through ORDA, will support the creation of a new world-class start ramp facility.
Jim Leahy, President and CEO of USA Luge, said, "I want to thank all those who played a vital role in helping USA Luge slide into a new and bright future. At the end of the day, this process was all about providing our athletes these much-needed resources so that they can compete at the highest level representing Team USA."
Howard Zemsky, President, CEO & Commissioner of NYS Empire State Development, said, "The state understands how vital this organization is and strongly believes that it should remain in the region for years to come. We know the importance of preserving the Adirondack Park's legacy of Olympic gold and we believe that keeping USA Luge in Lake Placid is crucial to achieving that goal. We must work to inspire athletes across New York -- and that means ensuring continued investment in Lake Placid's extraordinary facilities, and keeping the momentum and enthusiasm moving forward for residents, tourists and visitors alike. We are confident the state's far-reaching investments in the Lake Placid and USA Luge will do just that."
Ted Blazer, President and CEO of ORDA said, "All of us at the Olympic Authority are pleased that USA Luge will remain in Lake Placid. USA Luge's roots are right here and we have felt all along that that this is where they should stay. It's obvious that the State of New York felt the same way. I'm confident that with the commitment made by Governor Andrew Cuomo, Empire State Development, the community, the Lake Placid Regional Office of Sustainable Tourism and the Olympic Authority that USA Luge will continue to call Lake Placid home as they strive for continued international and Olympic excellence in the sport of luge."
Lake Placid, site of both the 1932 and 1980 Olympic Winter Games, has been home to USA Luge since its inception in 1979. The location has key existing factors such as the Olympic Training Center, indoor refrigerated start ramp facility, the state-of-the-art combined bobsled/luge and skeleton track and access to the United States Olympic Committee's sports medicine facilities.
Over the years, USA Luge has enjoyed success at every level of international competition, including a team record 18 World Cup medals last season. The association has also raced to 10 world Championship podiums and five Olympic medals since 1998.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-usa-luge-remain-lake-placid
