Public Statements
Governor Cuomo, Senator Schumer, Senator Gillibrand and Congressman King Announce Federal Approval of $23.7 Million Project to Strengthen Southside Hospital Against Severe Weather
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 13, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo, Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, and Congressman Peter King today announced that the $23.7 million Southside Hospital mitigation project in Bayshore has received approval from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. The Southside Hospital is a critical Suffolk County health care facility and its close proximity to the Great South Bay puts it at risk for damage during extreme weather. The project will receive $17.78 million in federal reimbursements to complete the mitigation efforts, with the hospital to commit the remainder of the funding.
"Hospitals need to be able to operate and serve their communities no matter the circumstances," Governor Cuomo said. "These projects will allow for uninterrupted critical healthcare to be provided during severe weather and give patients and their families peace of mind in their time of greatest need."
"This $23 million hazard mitigation project will help provide much-needed upgrades at Bay Shore's Southside Hospital to ensure the facility is better protected in the event of a future storm. These federal funds will help make sure Southside Hospital can continue to operate uninterrupted and provide critical medical care to those in-need during extreme weather events," said Senator Charles E. Schumer. "Supporting mitigation efforts, like this one, will be vital when the next disaster comes our way."
"Superstorm Sandy devastated our communities, and this critical FEMA funding would help provide much needed resources to make structural repairs and renovations to Southside Hospital here on Long Island," said Senator Gillibrand. "Southside Hospital is an invaluable lifeline for patients and families, and this $23.7 million will enable the hospital to continue to provide first-rate care and remain open to the public. I will continue to fight for funding so we can rebuild our infrastructure even stronger and be prepared for when the next storm hits."
"Southside Hospital is an invaluable facility for the residents of Suffolk County," said Congressman Peter King. "This critical funding will go a long way to not only ensure the resiliency of the Hospital itself but the safety of the patients in any future disaster."
Work includes the installation of back-check valves and measures to improve drainage on site to better evacuate storm water from the Emergency Department entrance to the ER and other critical access points. The work also includes the hardening of the existing building envelope through the removal of roofing ballast and the replacement of windows. Also, six main pad-mounted outdoor electrical transformers will be elevated and a new electrical/IT room will be constructed.
"Northwell Health greatly appreciates the support of Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, and Governor Cuomo in securing $23.7 million to safeguard Southside Hospital in Bay Shore against future flooding," said Michael J. Dowling, President and CEO of Northwell Health (formerly North Shore-LIJ Health System). "While Southside remained operational during Superstorm Sandy, it sustained major damage because of its location on the Great South Bay. The infrastructure improvements and upgrades that will be made possible by this funding will ensure that during future storms, the hospital will continue to meet the health care needs of the diverse racial, ethnic and socio-economic communities that Southside is privileged to serve."
Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services Commissioner John Melville said, "It is vital to our communities that healthcare services will not be interrupted when emergencies strike. I am glad that once again, the Division, FEMA and our local partners can work together to ensure that our critical healthcare facilities are ready and able to operate during severe storms."
FEMA has approved these projects under its Hazard Mitigation Grant Program which allows the state to establish priorities aimed at increasing the State's resiliency, mitigating the risks of loss and damage associated with future disasters, and reducing hardship. After Superstorm Sandy devastated parts of New York, Governor Cuomo called for government and non-profit organizations across the state to submit applications for projects to help communities become more resilient, rebuild smarter, stronger and more sustainable communities in the wake of recent natural disasters.
About Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services
The Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services (DHSES) and its four offices -- Counter Terrorism, Emergency Management, Fire Prevention and Control, and Interoperable and Emergency Communications -- provide leadership, coordination and support for efforts to prevent, protect against, prepare for, respond to, and recover from terrorism and other man-made and natural disasters, threats, fires and other emergencies. For more information, visit the DHSES Facebook page, follow @NYSDHSES on Twitter, or visit dhses.ny.gov.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-senator-schumer-senator-gillibrand-and-congressman-king-announce-federal
