Public Statements
Video, Photos & Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces Completion of Largest Addition to Adirondack Forest Preserve in More Than a Century
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 10, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Earlier today, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced the completion of the state's largest Adirondack land acquisition in more than 100 years, with the purchase of the 20,758-acre Boreas Ponds Tract. This is the final acquisition in a series of land purchases the state has completed under a 2012 agreement with The Nature Conservancy to conserve 69,000 acres of land previously owned primarily by the former Finch, Pruyn & Company paper company. The Tract is located primarily in the town of North Hudson in Essex County, south of the High Peaks Wilderness Area.
Today, the Governor also sent a letter to the Adirondack Park Agency requesting the agency begin the classification process for the Boreas Ponds Tract. Since 2010, through the Governor's efforts to promote recreation in the Adirondacks, tourism-related employment is up nearly eight percent, tourism spending is up 10 percent and visitation is up 15 percent in the Adirondack Park.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below:
Thank you. Thank you very much. Well it is my pleasure to be here. You couldn't have a more spectacular setting anywhere on this globe. As you know, the Adirondacks have always been a special place for me before I was Governor. Going back to my childhood, some of my fondest memories are here. I have been so excited, frankly, about what we've been able to do together to actually make the Adirondacks stronger and better than before.
To Mike Carr who has done a great job at The Nature Conservancy -- let's give him a round of applause and thank him for everything he does. To my friend and colleague Ron Moore, it's a pleasure to be with you. Let's give Ron a round of applause. To Bill Ferebee -- it's good to know there are no black flies in Keene. I didn't know that until you mentioned that. I didn't know where I was until I was at the sign called Keene and got bitten. Bill Ferebee who has been a great friend and a great champion. And our really outstating Commissioner of DEC, Basil Seggos. It's a pleasure to be with him. To the Ernst Family, who is very kind to allow us to be here today. We thank them for that. But more than that, they've been great stewards of the land, great citizens of this state and maintaining not just this lodge, but their generosity and the easements they've given to the state, the precedent they've set. They really deserve our thanks and praise as good citizens. Mr. Ernst and your family, thank you so much for having us here today.

Source:
