Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces More Than $6 Million to Help Children's Behavioral Health Providers Improve Health Information Technology
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 9, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the award of $6,081,700 to help 122 behavioral health providers that offer children's services improve or develop their technological infrastructure. These funds, awarded statewide, will be used by providers to implement new technologies to launch or update their Medicaid billing infrastructure.
"This administration is committed to providing the best possible healthcare environment for our state's children," said Governor Cuomo. "As we transform and modernize the behavioral healthcare system, this funding will help providers utilize technology to streamline services and continue to improve the lives of young people across the state."
This one-time funding will be used by providers to purchase technological infrastructure upgrades including electronic health record or billing software, new servers to support database systems, as well as computers, routers, and other hardware. The funding will also be used to educate staff on how to operate these new systems. Each selected provider will receive $49,850, and is under the jurisdiction of the Office of Mental Health and Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services.
"Upgrading technology will lead to new and improved services for children in New York State," said New York State Office of Mental Health Commissioner Dr. Ann Marie Sullivan. "The transition to Managed Care and development of new Home and Community Based Services will expand the variety and scale of service options available to children with behavioral health service needs. It is of the utmost importance that the providers that comprise our system are well equipped to serve the children and families who rely upon their expert care."
"Ensuring that our addiction treatment providers have up-to-date technology is vital to our mission of serving young people and families who are battling addiction," said New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services Commissioner Arlene González-Sánchez. "As our treatment providers transition to managed care, these new funds will help our providers continue operations without interruption so that they can focus on provision of quality substance use disorder services and supports."
This funding comes in addition to the $10 million in health information technology upgrades that the Governor recently announced for non-profit organizations statewide. Additional health information technology awards are expected to be made in the upcoming fiscal year.
The providers that are receiving funding are:
Capital Region - $697,900
Albany County Department of Children, Youth & Families Mental Health
Columbia County Department of Human Services
Commission on Economic Opportunity
Community Human Services
Family Counseling Center, Inc.
Greene County Community Service Board
Hudson-Mohawk Recovery Center, Inc.
Liberty Resources, Inc.
Northeast Parent Child Society
Parsons Child and Family Center
Rensselaer County Unified Mental Health
Schoharie County Community Services Board
St. Catherine Center for Children
Warren/Washington Mental Health
Central New York - $498,500
Catholic Charities of Syracuse/Cortland Counties
Catholic Charities of Oswego County
Cayuga County Community Mental Health
Confidential Help for Alcohol And Drugs, Inc.
Consumer Services Madison County Mental Health
County of Oswego Council on Alcoholism and Addictions, Inc.
Family Counseling Services of Cortland County, Inc.
Farnham, Inc. D/B/A Farnham Family Services
Onondaga Case Management Services Mental Health
Onondaga County Department of Mental Health
Finger Lakes - $697,900
Compeer Rochester, Inc.
Council on Alcohol and Substance Abuse of Livingston County, Inc.
Delphi Drug and Alcohol Council, Inc.
Finger Lakes Addictions Counseling and Referral Agency, Inc.
Genesee County Mental Health Services
Hillside Children's Center
Huther-Doyle Memorial Institute, Inc.
Livingston County Mental Health
Orleans County Department of Mental Health
RU System, Inc. - Active Parent Corporation for PRCD, Inc.
Schuyler County Community Service Board
Villa of Hope
Wayne County Community Service Board
Wayne County Action Program, Inc.
Long Island - $747,750
Community Counseling Services of West Nassau, Inc.
Family and Children's Association
Family Service League Suffolk County
Hispanic Counseling Center, Inc.
Huntington Youth Bureau Youth Development Research Institute
Long Beach Reach, Inc.
Long Island Families Together
North Shore Child and Family Guidance Association, Inc.
Pederson Krag Center, Inc.
Peninsula Counseling Center, Inc.
South Shore Child Guidance Association Incorporated, Inc.
Southeast Nassau Guidance Center, Inc.
St. Christopher-Ottilie
Tempo Group, Inc.
Youth Environmental Services, Inc.
Mid-Hudson - $847,450
Action Toward Independence, Inc.
Association for Mentally Ill Children
Astor Home for Children
Council on Alcoholism and Drug Abuse of Sullivan County, Inc.
Daytop Village, Inc.
Family Empowerment Council, Inc.
Family of Woodstock, Inc.
Family Services of Westchester Inc.
Family Ties of Westchester
Green Chimneys Child Services
HONORehg, Inc.
Mental Health Association of Westchester
Mental Health Association of Ulster County
Orange County Rehab Occupations
Saint Dominic's Home
Sullivan County Department of Community Services
Westchester Jewish Community Services
Mohawk Valley - $348,950
Catholic Charities of Livingston County
Center for Family Life and Recovery, Inc.
Insight House Chemical Dependency Services, Inc.
Neighborhood Center, Inc.
Otsego County Community Services Board
Schoharie County Community Action Program
The Family Resource Network
New York City - $648,050
Child Center of NY
Coalition for Hispanic Family Services
Dynamic Youth Community, Inc.
Families on the Move Of NYC, Inc.
Jewish Board of Family and Children Services
Jewish Child Care Association
Lifeline Center For Child Development
MASK (Mothers Aligned Saving Kids)
Mental Health Association of NYC
NAMI of NYC, Inc.
Phoenix Houses of New York, Inc.
St Luke's- Roosevelt Hospital Center
Young Men's Christian Association of Greater New York
North Country - $448,650
Behavioral Health Services North, Inc.
Catholic Charities of Ogdensburg
Champlain Valley Family Center for Drug Treatment and Youth Services
Citizen Advocates, Inc.
Clinton County Community Services
Families First in Essex County Mental Health
Northern Regional Center for Independent Living
St. Lawrence County Community Services Board
Transitional Living Services of Northern New York
Southern Tier - $548,350
Alcohol and Drug Council of Tompkins County, Inc.
Allegany Council on Alcoholism and Substance Abuse, Inc.
Catholic Charities Broome County
Chenango County Mental Health
Delaware County Department of Mental Health
Elmira Glove House, Inc.
Finger Lakes Parent Network, Inc.
Ithaca Alpha House Center, Inc. D/B/A Cayuga Addiction Recovery
Pathways, Inc.
The Children's Home of Wyoming Conference
Tompkins County Community Mental Health Service Board
Western New York - $598,200
Allegany County Community Services Mental Health
Cattaraugus County Department of Mental Health
Cattaraugus Rehab Center
Chautauqua County Department of Mental Hygiene
Child & Family Services Erie County
Children's Mental Health Coalition of Western New York
Council on Addiction Recovery Services, Inc.
Families Child Advocacy Network, Inc.
Gateway Longview
Mental Health Association in Niagara County
Mid-Erie Mental Health Services, Inc. D/B/A Mid Erie Counseling
New Directions Youth & Family Services

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-more-6-million-help-childrens-behavioral-health-providers-improve
