Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Three State Highway Repaving Projects in Queens and the Bronx
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 5, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that work is underway to mill, pave and make concrete repairs on three state highways in Queens and the Bronx. The roadway improvements, which total $43.5 million, include the full lengths of the Throgs Neck and Clearview Expressways in both directions, and portions of the Grand Central Parkway.
"These roadways are crucial parts of the transportation network for the entire metropolitan region, which thousands upon thousands of New Yorkers depend upon each day," said Governor Cuomo. "With these resurfacing and preventive maintenance projects, we will help ensure they remain drivable and in good repair for years to come."
Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said: "Governor Cuomo is improving the transportation infrastructure in New York City and statewide in order to keep New York competitive. Roadway upgrades like these keep people and commerce moving, and both are essential to a strong economy."
Throgs Neck Expressway
This $20 million project will mill, pave and make concrete repairs as needed on the full length of the highway in both directions between the Throgs Neck Bridge and the Bruckner Expressway. In order to mitigate traffic impacts, nighttime work is now taking place in the eastbound direction, starting at the Bruckner Expressway. Work will be completed by fall 2016.
Grand Central Parkway Harsh Winter Paving
Last year, Governor Cuomo allocated funds to address roadways that had sustained damage from the harsh winter weather. A $5.5 million contract that began in the summer of 2015 will continue in the current paving season, with NYSDOT milling, paving and making concrete repairs westbound sections of the Grand Central Parkway between the Long Island Expressway and 111th Street, and eastbound on the Grand Central Parkway between the Clearview Expressway and Union Turnpike. The westbound work is currently underway, and the eastbound work will take place this summer. Work on both sections is expected to be completed by the end of 2016.
Clearview Expressway and Grand Central Parkway
This $18 million project will mill, pave and make concrete repairs on: the full length of the Clearview Expressway in both directions between Hillside Ave. and Willets Point Blvd.; both directions of the Grand Central Parkway between 34th St. and 82nd St.; and eastbound on the Grand Central Parkway from 168th St. to the Clearview Expressway. Work will begin the week of May 9, 2016, and is scheduled to be completed by September 2017.
Senate Independent Democratic Conference Leader Jeffrey Klein said: "New York's infrastructure is the backbone of our great state and is vital for the health of our communities. I have been proud to work for an increased investment in our highways and roads over the years, and am glad to see these measures being taken to repair and improve the Bruckner Expressway and Throgs Neck Bridge. I thank Governor Cuomo for his leadership in keeping New York's infrastructure strong."
Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie said: "Each day, these highways take thousands of New Yorkers to their jobs and back home to their families. Investments in our roads represent not only greater economic opportunity for New York, but the opportunity to provide hardworking New York families with the safe and reliable highways they deserve."
Senator Tony Avella said: "Every winter leaves behind damaged roads and it is vital that New York's response is expedient and focused to where it is needed most. The Governor's State Highway Repavement Project checks both of these requirements and I commend him and the State Department of Transportation for their efforts. Motorists in my district will appreciate the improvements made and be safer as a result. Repairs to the Grand Central Expressway, the Throgs Neck Expressway and the Clearview Expressway will prevent accidents and sustain the infrastructure that keeps this State and our communities running strong."
Assemblyman David Weprin said: "The resurfacing of the Throgs Neck Expressway, Clearview Expressway and Grand Central Parkway will make driving safer and reduce congestion on some of Queens' busiest roadways. All three of these roads are vital to the Queens transportation network -- as well as for transportation within my district - and I applaud Governor Andrew Cuomo and the New York State Department of Transportation for supporting these projects to improve our highways."
Queens Borough President Melinda Katz said: "These improvements will do a great deal to improve the roadway conditions for the driving public and are especially appreciated in light of the residual effects the past winter has taken on our roadways. Governor Cuomo and the New York State Department of Transportation deserve to be commended for undertaking these critical upgrades of our borough's infrastructure."
Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. said: "The resurfacing of the critical link between the Throgs Neck Bridge and the Bruckner Expressway will help improve our transportation infrastructure while encouraging the economic growth that provides jobs to Bronxites and New Yorkers. I thank Governor Andrew Cuomo and the State Department of Transportation for their continued support and for this important infrastructure maintenance project of pavement and concrete repairs."
Council Member Barry S. Grodenchik said: "The repair and resurfacing of state highways is great news, and I am very grateful for Governor Cuomo's dedication to Eastern Queens. These improvements will make travel safer and more convenient for the thousands of New Yorkers who traverse these roads each day."
Council Member Paul Vallone said: "I thank Governor Cuomo for making this critical investment in our highways. The funding will go a long way towards improving the infrastructure and safety for New Yorkers driving on these roads."
Council Member James Vacca said: "I applaud Governor Cuomo for making transportation infrastructure repair a priority. These roadways are main transportation arteries for the region. I'm glad that we are receiving the necessary funding to make the needed improvements."
For up-to-date travel information, call 511 or visit www.511NY.org. Follow New York State DOT on Twitter: @NYSDOT_NYC or on Facebook at facebook.com/NYSDOT.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-three-state-highway-repaving-projects-queens-and-bronx
