Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Partnership to Provide Health Insurance to New York's Boxing Community
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 4, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the NY State of Health, the State's official health plan Marketplace, and the New York State Athletic Commission are working together to enroll uninsured members of the State's boxing community in affordable health plans. Health insurance enrollment events will be held throughout New York concurrent with scheduled boxer weigh in dates this spring.
"Boxing is a sport with a rich history in New York, but also one that carries clear risks for men and women who step into the ring," Governor Cuomo said. "This effort will help ensure competitors across this state have access to the health coverage and the proper medical treatment they need."
Many professional boxers and other members of the boxing community living in the State are currently uninsured and unprotected in case of injury or illness. NY State of Health certified in-person assistors will be on hand at weigh ins to enroll boxers and trainers in health plans on the spot.
NY State of Health Executive Director Donna Frescatore said, "This partnership means boxers, coaches and trainers can easily get information about health insurance options and enroll in a health plan immediately if eligible. We thank the New York State Athletic Commission for their efforts, and for their commitment to making information about affordable health insurance readily available to those in New York's boxing community."
New York State Athletic Commission Executive Director David Berlin said, "We believe it is vital for boxers to have the ability to see a doctor and maintain good health with a yearly physical. This partnership gives boxers and others in the boxing community the opportunity to enroll in health insurance plans through the NY State of Health Marketplace. This is a simple, common sense effort to promote good health and well-being."
NY State of Health in-person assistors will hold enrollment sessions at the following events:
Weigh Ins
May 18 -- 5 P.M. -- Rochester -- Diplomat Party House and Diplomat Banquet Center, 1956 Lyell Avenue, Rochester, NY 14606
June 3 -- 5 P.M. -- Whitehall -- Whitehall Athletic Club, 62 Poultney St, Whitehall, NY 12887
June 24 -- 5 P.M. -- Syracuse/Liverpool - Holiday Inn, Exit 37, 441 Electronics Pkwy, Liverpool, NY 13088
Open Houses
May 13 - 3-7 P.M., Mendez Boxing, 23 E. 26 Street, New York, NY 10010
May 17 - 3-7 P.M., John's Boxing Gym, 1703 Jerome Ave, Bronx, NY 10453
May 24 - 3-7 P.M., Morris Park Boxing Club, 644 Morris Park Ave, Bronx, NY 10460
May 27 - 3-7 P.M., Gleason's Gym, 77 Front St, Brooklyn, NY 11201
About NY State of Health
New York opened its Health Plan Marketplace, NY State of Health, in October 2013. The Marketplace's one stop health insurance shopping experience offers high quality comprehensive health plans. NY State of Health is the only place where consumers can qualify to get help paying for coverage through premium discounts or tax credits. Eligible New Yorkers can also enroll in Medicaid, Child Health Plus and the Essential Plan through the Marketplace all year. For more information about the NY State of Health Marketplace, please visit: https://nystateofhealth.ny.gov/ or call Customer Service at 1-855-355-5777, TTY: 1.800.662.1220 or find an enrollment assistor.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-partnership-provide-health-insurance-new-yorks-boxing-community
