Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $3 Million to Improve Hudson River Access and Environmental Protections
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 2, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $3 million in grant awards for new projects to help communities improve recreation access, protect water quality, conserve open space, and increase storm resiliency in the Hudson River Estuary watershed. A total of $1.76 million in Hudson River Estuary grants were awarded to 36 projects. An additional $1.25 million is now available for organizations and municipalities to apply for through Requests for Applications. The deadline for these RFAs is June 30, 2016.
"The Hudson River plays a key role in New York's storied history and helped build the state's economy and its very identity," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding will help protect this treasured waterway and its surrounding communities, as well as create more recreational opportunities to be enjoyed by New Yorkers and visitors alike for years to come."
Department of Environmental Conservation Acting Commissioner Basil Seggos said, "Working with local communities, environmental groups and civic organizations, New York has significantly improved the environmental health of the Hudson River Estuary. Governor Cuomo has made important investments to protect the river, create new and expanded recreation access and upgrade community resiliency, which allows us to realize the potential of this historic waterway."
Through Governor Cuomo's leadership, the 2016-17 State Budget includes an historic $300 million commitment to the Environmental Protection Fund. This unprecedented funding will augment the Hudson River Estuary Program and help communities conduct planning and research or implement projects to achieve the goals of the Hudson River Estuary Action Agenda 2015-2020.
The newly released Hudson River Estuary Action Agenda includes a number of projects and programs to conserve or improve: clean water; community resiliency; the vital estuary ecosystem; fish, wildlife and their habitats; natural scenery; and river access and education. To view the Action Agenda and for complete details about the new grant funding, please visit: www.dec.ny.gov/lands/4920.html.





































Source:
