Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Opening of Three Additional Programs Aimed at Helping Youth With Schizophrenia
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 2, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the expansion of a state program that helps young adults with newly emerging psychotic symptoms. Run by the state Office of Mental Health, the OnTrackNY program provides young adults with innovative, team-based psychiatric treatment, employment and educational services, as well as family education and support at locations throughout New York State. Three new locations are now open in Manhattan, Rochester and Albany, and eight additional sites are slated to open across the state by the end of 2016.
"Early intervention is one of the best ways to help ensure people with mental illness get access to the resources and treatment they need," said Governor Cuomo. "This program provides a crucial service to young adults when they first experience symptoms of schizophrenia -- ensuring they have the support they require from day one."
With the opening of the three new OnTrackNY programs in Manhattan, Rochester and Manhattan, 12 OnTrackNY sites are now operational. By the end of 2016, eight additional program sites will open across New York State. These new sites will be located in Binghamton, the Bronx (two locations), Brooklyn, Garden City, Middletown, Queens, and Staten Island. At full implementation, it is estimated that the 20-site OnTrackNY program will serve 760 New York State youth at any given time.
"The Office of Mental Health continues to identify opportunities to expand this comprehensive program to more New York youth in need," said New York State Office of Mental Health Commissioner Dr. Ann Marie T. Sullivan. "We want to make sure these individuals have the opportunity to achieve their personal goals, especially in work and school, and easy access to community-based mental health services is a key part of this equation."
It is estimated that nearly 3,000 New York residents develop schizophrenia each year, which if left untreated may lead to a number of significant issues, including problems at school and work, strained family relations, and estrangement from friends. Untreated schizophrenia can lead to problems such as homelessness, incarceration, and substance abuse, the probability of which increases the longer the psychosis goes untreated. Oftentimes, untreated schizophrenia leads to disability, which exacts painful human costs upon the individuals and their families, as well as substantial financial costs to individuals, families, and the healthcare and social service systems.
Started in 2013, the OnTrackNY program provides an innovative, evidence-based, team approach to providing recovery-oriented treatment to young people who have recently begun experiencing psychotic symptoms. OnTrackNY helps young adults with newly emerged psychotic disorders achieve their goals for school, work, and social relationships. This program follows principles of care which include shared decision making, youth friendly and welcoming environments, and connection with flexible and accessible mental health services.
OnTrackNY is funded by the New York State Office of Mental Health and the United States Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
For more information about the OnTrackNY program, visit http://ontrackny.org/.
To find a program near you, visit http://ontrackny.org/Contact.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-opening-three-additional-programs-aimed-helping-youth-schizophrenia
