Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Highlights Arbor Day With Tree Planting Event in Capital Region
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 29, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today celebrated Arbor Day and highlighted "Trees for Tributaries" -- an initiative to foster the planting of more than 30,000 trees along tributaries, small creeks, and streams across the state. As part of a state Arbor Day Celebration, officials from the Department of Environmental Conservation and the State Arbor Day Committee joined local partners at an event in Raoul Wallenberg Park in downtown Albany.
"Arbor Day is an opportunity for all New Yorkers to recognize the beauty of trees and the vital role they play in our communities," said Governor Cuomo. "By committing ourselves to planting more trees and protecting the environment overall, we're taking a crucial step toward building a cleaner, greener and stronger state for future generations."
Arbor Day is a nationally celebrated observance that promotes tree plantings and tree care and highlights the importance of trees to the environment, economy and overall quality of life. Founded by J. Sterling Morton in Nebraska in 1872, National Arbor Day is celebrated each year on the last Friday in April and was started as an initiative to encourage farmers and homesteaders to plant trees that would provide shade, shelter, food, fuel and beauty to open areas.
DEC Acting Commissioner Basil Seggos said: "Planting trees and shrubs along stream corridors prevents erosion, increases flood water retention, improves wildlife and stream habitat, and protects water quality. Today's City of Albany tree planting event in conjunction with the work of DEC's "Trees for Tributaries' program are great ways to honor Arbor Day and all that trees do to protect and enhance our environment, economy and quality of life."
Department of Agriculture and Markets Commissioner Richard A. Ball said: "There is something very special about getting your hands in the dirt, planting a tree and watching it grow. Arbor Day is a perfect opportunity to do just that and to highlight the importance of trees to our health, our environment, and our economy."












Source:
