Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Start of $65 Million Improvements on Interstate 690 in Syracuse
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 4, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that work will begin Monday, May 8 on the $65 million reconstruction of Interstate 690 at its intersection with Teall Avenue and Beech Street in the city of Syracuse, Onondaga County. The two-year project will improve access to the interstate, ease traffic congestion and enhance traffic safety and capacity.
"New York is rebuilding critical infrastructure to improve mobility and boost economic growth for communities across the state, and this investment will provide Central New York with the support needed to meet the demands of a growing community," Governor Cuomo said. "The significant transportation improvements set to take place in the heart of Syracuse will ensure residents and businesses have access to safe, reliable bridges and roads for decades to come."
The Teall-Beech project will replace the single-span bridge over Teall Avenue. The 15 span Beech Street viaduct will also be replaced with a single new span over Beech Street and a new highway section on an embankment supported by retaining walls. Construction crews will utilize a unique method of soil stabilization that will compress the soil and minimize excavation.
This area of Teall Avenue and Beech Street will be reconstructed, as will the I-690 interchange with Teall Avenue, to improve traffic movement and reduce congestion, especially during the morning and afternoon rush hours. The work will include utility upgrades as well.
"Governor Cuomo knows the importance of transportation and this project is a winner for the city of Syracuse and its residents," said New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Mathew J. Driscoll. "By modernizing the Teall Avenue and Beech Street bridges and the roadways around them, we are improving safety for motorists and pedestrians, now and into the future."


Source:
