Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $600,000 Project to Widen Exit 12 Ramp from Westbound Staten Island Expressway Will Begin One Year Early
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 28, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the $600,000 project to widen the Exit 12 ramp to Slosson Avenue/Todt Hill Road from the westbound Staten Island Expressway will begin the week of May 2, one year ahead of the originally scheduled 2017 start date. More than 5,600 vehicles use this ramp daily.
"By expediting the construction process and moving up the start date, Staten Islanders can begin to experience an improved commute even sooner than expected," Governor Cuomo said. "The modifications being made are essential to improving both safety and traffic flow for the thousands of motorists who use it every day."
The exit will be widened to two lanes from the middle of the ramp to the traffic light at the intersection of Slosson Avenue and Reon Avenue. A wider, two-lane ramp at Exit 12 will increase the capacity for vehicles turning either right or left onto Slosson Avenue or continuing straight on Reon Avenue/Gannon Avenue North. Work is expected to be completed by the end of summer 2016.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "Widening this ramp improves capacity and traffic flow on a busy corridor. Under Governor Cuomo's leadership the Department is improving infrastructure to meet the needs of motorists."
Assemblymember Michael Cusick said, "Expediting this project was a top priority for both Councilman Matteo and I, and I am glad to partner with Governor Cuomo to provide state funding for this project to begin a year ahead of schedule. I want to thank the State Department of Transportation for hearing the concerns of Island motorists, and I look forward to construction beginning shortly."
Staten Island Borough President James Oddo said, "I have long said that there is no one traffic silver bullet to solve all our traffic problems, but there are common sense improvements we can make at problematic locations. This exit ramp is one of those problematic locations. Thank you to Governor Cuomo for ensuring this project begins a year earlier than expected, and to Council Member Matteo and Assemblyman Cusick for their advocacy on this issue."
City Council Member Steve Matteo said, "I am pleased Assemblyman Cusick and I were able to work with State DOT to widen this exit ramp, because it will clearly ease the heavy congestion that has become a hazard to drivers. I want to thank State DOT and Governor Cuomo for hearing our requests and expediting the work so the issue could be resolved as soon as possible."
For up-to-date travel information, call 511 or visit www.511NY.org.
Follow New York State DOT on Twitter: @NYSDOT_NYC. Find us on Facebook at facebook.com/NYSDOT.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-600000-project-widen-exit-12-ramp-westbound-staten-island-expressway
