Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Partnership with New Jersey to Fight Prescription Drug Abuse
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 26, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced New York State has begun sharing Prescription Monitoring Program (PMP) data with New Jersey to prevent the stockpiling and resale of dangerous controlled substances and to help fight the abuse of prescription drugs.
New York and New Jersey are using the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy PMP InterConnect hub, which allows them to securely share their prescription data with authorized requestors from other states in the hub. The Prescription Monitoring Program provides practitioners and pharmacists with a patient's recent controlled substance prescription information. By providing more complete records of patients' multi-state prescription histories, states work together to prevent those who would evade state laws from obtaining and stockpiling or reselling dangerous controlled substances for nonmedical use.
New York began data sharing with New Jersey on April 14, 2016. Through just April 22, over 16,000 controlled substance records have been requested, with over 12,000 of those requests coming from New York to New Jersey.
"Sharing controlled substance data with neighboring states allows us to more effectively combat prescription drug abuse and fraud," said Governor Cuomo. "New York has seen an important decrease in the number of controlled substance prescriptions issued since we launched our aggressive I-STOP program in 2012, and I am confident that sharing data across state lines will further that success throughout the region. Prescription drug abuse impacts families nationwide, and I am proud of the crucial step we are taking to stem this epidemic."
Governor Cuomo initiated New York's PMP -- known as the Internet System for Tracking Over-Prescribing Act (I-STOP) -- in 2012, and the program has revolutionized the way controlled substances are prescribed, distributed and tracked in New York State.

Source:
