Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New Recreation Opportunities in the Adirondacks
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 22, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced dozens of new outdoor recreation opportunities available to the public at the Essex Chain Lakes Complex under the state's newly adopted management plan. The plan allows DEC to implement approved projects which will significantly boost public access to the Complex, while also preserving the unique resources of the region.
"The Adirondacks are one of New York's crown jewels, offering unparalleled natural beauty and some of the best outdoor recreation opportunities in the nation," Governor Cuomo said. "I encourage New Yorkers and visitors alike to take a trip and experience all the Essex Chain Lakes have to offer."
The Essex Chain Lakes Complex is located in the Central Adirondacks in the towns of Minerva and Newcomb in Essex County, and the Town of Indian Lake in Hamilton County. The eight lakes comprising the Essex Chain Lakes are the namesake and main attraction of the Complex, which also includes many other scenic and natural features, including the Hudson and Cedar rivers, numerous other lakes and ponds, and forested hills.
The Essex Chain Lakes Management Complex includes 6,956-acre Essex Chain Primitive Area, the 2,788-acre Pine Lake Primitive Area and a portion of the 42,537-acre Blue Mountain Wild Forest which are located in the Town of Indian Lake in Hamilton County, and the towns of Newcomb and Minerva in Essex County.
The Complex contains 18 bodies of water totaling 785 acres, ranging in size from the three-acre Chub Pond to the 216-acre Third Lake. Ten miles of the Hudson River on the eastern boundary and four miles of the Cedar River in the southern section make the area a paddler's paradise.
"Through Governor Andrew Cuomo's leadership, we continue to make great progress in protecting incredible natural resources in the Adirondack Park, like those in this complex, and providing quality outdoor recreational experiences which help sustain the local economies of the region," Acting Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Seggos said. "DEC is excited to begin implementing the projects identified in this Management Plan which will significantly enhance outdoor recreational opportunities in a manner that preserves the unique resources of these areas."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-new-recreation-opportunities-adirondacks
