Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 840 Percent Increase in Tickets For Texting While Driving Since 2011
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 8, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that efforts by state and local law enforcement have resulted in an 840 percent increase in tickets for texting while driving in New York State since 2011. While the number of cell phone tickets have decreased each year since 2011, texting tickets issued during the same period have increased substantially with the proliferation of smartphones.
The announcement was made in conjunction with Distracted Driving Awareness Month and Operation Hang Up, a high-visibility distracted driving crackdown coordinated by the Governor's Traffic Safety Committee and carried out by the New York State Police and local law enforcement, which runs from April 8 to April 13.
"There is zero tolerance for distracted driving and State Police will be out in force to crack down on this dangerous behavior," Governor Cuomo said. "By keeping your eyes on the road and hands on the wheel, we can help prevent needless tragedies and make this a safer New York."
Governor Cuomo has made combating texting-while-driving a high priority. In 2011, he directed DMV to implement regulations increasing the number of points for a texting-while-driving infraction from two points to three points, and from three points to five points in 2015. The Governor also signed a law substantially increasing penalties for probationary and junior drivers convicted of texting-while-driving. Under the law, probationary and junior drivers could face a 120 day suspension for a first offense, and can lose their license for one year if a second offense is committed within six months. Motorists caught texting and driving face up to a $450 fine and five points on their license.
Preliminary numbers for 2015 already show that the number of tickets issued by State Police and local law enforcement for texting are up over 2014, and have dramatically increased each year since 2011.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-840-percent-increase-tickets-texting-while-driving-2011
