Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches $10 Million Downtown Revitalization Initiative in the Southern Tier
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 7, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today launched the $10 million Downtown Revitalization Initiative in the Southern Tier -- a comprehensive approach to transform a designated downtown area ripe for growth into a vibrant neighborhood where the next generation of New Yorkers will want to live and work. The program, first presented in the Governor's 2016 State of the State Address, will invest $10 million in a designated downtown in the Southern Tier. The downtown will be selected by the Southern Tier Regional Economic Development Council.
"A thriving downtown can provide a tremendous boost to the local economy," said Governor Cuomo. "This initiative will transform a select downtown neighborhood into a vibrant place for people to live, work and raise a family -- which will also help attract new investments and businesses for years to come. The Regional Councils have been key to generating new opportunities for local economies, and I am excited to have them spearhead this new effort to build on that progress from the ground up."
The downtown revitalization initiative complements "Southern Tier Soaring," the region's comprehensive blueprint to generate robust economic growth and community development. This transformative plan builds on the gains the Southern Tier has made under the Upstate Revitalization Initiative, while further leveraging state investment to create urban centers that will cement the area's legacy and position it as a major gateway, with strengths in advanced manufacturing, healthcare, culture and high-technology development and more.
Former New York Secretary of State Cesar A. Perales will chair the downtown revitalization initiative and lead the effort with a team of private sector experts and planners from the Department of State, with support from the Division of Homes and Community Renewal, as well as other state agencies. The state will assist the Southern Tier in building strategic investment plans and identifying key projects consistent with the initiative's goals.
Acting New York Secretary of State Rossana Rosado said: "The Governor's Downtown Revitalization Initiative will help reinvigorate our communities by leveraging private investment with existing state resources. Under the Chairmanship of former Secretary Perales, this program will rehabilitate downtowns by housing new and growing small businesses to anchor these areas and make them more livable."

Source:
