Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Highlights Success of Buy NY Program to Increase Procurement of Local Foods in State Facilities
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 5, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today highlighted the success of the Buy NY program to increase procurement of local, New York State foods in state facilities and support the state's agricultural economy. As a result of the program, first announced in 2014 at the Farm to Table Upstate-Downstate Agricultural Summit, the Department of Corrections and Community Supervision has significantly increased its purchase of New York State products. It has replaced several out-of-state products on its menu and spent more than $1.8 million to purchase New York State-grown and produced food and beverages such as apples, potatoes, beans, yogurt, ice cream and milk.
"New York's agriculture industry is an economic engine in communities across this state and through the Buy NY program, we are continuing to drive its growth and expand opportunity," Governor Cuomo said. "I am proud of this program's success and we will continue to connect state institutions with local farmers and producers to showcase the very best of New York's products and strengthen our agricultural economy."
Governor Cuomo announced the Buy NY initiative in 2014 to help state and local governments increase the purchase of local agriculture products in government-run institutions such as hospitals, colleges, prisons and other facilities. The program is a collaborative effort by the State Department of Agriculture and Markets, DOCCS, Office of Mental Health, Department of Health, Office of General Services and Cornell Cooperative Extension.
By working in cooperation with the Department of Agriculture and Markets, OGS and Cornell Cooperative Extension, DOCCS has been able to further the Governor's initiative and maintain the low cost to taxpayers of feeding the inmate population.
It costs DOCCS an average of $2.84 to feed an inmate three meals per day using the Cook-Chill process. Cook-Chill involves chilling food products immediately after their preparation to ensure freshness, then shipping the products in large, sealed plastic bags for easy reheating.

Source:
