Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 112,000 Energy Efficiency Projects Initiated Since 2012
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 23, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that in the past four years, 112,000 residential and commercial energy efficiency projects have been completed or are currently under development through New York State clean energy programs. These projects will attract $766 million in private investment and will save customers $341 million on their energy bills each year. Homeowners are saving an average of $56 per month on electric and natural gas bills, and building owners are saving an average of $1,023 per month.
"Smarter, more efficient energy infrastructure is crucial to building a better future for New York State," said Governor Cuomo. "We have made tremendous progress in creating cleaner and greener communities, savings hundreds of millions of dollars for consumers every year and jumpstarting major private sector investments statewide. Our administration is committed to ensuring a bright future for this state, and we will continue working to make that happen for all New Yorkers."
The 112,000 energy efficiency projects across the state include 90,000 individual homes and 22,000 commercial buildings, including apartment buildings, hospitals, schools, art galleries and office buildings. The projects will reduce annual electricity demand by 2 million megawatt hours a year, the equivalent of saving enough electricity to power more than 275,000 average-size homes. They will also reduce annual heating fuel demand by 9 trillion British thermal units (Btu), the equivalent of heating more than 85,000 average-size homes.
Additionally, the projects will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than 797,000 metric tons annually, the equivalent of taking 168,000 cars off the road, which helps the State progress toward its goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent and decreasing energy consumption in buildings by 23 percent by 2030.
A detailed regional breakdown of energy efficiency statistics can be found here: Energy Efficiency Chart by Region.
New York State Chairman of Energy and Finance Richard Kauffman said, "Energy efficiency is a critical component of Governor Cuomo's Reforming the Energy Vision strategy and our mandate for 50 percent of our electricity to come from renewable energy resources by 2030."
New York State Energy Research and Development Authority President and CEO John B. Rhodes said, "Energy efficiency will continue to help residents and businesses across New York create cost savings, energy savings and greenhouse gas reductions. New York is already realizing benefits from past energy efficiency projects, and we will continue to build this momentum under the Clean Energy Fund."
These projects complement each region's Upstate Revitlization Initiative plan to create jobs and grow the economy. In December 2015, Governor Cuomo awarded three Upstate regions - the Finger Lakes Region, Central New York and Southern Tier - an historic $500 million State investment through the Upstate Revitalization Initiative to fund targeted regional plans for economic growth. In each region, the $500 million is leveraging more than $2.5 billion in private investment, creating thousands of jobs and providing the basis to create a highly successful and diverse 21st century economy. More information on each region's plan is available here: Finger Lakes Forward; Central NY Rising; and Southern Tier Soaring.
In his State of the State address, Governor Cuomo committed the State to increasing the energy efficiency of 500,000 households and 20,000 businesses by 2020. To meet this goal, the state will invest part of its Clean Energy Fund to help property owners and renters audit their current energy use to identify energy savings opportunities and replace inefficient systems and appliances with high-efficiency models wherever possible.
About Reforming the Energy Vision
Reforming the Energy Vision is New York Governor Andrew M. Cuomo's strategy to build a cleaner, more resilient and affordable energy system for all New Yorkers. REV places clean, locally produced power at the core of New York's energy system which protects the environment and supports the State's goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent while generating 50 percent of its electricity from renewable energy sources by 2030. Successful initiatives already launched as part of REV include NY-Sun, NY Green Bank, NY Prize, K-Solar, and includes a commitment to improve energy affordability for low-income communities.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-112000-energy-efficiency-projects-initiated-2012
