Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces LMDC to Fund 14 Key Projects Through $50 Million Settlement With Lend Lease
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 18, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation will fund 14 key projects through a $50 million legal settlement with Lend Lease Construction LMB Inc. (formerly Bovis Lend Lease LMB Inc.). The 14 projects will enhance the cultural, recreational and education opportunities in the region and ultimately improve the quality of life for residents in lower Manhattan.
"This action will help strengthen these neighborhoods in lower Manhattan and create a better environment for people to live, work and visit," said Governor Cuomo. "The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation has been a major force in the rebuilding for this community, and with these projects, this progress will continue for years to come."
Howard Zemsky, President, CEO, and Commissioner of Empire State Development, said: "Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, Lower Manhattan has rebounded in recent years, with tremendous private-sector job creation, a booming economy, and a thriving community. These funds will go toward key projects, like the Hudson River Park, and much-needed reconstruction and improvements to the East River Waterfront."
Alicia Glen, Deputy Mayor for Housing and Economic Development, said: "These 14 projects that now have appropriate funding will foster job growth and our economy. In addition, the investments to increase access and use of the East River Waterfront will give New Yorkers yet another public space to enjoy everything New York City has to offer in areas they previously had limited access to. I look forward to its completion."
The settlement, which was originally reached in the spring of 2015, marked the resolution of a lawsuit between LMDC and Lend Lease concerning the demolition of the Deutsche Bank Building. Lend Lease agreed to pay LMDC $40 million and to forgive more than $10 million in outstanding payments. The funds recovered were initially provided to LMDC in Community Development Block Grants administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
To determine the best uses for this funding, the LMDC formed a Working Group consisting of state and city officials as well as Catherine McVay Hughes, who also serves as Chair of Community Board 1 and as a member of LMDC's Board of Directors. The Working Group conducted extensive reviews of the proposals, including site visits and interviews, and oversaw a public information session last September, during which dozens of community members presented and discussed various proposals.
LMDC was created in the aftermath of September 11, 2001 to help plan and coordinate the rebuilding and revitalization of Lower Manhattan. LMDC is a joint state-city corporation governed by an eight-member Board of Directors, half appointed by the Governor of New York and half by the Mayor of New York. Since its inception, LMDC has allocated more than $2 billion in federal funds toward redeveloping Lower Manhattan.
LMDC Chair Joe Chan said: "Through years of litigation, LMDC leadership and staff fought aggressively to protect the interests of the taxpayers, who fund LMDC, and were able to settle this case on very favorable terms for the state and city. Now the funds we recovered will be returned to the community. As these projects come to fruition, we look forward to working with our partners at HUD, who have provided tremendous support throughout our rebuilding efforts."
LMDC Board Member Catherine McVay Hughes said: "These funds will go a long way to maximizing public benefits and supporting downtown's most cherished resources - from our waterfront to parks and playgrounds, to cultural institutions and social services. I want to thank our partners from the state and city for their continued commitment to our communities."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-lmdc-fund-14-key-projects-through-50-million-settlement-lend-lease
