Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Actions to Increase Diversity in State Government
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 18, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced two significant actions to increase and strengthen diversity in the state government workforce. First, the Governor is creating an Advisory Council on Diversity and Inclusion to focus on accelerating the hiring of strong minority candidates for positions in the state government workforce. The Advisory Council will be chaired by the New York Secretary of State. Additionally, the Governor announced a series of career fairs to be held over the coming weeks to help increase the representation of minorities in state government's workforce. The first such career fair will be held this weekend, in partnership with the annual SOMOS El Futuro Spring Conference in Albany.
Under Governor Cuomo, New York State has made dramatic strides to create and strengthen opportunities for minority communities. The Governor doubled the state's MWBE goal in his first year in office to 20 percent, and in 2014 increased that goal again to 30 percent of all state contracts -- the highest such goal in the nation. The Governor has also nearly doubled the representation of minorities on his executive staff compared to previous governors -- from 15.5 percent in 2008 to 27 percent today. The Governor is committed to furthering that progress, and specifically with regard to minority hiring across the entirety of the state's public sector workforce.
"New York's diversity has always been its greatest strength," said Governor Cuomo. "Our MWBE program has become a national model, and we are going to do the same with our hiring practices so that the state's workforce reflects the strength of our communities. We believe that bringing people together and being inclusive -- not divisive -- is the best way to create a state that works for everyone, and together we will continue to raise the bar and build a better future for all New Yorkers."
In 2015, minorities represented 25.7 percent of the state government workforce, up from 24.2 percent in 2010 and 23.3 percent in 2005. The Governor's Advisory Council on Diversity and Inclusion has been charged with accelerating this rate of progress overall by recruiting more racial and ethnic minorities to work in state government. Their work will include examining relevant data and best practices in both the public and private sectors; identifying challenges and opportunities within the existing system; and collaborating with key State agencies to develop a Five-Year Strategic Plan for Statewide Diversity and Inclusion.
Governor Cuomo also announced that more than two dozen state agencies are discussing public sector careers with college students and all interested job seekers at the 29th annual SOMOS El Futuro Spring Conference on Friday, March 18, and Saturday, March 19, at the Empire State Plaza in Albany. The two-day job fair will feature a Career Boot Camp both days led by the Departments of Civil Service and Labor, as well as state agency booths where job seekers will be able to obtain information about current employment opportunities and services.
As part of this career fair, the Department of Civil Service is leading presentations to help job seekers connect with state employment opportunities focusing on the civil service exam and hiring process, as well as highlighting Governor Cuomo's hiring programs for veterans and internship opportunities for students. This includes information on state jobs with second language fluency requirements. Additionally, the Department of Labor is hosting demonstrations on Governor Cuomo's Jobs Express website, which currently features more than 115,000 available New York-based jobs.
The SOMOS Statewide Career Fair will be the kick-off to similar events that will be planned around the state with the goal of increasing diversity and establishing a pipeline for state careers. As more events are announced, they will be found at: www.labor.ny.gov and www.cs.ny.gov.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-actions-increase-diversity-state-government
