Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $10 Million to Help Non-Profits Improve Health Information Technology Systems
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 17, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $10 million in awards to help non-profit behavioral health and developmental disability service providers improve and develop their technological infrastructure. These awards will be used by providers to strengthen information technology operations as New York State continues the transition to Medicaid Managed Care for Behavioral Health and Developmental Disability healthcare.
"Today we are transforming New York's health care system and empowering providers with the technology they need to improve services for their patients," said Governor Cuomo. "This funding allows non-profit organizations to provide even better care to individuals living with developmental disabilities or behavioral health challenges. I'm proud that we are continuing to move New York's health care system forward, and I look forward to seeing this funding lead to better outcomes for patients across the state."
This funding, secured in the 2015-16 Enacted Budget and awarded by a Request for Proposal process, will be used by providers to purchase technology upgrades including hardware, software and services. The monies can also be used to educate staff on how to better use health information management systems.
"The Health Information Technology funds provide much-needed assistance for the awarded providers as they prepare to deliver person-centered services in a specialized managed care system," said Office for People with Developmental Disabilities Acting Commissioner Kerry A. Delaney. "These investments in technology will help improve outcomes for people and ensure that personalized, community-based supports and healthcare services are integrated to better support people's wants and needs."
"Better technological infrastructure means better services. When providers have the tools they need to get the job done, they can serve more individuals, more efficiently, and for lower costs," said New York State Office of Mental Health Commissioner Dr. Ann Marie Sullivan. "This funding will help providers throughout New York State improve their operations, with all New Yorkers benefiting from a stronger, more resilient healthcare system."
"This major investment will help our substance use disorder treatment providers update their systems so that they can continue to focus on providing quality services," said New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services Commissioner Arlene González-Sánchez. "We are committed to helping providers succeed in their transition to Medicaid Managed Care. These upgrades will help to ensure that that transition is smooth and quality care is delivered to all New Yorkers suffering from substance use disorders."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-10-million-help-non-profits-improve-health-information-technology
