Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces PFOA No Longer Detected at Hoosick Falls Municipal Water Filtration System
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 13, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the test results from Hoosick Falls' recently installed municipal water filtration system show that perfluorooctanoic acid has been removed to non-detectable levels. The announcement comes as the state has reached an agreement with St. Gobain and Honeywell to deliver bottled water directly to residents who need assistance in getting water to their homes.
The Governor also met with a group of Hoosick Falls' residents to discuss the state's response and answer questions about water quality. The NYS Department of Health continues to test water samples throughout the Village, and residents are advised to continue to use bottled water until tap water is deemed acceptable for all uses.
"The state continues to take aggressive action to protect the health and safety of Hoosick Falls residents," Governor Cuomo said. "We have made good progress with PFOA no longer detected in the village's water filtration system, and we continue to work diligently to address residual contamination. The state remains in close contact with local officials and key stakeholders to ensure access to clean, drinkable water in Hoosick Falls."
Municipal Water Filtration System
Test results from Hoosick Falls' recently installed municipal water filtration system show that PFOA has been removed to non-detectable levels. The filtration system has been extensively monitored since its installation in late February, and filtered water from the system is being used to flush the Village's water mains and distribution system in order to remove any residual PFOA. The state recently approved a $95,000 grant to boost capacity of the Village's water supply system. The NYS Department of Health continues to aggressively test water samples throughout the Village to ensure that the installed carbon filters are working to restore water that is acceptable for all uses.
The municipal filtration system consists of two granular activated carbon filters, and water runs through both filters before entering the village distribution system. Water is sampled after it runs through the first filter, and again after the second filter. Samples taken after the first filter show non-detectable levels of PFOA, even before the water is treated a second time.
Bringing Bottled Water Directly to Residents
The Governor also announced an agreement with Saint Gobain Performance Plastics and Honeywell International to work with the Town of Hoosick and the Village of Hoosick Falls to deliver bottled water to residents in need beginning this week. As water has not yet been deemed appropriate for cooking and drinking, Hoosick Falls' residents will receive a rebate for half of all water costs, or approximately $240,000 in total. Residents are advised to continue to use bottled water until otherwise notified. Further details will be provided in the coming days.
Residential Filtration Systems
The New York State Department of Health and the Department of Environmental Conservation also announced their weekly progress in testing water samples and installing point-of-entry water filtration systems. Since March 4, DOH received results from 166 water samples (see chart below). DOH has also taken an additional 228 water samples from various sites throughout the Town of Hoosick in the past week. Additionally, DEC has installed 264 point-of-entry filtration systems in that time period.
DEC started valve replacements last week and expects to complete all replacements by this week.
State Health Commissioner Dr. Howard Zucker said, "Great strides are being made every day in Hoosick Falls. DOH continues to take water samples from private wells and the public water system, and we're working closely with all of our partners at DEC and in the local community to tackle this problem."
DEC Acting Commissioner Basil Seggos said, "DEC continues its work, under the leadership of Governor Cuomo, to address the contamination in drinking water in the Hoosick Falls area. Every day we are making real progress to ensure all residents have water that is acceptable for all uses with our preliminary sampling results demonstrating that the in-home filtration systems successfully remove PFOA."
Well Water Results
Of the 166 water test results received by DOH since March 4, 156 tests or 93.9 percent were less than the EPA Advisory level of 100 part per trillion (ppt). Only 10 had levels of PFOA at or above the EPA Advisory level of 100 ppt. Of the 156 under the EPA Advisory of 100 ppt, 76 had PFOA levels of less than 2 ppt (i.e. non detection of PFOA) and 80 have levels between 2 and 100 ppt.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-pfoa-no-longer-detected-hoosick-falls-municipal-water-filtration
