Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $17 Million to Create More Than 700 Affordable Homes and Homeownership Opportunities Across the State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 11, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $17 million in awards to nonprofit organizations and municipalities to create more than 700 affordable homes and new homeownership opportunities throughout the state. The announcement was made during New York State's Housing, Community and Faith-Based Development Conference. The conference is one of a series of meetings and workshops designed to bring state agency expertise and resources directly to regions. Its goal is to assist local organizations and development partners in creating affordable housing, delivering social services, and reviving downtown communities.
"As we work to strengthen the Upstate economy, New York State must support initiatives that grow affordable housing options and opportunities for homeownership, especially in rural and underserved areas," Governor Cuomo said. "By making unprecedented investments through the Upstate Revitalization Initiative and working closely with nonprofit and faith-based partners, we are bringing government resources directly to localities so they can access the tools and information they need to revitalize their communities."
Today's awards fund 51 projects statewide and leverage an additional $23.9 million in additional public and private funding to assist residents in underserved rural and urban parts of the state. They support the rehabilitation and improvement of 469 homes, the construction of 18 new homes, and provide down payment assistance to help 224 families achieve the dream of homeownership. Funds are provided through New York State Home and Community Renewal's HOME program, which is designed to increase safe, decent, affordable housing throughout the state.
Awards include more than $1 million to improve and repair the homes of 46 residents in the Southern Tier:
$300,000 to First Ward Action Council, Inc. to assist 15 very low-income homeowners in Broome County with housing renovations including correcting health hazards and creating more energy efficient homes
$400,000 to Community Progress, Inc. to provide renovations for up 15 low-income homeowners throughout Chemung, Schuyler, and Steuben Counties
$400,000 for Opportunities for Chenango, Inc. to provide rehabilitation and energy conversation measures to 16 low-income households

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-17-million-create-more-700-affordable-homes-and-homeownership
