Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $4 Million in Federal Funding Approved For Flood Mitigation Wall at Schoharie County Office Complex
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 10, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the approval of $4 million in funding under the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Public Assistance Program to support new flood mitigation measures at the Schoharie County Office Complex, which was heavily damaged during Hurricane Irene. This program provides assistance to state, local, tribal and certain non-profit organizations recover after a disaster has been declared by the President.
"My administration is committed to helping communities across the state prepare for the new reality of extreme weather," said Governor Cuomo. "This support from our federal partners allows us to build back stronger than before, so that Schoharie County is better prepared for whatever Mother Nature brings in the future. I'm proud to continue supporting and improving the local community, and I look forward to seeing these improvements completed."
This $4 million in federal funding will support the construction of flood wall that will surround the complex protect it from future flood damage. During Hurricane Irene, flooding caused severe damage to these buildings, devastating county office functions and displacing agencies that provide vital services to residents of Schoharie County for months.
Already, $6 million in repairs, document replacement and clean up has been completed at the site. Federal funding covered 75 percent of this original phase, while the state provided the remaining 25 percent.
Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services Commissioner John Melville said, "The impact from Hurricane Irene not only damaged the buildings, but destroyed critical public documents, and displaced agencies that deliver services to some of the most vulnerable residents of the communities they serve. I am pleased that FEMA has approved this project so that communities can get the services they need without interruption from severe storms."


Source:
