Public Statements
Transcript: House of Representatives Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi Endorses Governor Cuomo's Paid Family
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 10, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Good Morning. Thank you. Let's have a big round of applause for Jennifer Jones Austin. Didn't she do a great job? What an inspiration. Congressman Jerry Nadler, great to be with you, Congressman. We have Leader Pelosi in the house today. Let's give her a big New York welcome. To all of the Congresspeople who are here -- the Assemblypeople, the Senators, the City Councilpeople, the mayors. Boy, when Nancy Pelosi comes to town they turn out, don't they? I'll have more to say about her in a moment. But it's a pleasure to be with all of you today.
This is a very important time. We're coming right down to it in the New York State Legislature. A few weeks, and we are going to pass major legislation and we are going to find out exactly what kind of a state we are and what kind of a legislature we have, to tell you the truth. This is a, just a full political year. You can't even turn on the TV anymore without hearing the politics back and forth. It seems like there are debates every twenty minutes. Doesn't it seem that way? They have these countdown clocks now -- seven minutes from the last debate; fourteen minutes until the next debate. There is a lot of talking and a lot of yapping. I love the talking heads. I love the analysis, the constant analysis. They made a great revelation -- they all discovered that the electorate is angry. "The electorate is angry," that's what they say, right? So now the politicians are trying to figure out how to deal with the anger.
Well the first point is, people are angry, and by the way, they should be angry. The middle class is angry because the middle class, the working families, have been going backwards for a long, long time in this economy. That's the truth. We are creating new jobs in this new economy, but the jobs are not what they were twenty, thirty years ago. They are not paying a wage that allows the middle class to live a life. They are not paying a wage that allows the working families to move up. The numbers just don't add up. It's not math. That's why people are angry. The political question becomes, what do you do with that anger? You have some people and some theories that are using the anger politically. They're fanning the flames of the anger and they're directing the anger and the anxiety.
Where are they directing it? They're directing it to demonize the differences among people, right? Because differences always make us nervous. We're always a little nervous about differences. It's all too easy to use that politically and to use that fear and to use that anxiety. That's what some people are saying in this country and in this political debate. "The problem is the differences among us. The different people are the problem. You know, the different people. The people with the different color skin. The people with the different religion. The people with the different sexual orientation. That's the problem -- the differences. We'll make a list of all of the different people and the solution is simple: We'll collect all of the different people; we'll kick them out of the country; we'll build a big wall; they can't come back. All the problems are solved."
That's one school of politics that you're hearing out there. We come from a different school. We say -- we say the exact opposite. We say, "Yes there are differences among us but we're not afraid of the differences. We celebrate the differences. You want to demonize immigrants? We're all immigrants." I mean, let them look in the mirror. Who's not an immigrant? Unless you're a Native American, right, you're an immigrant. They say they want to make America great again. They don't understand what made America great in the first place and that was the acceptance of people, of everyone, everywhere. We come from the exact opposite school and our message is the exact opposite. We don't want to fan the flames and make it negative; we want to make it positive.
We want to make a change. Address the problems of the middle class. Address the problems of the working families. Restore the dream that is America. We want to do that two ways in New York. First, raise the minimum wage so it pays a decent living so people can eat and people can pay rent. That's what the minimum wage was all about. When FDR passed the minimum wage law, it was supposed to provide a decent living to people because the point was whatever work you do, we respect the dignity of work and if you're working full time, you should be treated with respect. That's what the minimum wage was all about. We want to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour because that's what you need in New York to raise a family in decency.
In this new economy it is not just about the wage, it's not just about the money, it's the way workers are treated, and more and more they are treated with less respect, almost like workers are a commodity and workers are replaceable. Now, there was a time when if a worker went to their boss and said, "Look, I have a problem at home, good news, bad news, but I need some help will you give me a few weeks off?" The employer probably would have said, "Yeah, I'll give you a few weeks off." Now if an employee goes to an employer and says, "I need a few weeks off" they'll probably say, "Oh, take a few weeks, by the way take a few more weeks, by the way don't bother coming back," right? "Because I am going to replace you."
So, there are times in life when you need tend to family. We talk about work and that is great and productivity, but life is more than work. Life is about family, life is about loved ones, life is about celebrating the good moments, the birth of child, a mother has the right to be there and bond at the birth of a child, the father has the right to be there and bond on the birth of a child. There are times at the other end of the spectrum on life, there are times when a loved one is sick. What Jennifer Jones Austin was talking about, I went thorough it with my father last year, we were going to lose my father and the doctors said, "It's a matter of weeks, it's a matter of months," and the right thing is to be there during those times. That is the right thing. I took as much time as I could with my father but in truth I wish I spent more time, and looking back I kick myself because that's what was important in life. Everything seemed so important, you had to be here, you had to be there. I don't even remember all that stuff that seemed so important. Being there with the loved one -- that was important. Just to hold a hand, just to spend time.
Now, we have family and medical leave, which says you can take 12 weeks off, the federal law thanks to Nancy Pelosi's leadership, but it is unpaid leave, so you have to be in a position to take those 12 weeks without any pay. That is very, very hard because some people still have to worry about things like paying the bills, right? And paying for food and unpaid leave doesn't meet that. So, we say let's take the next step forward in the state of New York which is 12 weeks of paid family leave to help workers lead a decent life. That is what we want to get passed this year, this session. If we get those two initiatives passed, you put minimum wage together with paid family leave, you're talking about a new reality for millions and millions of workers. You're talking about fairness. You're talking about equity. You're talking about justice. And you're talking about respect and dignity and that's what this is about.
That's why we are so pleased to lead this fight because this is not just a New York issue, this is a national issue because this tension is all across this country. This question of respect and economic fairness and economic justice and economic equality and a sense that the middle class and the working families have a government that is on their side and understands their problems. This is a nationwide challenge, but that's New York is so special, because New York has a history of leading the way, not just for New Yorkers, but we lead the way for the entire country. We say, "The progressive future is that way," and we are going to do it again. We are going to do it again. We're going to make our voice heard and you're going to weigh in with that New York State Legislature and you say to the Senate, and you say to the Assembly, "Don't you come back and represent us, unless you pass raising the minimum wage, and you pass paid family leave, and New York leads the way forward once again." Thank you. Thank you. Now. Thank you.
Now, we have a real treat and this is a treat for me personally for me but also for every New Yorker and every progressive in the nation. The next person you will hear from is a great family friend to the Cuomos. My father, God rest his soul governor Mario Cuomo who you remember him, my father loved, loved, loved Nancy Pelosi. When she would come on TV, my father would quiet everyone down -- "shh, shh, Nancy's on TV" -- and he respected her courage and her leadership and her values. She has always been there at the forefront of every progressive issue, always pointing the way forward.
What we are doing today on paid family leave and that crusade, she started; by starting the crusade by just getting unpaid family and medical leave which really started to raise the banner on this issue and on this problem and her voice resonated all across the country on this issue and it is going to resonate all across the country on this paid family leave. When we get it done here in New York and she can say that this is not a dream, they made it a reality in New York and now you can make it a reality in your state.
And Leader Pelosi is also our lucky charm. She was here a few months ago, we were having a big fight to pass our sexual assault bill, the most aggressive bill in the United States and sexual assault on college campuses and we didn't know if we could get it done and Leader Pelosi came in and she lead the way and she got us fired up and we passed sexual assault on college campuses and we are going to pass family leave. Let's give a big New York welcome, get on your feet for Leader Nancy Pelosi. Thank you for your leadership, thank you for being here today. Ladies and gentlemen, Leader Nancy Pelosi.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-audio-photos-rush-transcript-house-representatives-democratic-leader-nancy-pelosi
