Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $2.4 Million in Funding to Support Employment of Individuals with Disabilities
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 8, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that $2.4 million has been distributed to 100 organizations that provide employment services to individuals with disabilities via the New York State Employment Services System. This funding is part of the Governor's Employment First Initiative to increase employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities.
"This funding continues New York's legacy of inclusiveness by helping provide the necessary employment services to individuals with disabilities," Governor Cuomo said. "This action is yet another example of our commitment to expanding opportunity to all New Yorkers."
Governor Cuomo's Employment First Initiative, created through Executive Order 136, is tasked with establishing policies and practices for government, community agencies and advocacy organizations to increase the employment rate of New Yorkers with disabilities, decrease the poverty rate of New Yorkers with disabilities; and encourage businesses to establish formal policies to hire people with disabilities.
As one of 19 states to receive training assistance from the United States Department of Labor's Office of Disability Employment Programs in Fiscal Year 2016-2017, New York will receive 400 hours of training from nationally recognized experts in the field of disability employment. This training will focus on assisting community service providers in the cultural transformation necessary to support Governor Cuomo's Employment First Agenda, and create strategies for the implementation of specific services aimed at improving the employment rate and reducing the poverty rate among individuals with disabilities.
To expand the reach of this valuable training, the State will pursue a "train-the-trainers" approach and prioritize the training of the leadership of disability employment trade associations affiliated with the New York State Inclusive Workforce Alliance. It is expected that each of the 20 members of the Inclusive Workforce Alliance will train 100 of their members in the delivery of evidence-based practices supporting the Employment First model.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-24-million-funding-support-employment-individuals-disabilities
