Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $17.7 Million Pavement Restoration Project Resumes on the Thruway in Albany and Schenectady County
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: May 2, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that phase two of a two-year, $17.7 million pavement restoration project on the New York State Thruway (I-90) eastbound in Albany County resumes this week. Evening and overnight paving work began Monday, May 1 on I-90 eastbound between exit 24 (Albany, I-87 & I-90) and exit 25 (Schenectady, I-890) and will continue nightly for the next two months. Paving will also take place at the on and off ramps at exit 24 and exit 25. The project is scheduled to be completed this summer.

"Investing in New York's infrastructure is critical to driving local economies and ensuring the safety of the millions of travelers who depend on our roads and bridges every day," Governor Cuomo said. "With this project to repave and upgrade I-90 in Albany, we strengthen this vital artery for Capital Region commuters and ensure its viability for years to come."

The paving is the second phase of a two year, $17.7 million project which includes safety upgrades, new guiderails and improvements to road conditions to more than 18 lane miles of the Thruway. Phase one was completed in the fall 2016 and included paving of the westbound lanes, new guiderails, new signage and improved drainage.

Thruway Authority Acting Executive Director Bill Finch said, "The Thruway Authority's number one priority is the safety of our motorists on our system. This is a critical thoroughfare that connects two major cities in the Capital Region, Albany and Schenectady, and by reinvesting toll dollars, this project ensures that the thousands of motorists that drive this stretch each day will be able to enjoy a safe, well-kept roadway."

Motorists should expect single and double lane closures as necessary to complete the project. Lane closures will begin at 6 p.m. each night and all lanes will be re-opened prior to the morning peak travel period starting at 6 a.m.

The project is being completed in accordance with the requirements of Governor Cuomo's Drivers First Initiative, which prioritizes the convenience of motorists and ensures that disruptions are kept at a minimum for drivers at highway and bridge projects across the state.

The scheduled work will be performed by Rifenburg Construction from Troy, New York who will also use a new nighttime lighting system developed in conjunction with New York State Department of Transportation and the Associated General Contractors of New York State. The "balloon" lighting is intended to reduce glare, save energy and reduce lighting costs on a project.

Additionally in 2017, the New York State Thruway Authority plans to open bids to resurface 434 lane miles and reconstruct or rehabilitate 22 lane miles along the Thruway's 570 mile stretch of roadway.













Source:
