Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Narcan Now Available at Independent Pharmacies
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 2, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced independent pharmacies across the state will now be able to provide naloxone to their customers without a prescription. Naloxone -- also known as Narcan® -- is a medication that reverses opioid overdose. Improved accessibility to the medication is one of the priorities at the center of the Governor's fight to end opioid abuse in New York State.
"Heroin addiction has taken the lives of far too many New Yorkers, but today we are taking an important step forward in battling this epidemic," Governor Cuomo said. "By making this lifesaving medication available in drugstores without a prescription, we are continuing to prevent needless tragedies from occurring and ensuring that all New Yorkers have access to this critical medication."
The Department of Health provides funding to The Harm Reduction Coalition, the Department's Center for Excellence in serving the needs of substance users. The Harm Reduction Coalition will issue standing medical orders to the more than 750 independent pharmacies outside the five boroughs of New York City, as well as chain pharmacies without a designated prescriber, allowing their pharmacists to dispense naloxone without a prescription. As a DOH-registered overdose prevention program, the HRC is able to issue these standing orders. Many smaller counties in the state have no chain pharmacies and rely exclusively on independent pharmacies.
This initiative builds on the Governor's other opioid overdose prevention efforts. In January 2016, the Health Department approved more than 480 CVS pharmacies throughout the State as registered opioid overdose programs, enabling their pharmacists to dispense naloxone without a prescription. Earlier this month, the Department took a similar action for Walgreens for more than 460 Walgreens and Duane Read pharmacies statewide.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-narcan-now-available-independent-pharmacies
