Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Over $1.5 Million in Federal Grants to Crime Victims' Assistance Programs for Technology Upgrades
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 2, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that more than 100 service providers that assist crime victims from across New York State will receive an additional $1.5 million in federal grants to modernize their offices so they can better serve victims and their families. The funding allows for the purchase of equipment and technology used for filing claims through the state's Victim Service Portal, an online system that allows crime victims to more quickly obtain compensation for medical bills, lost wages and other forms of assistance.
"This funding will help ensure crime victims and their families receive the resources they are entitled to during their time of need," Governor Cuomo said. "By providing these additional tools for these worthy organizations, we are helping to create a stronger, safer New York."
The Office of Victim Services administers more than $43.8 million in funding to 175 non-profit organizations, hospitals and law enforcement agencies that support 225 programs serving crime victims in every county in the state. Any Office of Victim Services-funded program was eligible to apply for the technology grants. All programs that submitted applications by the request for assistance deadline received funding.
Victim assistance programs will use the money to purchase equipment, such as scanners, computers and printers, and software to facilitate the application process through the Victim Service Portal. Programs also will be able to purchase mobile devices or tablets that will allow their staff to file claims whenever -- and wherever -- they meet with victims.
Office of Victim Services Director Elizabeth Cronin said, "This funding will help untether the advocates from their offices, so they can reach victims directly wherever they are, rather than have the victim travel to an office miles away from where they live. Very often, that can mean the difference between a traumatized crime victim seeking the assistance or deciding to go it alone."
The Office of Victim Services began accepting claims electronically through the Victim Service Portal in April 2015. As providers began to use the Portal, staff recognized that many organizations needed more equipment and enhanced technology to take full advantage of the new system. An increase in funding available under the federal Victims of Crime Act allowed the agency to offer grants for the upgrades.
Prior to the Portal's activation, crime victims or their advocates filed paper claims for compensation -- such as payment for medical bills, moving or burial expenses, or lost wages -- and mailed them to the agency for review, a process that had averaged about 95 days. The online system, combined with other processing improvements, has reduced the average processing time by nearly two weeks, with some claims taking fewer than 15 days to approve.
In the 10 months since the Portal went live, this Office has processed about 8,100 online claims, nearly half of the approximately 16,300 claims submitted. The agency anticipates that number of online claims will increase as a result of this new investment in technology upgrades.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-over-15-million-federal-grants-crime-victims-assistance-programs
