Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces AARP Endorses Paid Family Leave Proposal to Help Family Caregivers
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 1, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the AARP has endorsed his proposal to create a paid family leave law that would be stronger than any already on the books to help New York's family caregivers. The Governor is planning to speak directly to AARP members from across the state during a teletown hall this evening to urge them to help get the job done.
Today's endorsement came as more than 100 AARP members and volunteers from around the state met with their state legislators individually at the capital and urged them to approve the plan as part of the 2016-17 state budget. AARP members and volunteers joined AARP New York State Director Beth Finkel on the state Capitol's Million Dollar Staircase for the announcement.
The teletown hall will begin at 5:20 p.m. In addition to being able to ask the Governor questions directly, participants will have the opportunity to contact their State Senator urging support of the Governor's proposal.
The Governor's plan would provide up to 12 weeks per year of paid leave for working New Yorkers to care for newborn children and working family caregivers to care for sick family members. It would be financed entirely through employee contributions starting at approximately 70 cents per week and rising to approximately $1.40 when full benefits kick in.
Employees would ultimately receive two thirds of their weekly pay while on leave, up to a maximum of two thirds the state's average wage. The two thirds wage replacement cap will particularly help lower-income workers.
"No New Yorker should be forced to choose between paying their bills and caring for a sick loved one," said Governor Cuomo. "We are going to pass paid family leave in this state and ensure fairness and dignity for all households. It's time that we set a new national standard for supporting working families, and New York is going to lead the way."
"AARP applauds Governor Cuomo for his leadership on paid family leave," said AARP CEO Jo Ann Jenkins. "Helping caregivers to assist their loved ones is a common-sense approach that results in more people being able to live independently in their home, rather than having to move into a more costly, and often taxpayer-funded institutional setting."
"AARP New York is proud that our Governor is fighting for a paid family leave benefit that would be stronger than any other on the books, and we enthusiastically support his plan and urge our legislators to adopt it as part of the new state budget," said Beth Finkel, State Director of AARP in New York State, home to 2.6 million of AARP's 38 million members nationally. "Working family caregivers shouldn't have to choose between making a living and caring for mom or dad or their spouse. Paid family leave would ensure they don't.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-aarp-endorses-paid-family-leave-proposal-help-family-caregivers
