Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Launch of New NY Broadband Program
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 1, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the launch of the New NY Broadband Program's Consolidated Funding Application Portal, which is now accepting applications for the Request for Proposals issued on Jan. 8. The $500 million program, which provides funding for high-speed internet access to unserved and underserved areas across the state, is the largest and most ambitious state investment in broadband in the nation.
"Access to high-speed internet is essential for engaging in the 21st century economy, but the broadband gap is leaving far too many New Yorkers behind," Governor Cuomo said. "Through this unprecedented investment, we will be expanding reliable internet access in underserved areas, helping businesses become more competitive, and making broadband available in every comer of New York. I encourage all eligible applicants to apply and take advantage of this new opportunity."
Funding recipients will be chosen through a "reverse-auction" methodology, which awards projects to bidders seeking the lowest amount of state investment. Phase 1 of the RFP Grant Guidelines and Application Questions were made available on the New York State Broadband Program Office's website on Friday, January 8, 2016. Applications may now be submitted through the New York State CFA Portal, and are due Friday, April 15, 2016 at 4:30 p.m. Potential applicants should review the Guidelines and questions, located here, to prepare their Phase 1 applications. Applicants must be able to complete projects by December 31, 2018. Subsequent rounds of funding will be announced throughout 2016.

"Broadband has become a central component of economic growth and innovation," Empire State Development President and CEO Howard Zemsky said. "The New NY Broadband Program is inclusive and will create a more interconnected Empire State. We are eager to begin reviewing applications and look forward to ensuring that every New Yorker, and every small business, has the internet access they need to reach their goals."
The New NY Broadband Program is designed to ensure that every New Yorker has access to high-speed internet by 2018. The PSC order approving the merger of Time Warner Cable and Charter Communications, together with the New NY Broadband initiative, will significantly increase broadband availability for millions of New Yorkers across the state.
Central components of the Program include:
New access to broadband at speeds of at least 100 Mbps; 25 Mbps in the most remote areas of the state.
Public-private partnership with a 50 percent match in private sector investment targeted across the program.
High priority for unserved areas and projects that most improve broadband Internet access in underserved areas, including libraries and educational opportunity centers.
Applications will be chosen through a "reverse-auction" process, which will award funding to bidders seeking the lowest state investment.
Auctions to be held within each Regional Economic Development Council region to ensure statewide allocations of funding.
Broadband is an essential component for creating and sustaining economic opportunity throughout New York State, by connecting businesses with consumers and markets around the globe. While New York's broadband landscape has seen substantial improvements over the past four years, many households are still unable to fully access it. Visit the Broadband For All website for more information. A map of New York State demonstrating the vast number of areas without high-speed broadband access can be viewed here. A regional breakdown of current broadband accessibility is also available here.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-launch-new-ny-broadband-program
