Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Launches Video Series to Educate and Inform New Yorkers About Addiction Treatment Services
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 26, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today launched a new video series aimed at educating New Yorkers on the types of addiction treatment services available across the state, and assisting individuals and families with accessing care. The ten new videos are part of the Governor's ongoing efforts to provide New Yorkers with the tools they need to navigate the substance use disorder system of care.
"Addiction impacts more than one million New Yorkers across the state, and connecting individuals with the care and support they need during these times and getting them help is critically important," Governor Cuomo said. "These new videos will direct substance users on a path to recovery and work to create a stronger, healthier New York for all."
The videos feature addiction treatment professionals, insurance experts, parents of young people who were treated for a substance use disorder, and NYS OASAS staff. Topics discussed include: how to get help for a family member or loved one in need, explanations of the different levels of addiction treatment, understanding your insurance coverage, and how to recognize the signs of addiction and the need for treatment.
"These new videos will help individuals and families know where to start when they need to get help," said NYS OASAS Commissioner Arlene González-Sánchez. "These videos offer easy-to-understand information so New Yorkers can better connect with the resources they, or a loved one, may need. Recovery is possible and these resources will help more New Yorkers take that first step to get treatment and set their sights on the reality of recovery."
The video series was developed by the Substance Use Disorder Treatment Insurance Workgroup which was formed as part of Governor Cuomo's historic legislation in 2014. The workgroup members include addiction treatment providers, insurance companies, and parents who have experienced the addiction treatment system while guiding their loved one through obtaining care.

Source:
