Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New Round of Scholarships to Encourage Top High School Students to Pursue STEM Careers in New York
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 25, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that the New York State Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Incentive Program application is now available for high school students entering college in fall 2016. The program provides a full SUNY or CUNY tuition scholarship to students in the top ten percent of their high school graduating class if they major in a STEM field and work in a STEM job in New York State for five years after graduation.
"The STEM Incentive awards not only give this state's top high school students access to a first rate education, but it ensures that they and their talents remain in New York to help build our burgeoning high tech economy," Governor Cuomo said. "I encourage every eligible student from the class of 2016 to apply today and begin training for the jobs of tomorrow right here in New York."
The program is a key tool in encouraging the best and brightest high school students to pursue high-demand, high-tech careers and build their future in New York. Since the Program's inception, over 1,400 top scholars have received STEM awards totaling more than $7.5 million.
William E. Gasperi, a Nanoscale Science major at UAlbany said, "The STEM scholarship has enabled me to pursue my degree in science with an immense sense of security. It gives me a great sense of relief that I don't have to worry about debt out of college."
SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher said, "The STEM Incentive Program provides an opportunity for hundreds of high school graduates from throughout New York to attend our colleges and universities tuition-free while also addressing a critical workforce need for our state. SUNY campuses in every region look forward to enrolling the program's next class of high-achieving students."
Grace Correa, sophomore in the Mechanical Engineering Program at CCNY said, "When I received notice that I would be getting a STEM Scholarship, it was like a dream come true. Having the STEM Scholarship has allowed me to continue my lifelong dream and professional goal of becoming an engineer. It has also allowed me to attend school full time and focus on my degree. I would like to thank the Governor and the State legislature for providing the STEM Scholarship opportunities to students who desperately need it."
James B. Milliken, Chancellor of The City University of New York said, "There are few areas more important to the success of the knowledge economy and few fields that offer more promising careers than those involving the STEM subjects. We are grateful for Governor Cuomo's leadership in this area and the support for these ambitious students. This exciting program helps students and our state benefit far into the future, and I encourage all qualified students to seize this important opportunity."
Applications must be submitted by August 15, 2016 for June high school graduates planning to enroll in college in fall 2016. Details about the STEM Incentive Program, including eligibility and application requirements, are available at hesc.ny.gov/STEM.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-new-round-scholarships-encourage-top-high-school-students-pursue-stem
