Public Statements
Transcript: Mario Cuomo Campaign for Economic Justice, Labor Leaders, State and Local Elected Officials Rally in Albany to Fight for $15 Statewide Minimum Wage
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 25, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

This afternoon, the Mario Cuomo Campaign for Economic Justice rallied with labor leaders, state and local elected officials and community groups in support of raising the minimum wage to $15 for all workers. The Capital Region marked the fifth stop on the "Drive for $15" tour, which kicked off earlier this week in Manhattan with stops in the Bronx, Long Island and Kingston.
The renewed push comes on the heels of the Governor's recently released minimum wage report which found that raising the minimum wage to $15 would benefit more than 2.3 million workers and boost direct spending power by more than $15.7 billion in New York State. The Governor is urging the State Legislature to pass his phased-in minimum wage proposal this session.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below:
Good afternoon Albany! First, how great is George Gresham? This man is the real deal, 1199 has been a powerhouse fighting for one thing -- justice -- over and over and over again. Let's give him a big round of applause. My friend, Assemblyman John McDonald, thank you John for being with us. Pat Fahy and Mayor Sheehan, give them a round of applause. Talk about a progressive voice or conscience. It's an honor to be here, let's give them a round of applause.
As you heard from George, we are going all around the state, we have a big recreational vehicle, it is out front if you want to see it, see what big means. They say it is blue and red but it's really blue and pink. Pink is nice too, but it's a funky looking blue and red vehicle. And it is very big -- it rides interesting, it sort of floats, it's the only vehicle I got sea sick in. But it has on the side of the recreational vehicle, one word: fairness. Fairness. That is what this is really all about. It is not a complicated issue, it is about fundamental fairness. You'll talk about this new economy and the changes in the new economy, and the truth is there is a new economy. It has changed this country and it has changed this state because it is not just about an economy it is not just about an economic calculation, it is about relationships. It is about power and it is about how we treat one another. In this new economy you have people at the top end who are doing very, very well and if you have the right skill set, if you are an engineer, if you can write copy, if you're a man with great access to financial wealth, you can do well. But if you are anybody else, you are at a second strata and the economy is not working for you and simply that is not fair. This new economy diminishes the working man, demoralizes people to think that they cannot get ahead and that their kids are not going to get ahead, it has diminished the middle class and it is just wrong. It is just wrong. It is wrong across the country but it is wrong in New York and the difference in New York is, we don't stand for it. We are going to stop it here and we are going to say it should be stopped everywhere.
It's not just a feeling, it is a fact that this new economy is different. The old economy up until about the 70s, there was an inherent fairness to the bargain. The more productivity went up, the more pay went up. So, 50 years from about 1930 to about 1970 -- 40 or 50 years -- productivity went up 90 percent and you know what? Pay went up 9 percent. The past 25 years, productivity has went up 75 percent and pay has gone up 9 percent. The middle class, the working class is getting left behind. When they cut the pie, they are getting a smaller piece. Used to be that CEOs made about 20 times what the working man made, today the CEO makes 300 times what the working man makes and our point is that is not fair. That is not how this country is supposed to work. The minimum wage, $18,000 a year -- we worked very hard, we raised it to $9. It is now $18,000 a year, but the truth is $18,000 a year doesn't work in New York. You can't pay for rent and pay for food and pay for clothes and raise a family on $18,000 a year. And that is not what the minimum wage is supposed to be.
FDR passed the minimum wage. When FDR passed it do you know what he said? He said minimum wage is a wage that allows one a decent living, a decent living. You know why? Because we believe something different, we believe that there is honor in all work. You did what you could do and you made your contribution and I valued your contribution. And as long as you were out there and you were giving your best and you were working, I respect what you are doing and I treat you with respect. And I expect respect back and I want this country to work for me and I want it to work for you. We lost that respect somewhere along the way and that is what the minimum wage fight is all about. It is about respect. It is about fairness and honor and the American promise, that when you come here you do your best. You do well you take care of your family.
So we want to make work pay. We want to provide what the minimum wage was supposed to provide which is a decent living if you work full time. That means raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour because that is what it takes to actually take care of a family in New York. Now this is going to be a fight. This is going to be a fight. George is right. This is going to be a fight. Why? Because there are a lot of powerful interests that don't want to raise the minimum wage because they like it just the way it is. They like the concentration of wealth at the top end and they don't want to pay the workers anymore because it is going to cut off their bottom line. The first thing you are going to hear when you go out there, they are going to start to argue that well, "$15 dollars that is too high. Its only $9 now, you can't go from $9 to $15. $15 is too high, where did you get $15 anyway?" I'll tell you were we got $15. If you take the minimum wage from 1970 and just index it to inflation, just inflation, which is fairness defined. Just inflation. You know what it comes out to? Our proposal for $15 today. And then they are going to make this argument, this is what the conservative will argue because I have heard it already, "The government has no business getting involved in the private sector. This is a private sector discussion and you need to leave it to the private sector to figure out what they pay." That is baloney, not to use another word. I don't what to say anything bad in front of George. I have to get back in the RV with him.
First of all, the law for decades has been the federal government sets a minimum wage and the states set a minimum wage. For decades. Number two, the way that it works now is that a minimum wage worker, we used the fast food worker wage board. You have a fast food worker makes the minimum wage, works for McDonalds or Burger King, they pay the minimum wage, about $18,000 a year in the state of New York -- you work full time at minimum wage for Burger King or McDonalds, you are still below the poverty line. So the state government provides benefits to those workers, food stamps etc. you know what those benefits add up to? About $7,000 per year. So what we are doing as a state and as a nation -- McDonalds pays the worker $18,000, we pay them as taxpayers $7,000 and the person really earns $25,000, $7,000 of which is coming out of our pockets.
You want to talk about an absurd scam on the taxpayers? The conservatives love to say, "I'm taking care of the taxpayers." You're taking care of the taxpayers? Well why are the taxpayers subsidizing McDonald's and Burger King and the employers who don't want to pay a minimum wage? Why are we paying $7,000 so a family can live and pay rent? They are making billions of dollars and the taxpayers are subsidizing it. It is an absurd, repugnant argument. What they're really saying is, when they give your tax dollars to big corporations, that's okay. But when we say no, we have to pay a worker what they're worth, then we're interfering with the marketplace. It is a hypocrisy that is as transparent as a piece of glass and we're not going to take it anymore.
Now in this new economy, it's not just about the money. It's a devaluation of the respect for the worker. There's an attitude that a worker is just a commodity and "If you don't work out, I'll get another one because there's a long line of workers ready to come in." And the respect that we used to have between an employer and an employee is gone. You walk into an employer now and you say, "I have a problem at home -- a life crisis, I need a few weeks off," do you know what many employers would say? "Take a few weeks. Take a few more weeks. As a matter of fact don't even bother coming back because you're fired." We want to work. We believe in work. We're a productive workforce, but there's more to life than just work. There's family. And things happen, good things happen, bad things happen, and we should be able to be there for our family when those things happen and you shouldn't have to choose between giving up your job or going broke if you want to do the right thing by your family.
I went through this last year. My father was sick. He was getting towards the end. We knew he was getting towards the end, we knew it was a matter of weeks and I kick myself every day because I should have been there and there was always something, always some crisis, some something. But those are the times in life you're supposed to be there. To have a conversation, to just sit there, to just smile, to just be there, to hold the hand, to wipe a tear, just to be there. And everybody has that right. Everybody has that right. I don't care what job you have. You have to have that right. That's why we have to pass paid family leave that allows a person to live their life with respect.
Now -- last point. We call it the Mario Cuomo Campaign. George Gresham is Chair of the Mario Cuomo Campaign and Mario Cuomo would be so honored to have George Gresham as the Chairman of his campaign. Let's give another round of applause to George Gresham. And Mario Cuomo would be so honored that Bishop Hubbard was here today.
Why the Mario Cuomo Campaign? Because my old man was about one thing -- he was about principle and he was about fighting the good fight and he was about fighting for the working man and fighting for the middle class and he didn't care how powerful the opposition was or who the opposition was. He was going to fight for what is right. He was in this building on this stage many, many times, saying "Here's the next fight for fairness. Here's the next fight for justice. Here's the next fight to make the middle class stronger and better. Here's the next fight to restore hope." That's what this is all about. And that's what this fight is -- the clearest, most fundamental fight for fairness against an economic injustice that has been pervasive for decades and we have taken too long and now we're standing up and saying we want what's right and what's fair and that's $15 and that's paid family leave and we're going to get it done because George is right.
New York leads the way for the nation. We are the progressive capital. We led the way on worker's rights. We led the way on women's rights. We led the way on marriage equality. We led the way on gun control. We led the way on cleaning up the environment and we're going to lead the way on economic justice and get this $15 done and we're not going to stop until it happens. We're going to do it together. Let's go do it. God bless you.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-transcript-mario-cuomo-campaign-economic-justice-labor-leaders-state-and-local-elected-3
