Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Start of Construction on New Cohoes Waterford Bridge
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 24, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that a $20.3 million project to build a new Cohoes Waterford Bridge carrying Route 32 over the Mohawk River will begin today. The bridge, which is used by over 16,000 vehicles daily, is being replaced as part of New York State's Scour Critical/Flood Prone Bridge Program and is funded through the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Hazard Mitigation Grant Program.
"The Cohoes Waterford Bridge is a vital link between these two communities that tens of thousands of Capital Region residents depend upon," Governor Cuomo said. "This replacement project will ensure this roadway remains viable for years to come and is the latest part of this administration's significant investment in infrastructure in every corner of New York."
The new bridge will be an 850-foot long multiple-span structure located approximately 80 feet east of and parallel to the existing bridge. The existing three-lane Cohoes Waterford Bridge, which first opened to traffic in 1932, will remain open during construction. Off-peak, short-term, alternating one-way traffic will be required for some construction operations. Work is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2017.
Routes for emergency vehicles will be maintained and open during construction as will access to businesses. The Department of Transportation will work directly with businesses to minimize construction impacts.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "Governor Cuomo understands the connection between a vibrant economy and a reliable transportation system. This bridge is of vital importance to Cohoes and Waterford, and replacing this important connection shows that the Governor is serious about making unprecedented commitments to strengthen our communities, our infrastructure and our economy."
New York's $518 million Scour Critical/Flood Prone Bridge Program upgrades and enhances the resiliency of 105 bridges to ensure the transportation access needed in emergencies and for continued economic growth. Bridges included in the program were built to the codes and standards of their time and remain safe and open for everyday traffic. However, due to a variety of natural severe weather events and the increasing frequency of major storms and floods, they are now vulnerable to scour caused by the intensity and velocity of water from extreme natural events.
New York State Senator Neil Breslin said, "Replacing the Cohoes Waterford Bridge is necessary to ensure the safety of both the drivers and passengers of the more than 16,000 motor vehicles who use the bridge every day. I applaud Governor Cuomo and Commissioner Driscoll for their commitment to improving our state's infrastructure and recognizing that a safe transportation network is of critical importance to a thriving economy."
New York State Senator and Chair of the Senate's Local Government Committee Kathy Marchione said, "Today's announcement that construction on a new Cohoes Waterford Bridge will begin this month is terrific news. This new bridge will strengthen our local infrastructure and ensure an even safer commute for local motorists. I thank Governor Cuomo for his continued commitment to advancing real solutions -- and providing real dollars -- for our region's growing transportation needs. Safer, better, stronger bridges are smart investments in our economy and directly benefit all motorists."
New York State Assemblyman John T McDonald III said, "I am pleased to see the replacement of this bridge. This is a project I worked on for many years as Mayor, so I recognize its importance. Thanks to Governor Cuomo and the Department of Transportation for advancing this project which will ensure safe travels for our residents."
Albany County Executive Dan McCoy said, "I am pleased that Governor Cuomo and the DOT recognize the importance of investing in infrastructure in linking Cohoes and Waterford, a structure that is over 80 years old. State officials realize that it is important to be proactive and to fully fund improvements to vital infrastructure for the long term."
Saratoga County Board of Supervisors Chair Arthur Wright said, "Saratoga County appreciates Governor Cuomo's support of this capital investment into the transportation infrastructure that we rely on for a variety of commercial, residential, and emergency related activities. We're also especially pleased that the project will be done in a proactive fashion to avoid the types of challenges that arise when a reactive approach is used. We look forward to working with NYSDOT to ensure a smooth construction process and transition to the new bridge structure."
City of Cohoes Mayor Shawn Morse said, "As newly elected Mayor, my main priority is to reclaim Cohoes as an "All-American City." The construction of the new Cohoes- Waterford Bridge is one step toward this initiative. This bridge is a gateway to the revitalization of our community and economic development. A big thank you to Governor Cuomo for his commitment to this project and for bringing new life to the entrance of our city."
The contractor for this project is D.A. Collins Construction Company, Inc. of Wilton.
Motorists are reminded that fines are doubled for speeding in a work zone. In accordance with the Work Zone Safety Act of 2005, convictions of two or more speeding violations in a work zone could result in the suspension of an individual's driver's license.
For up-to-date travel information, call 511, visit www.511NY.org, or visit the mobile site at m.511ny.org.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-start-construction-new-cohoes-waterford-bridge
