Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Growth of Clean Technology and Creation of 980 Jobs
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 23, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 141 clean technology companies have been supported and primed for further growth through the Governor's Cleantech Business Incubator initiative. The initiative has attracted more than $215 million in private capital and created 980 high-quality jobs at the New York-based businesses statewide. The continued growth of New York's emerging clean energy economy is a core component of the Governor's Reforming the Energy Vision strategy to build a clean, resilient and affordable energy system.
"New York State is committed to supporting the development of this industry to reduce our energy consumption and create a more sustainable and resilient community," Governor Cuomo said. "Through this initiative we are giving the best and brightest entrepreneurs an opportunity to get their startups off the ground, helping to create jobs, spur economic development, and secure a cleaner and greener future for the next generation of New Yorkers."
NYSERDA has supported the incubator program with a total of $14 million, leveraging $15 in private sector investment for every one dollar invested by NYSERDA. The companies that were fostered by these incubators are poised for continued growth as the clean energy market expands in New York State and globally.
New York State Energy Research and Development Authority President and CEO John B. Rhodes celebrated the success of the Cleantech Business Incubator initiative at an event today at the Cleantech Center, a program of CenterState CEO's Tech Garden in Syracuse. Representatives from CenterState CEO and companies working with the Clean Tech Center also participated in a roundtable with Rhodes to discuss past successes and future needs of incubator companies, which are important to the development of New York State's clean energy economy.

Source:
