Public Statements
Transcript: Mario Cuomo Campaign for Economic Justice, Labor Leaders, State and Local Elected Officials Launch 'Drive for $15' Bus Tour as Part of a Push to Raise Statewide Minimum Wage
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 23, 2016
Location: New York City, NY

Good Morning. Well first, I'm a little confused. They told me we were getting a recreational vehicle and that we were going to drive all around the state. I brought my fishing pole. I was ready to take some vacation time. But it doesn't sound that way. We're going to go fishing for economic justice all over the state. Let's hear it for George Gresham and 1199 which has been a great engine for social justice always. To our great Comptroller Scott Stringer -- let's give him a round of applause and thank him for his support of our brothers and sisters in the labor movement, Mario Cilento and the AFL-CIO, and Gary LaBarbera and everyone who is here. Let's give them a round of applause. And to our Congress, you want to talk about walking to walk, Congressman Charles Rangel walked the walk all across the United States of America. He is a beacon for economic justice, Congressman Charles Rangel.
It's all been said. We know the problem. The problem is an economy that is polarizing wealth and polarizing opportunity in a way we've never seen before. Comptroller Stringer is right. We have more jobs. We're creating more jobs in this state than have ever existed in the history of the state of New York. And that's good. The jobs are there. What's bad is the jobs are polarized. And if you have the right skillset and the right education, or the right access, you could make a lot of money. But if you're not at that niche in the top end, you are on your own and you're left out. And it is an economy for the lucky and the left out. More polarization of income, more income inequality than ever before in history. Middle class and working families are going backwards. We know that. We also know what we can do to make a difference. And what we can do to make a difference is stand up for the middle class, stand up for the working families, make work pay, and that means raise the minimum wage to $15 so you can actually raise a family.
Mario Cilento said it. FDR set the minimum wage. And do you know what he said? The minimum wage is not just about subsistence, it's about having a decent living. It's about having the dignity of work. And what we said to people when they came to this country was, "We want you to be part of it. We want you to work. Whatever you can do to the best of your skill and the best of your ability. We will respect you if you can do that and you will be part of our family." We have lost the respect for the working families in this nation and that's what this is about. Paying a minimum wage that actually respects the dignity of work, allows them to take care of their family, is the first step.
The second step is paid family leave because paid family leave is all about respect for the worker. And too many workers are treated like a commodity today, and if you go to your employer and you say, "I need a couple of weeks off because I have a problem at home," the employer will say, "Take a couple of weeks. And take a couple of more, and take a couple of more. Don't bother coming back because I'll find another worker to replace you."
Paid family leave says -- yes we work, we also have families, we also have a life, we have to balance both, and if a person needs to take care of a family situation, they shouldn't go broke to do it. That's paid family leave and we're going to make it happen.
Why do we call it the Mario Cuomo campaign? Because Mario Cuomo was all about principle and he was all about fighting for justice on every front. Mario Cuomo believed that New York was a special state and it wasn't just like any other state and it was a state that could show the way. It was a state that could stand up for principle and fight the good fight and win and have accomplishments and have progress and shine a light for the rest of the nation to see. This is not just a New York problem. It is a national problem. But when we pass $15 an hour and we pass paid family leave, we're going to say to this country, the dream is not dead. The dream is alive in New York. We have the Statue of Liberty in our harbor. We're going to respect workers. We're going to make work pay. We'll make it happen here in New York and you'll see that wave go across the country. God bless you.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-transcript-mario-cuomo-campaign-economic-justice-labor-leaders-state-and-local-elected
