Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Nearly 70 Elected Officials, Labor Leaders, and Community Groups in Hudson Valley Join the "Strong Families, Strong New York" Campaign and Endorse Governor's Paid Family Leave Proposal
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 22, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that nearly 70 prominent elected officials, labor leaders, community-based organizations, advocacy groups from throughout the Hudson Valley have joined the "Strong Families, Strong New York" campaign to fight for passage of paid family leave in New York State. These individuals and groups are endorsing the Governor's proposal for 12 weeks of paid benefits, funded by employees, to allow workers to care for new children or seriously ill relatives. The Governor's proposal would benefit millions of New Yorkers -- especially women, minorities and low-income workers who need it most -- in addition to businesses and the economy overall, and would be the most robust such policy in the nation.
"Our paid family leave proposal is the strongest in the country because that's what New York represents," said Governor Cuomo. "We believe in opportunity and mobility for all, and we stand up for working families. The sweetest success is shared success, and that's why we're fighting for a paid family leave policy that benefits all of New York's families."
Federal law currently provides only for unpaid family leave, and creates a dilemma for those caught between the need to care for a sick relative or newborn and the pressure to return to work and earn money. Moreover, federal unpaid family leave only covers approximately 60 percent of all workers. Furthermore, 88 percent of American workers do not have access to paid family leave -- including those who need it most, such as those living paycheck to paycheck.
The Governor's twelve week proposed paid leave program will be the most robust program in the nation, because it provides double the length of paid leave than provided by any other State program, as well as a high benefit amount. Specifically, after a short ramp-up period, workers will be entitled to 67 percent of their average weekly wage, with a maximum of 67 percent of the State's average weekly wage, which is estimated to be in excess of $1,000 per week by 2021. This program will ensure that workers will be able to afford to take vital bonding time with their newborns and provide care to sick relatives.
Paid family leave helps women, minorities, and low-income workers.For families living paycheck to paycheck, taking extended periods of unpaid leave is often unfeasible. Statewide, more than 39 percent of single mothers with at least one child under the age of 18 lived below the poverty line. Additionally, women and minorities are each overrepresented in both state and national poverty rates.
It is well established that paid family leave leads to healthier babies. An expansion of family leave has been found to increase birth weight, decrease premature birth, and lead to a substantial decrease in infant mortality. This is particularly important to reducing racial and ethnic disparities. In 2012, the mortality rate for white infants was just 3.7 for every thousand live births -- but it was 5.27 for Hispanic infants and 8.96 for black infants.
California's paid family leave program more than doubled the overall use of maternity leave -- increasing it from around three to six or seven weeks for the typical new mother. The program significantly reduced disparities in who could take advantage of family leave, leading to an increase (in leave taking) of threefold for non-college educated mothers, fivefold for single mothers, and sevenfold for racial minorities.
Paid family leave helps reduce demands on public assistance.Loss of income for New Yorkers who have to care for a sick family member or a new baby can lead to serious hardship, which can lead to increased demand for state support, funded by taxpayers. Enacting paid family funded by employee payroll deductions is smart policy because it can help more working families make ends meet without public assistance.
Paid family leave helps businesses. Providing paid family leave also has numerous benefits for employers. Research from the U.S. Department of Labor shows that paid family leave helps businesses retain workers and avoid turnover -- which ultimately helps reduce recruitment and training costs. Having access to paid family leave can also boost productivity, engagement, and loyalty among a business' employees.
Paid family leave strengthens the economy. Increasing access to paid family leave will result in a stronger economy and workforce. When working parents or caregivers are able to remain in the workforce while tending to children or sick loved ones, they are also more likely to continue progressing in their careers and increasing their wages over time. This in turn yields greater support for their families, greater economy activity in their communities, and a more vibrant workforce overall. Additionally, paid family leave helps address the gaps in opportunity faced by low-income, minority and less educated workers.
Paid family leave has widespread public support. In a recent poll conducted by the Roosevelt Institute, the vast majority -- 83 percent -- of respondents supported paid family leave. That support crossed party lines, with 96 percent of Democrats, 85 percent of Independents and 67 percent of Republicans voicing support. Additionally, in a business survey after California's paid family leave policy had been in effect for five years, 91 percent of employers reported the effect of the policy was either not noticeable or positive.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-nearly-70-elected-officials-labor-leaders-and-community-groups-hudson
