Public Statements
Transcript: Governor Cuomo Speaks at Rally in Rockland County For Paid Family Leave
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 22, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Earlier today in Rockland County, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced that more than 70 prominent elected officials, labor leaders, community-based organizations and advocacy groups from throughout the Hudson Valley have joined the "Strong Families, Strong New York" campaign to fight for passage of paid family leave in New York State. These individuals and groups are endorsing the Governor's proposal for 12 weeks of paid benefits, funded by employees, to allow workers to care for new children or seriously ill relatives. The Governor's proposal would benefit millions of New Yorkers -- especially women, minorities and low-income workers who need it most -- in addition to businesses and the economy overall, and would be the most robust such policy in the nation. More information is available here.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below:
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very, very much. It is a pleasure to be back. It is a beautiful day. The sun is shining. It is all good. We're together. There's energy in the room. First to Mayor D'Amelio, thank you very much for the help on organizing today. Thank you for remembering my father. Thank you for your passion and support of this issue and the good job you're doing. Let's give the Mayor a round of applause.
We have Ken Zebrowski who is one of the bright stars in Albany. He's doing great work in his district, but he's doing great work all across the state. Talk about going back, we go back a long time and I'm very proud to be here with him today. Let's give him a round of applause.
Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins who is leading the Democrats in the Senate and doing a great job. She has been an outspoken advocate of paid family leave for many, many years. She's been fighting the good fight. She's now fighting with us all across this state to make it a reality. Let's give her a round of applause. And to my colleagues from Albany, the Assembly and the Senate, Senator David Carlucci who's here. Let's give him a round of applause.
And to Congresswoman Nita Lowey who is just such a champion. We came across that Tappan Zee Bridge coming from Westchester just now and to see it rising from the river after decades of talking about that bridge. There was more conversation about that bridge and now to see it actually happen and it's happening because a lot of people worked very hard, but it would not have happened if it wasn't for Congress person Nita Lowey who brought the federal loan to the table to make it a reality. So, let's give her a round of applause.
Now we do go back a long way, the Congresswoman and myself. Before I was the Governor, before she was the Congress person, we were just neighbors and just friends, so we can relate on a different basis, but she was working with my father, which means she was over here and I was down here. He took her seriously. She came over to the house one day and I was very much into cars at the time, I was like 18, 19, and I was working on a car in the driveway and Nita comes in and she has to walk past me to go up to the house. And you know, Nita always gives you her opinion. You don't have to ask for it, you'll get the opinion. So, Nita said, "What kind of car is that?" Now, this was my pride and joy, this car. This was a 1973 Pontiac Trans-am. Beautiful. With the bird on the hood, fire engine red. She said, "That looks like some kind of hotrod."
Remember, you called it a hotrod. "Some kind of hotrod. And what is that on the front?" And I said, "That's the bird. That's the Trans-am bird." She said, "I've never heard of a bird on the hood of a car. And what kind of color is that? What are you going to a fire in that car? Are you a fire chief?" I said, "No, that's flame red. That's the best Pontiac color." "Oh," she said. "You can't drive this car. It will cost your father the election," she tells me. I had such guilt about this car. "Would it really cost him the election? That would be terrible." I wind up selling the car because I could never get this thought out of my head with Nita. So, I'm sitting home a couple of weeks ago, watching one of these auctions on TV for classic muscle cars, okay? I'm watching the classic muscle car auction and up comes a 1973 Trans-am. Flame red with the bird. It may have been my love. $200,000 you cost me Congresswoman. $200,000. I would have kept that car if it wasn't for you. $200,000 that car sold for, but what's $200,000 between friends. I know you were coming from a good place. Let's give another round of applause, Congresswoman Nita Lowey.
And I also have a special guest and a special treat with me today. My daughter Mariah, who's here. Stand up Mariah. She is a college student, Mariah, and she's been home for a couple of days, so we've had a good couple of days. We actually had an interesting chat about this topic today. I asked Mariah, "Did you hear my State of the State, by any chance?" Which I do in January, it's a big speech for me, even if it's not for my children, and I lay out the full agenda. And she said, "No, I didn't get a chance to hear your speech." You know how you're parents used to say, "One day your kids are going to do to you what you did to them, and it is all going to come around," and well, they were right. I remember saying to my father once he called me up and said, "What do you think of the State of the State?" and I said, "You know I didn't see it." He said, "Oh thanks a lot," I said, "You know it's not you. It is just a boring list-y speech." He said, "A boring and list-y speech? Okay." And it all comes around now, you know Mariah doesn't listen to my State of the State, neither do her sisters by the way. They are a little more facile, I asked one of them, I asked, "Did you listen to the State of the State?" I get "Yeah, yeah, I heard it on the radio," "Really?" I asked, "Did you like it?" She said, "Yes it was very good." "Did you like that joke that I started with?" I asked, she said "Yes, very funny." I said, "I didn't start with a joke."
So, we are talking about the State of the State, she said, "What was it basically about?" I said, "It was basically about fairness." It was an hour long speech, listing a lot of programs and a lot of ways to get to the basic concept which is fairness. And that is what the speech is about. Because you turn on the TV and you hear people talking about two issues as if though they were disconnected. They talk about the new economy and now they talk about voter anger in these elections. And they talk about them as if they are two separate and disconnected situations but they are really the same thing.
People are angry because in this new economy they are being left behind and it is a different relationship that we have had in the past and this is not the American promise that we believed in. Now Assemblyman Zebrowski said, "We have created more private sector jobs in this state than ever before in history." That is true, we have more private sector jobs than ever before in history. And at one time that was all that you tried to do, create jobs and if you had jobs, you had opportunity etcetera, but in this new economy, the jobs are different. And the jobs meant that we are going to pay a decent wage, you are going to be able to take care of your family and you are going to have the hope and the expectation that the next generation is going to do better than you did because they are going to get more education and you are going to get them up this high and they will go the rest, but in this new economy that is not the case.
It really has been a polarization like we have never seen before. You talk about the concentration of wealth in the richest Americans. That is true. It is the worst income in equality in history. Period. They talk about the working man being left behind and it is true. At one time productivity and wage increases were one for one. The more productive the economy, the more money you were making for your employer and the more money you made. From the 1950's to the 1970's it was almost one for one. The productivity went up about 90 percent and wages went up about 90 percent. Because the worker was more productive they were generating more profits and since 1973 productivity has gone up 70 percent. So the businesses are getting more but salary has gone up nine percent. So the businesses are making more money, the worker is doing what they have to do to be more productive. But they are not getting their fair share and they know it.
One time CEOs made 20 times what the average worker made, now it is 300 times what the average worker makes. So the average worker isn't angry. First he is depressed, second he is frustrated, third he is worried because he doesn't even have the mobility anymore. The supervisor and the assistant supervisor and this supervisor, you feel that you go from one nowhere job to the next nowhere job. And you have a whole segment of the workforce which doesn't have those high skills which are going to make the big salary and it's almost as if you are in the CEO's office or you are on the factory line. And if you are on the factory line then you are going to be there for life.
That lack of mobility, lack of opportunity is a breach of the American promise that is what is creating the anger so what we say is that in this budget, we want to do two things. One, we want to raise the minimum wage and second we want paid family leave. Minimum wage is very simple. We want to raise the minimum wage to $15, it is now about $9 and we want to phase it in overtime to about $15. Why? Because you can't live on $9 an hour. That is $18,000 for a family of four, most minimum wage workers are not kids. 70 percent are over 25 years old. 50 percent are over 35 years old. These are not kids, they're supporting a family on a minimum wage job, $18,000.
The average cost of housing, food, utilities, and clothing in New York State is $30,000. The minimum wage doesn't do it. FDR, when he created the minimum wage, said this is supposed to provide "a decent living." Decent living. Why? Because if you work full-time, you deserve the dignity and the respect of work. That's what it was. So he said a decent living. $15 an hour in New York, you can make $30,000 a decent living. You'll still have to struggle. You'll still have to penny pinch but it is a decent lifestyle and that's why we're working to raise the minimum wage.
Now, the opponents will say two things. First, they'll say "Oh $15, that's high, where'd you get that?" I'll tell you where I got that. If you took the minimum wage in the 1970's and just indexed it to inflation, which was fair, 1970's -- index it to inflation -- you come out to our proposal for $15 today. Second criticism, is "Oh well you're interfering with the private market." Baloney. The federal government sets a minimum wage. States set a minimum wage. We have for decades and decades and decades. This is not a new idea, setting the minimum wage. And when you want to talk about government interfering in the private market with minimum wage, listen to this. We just did a study on the fast food workers. McDonald's, Burger King, pay the minimum wage. So they give the worker $18,000 a year. In this state, the worker still qualifies at that salary for government benefits, Food Stamps, welfare, etc. The taxpayers of this state, give that worker another $7,000 in benefits. So they get payed eighteen from McDonald's. They get $7,000 from the state of New York. We are subsidizing McDonald's and Burger King and every other minimum wage worker. It is absurd. Just absurd.
And the second point is, not only are the workers not getting paid what they did at one time, but there is a loss of respect and a loss of power in the relationship for the worker. They don't have the same relationship. They don't even have the same longevity. At one time, you could go to an employer and say, "You know what? I have a problem at home and can you work with me and give me a few weeks off because I have to take care of something." If you had that conversation today, most employers would say, "You need a few weeks off? God Bless you, take a few weeks off. As a matter of fact, take all the time off you want because you don't have to come back." Workers are more treated as a commodity, they're replaceable. You can't be the sales clerk? I'll get another sales clerk, I'll train them for two weeks, and they can do the job just as well.
Paid family leave says really, workers deserve a decent relationship. Because they want to work but they also have a life and they have a family. And it's not all about working. It's about celebrating and being there for those special moments in life. That's what paid family leave is all about.
Now, paid family leave says when there is a life crisis, positive or negative, the employee would have benefits for paid family leave. What's a life crisis? We lost my father last year and we knew he was dying and it was going to be a matter of weeks. And he was emotional and not scared because if he was ever scared, he would never let me know that he was scared. But he knew that he was dying and this was a very important time. And it was a time when I as a son, should have been there with him. When my sisters, his daughters should've been there with him. Well what could you say that you haven't said? I talked to him four times a day for 56 years. It wasn't even about that, it was just about being there at that time. It's just to hold a hand, it's just to smile, and it's just to be in the room, just to show you care. There are a lot of people who don't even get to make that choice because they don't get paid. They can't go in and take off a couple of weeks because they'll be out. Even if they get a couple of weeks unpaid, they can't pay the bills if they're not getting paid for a couple of weeks. So that's one end of the spectrum.
The other end of the spectrum is, if a mother has a child, the father wants to spend time with a child, the mother wants to spend time with the child. Right now you have to get back to work or you don't get paid. So in one week, two weeks, women have to go back to work. They want to stay with the child, they'd like to spend more time with the child but they can't. This is an economy where two people work and the father would like to spend time and help the wife and bond with the child. But the same thing -- you can't be there if you're not getting a paycheck. Our paid family leave is the most aggressive proposal in the country. It is twelve weeks, it is funded by employees who pay in to a fund, about $.70 a week. And that fund is basically an insurance fund to pay other employees when they take paid family leave.
You'll hear the opponents say, "Oh it's going to cost business a lot of money." You know what it costs businesses? Nada, niente, scatta, nula. Nothing. It is fully paid by the employees into a fund and that fund pays for the employees' family paid leave. The businesses will say, "Well maybe I have to hire a replacement worker for that period of time." Hire a replacement worker. You're not paying the first person anyway, so you would have the funds to pay the person you hire as a replacement worker. There is not good argument against it. Not an economic argument, not a social argument, not a policy or pragmatic argument against it.
We are one of only two countries that doesn't have some sort of paid family leave program. Only Papua New Guinea and Suriname are the only two countries that don't do this. This is the United States of America and we're missing a basic platform of humanity and decency and respect for family. We hear on TV from all of the presidential wannabees, "family values, family values, family values." Well you know what? To me, this is family values -- paid family leave.
And these are not just New York issues, that's why the Congresswoman is here. These are issues that are nationwide. These are issues that our country is dealing with. Different states are trying to figure it out on their own, but New York has always had a special role among the states. I remember when I went down to Washington, I was in President Clinton's cabinet for eight years. It was amazing to me how many of the housing laws -- I was the HUD Secretary -- how many of the Housing and Urban Development laws, on the federal side, were just copies of the state laws. New York always innovated. New York came up with the first idea, the best idea, and then other people copied and other people followed. It's our history, it's our legacy. We were first. We were the most sophisticated, we were the most complicated. The problems happened here first so the solutions had to happen here first.
New York has been the progressive capital of this nation for years. So we have to get these programs done for New York to help our people. They will both be national precedents -- the $15 minimum wage would be the strongest in the country and the paid family leave would be the strongest in the country. That is who we are and that is who we represent. Yes -- we stand up for working families. We do. We stand up for working families, we stand up for opportunity for all. We stand up for mobility for all. We want to see all progress because we believe the sweetest success is the shared success. In New York we don't just talk about it. We do it. We make it happen. The Congresswoman is right -- government is not about a passive art form. Government is about getting it done and making a difference in people's lives. Do you know how I view the job of Governor? I get paid to help people -- not to talk about helping people or plan about helping people or think about helping people or talk to other people about helping people -- actually help people get it done. We're going to get this done this session. In a few months, we're going to have a $15 minimum wage and we're going to have paid family leave and we'll raise that banner high and we're going to do it with your help. Thank you and God bless you.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-transcript-governor-cuomo-speaks-rally-rockland-county-paid-family-leave
