Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 900 Solar Projects Underway Through 26 Community Solarize Campaigns Across the State
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 19, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that 900 solar projects are underway through 26 community "Solarize" campaigns across New York State. A component of the NY-Sun program and the Governor's comprehensive Reforming the Energy Vision strategy, the "Solarize" campaigns are geared towards locally-organized community outreach efforts aimed at getting more homes and businesses to install solar. The Governor also announced another 31 Solarize campaigns are set to begin this spring.
"New York is blazing the trail when it comes to transitioning to sustainable energy practices and building a clean energy economy," said Governor Cuomo. "By helping communities across the state install solar technologies, we are opening the door to new opportunities that will lower household energy costs while protecting the environment years into the future."
Launched by the Governor in December 2014, New York's Solarize initiative is a collaboration between the State and local communities. Communities engaged in Solarize campaigns are able to simplify purchasing and obtain discounts for participants on solar projects. The "Solarize" initiative partners with interested residential and business communities to conduct joint purchasing agreements that help lower solar acquisition and consumer costs.
The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority provided a total of $365,000 in technical and marketing support for the 2015 Solarize campaigns. These campaigns saved participants a total of approximately $1.4 million on upfront purchase costs for solar, for an average of approximately $1,590 per residential or business project. Campaigns are managed by community partnerships that include local municipalities, planning organizations, sustainability groups, state legislators and business groups.
The Solarize program is part of NY-Sun, Governor Cuomo's $1 billion initiative to advance the scale-up of solar energy and move the state closer to having a sustainable, self-sufficient solar industry. In his 2016 State of the State address, the Governor called for additional solar projects to be installed at 150,000 homes and businesses by 2020.

Source:
