Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Completion of $367 Million in Improvements to the Gowanus Expressway, Kew Gardens Interchange and Jackie Robinson Parkway
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 18, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the completion of three highway improvement projects in the New York metropolitan area, totaling $367 million. The projects will enhance safety and mobility on the Gowanus Expressway in Brooklyn, the Kew Gardens Interchange in Queens, and the Jackie Robinson Parkway in Brooklyn and Queens.
"These highways are vital parts of the Metropolitan area's transportation network that millions of New Yorkers depend upon," Governor Cuomo said. "By investing in these critical infrastructure projects, we are helping to ease congestion for these motorists, while also supporting jobs and commerce and helping to support future growth in the greater New York City region."
Kew Gardens Interchange Reconstruction
This $104 million reconstruction project is substantially complete, and will aid in improving safety and enhancing traffic flow at the Kew Gardens Interchange in Queens. The project was completed 12 months ahead of schedule and approximately $9 million below the original budget.
The Kew Gardens Interchange is the intersection of the Grand Central Parkway, the Van Wyck Expressway, the Jackie Robinson Parkway and Union Turnpike. For decades, the convergence of these high volume roads has created traffic congestion and delays. As part of the project, the northbound Van Wyck Expressway between Exit 10 (westbound Grand Central Parkway) and Exit 11 (69th Road/Jewel Avenue) was reconstructed and the 50-year-old northbound Van Wyck Expressway viaduct over the Grand Central Parkway and Union Turnpike was replaced.
The project included replacing the one-lane ramp connecting the eastbound Jackie Robinson Parkway and Union Turnpike with the northbound Van Wyck Expressway with a new two-lane ramp. A new deck was installed on the eastbound Union Turnpike bridge over the Grand Central Parkway connector ramps, and a new deck and steel girders were installed on the bridge where Union Turnpike and the Jackie Robinson Parkway merge.
In order to make the infrastructure more sustainable and environmentally-friendly, drainage system improvements were made, including the installation of settlement chambers and a bio-swale (natural retention) to reduce contamination from runoff to nearby Willow Lake. New LED lighting was installed and new landscaping elements were added.
A second $152 million project is underway at the Interchange and is scheduled to be completed in 2016. It includes rehabilitating a portion of the Van Wyck Expressway, the exit ramp from northbound Van Wyck to westbound Queens Boulevard, four bridges over the Van Wyck, the Van Wyck Bridge over Main Street and the Queens Boulevard Bridge over Main Street. This project also includes constructing an auxiliary lane on the Van Wyck between the Grand Central Parkway and Queens Boulevard and providing a dedicated exit lane southbound to Hillside Avenue.
The construction contractor for the project is DeFoe Corporation of Mount Vernon, Westchester County.
Gowanus Expressway Paving and Safety Improvements
The Gowanus Expressway improvements are substantially complete, wrapping up the final two projects totaling $246 million that replaced the deck and pavement on the 5.3-mile elevated highway, widened sections of it, and improved the operations of its High Occupancy Vehicle lane. Finishing work -- including installing sidewalks, guiderail and lighting -- is scheduled to be completed in this spring.
The projects enhance mobility for the entire I-278 corridor from the West Shore Expressway on Staten Island to the Long Island Expressway in Queens.
The latest two Gowanus projects completed the new deck and pavement and included, steel repair on the viaduct, significant structural work, new improved HOV operations and enhanced safety features. A new $70 million elevated ramp was constructed at the Shore Parkway Interchange to carry the HOV lane. The HOV lane on the Gowanus now has the capacity to be reversed for the afternoon rush hour.
Additionally, the Gowanus was widened at the Prospect Expressway Interchange, as well as between 92nd Street and 6th Avenue.
NYSDOT's other operational improvements along the I-278 corridor include the recently-completed $118.5 million bus/HOV lane extension on the Staten Island Expressway (I-278) from Victory Boulevard to the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, as well as the $78 million Staten Island Expressway access improvement project, completed in 2014, which reconfigured and reconstructed the exit and entrance ramps from Fingerboard Road to Clove Road to provide better access to and from the highway.
El Sol Contracting and Construction of Maspeth, New York is the contractor for both Gowanus projects.
Jackie Robinson Parkway Paving and Safety Improvements
This $17 million project is substantially complete, including paving and safety improvements along the full length of the Jackie Robinson Parkway in Brooklyn and Queens. Finishing work, such as landscaping, signage updates and guiderail repairs will be completed in the summer.
The Jackie Robinson Parkway extends from Jamaica/Pennsylvania Avenues in Brooklyn to the Van Wyck Expressway/Grand Central Parkway in Queens. More than 82,000 motorists travel it daily.
Parkway improvements -- extending more than five miles -- included milling the existing asphalt pavement, repairing the underlying concrete, applying new asphalt concrete and striping the roadway.
Safety improvements included the installation of new signage, providing greater visibility, reflectivity and readability. Reflectors also were added to the outer guide rails and inner concrete barriers, guiding motorists along roadway curves, especially at night. In addition, sight distance was improved between the Metropolitan Avenue underpass and the Metropolitan Avenue entrance ramp in the eastbound direction by removing trees and soil and installing a retaining wall.
The construction contractor for the project is Tully Construction Company, Inc. of Flushing, New York.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-completion-367-million-improvements-gowanus-expressway-kew-gardens
