Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces New Free Mobile App That Connects Veterans to Vital Services
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 18, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a new free mobile app to help the state's 900,000 veterans and their family members connect with valuable services and programs. The New York State Veterans App provides users with a wealth of easily accessible material about federal and state Veterans' benefits, programs, and services, including: essential materials regarding healthcare, housing, employment, education and filing claims for financial Veterans' benefits with the United States Department of Veterans Affairs. The app is compatible with both iOS and Android platforms.
"The brave men and women of the Armed Forces have dedicated their lives to defending our nation and this new app helps ensure these heroes and their families have access to the resources and services they need after returning home," Governor Cuomo said. "This is one more way we are using technology to make a smarter and stronger New York."
The app provides a new level of communication and connectivity between New York's Veterans and the state and local government entities that assist them. Using the app's "Near Me" feature, an individual standing anywhere in New York can immediately discover the address and contact information for the New York State Division of Veterans' Affairs field offices and County Veterans Service Agency offices within the closest proximity to that individual's exact location. Additionally, the state will provide up-to-the-minute updates about state and federal programs that directly impact the lives of Veterans and their family members.
About the Division of Veterans' Affairs:
New York State's Division of Veterans' Affairs assists Veterans and their family members the rest of the way. For 70 years, the Division has connected generations of Veterans, members of the Armed Forces, and their families and dependents to multiple economic, medical, and social benefits and services earned as a result of military service.
The Division maintains 68 field offices to assist Veterans and their families at the local level throughout every region in New York. In calendar year 2015 alone, the Division's accredited Veterans Benefits Advisors successfully prepared, presented, and prosecuted approximately $75 million worth of claims and appeals for monetary benefits from the United States Department of Veterans Affairs for New York State's Veterans and their family members. At all times, the Division strives to provide high-quality support, advice, and advocacy for the men and women who served our Nation and State.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-new-free-mobile-app-connects-veterans-vital-services
