Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Congratulates First Graduating Class of the Solar Ready Vets Program at Fort Drum
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 17, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today congratulated the first 19 Fort Drum military personnel to complete the Solar Ready Vets training program, which prepares them for careers in the growing solar industry after their transition from military service. The Solar Ready Vets program at Fort Drum is the first graduating cohort supported by the U.S. Department of Energy in New York and one of five active programs in the nation.
"As the solar industry continues to grow in this state, we need to make sure New Yorkers are ready to fill jobs that will fuel this new economy," Governor Cuomo said. "The Solar Ready Vets training program offers a unique opportunity for veterans to gain the skillset necessary to begin their careers in high-demand industries while securing a cleaner and greener future for New York State."
Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul, said, "We know that veterans make the best employees because of their wide-ranging experience, ability to overcome challenges and drive to succeed. Governor Cuomo has worked hard to ensure that businesses in New York State welcome veterans with open arms. This inaugural class of highly trained and dedicated workers shows we can meet the demand of the many clean-energy businesses that have come to call New York State home. I'm proud to participate in this first-of-its-kind event and encourage other veterans to explore this opportunity."
Today's graduation ceremony at Fort Drum was attended by Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul, energy officials from New York State, Ft. Drum and the U.S. Department of Energy, state and local elected officials, and SUNY Canton administrators and faculty. Solar industry representatives were also in attendance to interview a number of the graduating solar-ready veterans for jobs.
The Solar Ready Vets program offers technical training in hands-on labs to prepare military personnel for jobs as solar installers, salespeople, inspectors or jobs in related fields. The first of five classes in the Fort Drum Solar Ready Vets program included 19 service members who attended classes taught by SUNY Canton instructors on how to size and install solar energy systems, connect solar projects to the grid, and interpret and comply with local building codes. The program also arranges in-person and computer-based interviews for program graduates with leading solar photovoltaic firms.

Source:
