Public Statements
Transcript: Governor Cuomo Speaks at Rally in Buffalo For Paid Family Leave
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 17, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

This afternoon in Buffalo, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced that 42 elected officials, labor leaders, and other advocacy and community-based organizations throughout Western New York have joined the "Strong Families, Strong New York" campaign to fight for passage of paid family leave in New York State. These groups are endorsing the Governor's proposal for 12 weeks of paid benefits to allow workers to care for new children or seriously ill relatives. More information is available here.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is below:
Thank you. Good afternoon. Oh, it's a better afternoon than that. Good afternoon. It's great to be back in Buffalo. First, to your dynamic mayor who is doing great, great work -- give him a big round of applause, Mayor Byron Brown. To Senator Tim Kennedy, who promises us he is going to deliver paid family leave to the Senate or not come back to Buffalo -- Senator Tim Kennedy. To Assemblymember Crystal Peoples-Stokes, who is the real deal and she is always fighting the good fight -- let's give her a round of applause. To Comptroller Mark Schroeder, Paul Brown, the mayors -- let's give them a round of applause.
It is exciting to be back in Buffalo. You know, you take it for granted because you're here all the time. I hope you appreciate the difference in the energy; the difference in the economy all through Western New York. I get a call from a buddy of mine who I haven't seen in a while who grew up in Buffalo and he spent probably the first 30 years of his life in Buffalo and then he moved away to another state. I don't know why, but that's a different story. He is getting up a little bit and they were doing a documentary on his life and he came back to Buffalo with a TV crew to show where he grew up and the old neighborhood, et cetera. He called me up afterwards -- he hadn't been back in decades -- he called me up and he said, "Andrew, you won't believe what's going on in Buffalo." I said, "Really?" He said, "I'm telling you, it's like a different place. The people are excited. There are cranes all over. The home values are going up. Jobs are going up. Young people coming back." I said, "Really? Buffalo?" He said, "Yeah, you have to go. You have to see." I said, "I think I might." You know, it is amazing the progress you've made and we're now building on that progress, you know? Energy begets energy. Negative energy begets negative energy. Well, positive energy begets positive energy and you can feel the cycle is going in the right direction so it's always good to be back.
We had another big announcement, as the Mayor alluded to, just last week. 500 more jobs for the city of Buffalo. We're looking at 900 jobs in Dunkirk with the help of Mayor Willie Rosas so let's give him a round of applause. We were disappointed by NRG but it turned out okay at the end, huh Mayor?
Let's talk about this today -- and let me talk about it in a somewhat different way. I was talking with one of my daughters last week and she hadn't heard the State of the State Address that I give. You know, when your daughters don't even listen to your speeches you're in trouble. I was going through with them what was in the State of the State. "Oh, you know, the highlights are we are working to increase the minimum wage, we have paid family leave, have a big initiative on community schools, have the regional economic development council, I have the urban revitalization initiative," and I could see she was getting a little woozy with all these programs and all these names. I said, "Well let me put it to you this way: we have made great progress across New York, but we have more to do and this legislative agenda is going to be about a fight for fairness for New York's working families." Because that's what this is really about. That's what this is -- you know, when you turn on the TV news at night, you see all these political pundits talking about the electorate and what's going on and how people feel. They have all these terms; they're angry, they're frustrated; wage inequality; wage stagnation; economic anxiety. Working families feel abused. You know why? Because working families are abused and that's what this is about. It's that simple.
Middle class working families have been going backwards in this economy and they have been going backwards for decades. The earning power of middle class families has actually gone backwards -- not just in this state, but in this nation. It's been getting worse and it's been getting worse. It's not just about the money. It's about the relationship that the employee now has with the employer. We want to raise the minimum wage. Why? Because the minimum wage was started by FDR -- great Governor of New York, great President of this country. The concept of the minimum wage was if you work full time, you should have a decent living. Those were his words -- "a decent living." Why? Because there's dignity in work and if you work full time then you're upholding your end of the bargain and whatever you do, whatever your contribution, whatever your skillset, if you work full time, you should have a decent life. What is decent? It means you don't drive a Cadillac but you don't walk either, right? You have a decent life. You can afford for your family. You can live a good life. You can lead a decent life. You can live a life with dignity. That's what the minimum wage is supposed to be all about. The minimum wage in New York -- you can't pay for food and pay for rent. It is not enough to sustain a decent lifestyle and that's why we want to raise it to $15.
Now when they say, when they said, "Where do you get $15? $15 is too high," this is the answer, because you'll hear it -- if you took the minimum wage in 1970 and just indexed it for the rate of inflation, that's all, just the rate of inflation from 1970 forward, you would come up to our $15 proposal today. That's why it's fair. Take the 1970s minimum wage and just index it to inflation.
Then they'll say, "Well, I don't think government should be messing with the private marketplace. Let the private sector decide what it wants to pay." Really? We just went through a study of fast food companies because a big number of our minimum wage workers are in McDonald's, Burger King, et cetera. Do you know what actually happens at the end of the day? McDonald's pays minimum wage, which turns out to be $18,000 per year. In New York, if you make $18,000 and you have a family, you're still below the family line. So you're still eligible for government assistance.
So a McDonald's worker gets paid $18,000 from McDonald's, comes to the state of New York, qualifies for food stamps, qualifies for welfare that's about an additional $7,000 or $8,000 on top of their salary, paid for by the taxpayers. So they're not living on what McDonald's pays them, they're living on McDonald's $18,000 and then your $7,000 in government aid. So we wind up subsidizing McDonald's, Burger King, and all of these companies that are paying a sub-living wage -- the taxpayers. That's interfering with the private sector. Why are the taxpayers in New York subsidizing McDonald's and Burger King, which, by the way, are making billions of dollars a year? We had no business being in the hamburger business in the first place. Let them pay their workers a fair wage and let us get out of the business.
And it's not just the wages. It's about the relationship of the employer and the employee. The employees have less respect in this marketplace than they did previously. And that's what paid family leave is all about. There is a sense that a worker today, especially a low-wage worker, is a replaceable commodity, that if it doesn't work out with you, you know what? I'll get another one. And there's a line of people who need that job and you really aren't in the position to negotiate or to request anything because you're ultimately replaceable. You're like a laptop computer now. The laptop breaks, I throw it out, I get a new one.
If an employee goes to their employer and says, "You know what? I have a situation at home, I need time off," at one time, I believe the employer would say, "God bless you, I'll work with you, we'll figure it out." But not today. You go to an employer today and you say, "I need a few weeks off to care for my parents," the employer says, "take a few weeks. As a matter of fact, take whatever you want, because you're not coming back." That is the attitude, that you can be replaced. And we're saying we should restore balance to that relationship. Yes we want to work and yes we want to be productive, but we also want to live our lives and we also want to honor our family and respect our family. Life is not just about work. Life is being there at the important times. When someone is on their deathbed -- literally -- when a parent or a family member is on their deathbed, those weeks, those hours that you spend with that person, that's everything. That is everything.
I lost my father last year. I kicked myself, I wish I had spent more time, because I knew we were losing him. And I was working, working, I was so busy, everything was so busy. It's all baloney. What was important was to spend that time with him, have those conversations. Just be there for someone just so they know you're there. You have people who have a new child. That's the time to be home and enjoy that child and let that child know who you are and spend that quality time bonding with your child. It's not always about work. We're at a place now where our employees don't have that relationship where they can do that.
That is what paid family leave is all about. If a person has a life crisis, a situation like we have been talking about they should be allowed to stay home without going broke and that is what an employee funded paid leave program is all about and that is what we want to pass this year. You know the economic inequality that we are talking about is actually compounded and worse by the racial inequality that we are dealing with. Make no mistake all of this, it is bad, to be poor and white. But the numbers are worse if you are poor and you are poor and black or poor and brown. It is not even close. And when we talk about fairness and justice and opportunity and a fairness agenda, we also have to understand that economic inequality starts in black and brown communities very, very young.
You know where the educational and economic inequality starts? In the first grade, it starts when we send children to public schools which are failing public schools. We have failing public schools in this state that have been failing for over ten years. So just think about what we have been doing. You know it is a failing public school and every year we send another grade of children to that school. Year after year after year and we know that education and the education you get leads to what job you get. How can we just keep sending these kids to these failing schools? And you know who is going to the failing schools? 90 percent black and brown, 90 percent black and brown and you have to ask yourself, if it was 90 percent white would we still be sending children to those failing schools, year after year after year?
That is not fair and it is not just and if a child is not getting an education you see it go all the way through their life. You go to a failing school, you don't get the education, the unemployment rate among young people, 20 years old, black and brown is 40 percent unemployment. Twice that of the white community, it is double that. If you don't get a job then you wind up hanging out in the wrong place and you wind up getting yourself into trouble and that is why our State prisons are 75 percent black and brown. It starts in first grade and it goes into the employment market and then it winds up in the prison system.
So that is what this battle is about this legislative session. We want to pay $15 in minimum wage because that is a fair wage so that people can live with dignity. Paid family leave so that they can be there for their family when their family needs them, community schools so that we turn around these failing schools and we give kids an opportunity from day one. Job training assistance for those teenagers so that they are not unemployed. Close down those prisons and find a different way than spending $60,000 on a prison cell that does no good for anyone and returns a person in a worse condition than when they went in. That is what this agenda is all about.
It's not just a New York agenda, this is a national agenda. These are not just New York problems; these are national problems. When you see people talking about the anger all across the country -- that is why people are angry. And by the way, they should be angry and you should be angry and I should be angry because an injustice against one is an injustice against all and that is not what this country is about and we are going to pass this agenda this year.
We want to get this done in New York for New York but then we are going to take this justice agenda, this fairness agenda and we are going to say to this nation we did it in New York, you can do it anywhere in this country. Don't tell me you can't because we are better than what we are doing, we believe in fairness, we believe in justice, we believe in opportunity, we are going to practice what we preach, we are going to make it the law of the land and we are going to get it done this April with your help.
Thank you and God bless you.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-transcript-governor-cuomo-speaks-rally-buffalo-paid-family-leave
