Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces 2016 Regional MWBE Expo Series
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 16, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the third annual Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprises Opportunities Expo Series, which will take place in the Capital Region, Mohawk Valley, Southern Tier, Western NY, and Long Island. These events will connect MWBEs with New York State agencies and expert resources to expand opportunities with public sector agencies and technical assistance providers to maximize their opportunities.
"Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprises play an integral role in New York's economy and our administration is committed to helping these businesses thrive," Governor Cuomo said. "The Opportunities Expo is one of the ways we are providing MWBEs with the resources they need to start and expand their businesses, and create jobs for New Yorkers. I encourage all who are eligible to take part in these events and learn more about how we are increasing opportunity for businesses across the state."
This year, two of the Expos -- to be held in Albany and Binghamton -- will feature New York State's Disparity Study Community Meetings, a component of the State's Disparity Study. The community meetings, led by Mason Tillman Associates, will inform the local community and businesses about the Study, which assesses the policies related to maximizing MWBE participation and outreach, its methodology and legal standard.
"The MWBE Expos provide a great opportunity for small businesses to become informed about the many resources available to them," said Empire State Development President, CEO and Commissioner Howard Zemsky. "I encourage business owners to attend these critical information sessions and get the expert guidance they need to succeed."
The Expos, sponsored by Empire State Development's Division of Minority and Women's Business Development, Regional Offices and local State partners, provide MWBEs with opportunities to meet State procurement officers and prime contractors. The Expos also feature workshops and panel discussions about New York State MWBE certification and business development resources.
Information will be available regarding the New York State MWBE BOOT CAMP, which highlights resources and technical assistance available to MWBEs in their region, such as the Small Business Development Centers, Procurement & Technical Assistance Centers and the Entrepreneurial Assistance Program. The Expos will also include information about State-sponsored financial and technical assistance programs, including the New York State Surety Bond Assistance Program,"Bridge to Success" Loan Program, and BusinessMentorNY.
Under the Governor's leadership, more than 4,300 MWBEs have been certified, more than 3,600 have been recertified, and more than $6.3 billion in state contracts have been secured by minority- or women-owned businesses. As a result, MWBE certification and utilization on state contracts has more than doubled in just five years.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-2016-regional-mwbe-expo-series
