Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Deploys DFS Mobile Command Center to Hoosick Falls to Help Property Owners
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 16, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today directed the Department of Financial Services to set up a Mobile Command Center in Hoosick Falls to assist and provide information to homeowners and residents who may have been impacted by recent mortgage-related events following PFOA contamination in the local water supply. The Mobile Command Center will be set up at HAYC3 Armory located at 80 Church Street, Hoosick Falls today, Feb. 16, and tomorrow, Feb. 17 from 2 p.m. to 8 p.m.
"My administration is continuing to deliver on-the-ground support to the people of Hoosick Falls," said Governor Cuomo. "This will help ensure that homeowners and residents in the area can be informed and utilize all options available to them. I encourage anyone with questions to meet with trained DFS personnel this week."
DFS staff will be available to provide information and assist homeowners and residents with questions and concerns relating to mortgage loans, or refinancing of loans. DFS staff will also be available to provide information and assist homeowners and residents with questions and concerns relating to insurance issues.
Residents of the Hoosick Falls area community are strongly encouraged to attend if they require assistance relating to mortgage loans, refinancing, or insurance issues.
Last week, Governor Cuomo announced that the state has begun planning for a possible alternate water supply in the Village of Hoosick Falls -- ensuring that the community has a new, permanent supply of clean water. The Governor also announced that the state will purchase and install water filtration systems for approximately 1,500 homes in the Town of Hoosick, if a homeowner wishes to have such a system installed. Furthermore, the state is offering free water sampling tests and free blood testing.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-deploys-dfs-mobile-command-center-hoosick-falls-help-property-owners
