Public Statements
Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces Initiative to Strengthen State's Anti-Discrimination Efforts
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 14, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is available below:
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very, very much. Good morning to all of you. Senior Pastor Jesse Williams said Convent is as good a place as any. I would say Convent is a better place than most to spend this day. I want to thank Pastor Jesse Williams for his hospitality today and First Lady Gelaine Williams. Let's give them a round of applause. I also want to applaud the pastor and the people of the church. We were chatting earlier this morning about your vision in bringing the work of the church outside the walls of the church and literally into the community by participating in this Start-Up program, which is exactly that -- creating jobs, entrepreneurship, giving young people a break. And that's what Christ's message was really all about and that is what this church is doing -- faith in action.
I would also like to take a moment to introduce two people who are with me today, Human Rights Commissioner Helen Foster, and my Counsel, who, if I do anything wrong, I'm just going to refer to him so he gets into trouble, my Counsel, Alphonso David.
It's my honor to be with you today as part of the Convent Family as you celebrate. Also, Happy Valentine's Day. It's also part of the message and I am proud to be here today. I am Catholic. I say basically, "same church, different pew from where we are today." I had a great priest who was very kind to me over a number of years who we lost over the Christmas holiday. One day I walked out of the church and he would greet people in front of the church after the mass was over. I walked right up, and he was a small Irish priest who looked like a leprechaun with bright blue eyes, and he always had a line and he always had some wit. He said, "Well governor, we are a work in progress." I didn't know what that meant. And when you're in politics, you get very defensive because people are always attacking you. And I said, "Is that a political comment or a personal comment, Father," thinking I did something that offended the church -- I've done many things that have offended the Catholic Church, I want you to know. He said, "No, no, that was a personal comment. We are a work in progress." I said, "When do we end being a work in progress?" He said, "Only when we die, because up until then we're just human beings. And when we're just human beings, we come back every Sunday and we say the same thing -- "Forgive me, Father, I have sinned. Forgive me, I repent, I understand, I'll go back and I'll try to do better this week.' Then we come back the following Sunday and we say, "Forgive me Father, for I have sinned.'
There is a truth to that -- it's continually working to get better. It's true on the individual level for us all. Lord knows it's true for me. It's also true for society as a collective. I wake up every morning as Governor of the state of New York saying, "What can we do better? What can we do better? What can we do better? How can we make the public education system better? How do we get these kids out of these failing schools? How do we make the criminal justice system better? How do we stop these 15, 16, 17-year old kids who are throwing their lives away with drugs, how do we make that better? How do we make work pay? How do we dignify work and help poor families and working families get by? And that's why we want to raise the $15 minimum wage -- highest in the country. How do we help families live and cope as families?
Everyone is so busy now, everyone has got an iPhone in their hand and a BlackBerry in their hand and you're at the kitchen table and they're still texting rather than talking and nobody really has time. That's what life is really all about, those quality times with family. So we want to do paid family year this year -- the best in the nation -- that allows family to be there one for another in times of heartbreak, in times that we want to celebrate. And one of the questions we always grapple with as a society is how do we make this society more fair? More just? How do we do justice? That's the one promise that society makes, right? Society says, "We promise you justice and then we promise you opportunity. But more, we promise you justice." It's written into the constitution. We have a long way to go to be a society that's more just.
Now when you talk about justice, people immediately go to criminal justice. Now, as a society, we know how to lock people up. I don't know that that is justice. I think that is taking a lot of young lives and locking them up and throwing away the key and doing a lot of damage that we don't need to do.
We lock up more people than any industrialized nation on the globe. It costs us $1 million to build a prison cell, $1 million; it costs about $60,000 per year to keep a person in that prison cell, $60,000 per year. More money than the tuition at Harvard University, just to keep that person in that prison cell. So we can have a discussion as to whether or not that is really justice. But there are other forms of justice. I would say there are deeper forms of justice, social justice, there is racial justice, there is economic justice and we still have much more progress to do in those areas and it is painful to say, but I believe as a starting point you will never solve a problem that you are unwilling to admit. If you don't admit the problem then you are not going to solve it. As a nation, this nation this discriminates on the basis of race, color and creed.
It is painful to say but if you are not willing to say it and you are not willing to admit it then you are not going to solve it, and we still discriminate. I was telling the pastor, I spent 8 years during the Clinton administration for all 8 years under Bill Clinton and I was the Housing and Urban Development Secretary. And it is part of that position that I did all the Fair Housing Law Enforcement. And I did thousands of cases across the country and I can tell you I did discrimination cases as ugly and as brutal as anything you would have seen in the fifties or the sixties.
We had the Ku Klux Klan down south chasing people from the neighborhoods because of the color of their skin.
We had a case in Missouri I was telling the pastor; the woman moved into the neighborhood, she was Portuguese. The welcoming committee planted a seven foot cross on her lawn and burned it because she was Portuguese, they thought she was black. They didn't want here in the neighborhood.
We did a case in Louisiana that was an apartment complex that had two buildings. You walk in and you white you go to the white building and if you walk in and you are black you were sent to the black building. Two swimming pools, one in each building and it didn't matter how crowded the pool was, the whites couldn't go in with the blacks and the blacks couldn't go in with the white pool. That was during the Clinton administration. We sued a city a northeastern city that I won't mention; maybe someone here is from there. A nice city by and large. We sued the city because in their public housing they would discriminate were they would send African Americans to one set of buildings and Latinos to another set of buildings and whites to another set of buildings, in public housing believe it or not. So discrimination is alive and well.
So in New York, thankfully it is not that obvious, it is not that obnoxious, usually. Usually. But it can be that ugly and that obvious and that obnoxious and we have had some terrible, terrible situations. But usually it is more sophisticated because we are New Yorkers and we are sophisticated and it is more subtle.
It is employment discrimination where you don't get the raise, the promotion, but they never say it is because the color of your skin. It is for some other reason. You don't get the bank loan but the bank examiner doesn't get past the color box on the application form. But it is more subtle and it is harder to prove. One place it exists systemically is in the area of housing and housing discrimination. Now there is a law which was passed in 1968, it was passed as a tribute to Martin Luther King and it was passed because of his death and this nation needed to do something to memorialize his sacrifice and they passed the fair housing law. The fair housing law says you shall not discriminate in housing on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex or creed. Period.
You can't say that a person cannot live there based on the color of their skin, that goes on all of the time. All of the time. Commissioner Foster is here, her job at human rights is to ferret out and police that discrimination. We are announcing today that we will be ending of 130 cases over the past nine months to a year, that the commissioner has resolved and reconciled against victims of discrimination and housing. 130 in just nine months.
Now discrimination in housing is not just immoral, it is not just wrong, it is not just unethical. It is illegal. We have enforced the laws in the past, but it is illegal. I want to be just as aggressive in enforcing those laws as we are at enforcing the anti-drug laws and every other law. Let's enforce the antidiscrimination laws. To me government is supposed to be active and strong and aggressive and show leadership, government is not supposed to be impotent and passive. Government is not supposed to be saying, "Oh woe is me, they broke the law." No. Get out there. Do something.
James 2: 17-18 "In the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. Someone will say, "You have faith; I have deeds. Show me your faith without deeds, and I will show you my faith by my deeds."
We want to show this state -- this city -- that we're not going to tolerate anti-discrimination of anyone by our deeds. If you do it, you will be prosecuted because it is against the law. That's what the State Division of Human Rights is all about. Now, what we're going to do is we're going to start a series of investigations and enforcement actions. We're going to do it statewide. We've hired private firms to do the investigations. This is how they do it: they see an ad for an apartment in a newspaper and they send a white person in and the white person says, "I want to rent this apartment; is it still available?" "Yes, it's still available." "Okay." White person leaves, they send in an African American a couple hours later. "I'd like to rent that apartment." "Oh, I'm sorry the apartment's no longer available." Or they send in a person in with a Section 8 certificate. The landlord says, "Oh, no, I don't want anyone with a Section 8 certificate. Or they send somebody in with a disability and the landlord says, "Oh, no, I don't want anyone with a disability. Or they go to a real estate broker and the broker says, "Oh, don't bother applying that building because, you know, you wouldn't be comfortable there, you know? You wouldn't feel at home there, you know? There are not people that you know there. You don't want to go there for your own good." This is discrimination. It is illegal. Sophisticated, subtle, but it is illegal. We're going to investigate it. We're going to find it. We're going to ferret it out. We're going to punish it and we are going to prosecute it because it is illegal.
We also announce today that the real estate brokers that are involved with this kind of behavior -- because once in a while, not all the time, a landlord will say to the broker, "Don't send me any Italian families. Those Italians families are too loud. They're always yelling; they're always cussing. We don't want any Italians." Once in a while, the brokers are part of the problem. The sales agents, the brokers are part of the problem. The Department of State regulates the brokers. We're putting the brokers on notice today. The Department of State is going to do a regulation. If you're part of violating the law, you're not going to be a real estate broker in the state of New York. It's going to be that simple.
We're announcing to all that the 120 cases that we announce today -- we're not going to let people get away with it. They're going to be fined. They're going to be held responsible and we are going to make a difference in housing discrimination. Where you live is a very important decision nowadays. Where you live is where your child goes to school and it can make the difference between going to a great school and going to a bad school. Where you live is the kids that your kids hang out with and it can be a good group of kids of they can be getting into trouble. Where you live is the safety of the community and if we want to be what we say we want to be -- an integrated community where we all live together and we all love one another -- then by definition, you have to have a housing market that allows people to live wherever they want to live and that's what this market is supposed to be all about.
Now, we're going to make some people unhappy with what we did today. Not necessarily the people here at Convent, but trust me, there will be people who will be unhappy because it's going to be disruptive to a lot of the big players in the housing industry who like it the way they now have it and who aren't going to want to deal with these issues. But that is what it is. It's about aggressive government and it is about working for a more just society.
Martin Luther King said, "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice." He did not mean to say that the arc bends on its own to justice. He was saying, you can bend the arc to justice because Martin Luther King also said, "Human progress is neither automatic nor inevitable Every step toward the goal of justice requires sacrifice, suffering, and struggle; the tireless exertions and passionate concern of dedicated individuals."
We are going to bend the arc of justice. We are going to say, "This law is going to be enforced like this law has never been enforced." We are going to say, "We tolerate discrimination nowhere. This state is about acceptance of all, by all. Discrimination of none, by none." Those are the rules that we live by in this state and we're going to make this statement loud and clear and we're going to enforce it and we want to say to other states across the nation, "If you're looking for the progressive future and you want to know how to deal with tough problems like racial unrest and cultural diversity, you look to the great state of New York."
We have always been the capital of justice and we're going to do it once again. I thank you for giving me time to be here today. I thank Pastor Williams. You have a beautiful Sunday. Happy Valentine's Day and God bless you.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-and-transcript-governor-cuomo-announces-initiative-strengthen-states-anti-discrimination
