Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Groundbreaking of $53.7 Million Transformation of Greater Rochester International Airport
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 25, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the groundbreaking of the $53.7 million transformation of the Greater Rochester International Airport into a state-of-the-art transportation center. The airport's transformation will redesign the terminal building to incorporate sustainable elements such as solar panels and rainwater collection, new signage, enhanced security measures, new technology to improve accessibility, and premier shopping and dining options to improve the overall traveler experience.
"Across New York, we are investing in bold, visionary infrastructure projects like never before, and by transforming the Rochester Airport, we create a world-class hub to drive economic activity and growth throughout the region," Governor Cuomo said. "This transformation builds on our investments in the Finger Lakes to create a new gateway to all the region has to offer and help us keep moving the Finger Lakes Forward."

Transforming Greater Rochester International Airport
The Greater Rochester International Airport supports nearly 10,000 jobs in the Finger Lakes Region, and funding through this program will increase economic opportunity, expand retail options, and improve the overall passenger experience for a region undergoing continuing growth. The project will renovate, rehabilitate and revitalize the Greater Rochester International Airport's facilities and infrastructure, transforming an aging facility into a world-class passenger experience at a state-of-the-art transportation hub, including:
A wide-scale redesign of the terminal building, adding premier shopping and dining options.
A new façade and architecturally significant design featuring a solar canopy over the skyway from the parking structure to the terminal. The canopy will enhance security and support sustainability with solar panels for night-time lighting and rainwater collection for landscape irrigation.
Enhanced safety measures and realignment of TSA scanners to minimize wait times at the security checkpoint.
A state-of-the-art smart phone lot where family and friends can wait for passengers while monitoring up-to-the-minute arrival information on a viewing screen. The new lot will be built before the terminal, eliminating the current need to drive past the terminal to get to the lot, then circle back to check on arriving passengers, and will feature electric car charging stations.
Color-coded navigation between Concourses A and B, a digital information hub visible to passengers heading to either concourse.
New windows with energy efficient glass bringing in additional sunlight.
Bluetooth connectivity providing wayfinding, flight status and gate information, tablets and USB charging stations.
A play area designed with input from The Strong National Museum of Play.
New signage and landscaping at the Brooks Avenue airport entrance and other locations on the property. Improved LED roadway lighting will also be included.
Enhanced accessibility, incorporating state-of-the-art technology engineered by the Rochester Institute for Technology's National Technical Institute for the Deaf, making travel easier for the hearing impaired.
A feasibility study about creating an on-site business incubator to further expand and develop accessibility technologies for airports.
Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "Governor Cuomo recognizes that transportation is key to New York's success -- and the New York State Department of Transportation is ready to implement his blueprint for the future. From airports and trains to roads and bridges, and everything in between, we are building a better and stronger New York in every region of the state."
Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul said, "Governor Cuomo's vision for a state-of-the-art transportation hub in Rochester will not only provide a world-class travel experience in upstate New York, it will also continue to support thousands of jobs while increasing retail and business opportunities. This improvement to the transportation infrastructure of this region will help the 'Finger Lakes Forward' development plan fuel economic success."

Upstate Airport Economic Development and Revitalization Competition
The Upstate Airport Economic Development and Revitalization competition calls on Upstate airports to envision the airport of tomorrow as the new gateway to the region. The Competition builds upon the success of Governor Cuomo's Master Plan Design Competition for LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy Airports, as well as the transformative efforts already underway at several downstate regional airports. An additional $10 million will be allocated through the Governor's Aviation Capital Grant Program, which supports safety, infrastructure, and economic development projects at smaller airports across the state.

The Competition is administered by the New York State Department of Transportation. It is open to all owners of upstate public-use airports that provide or propose to provide scheduled commercial passenger air and/or cargo service. Funding for this competition was included in the new $21.1 billion five-year Department of Transportation Capital Plan. Grant applications were due July 1. To be considered for this investment opportunity, eligible applicants were required to submit an initial project proposal detailing the scope, schedule and costs for the proposed project or program of projects. Project proposals were reviewed by a panel of industry experts.
Accelerating Finger Lakes Forward
Today's announcement complements "Finger Lakes Forward," the region's comprehensive blueprint to generate robust economic growth and community development. The State has already invested more than $3.4 billion in the region since 2012 to lay the groundwork for the plan -- investing in key industries including photonics, agriculture and food production, and advanced manufacturing. Today, unemployment is down to the lowest levels since before the Great Recession; personal and corporate income taxes are down; and businesses are choosing places like Rochester, Batavia and Canandaigua as a destination to grow and invest in.

Now, the region is accelerating Finger Lakes Forward with a $500 million State investment through the Upstate Revitalization Initiative, announced by Governor Cuomo in December 2015. The State's $500 million investment will incentivize private business to invest well over $2.5 billion -- and the region's plan, as submitted, projects up to 8,200 new jobs. More information is available here.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-groundbreaking-537-million-transformation-greater-rochester
