Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Urges Caution Ahead of Dangerously Cold Temperatures Forecasted This Weekend
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 11, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo today urged New Yorkers to exercise caution ahead of dangerously cold temperatures forecasted for many areas of the state this weekend. The National Weather Service is predicting that temperatures will reach highs in the single digits and wind chill temperatures will drop to the negative teens and twenties on Saturday. The North Country in particular is predicted to see temperatures on Saturday as low as -8 degrees and wind chills dropping to -40 degrees. The temperature in New York has not been this low since February 2015. Additionally, as much as two feet of lake effect snow is forecasted for parts of Western and Central New York.
"As severe winter weather blankets the state this weekend, I encourage all New Yorkers to stay safe and remain indoors," Governor Cuomo said. "This administration is taking every measure to protect the public safety and as temperatures drop below zero, New Yorkers should exercise caution and avoid all unnecessary travel."
The National Weather Service has issued a wind chill watch for all counties in Upstate New York, as well as Northern Westchester, Orange, Putnam and Rockland Counties. Conditions are favorable for wind chill temperatures to meet or exceed local wind chill warning criteria in the next 24 to 72 hours. Wind chill temperatures may reach or exceed -25 degrees. A wind chill index below -30 degrees can cause frostbite in as little as 10 minutes. Outdoor exposure should be limited. Dangerously low temperatures are also expected in New York City, Nassau and Suffolk Counties.
The National Weather Service has issued a lake effect snow advisory for parts of Western and Central New York. The heaviest snow is predicted to be off Lake Erie between Buffalo and Batavia, and off Lake Ontario around Watertown and Fort Drum. These locations may see as much as two feet of snow through Friday evening. Gusty winds and blowing snow will reduce visibility on the roads in the heavier snow bands. The State is closely monitoring the system and will take action as necessary, including dispatching additional plow equipment and closing roads if needed. Drivers should check road conditions before heading outdoors.
Governor Cuomo reminded New Yorkers to make sure they are prepared by keeping ample emergency supplies in their home and vehicles. If you are heading outdoors, dress in layers and keep your hands and head covered to protect against frostbite.Other safety tips are below.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-urges-caution-ahead-dangerously-cold-temperatures-forecasted-weekend
