Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $6.5 Million to Transform Watkins Glen State Park Entrance
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 11, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced a $6.5 million project to transform the main entrance to Watkins Glen State Park. The project will relocate the parking area away from the gorge, creating a less congested and more welcoming approach to this leading Finger Lakes tourism destination. The main entrance parking lot will be returned to green space, creating new park amenities and enhanced interpretation of Watkin Glen's unique natural and cultural history.
"Watkins Glen State Park is one of New York's greatest tourism success stories, and as more and more people visit the park each year, we must ensure it remains a premier destination," Governor Cuomo said. "This project will do just that and we will continue to invest in our natural assets to attract more visitors and economic activity to regions across the state."
"Families love New York State Parks, and that's especially true of Watkins Glen State Park," said Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul. "As one of the top-ranked State Parks in the nation, Governor Cuomo's investment here will further enhance Watkins Glen's standing as one of New York's best tourism and recreational destinations."
Funding for State Parks to acquire the properties from OSI comes from New York State's Environmental Protection Fund. As part of his 2016-17 Executive Budget, the Governor announced that New York State will allocate $300 million for the EPF -- the highest amount ever for the fund and more than double the fund's level when the Governor first took office.
The visitor entrance renovations will be funded through Governor Cuomo's New York Parks 2020 program, a multi-year commitment to leverage $900 million in private and public funding for State Parks from 2011 to 2020. The Governor included $90 million toward this initiative in his 2016-17 Executive Budget.

Source:
