Public Statements
Video, Audio & Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces Major Expansion of Athenex: Creating 1,400 Jobs in Western New York
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 11, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Earlier today, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced a major expansion of Athenex's North American Headquarters in Western New York. The project, made possible by a partnership with the SUNY Polytechnic Institute, will create 1,400 jobs throughout the region and add an additional 3,000 square feet to Athenex's current headquarters at the Conventus Building in Buffalo. The combined projects are expected to yield a $1.62 billion investment over ten years from Athenex, along with $225 million from New York State. More information on the Governor's announcement in Dunkirk is available here.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is available below:
Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. First, to Dr. Johnson Lau. Welcome to the great state of New York and welcome to Chautauqua County. Let's give him a big round of applause. We love having you here and you'll see that Dunkirk is going to welcome you with open arms as is all of Western New York and the Southern Tier. We're very excited about what you're doing. Your drug can literally save lives. And you're right, cancer has touched so many millions of Americans. We're dealing with it now in my family. So God bless you, you're doing good work and it's also good for the economic, so we are very, very, very excited to have you here. Thank you, Doctor.
It's my pleasure to be back at Dunkirk. It's my pleasure to be at Dunkirk High with this group and this announcement. This is really an historic moment. It's a game-changer and something like this doesn't happen too often in one's lifetime, so it's a special moment, and I want to begin with the people who've worked long and hard to make this day a reality.
Dr. Kaloyeros who you've heard from. He is a scientist. He is as close as I've ever come to dealing with a genius. He's been dedicated to the state of New York for decades. He is the father of nanotechnology which started in Albany and transformed the whole Albany region. He's brought in so many new high-tech companies, advanced manufacturing companies and you see the growth going all the way across upstate New York. And seeing what he did in Albany, we assigned him to Western New York to see if he could duplicate the miracle in Buffalo with the Buffalo billion and he has been really, really extraordinary. Let's give him a round of applause, Dr. Kaloyeros.
We also have the man who made the Buffalo Billion actually happen, day to day in Buffalo, and then we stole him to run the state economic development activity, Howard Zemsky. Let's give him a round of applause.
Mayor Rosas was in Albany. I saw him at the Mansion and he said he needed help a couple of weeks ago. How about this, Mayor, do you think you got help fast enough? And to Vince Horrigan and to Sam Teresi and Tom Reed and all of my friends. It's a pleasure to be with you and my two Albany colleagues.
And you have two great representatives in Albany. Senator Kathy Young is as good as they come. She is always working, always fighting. She never takes no for an answer. It's always about what she can do for her district and what she can do for the state. She is a major player in the Senate and is really instrumental in getting the Senate moving. I would love to say we agree on everything all the time, but then we would have an unreal relationship. I don't even think I have a personal relationship where I agree with everyone, every time. No I don't have a personal relationship in which I agree all the time, that is for sure, but I can tell you this with Kathy: we have a respect and a relationship based in respect for each other's point of view and that never changes.
The difference between Albany and Washington is we can have our political differences but we are not going to let them stop progress and we still have to move the ball forward and we still need to deliver for the people of the state of New York and that is what we have done. Talk about getting budgets done, five budgets on time in a row, which never used to happen in Albany and that is just a metaphor for making government work and I applaud colleagues in the legislature for that and no one more than Senator Kathy Young. Who every time I have seen her she has talked about what has been happening here and how we have to help and how we have to make a major difference and today we are. Let's give her a round of applause, Senator Kathy Young.
And Andy Goodell is the same thing in the Assembly, he has a tough assignment in the Assembly but he is a powerful voice and a smart voice and they listen to him and he has also been a personal friend to me and I have enjoyed our relationship and he is going to be part of the one, two punch that delivers this in the legislature, Andy Goodell, let's give him a round of applause.
Now since this is a historic moment, I just want to take a moment to remember how we got here. You know before you can decide where you are going, you need to know where you are. What happened in the Southern Tier and Western New York, this didn't happen overnight. It was a long time coming. Someone once said in Western New York to me that they had had a bad 40 years when it came to the economy. And it sounded like a joke, but it is not a joke, it really has been decades and decades of economic decline. It didn't happen overnight when you think about what happened it was sort of a perfect storm of negative consequences on the economy. First, you had an economy that was changing but had nothing to do with us, but our economy was a manufacturing economy that is what we did, we made things. The Erie Canal, that was our economy and then the economy shifted and you woke up one day and we were out of the manufacturing economy and those jobs were going overseas and it left us with losing jobs and a losing population and that went on. The second factor, at the very same time state government in Albany knew how to do one thing, and that was to raise taxes and they raised taxes and they raised taxes and they raised taxes and they made this state one of the highest taxed states in the United States. Which only accelerated the businesses leaving, because you were already losing the market's share in the economy and then you continue to raise taxes. People are smart. They say, "You know what? I could live here and pay very high taxes or I can move to this state and pay lower taxes."
People started to vote with their feet, and they started to leave, especially young people. I can't tell you how many parents said to me, "I talked to my children, and they said, what should I do? I'd like to stay home but the jobs aren't here, and it doesn't look like the jobs are going to be here, and they left." That happened. Also, taxes not just from Albany but the local property taxes, and that was a big, big difference. We have the highest local property taxes in the United States of America in upstate New York. Think about that, highest in the country, so that's saying something. And to the extent that state government had something to productive to do, they were too concerned in my opinion, with downstate New York. Why? Because downstate New York is where the population was, and all the focus was downstate. That's where the legislators tend to come from, proportionately, because that is the population center, and downstate was getting the attention, and you put these things together, shifting economy, high taxes, no real help from the state of New York, and you start to see why we were where we were.
I remember Tim Russert -- God rest his soul -- you remember Tim Russert, great broadcaster from Buffalo? He brought me out -- we were both young fellows at the time -- and he gave me the western New York tour, I think I sobered up about six days later, and he was talking even at that time about how Western New York felt abandoned, and how they felt closer to Pennsylvania than they did to Albany and what was going on in Albany, and how it really was personal. I learned all that. I felt all that. I was in the federal government for a period of years, I was always trying to find ways to help upstate New York, but it was going to be a radical shift. We start as governor, we map a totally different plan. Every one of those problems we went through, we did the exact opposite. High taxes, we have reversed the state taxes and cut state taxes for individuals, middle class people up to $300,000 -- paid the lowest taxes they have since the 50s. We cut the corporate tax, we cut the estate tax, we cut the small business tax, and then we attacked the local property tax -- local officials are still mad at me -- but we put a 2% cap on local property taxes. Why? Because local property taxes were going up 5, 6, 7 percent every year and people can't afford it. So we put a 2% property tax cap. By the way, an average New Yorker, what do they pay in taxes? About $1000 and change to the state, $4000 and change to local property taxes.
So, we made a difference in taxes, and then we totally changed the economic development perspective from the state of New York, and we said, "We are going to focus on upstate New York." Why? Because that's where the need is, right? Governments are supposed to go where the need is and the need in economic development is upstate New York. Over the past five years we've invested 27 billion dollars in bringing back Upstate New York and Upstate New York is on the way back. We made the largest commitment and we started in Buffalo.
We announced the Buffalo Billion Dollar Program. Why Buffalo Billion? Where did we get Billion? Billion because it rhymed with Buffalo and because we needed a big announcement to say to Western New York, "I know it's been a bad long time and I know that people have come to you and said don't worry it is going to be better and it didn't get better." We need you to believe, we want you to believe and a billion dollars has to get your attention. A billion dollars has to have credibility. That's why the Buffalo Billion. Then they said, Western New Yorkers love to be a little cynical, "Let me see the billion dollars, then I'll believe you." And then we produced the billion dollars and we went to work and we changed the economic cycle that was killing us. What was the economic cycle that was killing us? We were creating the ideas because we have great schools and we have smart people. So we were creating the ideas but the ideas when they went to business what they call "commercialization", when a great idea comes out of a university and then it get commercialized for the business environment, it would move away.
We had a company Biogen that discovered a great drug out of UB, became a three billion dollar industry, and moved to Massachusetts. We had a company come out of UB Nano X-Ray. It focused X-rays on tumors so all the X-ray went into the tumor and it was very good as a cancer treatment drug and it didn't affect the rest of the body. Came out of UB, we birthed the idea and it moved to France. It was seduced to France. We said, "We have to stop this. We have the schools. We create the ideas. We have to keep them here." So the state government has to be as aggressive as these other governments in developing the totality of an environment to keep the jobs here. Today is the exact opposite story. This is an idea that was birthed in Western New York. Is staying in Western New York and is expanding to China but is birthed here, is being developed here, is a drug with a fantastic future. It is one of the drugs, frankly. That is in this new economy that were generating in Western New York, which is now a new high-tech advanced manufacturing economy, which is just what we said we were going to do five years ago. And it is happening and it is working.
Now, we started in Buffalo, per se, because that's where the economic engines were. We started with UB, we started with the Niagara medical campus and corridor and we started building and building and building and we said we are going to generate such energy that you are going to see it's going to have aa positive impact on the entire region. And that was always the concept.
And you know what you see today, a positive impact on the entire region, you know what today is? 1,400 jobs. 1,400 jobs. 500 new jobs in Buffalo, 900 jobs in Dunkirk, 900 jobs are going to be located in Dunkirk. Now, 900 jobs. Think about it. On a population of 12,000 people in Dunkirk, that is a major, major development.
And it's not just about the 900 jobs, and the facility that we are going to build. It's then a spinoff of all of that. Because people come, people buy houses, people buy automobiles, it is a game changer for Dunkirk. It really, really is. And it is just more evidence of what we are doing. It'll be a $1.6 billion investment when all is said and done by the company. It is going to be matched by $200 million from the state of New York, which will leverage this $1.6 billion. That is a deal that I will make any day of the week, anywhere in the state of New York. Now, that $200 million is in the state budget. Mr. Gooddell is committed to delivering it. Senator Young is committed to delivering it. And I believe in Assemblyman Gooddell and I believe in Senator Young, and I believe in their capacity to deliver it in the budget. An inquiring reporter said this morning, "Well what happens when it's not in the budget, how do we know it's going to be in the budget?"
Part of a reporters DNA to ask the cynical question. I know, my brother is a reporter, but he was cynical before he was a reporter, I just think it brought him to that occupation. Let me make it clear. I believe that Senator Young is committed to getting $200 million in the budget. I believe in the Assemblyman's ability to get $200 million in the budget. It should be done by April 1. But coincidentally, I have a broken hand, at the time. My right hand was broken. I sign with my right hand. My right hand is so broken that if the budget does not have $200 million in it, I cannot sign that budget, period. So we're going to have the $200 million in the budget.
And let me say this. I know it's been a long haul. I know it's been a tough haul. I've been there over the decades watching it and feeling bad. I can't tell you how positive I feel today, after all the negativity. You can't have more signs of progress than we're looking at. And this is not an overnight success. This has been five years of hard work, changing old habits, bringing fiscal discipline to the state, reducing taxes, reducing local property taxes, investing state money in Upstate New York when the state government didn't know where upstate was for a lot of years. Its decades of work by Dr. Kaloyeros. Its years of work by Howard Zemsky. It's making the Buffalo Billion work and then watching those jobs spread out and synergize and develop.
I always knew we would get here. You know why? Nobody has what we have in New York. Fundamentally, nobody had what we had. Nobody had the schools, nobody had the universities, nobody had the workforce, nobody had the talent, and nobody had the ethic that we have in New York. We just had to get the negative out of the way and let the entrepreneurial talent and ability and the goodness of the people of the state of New York do it. We were better, we had the skills, we work harder, you knock us down, we get up twice as strong. And we win at the end of the day, and that's what today is all about. Thank you and God bless you. And let me introduce Senator Cathy Young.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-audio-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-announces-major-expansion-athenex-creating-1400-jobs
