Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Empire State Development Now Requesting Proposals to Revitalize Republic Airport
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 11, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that Empire State Development has issued a Request for Proposals to revitalize more than 40 acres at Republic Airport in East Farmingdale, Suffolk County. The development of this land will help generate new economic opportunities for Long Island, in terms of both attracting new businesses and creating jobs.
"Republic is already a key part of New York's regional transportation network and, with this action, we are seeking to unlock its potential as a major economic engine for Long Island," Governor Cuomo said. "By fully developing this airport's assets and resources, we will be creating opportunities for new development to make this region even more competitive in the global economy."
The RFP is for five parcels located within the footprint of Republic Airport, which is owned by the New York State Department of Transportation. They range in size from five to 18 acres and total 41.5 acres. Three of the parcels are connected to roads surrounding the airport, and one other could be connected to Farmingdale Road. To jump-start investment and attract business to Republic Airport, the State has enabled the site to host START-UP NY Tax-Free Areas, which will make available additional resources and provide businesses the opportunity to operate tax-free for 10 years.
Respondents to the RFP may submit proposals for all five sites or for any combination of individual sites, including proposals for just one site. While aviation or aviation-related uses are preferred, prospective respondents may propose alternative, but compatible uses. All sites and proposed uses are subject to Federal Aviation Administration review, and residential uses will not be considered. The designated developer(s) will be required to sign a long-term lease with the State for the property. All deals resulting from the RFP are subject to the normal SEQRA, Attorney General and Comptroller approval. The RFP is the result of several conversations ESD has had with stakeholders on Long Island. For copies of the solicitation, please visit Empire State Development's website. All responses to the RFP issued today are due April 15, 2016.
Successful respondents to the solicitations will be required to commit to a 30 percent Minority and Women-owned Business Enterprises goal, which should include, but not be limited to, opportunities for MWBEs to serve as primary contractors, subcontractors, and other business opportunities relating to each project.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "Developing this property helps build upon the economic success of Republic Airport and the entire region. Governor Cuomo's leadership will provide qualified companies an opportunity to launch, expand or relocate to the area."
Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Howard Zemsky said, "New York's airports are economic engines, accounting for thousands of jobs and millions in revenue across the state. Thanks to Governor Cuomo's vision for building a better New York, Republic Airport will have an even greater impact on the regional workforce and the Long Island economy."
Occupying approximately 526 acres in East Farmingdale, New York, Republic Airport is one of 13 airports on Long Island. Republic Airport was originally developed by Sherman Fairchild and began operation in the spring of 1928. Initially it was used to test aircraft made by Fairchild, American, Grumman and Seversky. In 1965, Fairchild Hiller Corporation acquired Republic Airport and sold it to Farmingdale Corporation, and in 1966, it became a general aviation airport. In 1969, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority purchased the airport for $25 Million. Ownership of the airport was transferred to the New York State Department of Transportation in 1982. As a general aviation and reliever facility, Republic Airport generates $214 million in economic impact to Nassau and Suffolk Counties each year.

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-empire-state-development-now-requesting-proposals-revitalize-republic
