Public Statements
Letter to the Honorable Audrey Zibelman, Chair of New York Public Services Commission; The Honorable Howard Zucker, Commissioner of the New York State Department of Health; and the Honorable Basil Seggos, Commissioner of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation - Regrading Indian Point Nuclear Facility
Letter
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 10, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Dear CEO Zibelman and Commissioners Zucker and Seggos:
Once again, we have received a troubling report from the Entergy Indian Point Energy Center (Indian Point) of increased levels of radioactivity in groundwater at the site. The levels of radioactivity reported last week are significantly higher than in past incidents, with one of the monitoring wells having increased nearly 65,000 percent from 12,300 picocuries per liter to over 8,000,000 picocuries per liter. Today, that same well is registering a radioactivity level of 14,800,000 picocuries per liter, an 80 percent increase since February 5.
Our first concern will always remain the health and safety of the residents close to the facility and ensuring the groundwater leak does not pose a threat. Information provided through the Department of Public Service's ongoing investigation into operational problems at the plant may prove useful in the investigation of the radioactive leak into the environment; similarly, findings from the environmental problems at the plant may prove useful to the DPS investigation. Therefore, I direct the investigative teams to immediately share all information obtained to date, and integrate the State's ongoing investigations.
I understand your agencies are working with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to investigate this serious matter and are scheduled to conduct an on-site investigation tomorrow, February 11th, 2016 to determine the cause and potential impacts to the environment and public health.
Please report back at your earliest convenience the findings of your investigation.
Sincerely,
Andrew M. Cuomo

Source: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/statement-governor-andrew-m-cuomo-regarding-indian-point-nuclear-facility-0
