Public Statements
Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Speaks at the Human Rights Campaign's 2016 Greater New York Gala
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 6, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Earlier today, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced executive actions to ban coverage of conversion therapy in New York State. More information about those actions is available here. This evening, the Governor discussed the role of government in fighting for justice and equality at the Human Rights Campaign's 2016 Greater New York Gala, where he also received the National Equality Award from HRC President Chad Griffin.
A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is available below:
Well, thank you. It is good to be in New York City, isn't it Chad? First, to Chad Griffin, who I have known for a long, long time. He was a young star when we worked together in the Clinton Administration. He was then was a one-man revolution in California when he was fighting against Proposition 8. He has been magnificent, magnificent for the HRC. Let's give him a round of applause -- Chad Griffin. I want to congratulate the co-chairs on tonight Craig Colbert, Lauren Verrusio and Chis Fasser. Let's give them a round of applause for their great work. To my fellow honorees, Accenture and Bill T. Jones and Sigourney Weaver who's here -- congratulations to them. I am really hoping that Sigourney Weaver says "inalienable rights" [inaudible] when she does that. But the greatest honor really goes to HRC tonight for all their great work, all the accomplishments. Marriage equality, don't ask don't tell. You saw it on that video. They are a premier fighting force for equality all across this county and it's working. Let's give HRC a round of applause.
I also would like to take the opportunity to recognize my counsel, who's here tonight, who's done extraordinary work -- Alphonso David -- and another colleague -- Senator Brad Hoylman -- who's actually worked on today's bill and we thank him. I'd also like to express my disappointment. Chad went through that whole long list of Board of Governors and I think I'm the only governor who's not on the Board of Governors, Chad, but Chad is right. He basically gave the speech that I was going to give so let me make a couple of additional points if I can.
The HRC has also been very active in politics and rightfully so because government is where change comes from. I don't know what you think, but I've been watching politics for a long time and this is the most bizarre political year I have ever seen. The only problem is it would really be funny if it wasn't so serious because what's happening is people are anxious and people are afraid and people are angry. They have economic anxiety. They never really recovered from the 2000 recession. Now you have this new threat of terrorism that seems like it could happen anywhere in the United States at any time. We're losing fighting forces in the Middle East. People are scared and people are angry. What you're seeing going on through this political process is they're being offered two choices. One choice actually fans the flames and plays to the anger. They yell to show that they're connecting with the anger the people feel. That is dangerous to this nation, my friends. We talk about all of the progress that we have made, but Chad is exactly right -- don't get complacent. It can all be gone in one election, one president who appoints different people to the Supreme Court. It's all gone.
They're fanning the flames. They have people who are afraid. And what is the normal reaction when you're afraid? To pull within. What is the natural instinct, right? You're startled, you're scared, you close up, you protect yourself. They're exploiting that instinct -- close up, protect yourself, isolate, exclude. People who are different are a threat and people who are different scare us, so we only want people who are like us. That's basically their message and they have a very simple solution -- take the people who are different, take the immigrants who come from different skin colors and different languages, and you make them leave. And then you build a big wall and they can't come back. How simple. But if you're scared and you're angry and you hear this, it gives you a sense of peace.
You're afraid of terrorism? We have the answer. The Muslims do it. They believe in a different religion than us. It's called Islam. We'll get a long list of all the Muslims in the country and we'll kick them out too and then we won't let them back and we'll be safe. Different people are the threat. And differences are the threat. That is a dangerous, dangerous message.
Now they want to demonize differences. Our message is the exact opposite. We don't want to demonize differences. We accept and cherish and celebrate differences. They want to talk about good American values? No I want to talk about good American values. This country was founded on the premise of accepting people from all over the world. Different people, different cultures, different races, difference ethnicities -- an amalgamation of them all and we will forge one. That's the American value. It never said people who are different are bad. The American value -- the founding motto of this nation is E Pluribus Unum -- out of many one. We invite them, they will come and we will forge one community. That is the American value and that is what they are preaching against.
We are not threatened by diversity. We are celebrating it. We are not born of exclusion, we are born of the exact opposite, we are born of inclusion. We are black, we are white, we are Asian, we are Latino, we are gay, we are straight, we are transgender, we are rich, we are poor, and we invite all in and we say we will forge one community all together. That's what America really is all about.
And we only had two rules when we founded this nation: acceptance of all by all; discrimination of none by none. Those are the rules and those are the rules that they want to violate now. And our experiment of diversity rested on one basic promise and that basic promise comes down to one word, and that one word is equality. That whoever you are and wherever you come from, we treat everyone the same. That's the rule: to take the diverse population that we have attracted and forge one society, one community. We're all equal. We don't judge, we accept and we are all equal.
Now, equality, equality is an ongoing process. Equality is not really about a specific goal or destination. It is about a constant process of improvement. Martin Luther King used to talk about "the arc of the moral universe bends toward justice." He didn't mean that it bends naturally. He means, you can bend it towards justice, but it takes an effort. I am not so sure that society, left to its own devices, bends the arc towards justice, it takes effort, it takes strength, it takes advocates, and that's what the HRC does every day, bend that arc towards justice.
And it's not just the HRC. I believe that it is the inherent role of government. The inherent role of government is to fight for equality and fight for justice. That's the number one role and that's what we've brought to New York State and you can see it all throughout our agenda. That's what marriage equality was so important, especially when we did it, because remember the juxtaposition. Marriage equality was juxtaposed against civil union and society was saying "we don't understand why you don't accept civil union. It's almost like marriage, it's just a little different." But that little difference was everything. What are you saying? That when a heterosexual gets married, "that we call marriage," but if homosexuals get married, "that's something else, that's something different, that's civil union, we don't want it to be the same or the equivalent of what heterosexuals do." Separate, but unequal. No. No.
When you said civil unions for gay people, you said their love is not equal to your love. Their relationship is not equal to your relationship. Their child is different than your child. You demean the relationship. You invalidated the love and you set up two different classes and that's the exact opposite and that's why we fought so hard for marriage equality and that's why we got it done here in New York with your help and when it happens in New York, it radiates all across the country. When it happens in New York, every politician, the next day, gets the question. "What would you do about marriage equality?" and "What would you do about marriage equality?" and "What would you do, Mr. President, about marriage equality?"
That's the power of New York and that's why we're going to do it and do it and do it and do it again. And that's why we took executive action and said you cannot discriminate against transgender. I don't care if the legislature is not going to pass it, I'm going to do it, because it's a New York value. And that's why, my friends, we passed the toughest human trafficking law in the United States of America, right here in New York. That's why we passed equal pay for women, because it's a disgrace that women still make 73 cents to a man's dollar. That's why we're fighting for paid family leave -- because you shouldn't have to choose between caring for a sick relative and a paycheck. That's why we proposed $15 as the minimum wage, the highest in the United States -- because everyone who works should have the dignity of work. And that's why today we rejected fundamentally the absurd notion that being gay is a psychiatric disorder and that they should be treated and we've ended conversion therapy in the state of New York, and I am proud to have done it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
And my friends, the fight will go on. The fight will go on, and it will only end when we reach a more perfect union. And a wholly equal society, which is probably a goal that is unobtainable, but the struggle will always, always go on. HRC as a fighter and a leader in that struggle is indispensable.
And I want you to know that as long as I am Governor of New York we will be with you 100% of the way in that fight for equality. Because -- with all the arrogance of a New Yorker -- New York is not just another state. New York is a special state. And New York always has been. By birth, it was born special. We are the laboratory of the American experiment in democracy. That Statue of Liberty stands in our harbor. The words of Emma Lazarus are on our doorstep. We are the place that said to the world: come here, we welcome you. Poor, huddled masses, come here, we welcome you. And we have done that since we have been founded. And we have made it a great success. You want a model of diversity? You want a model of acceptance? You want a model that has rejected bigotry and taken people from all over the world, with one simple promise of opportunity and dignity and equality for all, and forged one society? That's New York. 18 million people from everywhere, but we are one at the end of the day. We are one community, and we are there one for another.
So don't tell us that diversity doesn't work. Don't try to pit us against each other. Don't try to threaten us with differences, one among the other. We know it because we live it. And we live it in close proximity, altogether, and it has been a joyous, joyous celebration. That's why so many of the great equality fights and fighters have come from New York. Eleanor Roosevelt, FDR, Stonewall, Mario Cuomo: people who knew in their DNA that we are all different and we are all immigrants -- except for the Native Americans who are here, excuse me. Otherwise, we are all immigrants. And we all came to the same place for the same promise and the same rights. And we owe it one to another. That banner, New York will carry for the rest of our lives. Thank you and God bless you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/audio-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-speaks-human-rights-campaigns-2016-greater-new-york-gala
