Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Unveils New Tool to Guide New Yorkers to Addiction Treatment
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 3, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today launched a new web-based service that will help connect New Yorkers struggling with addiction to treatment. The New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services' Bed Availability Dashboard application collects bed availability from State-certified alcohol and substance use disorder treatment providers daily and makes it available in real-time on the agency's website. This new platform will help allow all New Yorkers to easily determine treatment bed availability all across the state.
"This new resource will help New Yorkers struggling with addiction more easily obtain the help they need to begin the path to recovery," Governor Cuomo said. "This commonsense application will help change lives and put us on a path for a stronger and healthier New York."
The Bed Availability Dashboard allows New Yorkers to search for services in their region, as well as for treatment beds specific to age or gender. Providers will update information about available treatment beds on a 24/7 basis. The application will soon be updated to include outpatient services.
New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services Commissioner Arlene González-Sánchez said, "Connecting New Yorkers to addiction treatment services is one of our top priorities. I encourage all New Yorkers in need of help to take advantage of this valuable resource to begin the journey towards recovery. Treatment is available and recovery is possible."
The Bed Availability Dashboard is the latest addition to Governor Cuomo's multi-pronged approach to addressing substance use disorders in New York State. Since Governor Cuomo signed historic legislation into law in 2014 to address the heroin and opioid crisis, many advances have been made to ensure individuals have access to the substance use disorder care they need, and that there are services and supports for families and communities affected by addiction.
New Yorkers struggling with an addiction, or whose loved ones are struggling, can find help and hope by calling the State's HOPEline at 1-877-8-HOPENY (1-877-846-7369) or by texting HOPENY (Short Code 467369). Find an OASAS-certified substance use disorder treatment provider on the NYS OASAS Find Help web page. Visit www.combatheroin.ny.gov for more information on addressing heroin and prescription opioid abuse, including a Kitchen Table Tool Kit to help start the conversation about the warning signs of addiction and where to get help. For additional tools to use in talking to a young person about preventing underage drinking or drug use, visit the State's Talk2Prevent website.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-unveils-new-tool-guide-new-yorkers-addiction-treatment
