Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Applications Now Available for Second Round of $30 Million Better Buffalo Fund
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 2, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced funding applications are available through the second round of the $30 million Better Buffalo Fund. The Better Buffalo Fund is a vital component of the Buffalo Billion, and is dedicated to projects that encourage density and growth along transportation corridors and revitalize neighborhood commercial districts. Applications, due March 28, are available here and a map of the sites can be viewed here.
"As Western New York's economy continues to grow, we must ensure Buffalo has a strong, vibrant downtown with the capacity to be its anchor," Governor Cuomo said. "This funding will help continue this progress and ensure that Buffalo remains a city on the move."
The Better Buffalo Fund is crucial to promoting the redevelopment of downtown Buffalo, attracting a dynamic workforce and improving access to employment and educational opportunities. The first round of the Better Buffalo Fund awarded a total $11,722,500 to 21 projects. Applicants for this round may seek grants and revolving loan funds for one of two initiatives: Transit Oriented Development or Buffalo Main Streets.
Transit Oriented Development
Investing in transit oriented development will connect Buffalo's centers of activity with each other in order to help build the city's reputation as a vibrant, thriving city with modern amenities and infrastructure, well-designed and friendly neighborhoods, and a wide array of assets which are accessible to all residents.
Up to $2 million in gap financing is available for projects that encourage the use of multi-modal transportation and stimulate pedestrian activity though retail and neighborhood-oriented businesses and services, quality public spaces and accessible walkways. The target region for this development is within ¼ mile walking distance of Buffalo transit stops on Bailey Avenue, Grant Street, Main Street, Niagara Street, Utica Street and Fillmore Avenue corridors.

Source:
