Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Moog to Build New Space Propulsion Manufacturing Test Facility in Erie County
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Feb. 1, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo today announced plans for a new $12 million manufacturing and test facility for space propulsion products to be located on Moog's campus in Elma. Moog Inc. Space and Defense Group designs, manufactures and tests a variety of propulsion systems and components for satellites and launch vehicles for commercial and military customers. The company was approved for $3.9 million in Excelsior tax credits.
"We are committed to helping companies like Moog expand and grow their high tech facilities in local communities across the state," Governor Cuomo said. "This decision will ensure that one of New York's premiere manufacturing companies remains a leader in the space and defense industries, while creating new jobs and additional private investment to Western New York. I look forward to seeing the manufacturing sector in the region continue to thrive for years to come."
The new Moog facility will be optimized to support Moog's growing space propulsion business and will include multiple vacuum chambers to simulate conditions in space. Moog's propulsion systems are used on satellites for missions that include communication, GPS, weather, television, and scientific research.
The new 35,000 square foot testing center on Moog's Elma campus will eventually replace a leased facility Wheatfield. Over the next five years the Wheatfield employees will be transferred to Elma and 100 additional jobs will be created.
John Scannell, Chairman and CEO of Moog Inc. said, "This project highlights our commitment to continue as a world-class supplier of propulsion systems and components for decades to come."
Senator Patrick Gallivan said, "Moog is a premiere employer in Western New York that prides itself on ingenuity, intelligence and engineering excellence. I am pleased that 100 jobs will be added to the Elma campus at a future state-of-the-art facility, which will play an important role in the space and defense industries.
County Executive Mark Poloncarz said, "Moog's announcement that they are expanding in Erie County is great news for all of Western New York. Moog is not only retaining jobs, they are adding 100 new jobs in our growing high tech sector and solidifying Erie County's international reputation as a good place for business to locate and prosper."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-moog-build-new-space-propulsion-manufacturing-test-facility-erie
