Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Awards $1.6 Million to Support New Clubhouses for Teens and Young Adults Battling Addiction
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 28, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced more than $1.6 million in annual funding to create first-of-their-kind adolescent substance use disorder clubhouses in seven regions across New York State. These community-based clubhouses will promote peer-driven supports and services in a non-clinical setting for young New Yorkers in recovery or at risk for substance use disorders. This new and innovative model for providing addiction services is the latest of the Governor's comprehensive efforts to combat addiction and support recovery in communities throughout the state.
"These new adolescent clubhouses will give young New Yorkers a safe, welcoming environment to receive the help they need and keep them on the path of recovery," Governor Cuomo said. "I'm proud of this effort, which will make this a stronger and healthier New York."
The seven organizations receiving funding will help individuals in recovery develop social skills that promote prevention, long-term health, wellness, recovery and a drug-free lifestyle. A variety of services and activities will be available, including homework help and tutoring, college and job preparation, community service opportunities, sports and fitness activities, group entertainment activities, and peer mentoring. Youth and family advisory board members at each clubhouse will help shape activities and programming.
New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services Commissioner Arlene González-Sánchez said, "Adolescents and young adults that have battled addiction need to be supported every step of the way as they recover so that they can sustain long-term recovery. These clubhouses will not only give young people the support they need, but also will provide a safe environment where they can stay active with peers and family, while maintaining a sober, drug-free lifestyle."
Clubhouse grant winners are:

Source:
