Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Agreement to Protect 800 Acres of Farm and Forestland in the Taconic Mountains
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 25, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced an 800-acre conservation agreement that will preserve a crucial gap in Taconic State Park in Columbia County. The agreement will enlarge a major protected forest area in the Taconic Mountains along the New York and Massachusetts border, benefitting those who love the natural beauty of this region, consumers of locally grown food, and more than two dozen rare animal and plant species. Protection of High Valley Farm in Copake brings to fruition a years-long collaboration between The Nature Conservancy, the Columbia Land Conservancy, New York State, and the property owner, Edgar Masters.
"The preservation of High Valley Farm continues New York State's commitment to protecting the open spaces and its rich history of environmental stewardship," Governor Cuomo said. "The natural beauty and agricultural vitality of this area are tremendous economic and tourism drivers in the region, and this action will help ensure they remain so for generations to come."
Under the agreement, the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation acquired a forever wild easement over 660 acres of the forestland; and the Columbia Land Conservancy acquired an agricultural easement on 140 acres. The total price was $4 million, with the state paying $2.2 million from the Environmental Protection Fund and The Nature Conservancy contributing $1.8 million toward the purchase price. The Columbia Land Conservancy will hold and monitor the easement restrictions.
As a large private inholding between the Copake Falls and Rudd Pond sections of the 6,700-acre Taconic State Park, the parcel was a top priority for protection by State Parks.
State Parks Commissioner Rose Harvey said, "The agreement ensures this crucial feature of Taconic State Park's landscape -- a huge swath of contiguous forestland -- will never be cut, fragmented or developed into building lots, and forever remain a hugely significant view-shed and habitat for all species. New York is very fortunate to have Governor Cuomo's commitment to protecting open space, the generosity of The Nature Conservancy for helping make it possible to preserve our state's magnificent places, as well as the partnership of the Columbia Land Conservancy and the landowner who agreed to a charitable sale."

Source:
