Public Statements
Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Holds Winter Storm Briefing
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 24, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

This morning, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo held a storm briefing with senior state officials in New York City and issued an update on service suspensions for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. MTA New York City Transit restored local and express bus service throughout New York City at 7 a.m., along with most above ground subway service. Metro North service will resume at 12:30 p.m. The travel ban was officially lifted at 7 a.m. this morning, and the Port Authority's bridges and tunnels opened at that time without incident.
A rush transcript of Governor Cuomo's opening remarks is below:
"Let me introduce who we have at the table starting at my right, Audrey Zibelman who is the commissioner of the public service commission, Jim Malatras who is the director of state operations, Joseph Giulietti who is the president of the Metro North Rail Road, Major General Patrick Murphy who has been running the National Guard, Ronnie Hakim who is immediately to my right who is the President of the MTA/NYC Transit department, Patrick Foye to my left who is the director of the Port Authority, Patricia Groeber who is the first deputy super intendent of the New York State Police, Matthew Driscoll who is Commissioner of the New York State DOT, Bill Mulrow secretary to the Governor and John Melville Commissioner of Homeland Security.
Happy Sunday to all. We survived and then some I think it is fair to say. The update as we have said is that the travel ban has been lifted as of 7 AM and traffic has resumed and has resumed without issue thus far. We are hopeful it stays that way. The buses are up and running as of 7 AM, they are on the normal weekend schedule but they are running without incident. The Metro North, the 12:30 p.m. trains should be the first trains which are in bound and 3 o'clock the first trains that are outbound for Metro North and Mr. Giulietti will give us more on that.
The problem we are still having is with the Long Island Railroad which has sustained significant damage in the yards, through the storm, there is a lot of work to do to get the trains moving again through the yards and as well as getting the stations ready for passengers. The crews have been working all night and they will work all day today and we are hoping to have the LIRR up for tomorrow but the MTA will be giving updates all through the day and hopefully 6 o'clock tonight there will be an update that will advise people on what is going to happen with the LIRR tomorrow, but Mr. Giulietti can speak to that also.
The Port Authority, all the crossings are open, all bridges and tunnels and are operating well. The airports are open and the port authority did an extraordinary job of cleaning the airports, it is now up to the flight operators and airlines what flights will be operating and Pat Foye will give us a briefing on that.
The travel ban has been lifted, that does not mean people should be out and taking a ride and see the sights. The roads are clear for the most part, there are still entrance ramps and exit ramps which are not clear. There are still situations where cars are getting stuck on highways so let's not misinterpret that as the travel ban. If it is essential travel, necessary travel that is one thing but if you do not need to be on the roads you should not be on the roads because there still are dangerous spots, there are still spots with black ice and this is still about getting the emergency crews out there and letting them do their job. Every time a car gets stuck that actually hurts that effort.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank New Yorkers for their cooperation and their consideration I know they were inconvenienced yesterday when I put the travel ban in place, New Yorkers are not accustomed to being constricted, I understand that. I understand that the travel ban was an imposition and it is not something that I have done often but the travel ban had two purposes, one was to protect people, just to protect people. I was on the roads yesterday morning, they were extraordinarily dangerous. People were getting stuck all over the place so it was literally to protect people and second, the main goal is to clear the roads and let the emergency crews do their work, when you have traffic on the roads, the plows literally can't do their work. So what the ban did for us was it protected the public and it allowed the crews to actually clean the roads and I think in retrospect when you look back it was the right decision because we have had success in both areas.
This storm was very dangerous, current estimates are about 19 lives that were lost along the eastern seaboard by this storm. Luckily there are no fatalities that we know of in New York due to the storm. No accident fatalities, etc. and that is really saying something since our area was probably the most populous area that was hit by the storm and no deaths attributed to the storm. We did unfortunately lose five New Yorkers from heart attack related deaths from shoveling snow, which is something I caution people today. If you are old like me, you want to think twice before you go out there and start shoveling, at least that's the excuse I use not to shovel any snow today.
But, the number of deaths -- protecting public safety worked. We just went through a review of the roads in the entire metropolitan area. You have many roads that are down to blacktop that are that clean. You look at the Long Island Expressway, Northern State Parkway, Van Wyck Expressway. The crews really did do their job and the reason they were able to do their job as well as they did -- as quickly as they did -- was because you did not have the normal traffic on the roads. That was the purpose of the ban and I think the ban served its purpose.
I know New Yorkers were inconvenienced, but in true New Yorker spirit, they rose to the occasion. It was also heartwarming to see yesterday how New Yorkers were there and rallied one for the other. I can't tell you how many circumstances I came across where people were out shoveling other peoples' driveways and walkways. People were out pushing cars. People were helping people cross the street. It was just great to see how New Yorkers come together in a beautiful spirit of community. You know, sometimes when things are at their worst, it brings out the best and I think that's true about New Yorkers. It's also true about our public servants who have done amazing work all across the board. This was hard. You have crews out there who have been literally working around the clock under very difficult conditions. You have Department of Sanitation crews, cleanup crews, the police departments -- in the entire downstate area -- the NYPD, Nassau police, Suffolk police, really have done a great job. The MTA, the Port Authority has done a phenomenal job and they all cooperated.
One vignette that I'll keep with me: Last year, we had seven feet of snow in Buffalo, just to put in for New Yorkers downstate, we had a lot of snow. Seven feet of snow is a lot of snow. Seven feet of snow in Buffalo and I called Mayor de Blasio and he had sent up NYPD and fire department personnel. I met the fire department personnel in Buffalo and I said, you know, I want to thank you very much for being here. It is a long ride in a fire truck from New York City to Buffalo. They said without hesitation, you know, everybody was there for us after 9/11 and we'll never forget that and when anybody in the state needs help, we're going to be there. On this occasion, we had crews from Upstate who were down in New York City. We brought crews from all across Upstate to come down with machinery, et cetera. And I saw them yesterday, and they said the exact reciprocal. They said, "The New York FDNY was there for us when we needed them and we're going to be there for them." And that's New York. That's one helping the other. That's at the end of the day, we're one state -- upstate helping downstate -- and we're one community. So it was good to see. We've made a lot of progress but I don't want people to get complacent. We're not out of the woods yet. It"s not done. It's cold out there, it's going to be cold tonight, there is still a possibility for black ice through the day and tonight and re-freeze tonight. So we still have a lot to do.
With that, let me turn it over first to Ronnie Hakim who will give us an update on the train situation, both the subway system and the above-ground trains."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-phots-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-holds-winter-storm-briefing
