Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Declares State of Emergency for New York City, Long Island, and Lower Hudson Valley as Winter Storm Hits Region
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 23, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today declared a state of emergency for New York City as well as Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange and Putnam Counties as a major Nor'easter storm continues to move up the east coast and impact the region. In addition to the State of Emergency, MTA bus service will suspend operation in New York City at noon today, and remain suspended until further notice.
According to latest forecasts the storm is predicted to bring 18 to 24 inches of snow by Sunday. Heavy winds with speeds between 30 and 40 mph are expected, with gusts as high as 55 mph, contributing to whiteout conditions and power outages. Coastal flooding remains a concern along parts of Long Island.
"This is a major storm, and travel conditions throughout downstate New York are dangerous," said Governor Cuomo. "We are doing everything possible to keep the roads and mass transit operational, but unless there is an emergency people should not be traveling. We are responding aggressively as the storm develops and working hand-in-hand with our local partners to keep communities safe. I urge all New Yorkers to stay home, stay warm, and allow our emergency personnel to do their jobs."
SERVICE & CONDITION UPDATES
MTA
Subways: Running normal weekend service currently, but curtailed service is a possibility as the storm develops, especially on outdoor lines.
Buses: All local and express service suspending at noon today.
LIRR: Running with 20-25 minute delays.
Metro-North: Running close to schedule on the Harlem, Hudson and New Haven lines. The Pascack Valley and Port Jervis lines operated by NJ Transit are suspended.
Bridges & Tunnels: Walkways are closed on the Robert F. Kennedy, Henry Hudson, Cross Bay and Marine Parkway bridges. The lower level of the Verrazano Narrows Bridge is closed.
Subway, bus and railroad customers should check the status of MTA services at www.mta.info before starting their journeys to stay advised of changing conditions. Be extremely careful on station stairs and platforms and at bus stops, where snow and ice are accumulating.
Port Authority
Airports: Virtually all flights have been cancelled at both LaGuardia and JFK Airports. Travelers should check with their carriers before heading to the airports.
PATH: The PATH is currently running weekend service with delays.
Bridges & Tunnels: All bridges and tunnels remain open. A 35 mph speed limit has been imposed on the Port Authority's bridges, with the exception of the three Staten Island bridges, which are 25 mph.
Buses: Substantially all bus service today to and from the Port Authority Bus Terminal has been cancelled, except for Greyhound service northbound. Passengers should contact their carriers before traveling to the Terminal.
Power: The New York State Public Service Commission will extend Call Center Helpline hours. The Helpline will be available from 7:30 a.m. until 7:30 p.m. on Saturday, Sunday and Monday to assist consumers in their storm preparation and restoration efforts. The Department of Public Service Call Center Helpline can be reached by calling 1-800-342-3377.
PSEG-Long Island has nearly 1,000 personnel on standby, 400 of whom have been deployed from out of the region to help out. Con-Ed also has nearly 650 personnel on standby. Public Service Commission staff will continue to monitor the utilities efforts throughout the storm and during the restoration period.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-declares-state-emergency-new-york-city-long-island-and-lower-hudson-valley
