Public Statements
Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo Holds Winter Storm Briefing
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 22, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Earlier today, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo held a briefing with senior state officials to outline the state's preparations for the Nor'easter that is expected to impact New York City, Long Island and parts of the lower Hudson Valley. The storm is predicted to bring snow beginning Friday evening with two to four inches by daybreak on Saturday in New York City. The heaviest snowfall is predicted for 4 p.m. Saturday through midnight with blizzard-like conditions. Motorists are advised to remain off the roads and to avoid any unnecessary travel during this time. More information on the state's proactive preparedness efforts can be found here.
A rush transcript of Governor Cuomo's opening remarks is below:
Good afternoon. Let me first introduce people who are at the table, starting at my left: John Melville, who is the commissioner of the Department of Homeland Services; Matt Driscoll, who is the commissioner of New York State Department of Transportation; Veronique Hakim, who is the president of the MTA New York City Transit System; Patricia Groeber, First Deputy Superintendent, New York State Police; Major Patrick Murphy who is the major who is in charge of the National Guard in the state of New York; Pat Foye, the executive director of the Port Authority; Jim Malatras, director of state operations; and Audrey Zibelman, who is the commissioner of the Public Service Commission.
As everybody knows by now, there is the very real potential of a winter storm. Depending on whose forecast you believe, somewhere in the range of 8 to 12 inches; 5 to 9 inches in Westchester. High wind gusts of up to 60 miles per hour. This is not the worst forecast that we've ever received, but it is significant and it should not be taken lightly. I've been in this position long enough. There were some storms that were supposed to miss us entirely and pass us by and they wound up doing tremendous damage. At the same time, there were storms that were forecasted to hit New York very hard and had virtually little impact. So, you hope for the best and you prepare for the worst but we are preparing for a significant occurrence.
In general, we're in the pre-deployment phase where we're getting equipment and personnel ready and in place. We have 200 Department of Transportation trucks that are now coming downstate. Obviously, our equipment is located statewide. Depending on where the storm is forecast to hit, we then deploy equipment towards that area of the state and right now we're bringing down 200 DOT trucks, 400 staff -- basically, plows, salt spreaders, et cetera -- 600 National Guard are on the ready. They've been contacted and they would be ready for deployment. The National Guard wind up critically important in these situations. I can't tell you how effective they have been -- Hurricane Irene, Storm Lee -- they have really been magnificent whenever we need them so they're a critical part of the operation. The MTA is storing as many trains as they can before the storm so the trains will be ready to run for this weekend's service and the MTA expects to be able to maintain weekend service. Airports -- Pat Foye is here -- but there will be significant delays. We know that. LaGuardia has cancelled over 700 flights already for tomorrow and JFK has cancelled over 350 flights. That's because the storm is hitting the Northeast so it's not just New York, obviously, but other areas in the Northeast.
On Long Island, we are especially concerned about utility lines going down. You have a heavy snowfall, limbs get heavy, trees get heavy, they fall, they bring down electric wires with them and we've had significant issues in the past. We have talked the respective utility companies. They are on the ready. They're bringing in personnel and we've identified approximately 400 additional line trucks that can come into the downstate area if, in case, we need them. PSEG has 1,000 personnel on the ready, so they're doing everything they can to prepare. And we're also worried about coastal flooding here in New York City, even more so on Long Island. So, in that regard, all state agencies are deploying all marine equipment to affected areas, especially, Nassau, Suffolk, lower lying coastal areas where we have seen significant damage in the past. Between the snow and the flooding, personally, I'm more worried about the flooding than the snow. Flooding can do tremendous, tremendous damage as we've learned the hard way on several times. We have been in contact with all our local government partners and we're coordinating our efforts with their efforts and I feel very good about that. So, in terms of preparation, government is doing what it's supposed to be doing. We'll wait to see what actually happens. We'll adjust accordingly. If the storm is forecasted to be less hard-hitting, then we'll scale back our efforts accordingly. If it gets worse, obviously, we're in a position to increase our efforts.
One word to our citizens, you have a role in this also. It's not just government and the National Guard. If you do not need to be on the streets, you shouldn't be on the streets. In all of these situations, one of the greatest burdens becomes stranded vehicles or stuck vehicles form people who are on the roads and it's not just that you endanger yourself. You endanger the emergency personnel that have to go out and help you and, you know, I can't tell you how many times we've said "If you don't need to be on the roads, unless it's an emergency, don't be on the roads because it is really an unnecessary risk" and the same is true here. Storm will hit midnight, it'll go through tomorrow, but people have had notice. Buy the groceries now, do what you need to do now, but prepare to stay home. You don't need to add the burden that we might have to deal with. With that, let me turn it over to Commissioner Matt Driscoll who is the Commissioner of the New York State Department of Transportation.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-audio-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-holds-winter-storm-briefing
