Public Statements
Governor Cuomo to Ted Cruz: If He Had Any Class, He Would Apologize to the People of New York, Not That They Need It Or Want It
Interview
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 15, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

A rush transcript of the interview is available below:
Pat Kiernan: Governor Andrew Cuomo is on the line with us now with some thoughts on what New York values are. Good morning Governor Cuomo.
Governor Cuomo: Good morning Pat, how are you?
Pat Kiernan: I'm well. I think like all New Yorkers, we didn't react well to Ted Cruz and his explanation of what we are and what we aren't.
Governor Cuomo: No, and we shouldn't have and by the way, I don't believe that it's just New Yorkers who aren't going to have a good reaction. I don't believe Americans are going to have a good reaction. We're not judgmental, negative and hostile the way Cruz was. In one 30 second soundbite, he was offensive to gays, he was offensive to women, he offended 18 million New Yorkers, one of the largest Congressional delegations, by the way, in the country, and you can't govern that way and it's not who we are. He said, "I don't know what New York values are." He doesn't know what New York values are because New York is in many ways the epitome of what formed this nation and what keeps it strong.
The Statue of Liberty is in our harbor. We do believe in immigration, we do believe in acceptance. We do believe in community. We do believe in E Pluribus Unum, out of many one and his rhetoric is the exact opposite. That's the politics of division. That's separate. That spreads fear and it's not who we are as New Yorkers and hypocrisy. I mean this is a man who in many ways, the only reason he's here is because New York is what New York is and America is what America is. This is a man from Canada of Spanish, Irish decent. In many ways he represents or should have represented the beauty of New York and the acceptance of New York, the capital of immigration. The place on the globe that said you can invite people from all over and if you're not judgmental and you're not divisive you can forge them into one state, one family, one country.
Pat Kiernan: Governor Cuomo, does this, obviously this was Ted Cruz trying to differentiate himself from Donald Trump and you and other Democrats are watching this on the Republican side wondering when they'll stop doing damage to each other and start focusing on the broader campaign. How will this be viewed in the general campaign? Is this the type of thing that can be easily forgotten?
Governor Cuomo: I don't think this differentiates in the broader campaign, Pat. I think this is who they are. I don't think this is a tactic, I think the man is honest. I think the man is honest. Unfortunately, I think he's saying, "This is what I believe. And I'm anti-New York."
Pat Kiernan: One of the comments I made this morning, was -- if this was a Texas-only campaign, maybe he finds some support for this. But as a national campaign, it's surprising that he would take one area of the country, democratic-leaning or not, and come out with comments like this.
Governor Cuomo: You know, I think this is what he believes. There are not a lot of conservatives in New York, okay? So he is a conservative and if you're not a conservative, then you're a bad person and you should be excluded and conservatives vote primarily in a Republican primary. But either way, it's not even true about New York -- we have a significant conservative party and movement in New York. About 30 percent of New Yorkers will tell you they are conservatives. Trust me, I deal with them every day. We have a big conservative component in our legislature and when we need to get a vote, we need the conservatives to come along and vote with us in the legislative body. That's why I'm very sensitive to this, because when you polarize that way, you make it impossible to govern. And that's Washington right now. That's that polarization. Extreme left, extreme right. Demonizing the other -- "I won't talk to them, I won't deal with them. They're bad people." Well then, we are where we are. We're polarized, we're paralyzed and the country can't move forward and you have Cruz speaking towards exactly that sentiment and I do believe it's genuine.
Pat Kiernan: Governor Cuomo is on the line talking about Ted Cruz and his comments to Donald Trump last night -- derogatory comments about New York values. Governor, final question: is there anything you'll do about this? Are you going to weigh in as a defensive New Yorker or send a letter to Ted Cruz?
Governor Cuomo: First of all, I'm sure Ted Cruz was very negative about New York money. I'm sure he's not going to accept any money from any New Yorker. I'm sure if he has, he's going to return all of those contributions.
Pat Kiernan: Like every other politician who comes to New York when they need to cash in their ATM.
Governor Cuomo: So I'm sure he's going to return all of the money, I'm always open to give him an education on what New York values are all about. And if he had any class, he would apologize to the people of New York. Not that I believe they need it or they want it. But if he had any class, he would apologize.
Pat Kiernan: Thanks for calling in this morning.
Governor Cuomo: Thank you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-ted-cruz-if-he-had-any-class-he-would-apologize-people-new-york-not-they-need-it
