Public Statements
10th Proposal of Governor Cuomo's 2016 Agenda: Dramatically Expand and Improve Access to High-Speed Internet Statewide
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Jan. 8, 2016
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today unveiled the tenth signature proposal of his 2016 agenda: dramatically expand and improve access to high-speed Internet in communities statewide.
Earlier today, the New York State Public Service Commission voted to approve the merger of Time Warner Cable and Charter Communications, which will dramatically improve broadband availability for millions of New Yorkers and lead to more than $1 billion in direct investments and consumer benefits. The Commission's merger requirements will deliver broadband speed upgrades to 100 Mbps statewide by the end of 2018, and 300 Mbps by the end of 2019. This benefits two million Upstate broadband customers. The highest speed offered by Time Warner Cable north of New York City is 50 Mbps so customers will experience significant speed upgrades.
The merger conditions further require that Charter offer high speed broadband to 145,000 unserved customers who currently have no high speed broadband at all.
Additionally, the state issued a $500 million solicitation today for private sector partners to join the New NY Broadband Program, which will greatly expand Internet access in all regions of the state, with a focus on unserved and underserved areas. The program will deliver access to high-speed Internet to every New Yorker by the end of 2018.
"Access to high-speed Internet in New York shouldn't be limited by your zip code," said Governor Cuomo. "Broadband is crucial to driving growth, improving our education system, and connecting New Yorkers to the 21st century global economy -- so ensuring that every household has access to high-speed Internet has never been more important. The merger of Time Warner Cable and Charter Communications will result in a historic investment in New York's Internet landscape that improves quality, reliability, speed and affordability for all New Yorkers. Alongside our New NY Broadband Program, we are bridging the digital divide for underserved communities and guaranteeing our position as a national leader in opportunity, cutting-edge technology and innovation."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/10th-proposal-governor-cuomo-s-2016-agenda-dramatically-expand-and-improve-access-high-speed
