Public Statements
Letter to the Hon. Donald J. Trump, President of the U.S. - Canada Dairy Trade Policies
Letter
By: Andrew Cuomo Scott Walker
Date: April 18, 2017
Location: Unknown

Dear Mr. President:
We are writing to urge you to address Canada's protectionist dairy trade policies so that they honor their international commitments under NAFTA and other trade agreements.
In a blatant violation of international trade agreements it is party to, Canada unilaterally shut down a thriving market for U.S. ultra-filtered milk. This illegal action hit dozens of Wisconsin farmers so far, leaving a million pounds of milk production without a market. In New York around 70 dairy farmers and millions in sales have been affected by the new Canadian regulations. If these multi-generational farm families cannot find another market for their milk, they will be forced out of business.
Wisconsin and New York dairy farmers are only the first victims of Canada's illicit dairy trade restrictions. Nearly one year ago, we, along with other state and U.S. dairy officials, warned our federal partners - and Canadian industry and government representatives at all levels - that protectionist regulations would harm U.S. dairy producers.
Unfortunately, these warnings have been borne out. In spite of our good faith efforts to engage them on this issue, the Canadians were never forthcoming in their response to our concerns. As governors of two of the largest dairy producing states, we know that tens of thousands of dairy farmers will be affected by the Canadian actions. We already know losses in Wisconsin and New York alone could cost the U.S. economy hundreds of millions of dollars.
Unfortunately, it appears that while U.S. processors were making multi-million dollar investments to meet the growing cross-border market for ultra-filtered milk, the Canadian dairy industry and government were plotting a trade war against our nation's dairy farmers.
This is no way to treat a good neighbor in a trade partnership that has raised living standards on both sides of the border through job creation and broadened markets for both goods and commodities.
Canada is a vital U.S. dairy market. We strongly support your efforts to engage Canada and urge them to keep their word with us on dairy trade.
As governors, we see firsthand how the importance of agriculture and rural America goes beyond economics. We look forward to working with you to maintain trade policies that help sustain farm families in future generations and preserve a way of life that is the backbone of our American culture and values.
Sincerely,

Source: https://content.govdelivery.com/attachments/WIGOV/2017/04/18/file_attachments/803281/Letter_to_President_Trump.pdf
