Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $16 Million in Improvements to Roads and Bridges Underway in Monroe County
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 13, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that work is underway on a number of road and bridge improvement projects in Monroe County. A total of $16 million will support the rehabilitation of transportation infrastructure across the region, including repaving sections of Interstate 490 and improving 17 bridge decks.
"The safety of New Yorkers is our top priority, and as we continue to make significant infrastructure upgrades across the state, residents and commuters will have access to reliable and resilient roads and bridges for years to come," Governor Cuomo said. "These projects will strengthen Monroe County, create new construction jobs, and ensure the Finger Lakes continues to move forward."
Construction is underway on projects throughout the region, including:
$6 million to improve the condition of 17 bridge decks along the Route 104 corridor in the town of Webster, Monroe County. This project is scheduled for completion this summer.
$4.1 million to replace the bridge carrying Interstate 490 over Marsh Road in the town of Pittsford, Monroe County. This project will be completed this fall.
$3.4 million to resurface Interstate 490 from the New York State Thruway (Exit 47 -- Route 19) in Le Roy, Genesee County, to the Route 259 interchange (Exit 4) in Chili, Monroe County. This project will be completed this fall.
$2.5 million to replace bridge joints on nine bridges in Monroe County. This project will be completed later this year.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "Governor Cuomo is leading the way on transportation and these Monroe County road and bridge improvement projects are another example of his support for upstate communities. Replacing and repairing our roads and bridges ensures that travelers can get to where they need to go. These projects are smart investments that are maximizing safety while supporting regional economic growth."
Bridge Deck Improvements -- Route 104 Corridor, Town of Webster
A combination of maintenance actions will be taken on each of the bridges along Route 104 between Dewitt Road and Salt Road to improve the structures' overall condition, as well as provide a smooth riding surface for motorists. Work includes repaving, sidewalk improvements and repairs to bridge decks, joints and concrete.
Repairs will take place this year on:
The four bridges carrying Route 104 eastbound and westbound over Maple Drive and Gravel Road
The bridge carrying Dewitt Road over Route 104
Work began in August 2015 and is expected to be complete this summer. Long-term, single-lane closures will be put in place during construction. Time and date restrictions will be in place to minimize travel impacts. No work will take place during the weekends of Memorial Day, the Webster Soccer Tournament, or Independence Day. Motorists should allow extra travel time to safely pass through the highway work zone.
Resurfacing Interstate 490 from Le Roy to Chili
The project includes paving the interstate and interchange ramps and repairing two culverts under the interstate. Overhead signs and guiderail will be replace or repaired as necessary and new pavement markings will be installed.
At least one lane in each direction will remain open to traffic at all times. An estimated 16,000 vehicles travel this stretch of highway each day. The project will be completed this fall.
Bridge Replacement -- Interstate 490 over Marsh Road, Town of Pittsford
The bridge located between Exit 25 (Route 31F and Fairport Road) and Exit 26 (Route 31) will be replaced. The existing three-span, multi-girder bridge was built in 1955 and carries an estimated 44,000 vehicles each day. The replacement bridge, which will be a single span, will be slightly wider than the existing bridge.
During construction, travel will be reduced to two lanes in each direction across the bridge. Motorists should exercise caution and allow plenty of time to pass through the work zone.
This bridge is being built in stages, with one half of the bridge being constructed at a time. Two lanes in each direction will be open throughout construction.
Bridge Joint Replacements -- Nine Bridges in Monroe County
Deteriorated or damaged bridge joints will be repaired or replaced as needed on each of the nine structures. Proper preventive maintenance keeps water and chlorides from infiltrating a bridge's deck and other elements, extending the service life of the bridge.
Work has started on Route 590 northbound over Route 404 (Empire Blvd.) in Irondequoit and will be completed this year.
Construction began on the nine bridges last year. Work was completed on the Route 104 bridge over the Genesee River in Rochester and the ramp from the Thruway to I-390 northbound/Lehigh Station Road and from I-390 north to the Thruway in Henrietta, Monroe County.
Other bridge improvements include:
I-390 northbound and southbound over Calkins Road in Henrietta
Route 590 southbound over Route 404 (Empire Blvd) in Irondequoit
Loop ramp from the Inner Loop to I-490 eastbound over South Avenue and the adjoining on-ramp from South Ave to I-490 eastbound in Rochester
Project work will be limited to specific times and at some locations, construction will be done only on weekends when traffic volumes are lowest. Two-way traffic will be maintained. Short-term ramp closures will be necessary at some locations and detours will be posted.
Consistent with Governor Cuomo's Drivers First initiative, these projects have been designed to minimize impacts to interstate traffic.
Motorists are reminded that fines are doubled for speeding in a work zone. In accordance with the Work Zone Safety Act of 2005, convictions of two or more speeding violations in a work zone could result in the suspension of an individual's driver's license.
For up-to-date travel information, call 511, visit www.511NY.org, or the mobile site at m.511ny.org.
Follow New York State DOT on Twitter: @NYSDOT. Find us on Facebook at facebook.com/NYSDOT.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-16-million-improvements-roads-and-bridges-underway-monroe-county
