Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Anti-Retaliation Unit Takes Swift and Aggressive Action to Protect Workers Fired After Wage Theft Investigation
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 21, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced that New York State's newly-created Anti-Retaliation Unit has taken swift and aggressive action to secure the immediate reinstatement and over $68,000 in restitution payments for two victims of wage theft. The workers were fired by their employer, Pinnacle Holdings, after the State Department of Labor sent notice of its determination against the business.
"There is zero tolerance for those who seek to exploit workers and rob them of the wages they rightfully earned," Governor Cuomo said. "This administration will continue to do everything within its power to ensure that a fair day's pay is paid for a fair day's work in New York State."
As part of an ongoing wage theft investigation, State investigators discovered two individuals, Fernando Puerta and Mario Gil, living in an illegal basement apartment in East Elmhurst in exchange for performing janitorial work on site. Neither worker had been receiving wages. The Department of Labor subsequently issued a decision against the employer substantiating the wage theft case and determining that back wages were owed. The Department of Labor imposed a total $71,225.81 in fines, damages and restitution for unpaid wages on Pinnacle Holdings. The workers received $68,225.81 in restitution and the remaining $3,000 was collected by the Department of Labor in the form of additional fines.
Upon receiving the decision against it, Pinnacle Holdings served the workers with an eviction notice. Attorneys in the Anti-Retaliation Unit were notified and within 48 hours of receiving the phone call, contacted Pinnacle Holdings and advised the company to cease the illegal retaliatory action. The company immediately agreed to reinstate the workers and place them on payroll.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-anti-retaliation-unit-takes-swift-and-aggressive-action-protect
