Public Statements
Audio & Rush Transcript: Governor Cuomo is Guest on 'New Day' on CNN
Interview
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 14, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Earlier today, Governor Cuomo was a guest on New Day on CNN. The Governor discussed calling on the federal government with Senator Charles Schumer to officially add the U.S. Terror Watch List to the criteria it uses for federal background checks in New York State, allowing individual states to close the Terror Gap. More information is available here. Audio of the interview is available here.
The Governor also discussed gun control and recent comments by Donald Trump -- a rush transcript of the interview is below.
Alisyn Camerota: Joining us now is New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, who supports consulting the federal watch list in gun background checks. Governor, good to see you this morning.
Governor Cuomo: Good to see you, too, Alisyn.
Alisyn Camerota: We are speaking on a sad anniversary. Three years ago, the tragedy in Newtown, Connecticut, happened. After that, people thought that something would change in terms of gun control or gun rights in this country, but very little has. You now are making an effort to close what some say is this loophole, whereby, people on the no-fly list can buy guns. What are you trying to do?
Governor Cuomo: Right. First, Alisyn, it is the anniversary of Sandy Hook, and that should be a reminder to all of us of how much damage and pain one person can cause with an assault rifle. It's not that nothing happened after Sandy Hook. Actually, this state passed, weeks after Sandy Hook, the most comprehensive gun control law in the nation called the SAFE Act and I'm very proud of that. Sandy Hook actually woke people up, especially in this part of the country. New York is very close to Sandy Hook and we took action. Now, one state alone is not enough because we now have guns coming in from other states. We closed the front door. The guns are coming in the back door. But I believe this country is in the process of evolution on this issue. Another situation that is really going to cause us to reevaluate what we're doing is this terrorist threat, which I don't believe is limited. I don't believe San Bernardino is the last of it. I wish I could say it is. But I think this is going to be an ongoing pattern. I think this is the new normal. I think terrorism, which was in the Middle East for so long, has now spread 6,000 miles, and the internet and social media did it. So I think we're going to have to recalibrate our response and my point is very simple. You don't have -- not every person in this country has the legal or constitutional right to have a gun. They don't. If you have a criminal background, you don't have the right to have a gun. If you're mentally ill, you don't have the right to have a gun.
Alisyn Camerota: Yes, but --
Governor Cuomo: And if the federal government has information that says you are suspected of terrorism, so much so that you can't step on a plane, then you should not be allowed to buy a gun and pull a trigger. It's that simple.
Alisyn Camerota: Well the problem with that, of course, is many say that the no-fly list, which has roughly, according to the TSA, 16,000 names on it, is woefully flawed. There are all sorts of people on there who have no connection whatsoever to terror. We had Senator Rand Paul on our program last week, who cited the examples of Senator Ted Kennedy having at one time been on the no fly list. Musician Cat Stevens at one time having been on the no fly list. The list is imperfect and you can't keep anybody who might show up on the list from their constitutional right to own a gun.
Governor Cuomo: With all due respect to Senator Rand Paul, there is no perfect list, Alisyn. We now have lists that we check before a person can buy a gun. There is a list of people who have criminal background histories. There is a list of people who have been mentally ill. I am sure there are mistakes on those lists. I'm sure. That doesn't mean you let everybody buy a gun because maybe there was a mistake on a list.
Alisyn Camerota: Yeah, but --
Governor Cuomo: It means they have a right to appeal.
Alisyn Camerota: I mean, look, Governor, critics say that owning a gun is a constitutional right. Applying is a privilege. So how can the no-fly list trump the second amendment?
Governor Cuomo: Owning a gun is a constitutional right, subject to reasonable regulation. Criminal history, mental health background, and if this nation knows or has reason to believe you are a terrorist, that is a reasonable basis not to allow a person to buy a gun. Look, it's a reasonable basis enough not to let you fly and inhibit your travel, literally. It's a reasonable basis not to let you buy a gun. And if there is a mistake on the list, have a process where the person can appeal and they can present their side of the case. That's fine. Because I'm sure there's going to be mistakes on a list. I'm sure there are mistakes on every list. But we need to be safe. GAO did a study where, for the past ten years, they looked at known suspected terrorists. 2,000 of them tried to buy a gun in this country. 90% were successful.
Alisyn Camerota: Yeah.
Governor Cuomo: That's frightening. We're talking about trying to keep people out of the country. This whole political conversation about, do we let refugees in? Do we not let refugees in? We have people in the country who are suspected of terrorism and who, right now, can't step on a plane, but can buy a gun. I mean, that is ludicrous. I'm the New York Governor, this is the state of 9/11. These people must be living in denial. How many San Bernardinos, how many Sandy Hooks do you need before you have basic sanity that says safety still matters?
Alisyn Camerota: Governor, I want to ask you about the presidential race while we have you. You, of course, are the Governor of Donald Trump, the front runner's home state. You know Donald Trump as a developer, real estate, and negotiator. I know you don't share his positions and I know that you're not in his party, but do you think that Donald Trump has the skills to be president?
Governor Cuomo: I'm not the Governor of Donald Trump. I'm the Governor of the State of New York. I'm a Democrat so I'm not going to be voting in the Republican Primary so I'm not going to make the selection among them. I can tell you this, forget the politics. I'm sure Mr. Trump has very smart people who are advising him and they've come to the conclusion that there are enough extremists in the Republican Party that this Muslim ban is good politics for him. But I believe it's terrible policy. I believe it's hurting this country. I believe it is actually fomenting the growth of ISIL. Donald Trump could be a recruitment poster for ISIL, because he is fanning the flames of hate. No Muslims in the United States. 1 billion Muslims were just alienated with one sentence. At this point, we don't want Muslim -- we don't need more Muslim enemies. We need more Muslim allies. And saying that this country doesn't trust or doesn't like all Muslims and damns a religion, plays right into their hands. That's what ISIL is selling. ISIL is saying to a disenfranchised population, come join us. Fight the good fight. Fight against the enemy, the big enemy, the big over dog, western civilization, the United States, and I think we're actually playing into it when they hear Trump's rhetoric. And I think it's dangerous and hurtful, as a matter of national policy. Whether it works for him in the republican primary, I don't care to opine.
Alisyn Camerota: Okay.
Governor Cuomo: But I think it does a disservice to this country.
Alisyn Camerota: Governor Andrew Cuomo, great to get your take on New Day.
Governor Cuomo: May I ask you a quick question?
Alisyn Camerota: Go right ahead. Make it quick.
Governor Cuomo: Chris looked a little pale this morning. Is he feeling okay?
Alisyn Camerota: Are you feeling fine?
Chris Cuomo: I was nervous.
Governor Cuomo: Don't tell him I asked, but I was concerned.
Chris Cuomo: I was nervous for my mother listening to what was coming out of her older son this morning. Otherwise, I'm fine.
Alisyn Camerota: He's in good form, Governor. Thank you for your concern, as always.
Governor Cuomo: Don't tell him I asked.
Alisyn Camerota: Just between us. Got it.
Governor Cuomo: I'm just concerned.
Alisyn Camerota: As always, thanks, Governor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/audio-rush-transcript-governor-cuomo-guest-new-day-cnn
