Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $20.1 Million Project to Reconstruct Interstate 390 in Steuben County
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: April 11, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that work is underway on a $20.1 million project to reconstruct concrete pavement on Interstate 390 in the towns of Wayland and Cohocton in Steuben County. The project will reconstruct a 5.7-mile section of I-390 between Exit 2 and Exit 3. This I-390 project is among the first in the state to utilize an unbonded concrete overlay approach, allowing for a stronger road without the need for a complete reconstruction. The project will be complete this fall.

"Strong and reliable infrastructure is essential to support the safety of travelers and to bolster economic growth across the state," Governor Cuomo said. "By updating and improving this section of I-390 in Steuben County, we are taking critical steps to strengthen our transportation network in the Southern Tier to meet the needs of current and future generations of New Yorkers."

Most work in the northbound direction was completed last year, while work this year will focus on the southbound direction. The Interstate serves 11,000 vehicles per day and is one of the major transportation corridors in the Southern Tier. Nearly 40 percent of the vehicles are trucks that are essential to delivering goods to support the local and regional economies. The highway is also a key link between the New York State Thruway and the US 15/Interstate 99 Corridor, connecting international trade routes from Canada to major trucking routes on the east coast.
New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Matthew J. Driscoll said, "Interstate 390 is a major freight route and a vital economic pipeline for the Southern Tier, which is why Governor Cuomo's investment in improving safety along this important trade corridor is so vital. I-390 supports development and growth in the entire region and it is imperative that we keep the road in good condition for travelers."

Consistent with Governor Cuomo's Drivers First initiative, the project has been designed to minimize impacts to expressway traffic. Traffic has been shifted to one side of the expressway while construction takes place on the other side, helping to improve safety and speed up construction.

Work also begins on a separate project to rehabilitate sidewalks and parking at three Interstate rest stops in Steuben County. The work, which will enhance access for individuals with disabilities, is expected to be completed before Memorial Day weekend. Temporary closings of the rest stops will be necessary during construction and will be announced well in advance of the closures.

Rest stops:
Kanona Rest Area serving westbound traffic on Interstate 86 between exits 38 and 37
Painted Post Rest Area serving westbound traffic on Interstate 86 between exits 43 and 42
Gang Mills Rest Area serving southbound traffic on Interstate 99 between exits 11 and 8

Accelerating Southern Tier Soaring
Today's announcement complements "Southern Tier Soaring" -- the region's comprehensive blueprint to generate robust economic growth and community development. New York State has already invested more than $3.1 billion in the region since 2012 to lay for groundwork for the plan -- attracting a talented workforce, growing business and driving innovation. Today, unemployment is down to the lowest levels since before the Great Recession; personal and corporate income taxes are down; and businesses are choosing places like the Southern Tier, as a destination in which to grow and invest.

Now, the region is accelerating "Southern Tier Soaring" with a $500 million investment through New York's Upstate Revitalization Initiative, announced by Governor Cuomo in December 2015. The state's $500 million investment will incentivize private business to invest well over $2.5 billion -- and the region's plan, as submitted, projects up to 10,200 new jobs. More information is available here.

Senator Tom O'Mara, Vice Chair of the Senate Transportation Committee, said, "We continue to appreciate the ongoing work on the reconstruction of I-390 in the towns of Wayland and Cohocton in Steuben County. It's a vital regional roadway and we have been grateful for the ongoing commitment of DOT Region 6 to keep this project moving forward. Once completed, I-390 will be a better, safer, and more efficient roadway for those who travel it every day."
Assemblyman Phil Palmesano said, "My continued thanks to everyone at DOT Region 6 for their ongoing hard work on vital projects like this one to enhance and upgrade the Southern Tier's regional transportation infrastructure. The completion of the reconstruction of I-390 in the towns of Wayland and Cohocton in Steuben County will soon result in a critical local highway that motorists and businesses can depend on, feel safer on and travel on more efficiently."

Motorists are reminded that fines are doubled for speeding in a work zone. In accordance with the Work Zone Safety Act of 2005, convictions of two or more speeding violations in a work zone could result in the suspension of an individual's driver license.

For up-to-date travel information, call 511, visit www.511NY.org, or the mobile site at m.511ny.org.

Follow New York State DOT on Twitter: @NYSDOT, Find us on Facebook at facebook.com/NYSDOT.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-201-million-project-reconstruct-interstate-390-steuben-county
