Public Statements
Schumer, Cuomo Call on Feds to Close Terror Gap by Creating Protocol to Block Gun Sales to Those on Watch List; If not, Feds Must Allow States to Act
Press Conference
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 13, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Senator Schumer: Good morning everybody. Thank you all for coming here on a beautiful December morning in the greatest city in the world, New York City, overlooking one of the five greatest boroughs in the world, Brooklyn, where I'm from. He's from Queens, but we get along very well despite that geographic divide. And I wanted to thank the Governor, not only on this issue, but on so many. We have a great partnership. We work very well together getting the federal government to help New York in as many ways as possible and today is one example.
Now we all know about the heinous terrorist attack in San Berndino. It's a sad reminder, but it's also a shocking reminder that we have something called the terror gap. Amazingly enough, if you're on a terrorist watch list, you could buy a gun. There is no prohibition against you. We've tried in Congress twice now in the last two weeks to lift that blockage to prohibit guns from being sold to those on the terrorist watch list, but the Senate did not go along. Too many Senators were in the grip -- the vice grip of the NRA and they bucked it. It only lost by a few votes, but it lost. But we cannot let federal paralysis stop us from making New York or the country safe. And Governor Cuomo is ready to support legislation at the state level that would prevent those on the terrorist watch list from purchasing guns here in New York State. That's a great thing, but there is one problem. We need access to the terrorist watch list and it is classified and I've spoken to the Department of Justice and it's not immediately accessible. Today we are telling the Department of Justice to come up with a protocol that allows New York State to prohibit those on the terrorist watch list from buying guns.
If the federal government is paralyzed, that should not stop New York from doing the right thing. We don't need legislation to do it. We simply need the cooperation of the Justice Department. I've spoken to them late last week and they said, "Well, we have it classified, this, that and the other thing." I said you've got to find a way. The Governor feels that way, I feel that way, so we're waiting for them to find a way. There are ways we believe they can do it. There are a number of different choices without compromising the terrorist watch list.
If the federal government won't move to close the terror gap, the states should and the federal government should facilitate that in whatever way possible, not stand in the way. So that's really the long and short of it here. It's amazing that those on the terrorist watch list can buy guns. And we're going to continue to try and push a bill nationally, but we shouldn't have to wait. God-forbid there is another terrorist incident. God-forbid someone on that watch list buys a gun here in New York or anywhere else. Some of the states are ready to act. You heard the Governor of Connecticut talk about it. He's in the same boat. He won't get hold of the terrorist watch list unless they change their protocols and we're urging them to do it.
And I've also been asked to talk about Ms. Malik and her being able to come into the country despite her websites, but I'll talk about that later. The Governor will speak on this, we'll take questions on this, and then we'll talk about that.
Governor Cuomo: Thank you very much, Senator Schumer. It's a pleasure to be with all of you and it is a beautiful December morning -- almost a little too beautiful to be a December morning, but that is a different topic. First I want to thank Senator Schumer for his leadership on this effort, on this issue. Nobody has done more, nobody has worked harder, and nobody has been more effective in protecting public safety in this state and around this nation than Senator Schumer. As he mentioned, he is from Brooklyn and I am from Queens. Those are two different geographic locations. We have slightly different accents, which you'll notice. We have some communication issues but we work it out and we have a great partnership that delivers for the State of New York. We'vedone a lot of good all over the State and we're going to continue to work together to do more and this issue is just one example.
When it comes to terrorism, we are facing a growing threat. That is the new reality.
You know, at one time terrorism was in the Middle East, it was over there, it was 6,000 miles away. It was oceans away and you would read about it in the newspaper, but you really couldn't see it as a New York present threat. Just in the past few weeks, Paris, San Bernardino, it's changed. The hate has discovered the internet and the internet has made the 6,000 miles disappear and it's a conduit for the hate to travel across the oceans and its present in communities all across the United States and countries around the globe and we are seeing it manifest itself almost every week. I'm afraid, frankly, that it's going to get worse, it's not going to get better.
We have to act. We have to act quickly, we have to act smartly and it is sheer madness what we are doing now. You can be a suspected terrorist and it is not illegal to possess a firearm or explosives and that's not my words, that's not a Democrat's words, that's not a Governor's words, that's the GAO said that. The GAO did a study over the past 10 years, 2,000 suspected terrorists went to buy a gun in this country. Of the 2,000 suspected terrorists, over 90 percent were granted the right to buy a gun. I mean, think about it. It is a basic breach of national security.
So what we are saying today is the federal government has suspected terror list, a no-fly list, either the federal government should use that information when they do the background checks before people are allowed to buy guns. If you go to buy a gun in this state, they will run your information, check your information, do a background check against the federal database, which looks as past criminal history, mental health history, etc. It does not now check the terrorism databases. The federal government should either figure out how to use that terrorist database as part of their background check, option one, or establish a protocol that allows the states to do it and New York State will. At least let the states use the information to defend themselves. This is the state of 9/11. To allow people who you believe have terrorist connections to buy guns, is so irresponsible that people must be living in a state of denial.
So the simple point is if this country has information that says people are suspected terrorists, to the extent that they don't let them board an airplane, well if you can't step on an airplane, you shouldn't be allowed to pull a trigger. It's that simple and time is not on our side. You're seeing an increasing acceleration of these types of activities, so we need federal action and we need federal action quickly. Again, if they'll do the background checks with the information, fine. Otherwise, let us defend our own state and provide the information. Thank you.
Senator Schumer: And two more points that I didn't mention. One, do you know who proposed not allowing those on the watch lists to buy guns? One of the greatest advocates, pro-gun people in America, George W. Bush proposed this in 2007, but too many people in the Congress just bowed to the NRA, even when George Bush asked. We're getting closer now, but its better.
Second, one other point. The federal government does have a rule that if it's against state law to buy a gun, we will not allow that gun to be sold. In other words, we will check whatever lists we have to make sure that happens, if a state has a different determination of misdemeanors than the federal government or anything else in the Brady law. But the one thing where they say they won't allow it is on the terrorist watch lists because it's classified, they won't give the information to the states. We're saying, "Come up with a way to do it, we know you can," and there are ways they can do it protecting the confidentiality of the watch list, but at the same time, allowing New York, or Connecticut, or any other state to prohibit terrorists from buying guns within their borders. We are ready for your questions.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-audio-transcript-schumer-cuomo-call-feds-close-terror-gap-creating-protocol-block-gun
