Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces Recommendations from Common Core Task Force
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 10, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced the final report and recommendations of the Common Core Task Force -- a diverse group of educators, parents, education officials and state representatives -- which was charged with comprehensively reviewing and making recommendations on reforming the current Common Core system and the way we teach and test our students. The Task Force recommends overhauling the current Common Core system and adopting new, locally-driven New York State standards in a transparent and open process to make sure all students are prepared to succeed in an increasingly competitive 21st century economy. The new standards, curriculum and tests must be uniquely developed for New York students with sufficient local input. The Task Force also recommends that current Common Core aligned tests should not count for students or teachers until the start of 2019-2020 school year to ensure the system is implemented completely and properly to avoid the errors caused by the prior flawed implementation.
Governor Cuomo said: "After listening to thousands of parents, educators and students, the Task Force has made important recommendations that include overhauling the Common Core, adopting new locally-designed high quality New York standards, and greatly reducing testing and testing anxiety for our students. The Common Core was supposed to ensure all of our children had the education they needed to be college and career-ready -- but it actually caused confusion and anxiety. That ends now. Today, we will begin to transform our system into one that empowers parents, teachers and local districts and ensures high standards for all students. I thank the Task Force members for their thorough work. Together we will ensure that New York's schools provide the world-class education that our children deserve."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-recommendations-common-core-task-force
