Public Statements
Governor Cuomo, Senator Gillibrand and New York Congressional Delegation Announce $4.5 Million in Grants For Enhanced Homeland Security Protections
Press Release
By: Joe Crowley Eliot Engel Gregory Meeks Sean Maloney Kathleen Rice Andrew Cuomo Paul Tonko José Serrano Charlie Rangel Elise Stefanik Kirsten Gillibrand Steve Israel Jerry Nadler Carolyn Maloney Brian Higgins Nita Lowey
Date: Dec. 9, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo, Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand and members of the New York Congressional Delegation today announced $4.5 million in federal grants has been awarded to municipalities across New York State to support multiple homeland security efforts that include the strengthening anti-terrorism programs, the enhancement of emergency preparedness and the expansion of critical infrastructure protections.
"We know all too well the threat posed by terrorism and recent events have only further demonstrated the need for our first responders to have the resources to respond swiftly and effectively to emergency situations," Governor Cuomo said. "This administration remains committed to ensuring these brave men and women are fully prepared to keep New Yorkers safe in every corner of the state."
"As we continue to fight terrorism abroad and at home, local law enforcement should have every resource available to keep our communities safe," said Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. "This critical funding will help our local law enforcement protect and prevent against terrorism throughout the state and I'll continue fighting for these federal resources to help New York law enforcement be prepared."
Funding for these programs was made available by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security through the State Homeland Security Program. The New York State Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services manages these programs in close coordination with local stakeholders.
New York State Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services Commissioner John P. Melville said, "New York's first responders play a vital role in keeping citizens safe from harm. These grants will go a long way toward helping the state achieve the Governor's preparedness goals to have the best trained and prepared first responders in the country."
Tactical Team Grant Program -- $2 Million
The Tactical Team Grant Program enhances the ability of localities with tactical teams to respond to active shooter events and other counter terrorism missions. To ensure consistency statewide, strong emphasis is placed on the local teams' attainment and sustainment of the New York State standards for Tactical/SWAT Teams. Eligible applicants could apply for up to $100,000 per team to fund certain equipment, training, exercise, and planning costs that are consistent with the attainment and/or sustainment of these New York State standards.
Technical Rescue & Urban Search and Rescue Grant Program -- $2 Million
The State Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services has allocated $2 million to support the Technical Rescue & Urban Search and Rescue Grant Program. Eligible teams could request up to $150,000 to sustain and advance their capabilities in a variety of areas including structural collapse/urban search and rescue, trench rescue, confined space rescue, Swiftwater rescue and rope rescue. Specific emphasis is placed on the development of regional partnership[s to efficiently enhance response operations. Through targeted planning, equipment acquisition, training and exercise activities, these grant funds will be used to enhance the ability of these teams to save lives during disasters.
Critical Infrastructure -- $500,000
The Critical Infrastructure Grant Program is focused on enhancing security at government owned critical infrastructure sites, at special events, and at seasonal at-risk locations in New York State. To be eligible for funding, first responders must have a completed assessment of their capability to prevent and protect against attacks on the site. Up to $50,000 in grant funding is applied to mitigate vulnerabilities identified in the risk and capability assessments.
Congressman Charles B. Rangel said, "I applaud Governor Cuomo's announcement of additional $4.5 million in grants to police departments throughout our great State New York. With escalation of shootings throughout the country, it is essential that our law enforcement officials have the proper training and equipment to keep people safe."
Congressman Eliot Engel, the ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said, "We must do everything in our power to protect our home State. In 2009, the FBI foiled a terrorist plot in my district, and in my capacity as Ranking Member on Foreign Affairs, I am all too familiar with the threat posed by terrorism. In light of that reality, we need to ensure our local law enforcement agencies have the funds and support necessary to face these dangerous challenges. Governor Cuomo's allocation of $4.5 million in federal Homeland Security grants will do just that, by enhancing both the capabilities of local tactical teams and the security at government-owned infrastructure throughout New York. I thank Governor Cuomo for his efforts, and I am certain the communities like Yonkers and Eastchester, which are receiving these vital funds, will put them to good use."
Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey said, "The safety and security of residents in the Lower Hudson Valley must be a top priority. These federal grants will enable local law enforcement and public safety officials in Westchester and Rockland to protect our communities. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting for federal investments that help keep our families safe and secure."
Congressman José E. Serrano said, "This significant and important federal funding will boost local governments' and first responders' capacity to respond to emergencies and protect our communities. By targeting three key areas to our national and local security, this funding will help ensure New York City remains a secure place for residents and visitor."
Congressman Jerrold Nadler said, "Adding to our emergency services, $4.5 million in new federal funding from the Department of Homeland Security will improve our preparedness and support critical infrastructure protections across New York State. I congratulate FDNY for securing grant funding to enhance their disaster readiness with the Technical Rescue & Urban Search and Rescue program and commend Governor Cuomo for his tireless work advocating on behalf of the safety, security, and preparedness of municipalities across the state."
Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney said, "It is imperative that we be able to effectively protect and rescue our citizens however and wherever disaster strikes. I have been proud to support federal funding for this effort, and I applaud Governor Cuomo for using these resources effectively to protect our state."
Congressman Gregory W. Meeks said, "Recent events fully demonstrate that well-trained, well-equipped first responders, coupled with their courage and fortitude in the face of imminent danger, saves lives and limits the actions of terrorists. This is why I am certain New Yorkers across the state join me in welcoming Gov. Cuomo's announcement today that New York State has received $4.5 million in Homeland Security grants to support critical infrastructure protection, buttress anti-terrorism programs, and enhance core emergency preparedness and response capability in counties statewide, including the Nassau County portion of the Fifth Congressional District."
Congressman Joe Crowley said, "Ensuring that our first responders have the training and support they need to save lives is one of our top priorities. I thank Governor Cuomo for his role in making sure these grants are made available to critical programs that strengthen the ability to respond to emergencies and I'm pleased to see the FDNY as one of the recipients."
Congressman Steve Israel said, "In wake of the terrorist attacks in San Bernardino and Paris, it is crucial that our law enforcement agencies have the training and resources in place to respond to an active shooter situation. I will continue to work with Governor Cuomo, and our state and federal partners to ensure we secure these critical funds to enhance the already robust security and preparedness infrastructure of the Nassau and Suffolk County Police Departments and keep New York families safe."
Congressman Brian Higgins, a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security said, "Protecting New Yorkers from constantly evolving security threats requires cutting-edge strategies. This federal funding from the Department of Homeland Security, including over $460,000 awarded to Erie and Niagara Counties, which border Canada, will go a long way towards providing local agencies and our brave first responders with the critical support and resources needed to keep New Yorkers safe."
Congressman Paul Tonko said, "The threat of violence increases the demand placed upon our first responders and their resources. These brave men and women are our first line of defense, and deserve unwavering support from every level of government. I applaud Governor Cuomo for his commitment to the continued safety of Capital Region by equipping our local police and fire departments with the training and resources they need. On the federal level, I will continue to work to make sure our emergency professionals have the tools they need to do their job."
Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney said, "Our local law enforcement officers and other first responders put their lives on the line every day to protect our families. These critical investments will help provide the tools and training they need to save lives, strengthen our communities, and come home safe at the end of each day."
Congresswoman Kathleen Rice said, "Given the threat environment we face right now and the recent attacks at home and abroad, it's crucial that local law enforcement agencies have the resources they need to prevent, prepare for and respond to acts of terrorism. The $150,000 awarded to the Nassau County Police Department will help enhance security at high-risk critical infrastructure sites and special events, and ensure that tactical teams have the training and equipment they need to respond to active shooter events and other emergency situations."
Congresswoman Elise Stefanik said, "As a border community, it is critical that our government provide the resources necessary to keep our communities safe. These grants will help our communities upgrade their security capabilities and I commend Governor Cuomo for making this a priority."
About the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services
The Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services (DHSES) and its four offices -- Counter Terrorism, Emergency Management, Fire Prevention and Control, and Interoperable and Emergency Communications -- provide leadership, coordination and support for efforts to prevent, protect against, prepare for, respond to, and recover from terrorism and other man-made and natural disasters, threats, fires and other emergencies. For more information, visit the DHSES Facebook page, follow @NYSDHSES on Twitter, or visit dhses.ny.gov

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-senator-gillibrand-and-new-york-congressional-delegation-announce-45-million
