Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Signs Executive Order to Boost Security on Mass Transit Facilities and Services During Holiday Season
Press Release
By: Chris Christie Dan Malloy Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 8, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today signed Executive Order No. 148, which provides New Jersey and Connecticut law enforcement agencies with jurisdiction on New York's public transportation services and facilities. This allows security and counter-terrorism officials in both states to assist New York in ensuring public safety at the types of locations which are traditionally targeted by terrorists.
Governor Cuomo said: "With the busy holiday season in full swing, we are taking every precaution necessary to mitigate potential terrorist threats and keep people safe. This order gives our partners in New Jersey and Connecticut greater ability to help patrol and protect our mass transit networks. Together we will continue to remain vigilant, and I urge all travelers to stay alert and safe throughout the holidays."
Governor Chris Christie said: "The terror attacks and threats of the past weeks are jarring and bring a sharp focus to every American of the threat the West faces from radical Islam. As Governor, my first and most solemn responsibility is ensuring the safety of the people in our state, and we are taking every step to ensure that the people and critical infrastructure of New Jersey and the region are protected against the threat of terrorism."
Governor Dannel Malloy said: "The safety and security of holiday travelers is a top priority. We're doing everything possible to ensure a safe holiday season and taking all necessary precautions. We will continue to stay vigilant."
In general, the holiday season is a time of heightened alert and risk of terror attacks. Additionally, hundreds of thousands of commuters travel between New York, New Jersey and Connecticut daily via mass transit systems that include inter-state rail, bus and ferry systems. Increased manpower and overall law enforcement presence will allow governments throughout the region to protect public safety and provide an additional reassurance to commuters.

Source:
