Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Marks World AIDS Day as New York State Continues Progress Toward Ending the Epidemic
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Dec. 1, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

"Wow, wow, wow! This is exciting. First to be at the Apollo theatre, to be with people who I respect and I admire for many, many years. First to Charles King in Housing Works who has been doing it the hard way for a long, long time. I'm so proud of him. To Jacqui Kilmer in Harlem United -- let's give her a round of applause for all their good work. To all the members of the AIDS 2020 Coalition, thank you, thank you, thank you for your great work. Let's give them a round of applause.
We have my colleagues here whom Charles noted, the elected officials who are here, and I want to thank them very much for their presence. Speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito. We have my counsel who has really been extraordinary in this regard -- Alphonso David -- I want to acknowledge him. We have Senator Gustavo Rivera, Assemblyman Gottfried and Senator Brad Hoylman. Brad Hoylman, this past year was fighting tenaciously for $500,000 to fund an AIDS memorial downtown on 12th Street. He would not take no for an answer. He was committed to it, he was working it 24 hours a day and it's on my desk now and I'd just like to say to Senator Hoylman, "yes were going to do that and you're right. $500,000 to the AIDS Memorial." Let me applaud all the people in this room who have worked long and hard, this has been a struggle, but you brought it home -- give yourselves a round of applause.
25 years -- I was talking to Charles about it -- unfortunately, we're old enough to remember when it started. But it has been a long and a hard and a tough 25 years. When HIV/AIDS first started, it was not really a medical crisis -- it was worse, it was a social crisis. HIV/AIDS became a lightning rod for stereotyping and for discrimination. It was used to fan the flames of fear and bigotry. It was a looking glass into the soul of society. Individual and collective reactions spoke volumes. Some building closed their doors, some families cast aside loved ones. President Reagan refuse to acknowledge the disease for three years of his presidency. But then there were those who rose to the occasion who would open the hearts and open their minds and reached out to people like the people who are in this room today. We had government leaders who led with the voice of our better angels. I'm very proud to say that the first state and the first governor that responded to the AIDS crisis with a real action plan was the State of New York and Governor Mario Cuomo.

Source:
