Public Statements
Agreement Saves 600 Jobs and Ensures Continued Operation of Massena West
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo Chuck Schumer
Date: Nov. 24, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo and U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer today announced that an agreement has been reached that will preserve hundreds of jobs at Alcoa's operations in Massena, where the aluminum manufacturer had planned to curtail its smelting operations by early next year. Under the agreement, Alcoa will continue operating in Massena and will maintain a workforce level of at least 600 people at the plant for the next three and a half years.
Governor Cuomo said: "This agreement strengthens an essential part of the North Country economy and saves hundreds of jobs in the region. It gives Alcoa the opportunity to recommit to its future in Massena -- just as hundreds of its employees have already done for much of their working lives with the company -- and bolster the viability of these facilities over the long-term. This agreement also protects the State's investments, ensuring that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely and that Alcoa lives up to its promises. I appreciate the efforts of everyone who helped make this agreement possible, and will continue this administration's work to grow the North Country economy in the days ahead."
Senator Schumer said: "This Thanksgiving as we are surrounded by family and friends, we can be a little more thankful that roughly 600 Upstate New Yorkers will not be out of a job. The agreement that Governor Cuomo and I forged with Alcoa is a major victory for the North County and more importantly the hard working, extremely productive workers at the Alcoa factory in Massena. The entire community can finally breathe a big sigh of relief and I will continue to engage with the company -- and will partner with local leaders, my federal partners, and the Governor to make sure this facility is productive and thriving for years to come."?

Source: http://www.schumer.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/governor-cuomo-and-senator-schumer-announce-deal-to-preserve-hundreds-of-jobs-at-alcoa-facility-in-massena
