Public Statements
Video, Audio, Photos & Transcript: Governor Cuomo Addresses Students at Harvard Kennedy School's Center For Public Leadership
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 17, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

"Well, thank you very much. First to David Gergen: you're really lucky to have one of the true professionals in this business. This is a business of professionals, you have politics and you have government. They're two different things. Some people master both. Some people master both to such as extent that they can actually work with people of different political parties. I believe that's actually the highest form of government ability. David Gergen, literally, when they write the history books, he's going to be right there as one of the experts and craftsmen of his generation. I love to watch him on CNN, whatever he says, he's always smart. He says it in a way that always sounds smart, doesn't he? When he speaks, he sound authoritative and your head just starts nodding as soon as he starts talking. So you're very lucky to have him. Beth Dozoretz who's on the Leadership Council does a great job for Harvard. My daughters, who's been sufficiently embarrassed who, I'm sure I will pay for it later- but just to further provoke my daughter a little bit more, she's here with her friend, Kyle Adams who is in the middle of a- they've been friends for- how long have you been friends? A year? About a year. He is now in a conversion process- going from the more conservative side of the political spectrum to the more progressive side. It's been halting movements as he's been moved across the spectrum but I haven't given up on him yet, I just want you to know. That's as nice as I get.
As David said, my main point is more to provoke you and hear from you. I spent time here, I ran for governor in 2002. David was very nice, he gave you the positive news on the bio. There was less than positive news. I ran for governor- this is my second term. I previously had run for governor in 2002 when I had come out of the Clinton administration. I lost that race and I spent time here, actually, going back through what happened in that race, it was just past 9/11. The political sentiment was shifting 180 degrees. You could almost feel the body politic trying to figure out what 9/11 meant and had different opinions going back and forth so I spent time here trying to figure it out for myself and trying to talk to the leaders of tomorrow about what it means. This is a continuum and you are stepping into the seats of leadership. With a different skill set and a different orientation than just a generation before, certainly, some archaic figures such as myself who comes from a totally different situation. A couple of points, but again, as David said "the conversation is what's most important to me." These are some of the most difficult political times, I think that I have lived through, you feel it everywhere. They're not even political times, they're unstable times for the country. People are saying in different ways but they're saying the same thing, there's an anxiety. These are interesting times, they're changing times. From one end to the other, you can be ill at ease because of the economic issues, you can be ill at ease because of the international issues because of terrorism. It is a period of instability for the country. You see that all across the population, you also see at those times the extremes on both ends of the spectrum get larger and louder. When people have more pressure on them, they feel more pressure, they feel more anxiety, you see the extremes grow and you see the extremes become louder. You've seen that on the Democratic side and the Republican side in these presidential elections. People on the left, we're concerned about income inequality, we're frustrated, no one's doing anything. I have an answer, "let's take the money from the rich person and hand it to the poor person"- Bernie Sanders. There's a perfect solution. People on the right, nervous about their jobs, nervous about the competition, blue collar workers nervous, we need an enemy, the enemy are the immigrants who're coming in and stealing everything from the good hardworking Americans. How do we handle it? Make them leave! Eleven million people, out tomorrow. Donald Trump, nice simple answer. What do we do once we kick them out? We build a big wall so they can't walk back- perfect! Nice, simple answer for people who are really afraid. But it's also a time if we do it right, where we can have an intelligent conversation that really gets tuitions. And that's what an election, theoretically, is supposed to be about. It's harder at a time like this when you have such emotion because when people are thinking emotionally, they're not thinking logically. When they get into their emotional space, until you slow them down and bring them down, you can't have a logical dialogue because it's not logical. But it's not impossible and that's where we have to get to, but we have to start with the basics.

Source:
