Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Addresses Students at Harvard Kennedy School Center for Public Leadership
Op-Ed
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 17, 2015
Location: Cambridge, MA

"Public service is a calling for those who want to use their energy and talents to build a stronger society. It's not just for the idealists, but for those who want to get things done and have impact on people's lives and on their communities.
Like the law, medicine or any other skilled profession, I believe that public service through government is a craft where skills need to be taught, honed and passed on through the generations, adopting innovation as the times require.
The importance of working in government and serving our society is something that was passed down to me by my father. It runs through my family and it is something I have shared with my three daughters, one of whom attends Harvard as an undergraduate.
The importance of being good at the craft of public service and government has been demonstrated since the founding of our government and through every generation since. It was this craftsmanship that gave us our Constitution and produced every significant achievement of our government ever since, through the New Deal and the Civil Rights movement. It is every bit as important today.
As a nation, we have come back from some extraordinarily difficult times since the start of the new millennium. Think about what we've endured in the past 15 years -- the worst terrorist attack in our country's history, two simultaneous wars overseas, a recession that nearly rivaled the Great Depression, and devastating natural disasters that came by the names Katrina and Sandy.
We have dealt with more than our share of upheaval and disruption. And despite these challenges, we are coming back. The recession has technically passed, we have rebuilt what terrorists had torn asunder, most of our troops have come home and our hurricane ravaged coastlines are being restored. We are creating jobs, the housing market has recovered, the auto companies are thriving, manufacturing jobs are coming back from overseas, and consumer confidence is up. If you measure success by the numbers, we are on a positive path forward.
President Obama came into office when the nation was on the brink of another depression. The economy was shedding 700,000 jobs a month and the GDP was growing at the smallest rate in 60 years. Using the tools of government, the president guided the nation back from the precipice. We have had 68 consecutive months of job growth, with 13.5 million new jobs created. The Stock Market has more than doubled in value.
Yet so many people rightly feel that they are missing out on that success, and feel that we as a nation are missing our moment to build a better and stronger nation.
Our growing income inequality, our nation's inability to enact common sense gun control in the aftermath of children and teachers being massacred at school, and the threat to international security from ever-expanding terrorist groups overseas not only undermines the progress we have made, but erodes any basic confidence the public has in our government to act in the face of even the most obvious challenge. In fact, we are witnessing a decline in the basic function of government with the now repeating reality of the government shutting down every few months because our two parties find it near impossible to compromise.
We are at a difficult moment in history. People express their feelings differently; but we are all saying the same thing. Whether it's expressed as "strange times" or "anxious times" there is no doubt that the current domestic and international confluence of events is distressing and dividing the body politic. Bipartisan government -- the Founding Fathers' vision -- is literally failing. On the current trajectory, it is reasonable to believe that the federal government may never break loose from the current ideological and political paralysis.
It is because of the federal government -- particularly the Republican Congress' failure -- that the extremes not only become energized but dominant. As the compromise course continues to seem further and further from a possibility, many run to the extremes to vent their frustration and disillusionment.
The Republicans are dealing with an energized conservative end of the spectrum and the Democrats with an energized liberal end of the spectrum. The Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders candidacies are symbols of this anger. Economic frustration from a recession from which we are still recovering, but which homeowners and middle class Americans feel is interminable, combined with growing income inequality and the distress of the working poor, generates a palpable dissatisfaction.
In New York, we faced the same frustration and disillusionment with government. Because of partisan politics, our budgets were often months late and addressed only the immediate financial issues at hand while failing to include any innovation for the future.
However, to restore trust in our government -- a once seemingly impossible task -- we took a different course. We ran FROM the extremes, rejected our parties' ideological restrictions and compromised to bring our state back from the brink. Our state's economy is now growing, our taxes are lower and we addressing economic and social issues that will position New York for the 21st century.
Today, I offer the same prescription for the federal government.
I believe that contrary to the intuitive and the conventional wisdom, the frustration with government today is not because government does too much, but rather because government does too little. While government may be responsible for much, it actually accomplishes very little despite what it attempts to do.
Begin with the fact that government didn't get "the bad guys" who scammed the mortgage system in 2007 and stole billions from hardworking Americans. Continue with the fact that many home values still have not returned to their pre-recession levels, thus robbing families of their economic security, retirement plans and diminishing the greatest financial asset in their lives. Meanwhile, the bankers appear to be all smiles and are on to their next financial feast. Government has failed to address the economic dislocation of middle-aged, blue-collar workers and the communities that were decimated when the town factory closed. Old problems like gun control and racial unrest still plague the nation with almost weekly horrific reminders. One incident worse than the next. Many of our cities are still struggling to solve the homeless problem, have failing public schools, and are seeing crime rates on the increase.
This government incompetence is not just an impression; it is the explicit admonition that comes from our government in Washington. Each side would rather spend every day in office pointing to the nation's dismal state and blaming their political opponents. It's a never ending campaign to convince the voters to hate the other side enough that they never realize both sides are failing to fix their actual problems. The gridlock and partisanship is a spreading cancer.
I am a Democratic governor of a divided government in New York where the Republicans control the Senate and the Democrats control the Assembly. While one-party control is no doubt a simpler proposition, New York has shown that divided government can function.
We saw it in the 90s when President Clinton worked with Republicans to balance the budget, close the deficit, and grow our economy to heights never before seen, despite constant partisan attacks. We saw it in the 80s when Ronald Reagan -- the hero of the modern Republican Party -- considered his greatest partner in government to be Tip O'Neill, the hero of the liberal Democratic Party.
Our divided government in New York has accomplished more in the past five years than it has in the past fifty years from groundbreaking, progressive achievements such as marriage equality and gun control, to economic reforms that include reducing income and property taxes and breaking records for ending gridlock and passing on-time budgets.
How Do You Make Polarized Government Work?
As our founding fathers understood, there are several imperatives to making the relationship within government work. They valued both conflict and compromise in government. Checks and balances, political parties. They wanted vigorous debate, but they also wanted to make sure that debate would lead to action and compromise -- not rage and ideological intractability.
First and foremost, government officials as a whole must value achieving actual results and progress as the primary goal. Today, too often, elected officials don't treat their position like a job. Too many local, state and federal governments are made up of politicians who are safest when playing to their political base and "saying the right thing" instead of "doing the best that can be done."
There has been a growing tension from the national campaign trail down to almost every legislative body across the country where extremes on both sides reward political purity and punish governmental progress. Washington is supposed to be a place where laws are passed and policies enacted that change people's lives. But it is fast becoming the set of a new reality TV show where we vote off the contestant we hate the most.
I believe those of us in public service can no longer seek to only serve the angry part of the electorate that has little patience for the nuance and detail of the truth. They want the simple answer. When crime was high and people were scared, the answer was the death penalty. Kill them.
This simple method works well for Donald Trump. Illegal immigration can be solved by building a bigger wall and kicking anyone who the government suspects is an illegal immigrant out of our country. Simple. And it also works for some of the voices in my own party. The problem with income inequality can be reduced to this: everyone who has become wealthy should be torn down, because only then will the poor be lifted up. Easy. Sounds great to an impatient, fed up electorate.
But my question is this: who is helped by tearing down our fellow citizens, whether they have crossed a border or earned good living? What comes after the wall goes up and the wealth is redistributed? If you decide millions of immigrants don't have rights, what happens to them and their children? Does dismantling every institution and person we disagree with protect the middle class and rescue the poor?
The answers don't fit into sound-bites. They don't inspire partisans and they probably don't win elections. Sophisticated political and governmental analysis is a dying art: if it's not already dead.
This is an aggravating factor for the responsible elected official. This disconnect between the body politic's frustration and desire for simple answers, the twitter-driven echo chamber and the elected officials functioning in a divided government necessitating nuanced compromises has brought us to the paralysis we see today.
Maybe one day, our federal government, or some state governments, will have one-party rule and thus ideological unity so the need for compromise and flexibility is reduced. That would present a different reality which would negate many of the challenges a divided government faces. For an elected official it would align the idealist view and the practical view; you would enact what you believe is best with no need to reduce your demand or trade with the other side. But until that point, the only way the current division is bridged is by extraordinary reasonableness and compromise, however politically difficult that may be. Because to me the alternative is worse.
I see the irrational and unrealistic adherence to a conceptual principle and political position at the expense of progress for one's constituents as government malpractice. It is an irresponsible and selfish political act. Rigidity is easy. Compromise is the courageous stand. If our founding fathers had adopted a rigid posture, our nation wouldn't exist because they wouldn't have even signed the Constitution. Indeed, they purposely put aside the divisive issues on which they agreed to disagree and moved forward on the issues of consensus. It's what my late father Mario Cuomo expressed when he said we campaign in poetry and govern in prose. We campaign with rhetoric expressing the ideal but we govern in the real with facts and compromise.
The unifying platform in the divided government must be that gridlock hurts everyone. If that theory does not persuade and the chief executive does not bridge the gap, the government does not perform and a government that doesn't accomplish real results to address people's needs is a government that ultimately fails.
Our posture of reasonable compromise in New York is not because we are enlightened, but rather because we have been chastened. New York State government was gridlocked for many years, long before Washington had heard of the term. In New York it was commonplace for the state to fail to pass a budget for months beyond the legal deadline. Even then, the budget was barebones and accomplished little. The state overall suffered mightily from the governmental failure. Taxes ballooned, jobs were lost and pain was felt -- especially in upstate New York. We learned the hard way, as the country is learning now.
Political rivalry is good but must be followed by compromise. Thomas Jefferson and John Adams were two of our nation's most famous political rivals. On his deathbed, Adams' last words were: "Jefferson lives" because he could not bear to think that his rival had lived longer than him. But their rivalry, and the compromises it produced, created the declaration of independence, our national government and the structure of state governments. Imagine an America conceived by one of them alone and it is not just incomplete, it is a country that may very well not have survived the last 200-plus years.
The Executive Must Lead
To tackle any real challenge in society, a politician must be willing to pay a political price. I first learned this lesson from my father. His defining issue was his opposition to the death penalty, which was at the time a political third rail. It's what I respected most about him. It's the lesson I hold most dear.
I believe the need for government action is palpable, urgent, and seared in my memory. I believe "hell" for an elected official is knowing that they were in a position to make a difference and they failed. I have seen poor children imprisoned in public housing projects where they sleep in bathtubs to protect them from bullets. I have spent many nights in homeless shelters drying mothers' tears as they recounted stories of domestic abuse. I have worked on Native American reservations where the high rate of fetal alcohol syndrome created a situation where many of the young children had significant birth defects: some missing limbs, eyes, and feet. In some districts in New York City we have sent three generations of children to a school we knew was "failing." We condemned those children who were mostly poor and minority. The struggle with the problem of growing income inequality which threatens to end the American promise of mobility and creates the depression of a permanent underclass.
To me the need for government action is real and immediate. Bureaucratic incompetence or academic jousting with windmills is infuriating to me. It really can be a matter of life and death. Every day lost to progress is a day that we allowed the status quo to continue. Every day government fails to meet the needs of its people is another day the public's cynicism and skepticism grows. So for me as an executive, there is nothing academic about my role.
I also believe that an official must have a sound, long-term political and governmental vision as the North Star by which they navigate. The day-to-day transactions are waypoints towards that destination. A wise person once said, "I believe that leadership, while it might require compromise, cannot be defined by compromise. It must instead be defined by a clear vision for the future and, perhaps most important, a willingness to defend it. It should be focused not on what is possible but, instead, on the most that is possible; not on the path of least resistance but on the path of maximum potential benefit."
The Best Government is Still the Best Politics
I am a progressive and I believe the main obstacle to achieving true progressive government is overcoming the population's skepticism towards government's capacity and competence. The people of this nation agree by and large with progressive goals. I have been in the room and seen the best progressive orators win the crowd. I have read the polls and watched the focus groups. People agree with the message, they just don't believe the messenger! Progressives win the argument for the more desirable view of society but the public doesn't believe government is a credible vehicle to realize those goals. I believe that if the country believed we could actually accomplish what we claimed, they would overwhelmingly support a progressive government. But government has had too many high profile management failures: public housing, Welfare, Model Cities, and dozens of programs before that. Progressives need to prove competence. If a leader believes government is a vehicle for progress he or she must be able to manage it effectively and efficiently. Wasteful, bureaucratic or failed government is a conservative's best argument. An incompetent progressive is a conservative's best friend. Conservatives win when government fails; gridlock is a victory for conservatives. But compromise is progress -- even if not as much as desired, progress proves government possibility. If we prove competence we will vindicate the public's hope. How do we do it? Well, seeing is still believing.
Why did FDR succeed and become a model for a progressive agenda? Because he got it done! There was no rhetorical acceptance, there was practical acceptance. He enacted a program and it worked. It was tangible. He built roads and parks, and put people to work. Things happened. Ask yourself, when was the last time government did something? And then ask yourself if it did it well? Macro politics is simple. People ask, "Does it make a difference in my life?" If not, it's just political blather.
Ultimately there is a fundamental truth to this debate of conservative versus progressive. Either government is a vehicle for large scale societal change performed effectively and efficiently or it isn't. Either government works or it doesn't. Either the progressives are correct or the conservatives' view is correct. By construction, the burden of proof is on the progressives to disprove the conservatives. Progressives have the affirmative obligation to show that government can be an effective vehicle for change. Today the conservatives are winning. Government corruption, executive incompetence, special interest influence, waste fraud and abuse of power are all allies of the conservative movement. Every government project that takes years to complete or that never materializes affirms the conservatives' argument. Government dysfunction is a conservative's "Exhibit A."
What I find most distressing about the conservative argument is its essential cynicism. Government is not an alien institution. Government is the vehicle for collective societal action and to condemn government is to condemn society as a collective. We would be reduced to an individualist society. The better interests of a communitarian society would be minimized. That is a depressing and uncharitable view of society and life.
My state has long been the progressive leader for the nation. I welcome that responsibility. New York at its best both advocates for a progressive vision and actualizes progressive programs. New York was FDR's laboratory. It manifests the American dream: acceptance of all, opportunity for all, and discrimination of none. My state must lead in addressing today's challenges: fixing the duality of a public education system which offers the rich a world class education and the poor a failing system; showing competent compassion for the homeless; enacting a minimum wage which honors the dignity of work and reduces income inequality; restoring trust in the criminal justice system for minorities; reducing gun violence and ensuring a safe clean environment. New York is a constant crusader for justice, opportunity, and acceptance. We speak and advocate for the optimum, and we act to achieve progress every day. Progress to the ultimate destination is made one step at a time, every day. That is the role of government and the mantle of leadership. A government that fails to meet this test is a government that fails its people. Hence, the current American dilemma.
Our situation, while difficult, is not hopeless. Washington may appear hopeless in its inability to enact effective legislation or to even choose its legislative leadership and direction. But look at what we have done in New York, where we also have politically divided government. We have come back from our own era of dysfunction and stalemate, and now we have a government that works and produces important legislation that affects the lives of our residents. We have done this by rejecting political extremism and focusing on the task at hand -- governing in a way that will create a better state.
I will continue to make the case for a return to productive political discourse, using New York State's record of accomplishment as my strongest argument. But I feel our best hope for lasting change will come with our next generation of leaders. And that's why I am urging you not to accept the dysfunctional status quo of today. The politically pure ideology of extremists can be seductive. The media we consume today only increases the balkanization of our viewpoints as we increasingly turn to sources of information that we know will agree with our own views. That's why I challenge you to understand the other viewpoint. Read publications that represent the other side of an issue. Find opportunities to work with people who are from the other party. I am not describing some new, heretical political strategy. For most of our nation's history, people interacted across party and ideological lines to manage the business of government. And when it came time to make decisions for our nation, they were capable of negotiating and reaching a compromise despite their political and, sometimes, personal differences.
This was true during the summer of 1787 when representatives from 13 colonies, whose views were as partisan as any held today, managed to come together, debate their points, and ultimately reach a compromise that birthed the longest-running democracy in the history of the world.
You are the future of public service. I urge you to carry that same sense of dedication to the greater good with you as you move into government. If you do that, we will keep this great experiment that is our democratic form of government moving forward."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-addresses-students-harvard-kennedy-school-center-public-leadership
