Public Statements
Video, Photos and Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces Summit to Launch National Effort to Address Puerto Rico's Health Care and Economic Crisis
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Nov. 5, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

"Gracias and Buenos Dias. I am so excited to be here today. We have so many friends, so much energy in the room today. Everybody's been acknowledged but Betty Enriquez is the first director of the New York State Office and we're all very excited so let's give her a big welcome. To Melissa Mark Viverito, who you'll hear from in a very short period of time, who's a member of our Solidarity Task Force -- we came down a couple of months ago and did a lot of good work and this is a continuation of that and she is a star, let's give her a round of applause. To my colleague from Albany, the Speaker of the New York State Assembly, who frankly I like to be in Puerto Rico with better than I like to be together in Albany, Speaker Carl Heastie. Let's give him a round of applause. And to our host who has been so good and cooperative and so helpful on so many levels, especially this New York State Office, Governor Padilla, it is a pleasure and we thank you for your hospitality and your honor.
To all our friends, we are going to walk down the block and we are going to cut the ribbon on the first New York State Office that has been located in Puerto Rico that anybody can ever remember. The office will be a trade office and it will also be a tourism office. It will facilitate economic development on both sides from the New York side, from the Puerto Rico side, small business loans, et cetera. It will coordinate health care activities which right now we have a lot going on cooperatively in health care and it will also foster tourism between New York and Puerto Rico because New Yorkers love to come to Puerto Rico, as everybody in this room knows -- and the more we can do, the better.
The fact that it is the first office is powerful and I think it is symbolic. It is symbolic of the relationship that we have with Puerto Rico, which has never been stronger. And I am very proud to be the Governor of this state as we have developed this strong bond with Puerto Rico and it could not come at a better time. This office is going to be a continuation of the many activities we have ongoing. I've been here several times in the past few years, just a couple of months ago. I'd love to be able to come down every month, Governor. I really, really would, especially when the legislature's in session. I really, really would, but I don't think I can get away with it. You should also know that Assemblyman Marcos Crespo calls me twice a week and asks me if I need anything done in Puerto Rico, he'll go. But that doesn't work and this will be a continuation of that effort so that we have a constant tie. We discussed last night at a really powerful dinner that we had, that first for me personally, I have a special connection with Puerto Rico. When I was HUD secretary, I did a lot of work with Puerto Rico for many, many years on many fronts -- fighting poverty, housing, community development work, fighting disasters -- and I really developed relationships and a feel for the people of the island. But even putting that aside, just as a New Yorker, there is a cultural affinity with Puerto Rico. They are part of New York. They're neighbors, they're friends. I grew up in their homes; they grew up in my home, so we are inextricably linked, the Puerto Rican community and the New York community. There's a total simpático between the communities and this is a time when that relationship should be strengthen and the bonds of that relationship are necessary.
Somebody said to me, "Why open the office now? A lot of things are going on in Puerto Rico, these are tough financial times. Why are you opening the office now?" That is exactly why we are opening the office now, because Puerto Rico is having tough times. Friendship is not being there when things are easy. The test of friendship is being there when things are hard and right now things are unfairly hard and unjustly hard. I say as a New Yorker, and I say as an American that I do not believe Puerto Rico is being treated fairly by our own federal government. And I'm sad and I'm sorry to say that but that is true. The financial crisis that Puerto Rico is dealing with is not of Puerto Rico's making. It is a making of the laws that the US government passed and imposed on Puerto Rico and those laws are unfair, they are unjust, they are unwise. This is not just a financial crisis. This is a crisis that is going to hurt people. You're talking about decimating a health care system. It is not overly dramatic to say that people could die from a lack of proper health care because of this situation. We need the Obama Administration and we need the Congress to pay attention and to act and to act now.
We're going to fight for that. We are going to start -- we decided last night -- we're going to start with a summit in New York State. Governor Padilla will come up, I will be there. Our friends and brothers and sisters in 1199, Dennis Rivera and George Gresham will host this summit. We'll bring all New Yorkers together to devise a plan and a strategy to launch a national campaign to make sure fairness is brought to Puerto Rico by the US Congress and the US government. I am proud and pleased to be at the head of that effort, Governor; I want you to know that.
And as I said, friends are there when times are tough. We have your back, Governor, and we have the back of every Puerto Rican because you're part of the New York family and we are part of the Puerto Rico family.
It now gives me great pleasure to introduce Puerto Rico's Governor, who I am a great fan of. You know, you tell about an elected official, you tell about a politician, about how they handle the tough issues. Not how they handle the easy issues. And these are tough issues that Puerto Rico is facing. And these are tough issues that were confronted by this Governor -- honestly, fully, and fairly -- and he has my respect and the respect of every person in this room for the way he has stepped up to the plate for Puerto Rico."

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-and-transcript-governor-cuomo-announces-summit-launch-national-effort-address
