Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Announces $2.65 Million for Addiction Treatment Programs
Press Release
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 31, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced $2.65 million to expand and develop non-traditional addiction treatment support services throughout the state. The funding will go toward establishing Community Coalitions and hiring Peer Engagement Programs in each of the state's 10 economic development regions, to serve as resources for community-based addiction and recovery services.
"By connecting individuals and families to community-based resources and support, these innovative programs will help empower New Yorkers on their path to recovery," Governor Cuomo said. "With these and other addiction support programs across the state, we are one step closer to a stronger and healthier New York for all."
The initiative ensures that there are at least two Peer Engagement Specialists available in each of the State's 10 regions. Peer Engagement Specialists are people who are in recovery from a substance use disorder or have loved one in recovery -- or have lost a loved one to addiction. The primary goal of the Peer Engagement program is to help individuals and families in crisis navigate the treatment service-delivery system. Peers familiar with how to access services will be available to meet people in emergency rooms and crisis centers, to provide emotional support, as well as insights about the treatment process.
The Community Coalitions will be responsible for coordinating community resources to help address substance use prevention, treatment, and recovery efforts that meet localized needs and foster cross-sector collaboration. These collaborative alliances will cross county lines and represent a diverse group of stakeholders, including people living in recovery and their families, educators, faith-based entities, and health and wellness providers, among others.
"Ongoing peer support, follow-up, and access to a coordinated network of resources for people with substance use disorder is vital to addressing addiction," New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services Commissioner Arlene González-Sánchez said. "The funding for these new programs will help ensure that people seeking help for their addictions get the appropriate level of care, the recovery process can begin, improving health and quality of life for the entire community."






Source:
