Public Statements
Video, Photos & Transcript: Governor Cuomo Announces State's First "Women's Building" to Unite More Than a Dozen Women-Focused Organizations to Empower Generations of Women to Come
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 26, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Thank you. Thank you very much. What an exciting day this is. First, to Pamela Shifman, who is the executive director and has worked very hard on putting this together, let's give her a round of applause for her great work. To Peter and Jennifer Buffet, who without whom, we would not be here today and this would not be happening. So thank you so much for your help.
We have the folks from ESD, Commissioner Howard Zemsky who is doing a great job, and Joe Chan and Kevin Hansen, who are juggling a lot of balls, but they are keeping them all in the air so far. Let's give them a round of applause.
To Lela Goren, who is a master at coming up with a creative idea and finding a great way to do it. Let's give her a round of applause.
Gloria Steinem, who has been such a powerful advocate for so many years, it's an honor to be with you, Gloria. Thank you very much.
And to my colleagues in the Legislature, who were part of not only the policy of getting out of facilities, but also very helpful in the re-use of facilities and having the enlightenment to understand that sometimes, a piece of real estate could be more valuable than the revenue it brings in upon its sale. Let's give them all a round of applause.
I'll tell you why this is exciting for me personally. When you're in state government, a big part of what we do is about the economics of the state -- making sure the economy is running, making sure the tax policy is right, and are we creating new jobs. A lot of the work we do is on infrastructure. I still hate that word -- infrastructure. But that's roads and bridges and making sure that's up to date and mass transit. That is one constellation of activities, but then there is another constellation of activities, which are the social issues, which plays to the strength of New York, which has always been the progressive capital of the nation.
And pardon me if I sound like an arrogant New Yorker, but New York is not just another state. New York is a special state and the other states look to New York to see what New York is doing. I spent eight years in the federal government working in every state across the county. Somehow they could always figure out that I was from New York. I don't know how they did it but somehow they always figured it out and they would always come to me and say, "What is New York doing?" On whatever the issue was. And when New York leads, people notice. And when New York leads, it literally changes the debate in the nation. So those social issues are very important to us as government officials and we have been very aggressive on taking on those social issues. When we passed marriage equality in this state, it changed the debate across the entire country and really jump-started a national movement.
We passed the toughest gun safety law in the nation, which told every other state that you could do this too. A couple of weeks ago we set $15 as the new minimum wage, which reestablishes the notion of fair pay. We signed the toughest sexual assault bill for young women on college campuses -- one out of five women can be expected to be assaulted on a college campus, can you believe that? We passed the first and the toughest sexual assault bill when it comes to dealing with that issue. So on the social side, we are very aggressive. We are aggressive-progressives I like to say and setting the bar high.
Today deals with two issues that this country needs answered. One is the phenomenon, where this country puts more people in prison than any other industrialized nation on the globe and spends an enormous amount of money keeping people in prison. It is not an exaggeration that in this state for what it costs to keep a person in prison, you could literally pay for an education at Harvard. There is something wrong with that mentality, that you have young people who are locked up who are going to come out of the prison experience probably worse than when they went in and the recidivism rate is only getting higher instead of investing in prevention which is, in this case, education and job opportunities and alternatives or investing in reentry which is once a person comes out, making sure that is the last time that person comes out. We have been very aggressive on both ends -- keeping people out with alternatives and very aggressive on the reentry program so that people do not go back.
When we say we closed Bayview and Commissioner Zemsky said we closed 13 facilities, we saved a lot of money, yes. We saved a lot of money, but we also have 5,000 fewer people in prisons today. I will go down in history as the Governor who closed more prisons than any Governor in history and I am very, very proud of that, because we have to change the psyche and change the thinking. So, closing Bayview was exactly the right thing.
The second problem that we have to deal with is the very blatant, ugly truth that we discriminate against women. A couple of years ago I was getting ready for the State of the State and I was going to propose the Women's Equality Agenda and my father was alive at the time and we were at a very sort of polite dinner party. And they said, well Governor, "What are you talking about, what are your ideas for the State of the State?" I said, "Well discrimination against women is a major problem and we're going to propose a Women's Equality Agenda." And the woman sitting across from me said, "Well you can't say that, that there is discrimination against women, and I say well why not, and she said that's very harsh and very negative for a Governor to say." And my father said, God rest his soul, "Yea, but it's the truth." And that was my father. And that was right.
If you are unwilling to admit a problem, you will never solve it. Individually, in your life, as a collective, the first step is: admit the problem. And we discriminate against women, period. There is a glass ceiling, they make $11,000 less per year, $500,000 less over a lifetime, 32 times less likely to be a CEO, twice as likely to live in poverty. But that is a fact. That is a fact. I have three daughters, in my father's family, there were 14 grandchildren, 13 daughters out of 14 grandchildren. God was telling us something.
For my three daughters, the truth is, it is a man's world. That line from the old song. There are stereotypes and biases that are built into our culture and let's admit it otherwise you're never going to resolve it. And that is what the Women's Equality Act was all about. We were the first state to put together a Bill of Rights for women: pay equity, human trafficking, employment discrimination etc. A Bill of Rights for women! Recognizing and acknowledging that they are not yet fully equal to men -- that's why we formed the Women's Equality Political party. Why? Women should have their own voice. Organize. Mobilize. Speak up as women with the Women's Agenda. They have a political party for everything. They have a poodle lover's party. Women have an agenda, they have a voice, they have a perspective. Organize and make your case. And that's what the Women's Building does so well.
When Peter said they were working since the '70's to have a building, how can it take so long? One building to be the headquarters of the women's equality movement where women can work with women and men. What are the issues today? How do we resolve them? How do we focus on them?
And we are so proud to be part of this. Just the physical institutionalization that says there is a Women's Building because there are women's issues and there's a women's agenda and we need to focus on it as such. And the symbolism that we could take a former women's prison, with the despair and the defeat that a prison says, because that's what a prison is.
A prison is the evidence of the defeat of society. Your family system and structure was defeated. Your education system was defeated. Your safety net system was defeated. That's what a prison is to me. It's a sign of defeat and people you lost to productive society and people who you have no answer for but to put in a place where you really do know and believe they're not going to be improved by the experience. They're actually going to be further hindered by the experience. That's what a prison is. And we take down an institution of failure and defeat and we rise form those ashes will be a building about the future and potential and a true social reform and that's what the Women's Building is going to be all about.
I applaud Peter and Jennifer and Pam and Layla and all the people who worked so hard to make this a reality. This is what New York is all about. This is what New York is all about. Now we get to go to every other state and every other city and say 'Where is your Women's Building by the way?', because every city should have one.
Thank you and God bless.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-transcript-governor-cuomo-announces-states-first-womens-building-unite-more-dozen
