Public Statements
Statement from Governor Andrew M. Cuomo on Potential Income Tax Impacts of Congressmen Collins' and Faso's Proposed Amendment to the AHCA
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: March 22, 2017
Location: Albany, NY

"The American Health Care Act as drafted by the Republican Congress and amended by Representatives Collins and Faso will devastate the New York Healthcare system. The Republican plan will leave 2.7 million New Yorkers without healthcare and cut $4.7 billion from the state's Medicaid budget. This comes after the Republicans promised the exact opposite: That no American would lose healthcare and that no block grant would cut funding to the state.

"Life has options and the hard reality is that Collins and Faso are leaving New York State with only two unacceptable choices. Either, we could pass on the devastating cuts to our hospitals, nursing homes and the 40 percent of New Yorkers who currently receive Medicaid and health benefits. Or, we would be forced to raise state income taxes -- either by increasing taxes on all New Yorkers by 10 percent, or if Collins and Faso have their way in protecting only the wealthy, on the middle class by 26 percent. Any tax increase flies in the face of New York's success in reducing spending and taxes to record lows.

"To devastate our healthcare industry will not only affect millions of lives, but disrupt one of the state's main economic engines. Healthcare is a pillar of the New York economy.

"Make no mistake. The Republican house members are recklessly attempting to buy votes for the AHCA with an IOU to the New York taxpayers. One nonsensical suggestion is that the state should "find the money.' We have cut our spending to record low limits. Five years ago we imposed a 3 percent cap on the growth of Medicaid in New York. Our hospital sector operates on the lowest margins in the country. New York's 3 percent rate of growth is lower than most other states.

"If the federal government wants to buy votes, let them pay for it.

"It's absurd to ask the state to pay the cost, while the same bill provides a $150 billion tax cut to the 1 percent richest Americans and Republicans in Congress also support a record $54 billion increase for the Pentagon. If they think that $4.7 billion is merely chump change, they should factor it into their own budget -- propose $145 billion tax break or a $49 billion increase to the defense budget.

"If the Republican representatives are responsible to their districts, they must provide federal revenue to pay for their actions. Isn't it their job to help -- rather than hurt -- their district?

"If this bill is passed as is, our federal representatives will be responsible for massive income or sales tax increases or devastating cuts to New York's healthcare system. That is the plain reality. No political rhetoric can change it. New Yorkers will hold them accountable for their vote. This is radical conservative ideology at work rather than real public policy to help the very people of this state who elected them."

Source:
