Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Holds Briefing With NYS Public Safety Officials on State's Preparations For Hurricane Joaquin
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 1, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Good morning, everyone. We have a conference call. I'm joined by Jim Malatras who is the New York State Director of State Operations, Tom Prendergast from the MTA, Patrick Foye from the Port Authority, John Melville who is head of Emergency Services and Kevin Wisely, who is executive director of Emergency Services. As everybody has heard the weather reports, there's a possible storm headed our way. Possibly significant storm depending on whose weather report you look at right now, and what projection you look it. It might veer off and be nothing, or it might have a significant impact on the state. I have learned the hard way that it is better to prepare for the worst. In the past, we were not -- we didn't take the worst-case scenario into full consideration and we paid the price. So our way now is to err on the side of caution and we're starting to get prepared because there are things that you can do before a storm that, once the storm hits, it's too late.
We're going to have the Emergency Operations Centers -- are now staffing up. By this evening, the Emergency Operations Centers will be operational. The MTA is making all precautions -- taking all precautions: prepositioning equipment; clearing construction sites, possible hazards; pre-positioning generators, pumping equipment, et cetera. The Port Authority -- basically, the same thing -- the Port Authority took a tremendous beating during Hurricane Sandy and has done a significant amount of work since Hurricane Sandy to be better prepared. There is physical construction that has happened -- barrier walls are now up, new equipment at the airport, provide pumping if there's water that goes over the barriers, et cetera.
Since we don't know if the storm is Downstate or Upstate, you have to prepare statewide and there tend to be very different needs. Upstate New York, DEC -- the State's environmental agency -- is going to be deploying teams with the National Guard today to clear sites that we know have been problematic in the past, so clear conduits, clear streams that have been problematic in the past. We are also going to say all local officials, county officials, towns, villages -- we will waive the DEC permitting requirement starting today for work in the streams that needs to be done because local officials believe that there is an imminent danger to property if there is a significant storm. The streams shouldn't be altered, but debris snags, et cetera, can be removed by local officials now without waiting for a DEC permit. And that's very important. We're also talking to all the utility companies statewide to make sure they have tree crews, especially on Long Island with PSEG, but statewide and we're coordinating with all of the emergency operators around the state -- New York City, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, and Upstate New York as well.
Homeowners, you know, I would take the normal precautions. We don't know exactly when the storm would hit -- they're talking about Monday, Tuesday -- but I would use the time to just buy some emergency supplies for the house and make sure if the wind is strong, there aren't things in the yard that can blow around and cause trouble.
Again, we don't know yet what we're looking at exactly but whatever it is, we want to be as prepared as we can be. Not that preparation ever means there won't be damage. We know that, but you can mitigate the damage and that's what we are seeking to do -- and be prepared and not taking anything for granted is the best step and that is what we are doing. With that, any questions for myself or my colleagues would be our pleasure.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/audio-transcript-governor-cuomo-holds-briefing-nys-public-safety-officials-states-preparations
