Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Creates New Fellowship and Scholarship Programs to Honor the Life and Achievements of Carey Gabay
Statement
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Oct. 1, 2015
Location: Albany, NY

Governor Cuomo announced the creation of the "Carey Gabay Fellowship" and the "Carey Gabay Scholarship" to honor his life and work. Gabay, a former assistant counsel in the Governor's Office and First Deputy Counsel to Empire State Development, passed on September 15, 2015, nine days after he was struck by a stray bullet.
"Carey Gabay was an exceptional individual who could have done anything, but chose to enter into public service and give back," Governor Cuomo said. "His kindness, loyalty and grit made him beloved by family, friends and co-workers and his dedication to making New York a better, fairer and safer place made him an inspiration to all. The Fellowship and Scholarship programs bearing his name will serve as a constant reminder of Carey's professional accomplishments and exceptional character, and will ensure his legacy is honored for years to come."
The Carey Gabay Fellowship will be awarded every two years to a mid-career attorney who, like Gabay, is committed to public service, hails from an economically disadvantaged background, and most importantly, embodies the integrity and kind-heartedness that distinguished Gabay personally. The Fellow will serve for two years in the Governor's Counsel's office, where Gabay began his career in this administration, and will work on furthering the Governor's violence prevention initiatives as well as issues of economic equality and development that Gabay championed throughout his career. The fellow will be assigned a mentor in Counsel's office and the first fellow will lead a major research project on violence prevention in memory of Gabay. Opportunities for the fellow to earn an MPA concurrently with state service will be explored.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-creates-new-fellowship-and-scholarship-programs-honor-life-and-achievements
