Public Statements
Governor Cuomo Hosts "Capital for a Day' in Central New York
By: Andrew Cuomo
Date: Sept. 30, 2015
Location: Syracuse, NY

Thank you. First, to the County Executive -- thank you for your kind introduction. But thank you for your great leadership and your stewardship and all the great work you're doing in Central New York. Let's give her a round of applause.
I'm excited about today. This is something we started recently. It's a simple idea, but it's an effective idea. It says let's get everybody who's working on this problem in one room around the table and let's just come up with a joint strategy all working together. The new technology is great, emails and internet and video conference calls and all this great stuff, but there's still nothing like putting people in a room and seeing for yourself and sitting down at the table and working it out. And this is literally the major players across state government and we call it Capital for a Day. They're all here today to work with their local counterparts to see on the ground what has to be worked on, what are the priorities, what do you need done, how are we good partners, and there's nothing like showing up.
I would like to begin by just going around the table to have people introduce themselves, which will give you a sense of who's her. Many of the names you will have heard and you get to put a handsome face behind the name, which means I'm going to start on my far left with that handsome one.
We have Superintendent Joseph D'Amico from the New York State Police who will start off. And I would like to point out that they just completed an extraordinary feat in the Dannemora Prison Break where the State Police spent weeks and weeks on really tough duty, chasing down the escapees and getting the men, so congratulations to the State Police.
Thank you all very much. Over the past four or so years, we have had a very purposeful strategy that we have been pursuing and we have been taking steps pursuant to that strategy. The strategy was simple. We want to, especially in Upstate New York, make it economically viable. We want to have sustainable economies, we want jobs coming back to New York, and we don't want jobs leaving New York. We want young people staying, we want young people coming. We're tired of the young people exodus and we want to change the basic dynamic of the economic trajectory of upstate New York. It's no secret that for the past 30, 40 years, there was a sustained economic decline. How do you turn it around? How do you take that down arrow and make it an up arrow and how do you do it all across upstate New York?
Now some people said four years ago, "Don't even try." Frankly, it was too hard, too difficult, people had tried and failed. And we said, "No, we believe if we come together we could do it. We have phenomenal assets in upstate New York that we can build on." We also said we think a lot of the problems in upstate New York are our own doing and if we stop creating some of the problems, the situation would be a lot better.
And we were very honest about the problems. We said the first place the problems started was in the State of New York and it was in Albany with the state government. A big problem in Albany for many, many years, was gridlock. You know, right now in Washington, the federal government has gridlock. They think they discovered gridlock. We discovered gridlock here in New York. Albany had gridlock before they even know what gridlock was in Washington. And our style of gridlock was really intense. We had a New York style of gridlock. Not from Senator John DeFrancisco, because he's a good guy, as he will tell you. But, besides Senator DeFrancisco, we had gridlock for many, many years. We couldn't even pass a budget. It almost became a joke every year. April 1, the state was supposed to do a budget and they would start the news broadcasts if you remember -- "We're one week away from the deadline of the New York State budget," not to imitate any of the newscasters we like very much. But, they would do the whole run up and there's never a budget on time, and then it was one week late, and then I was one month late, and then it was a joke. So gridlock was a problem.
Secondly, taxation was a problem. We taxed people out of this state. Let's be honest. If you are one of the highest-taxed states in the nation and people are more mobile, and businesses are more mobile, guess what? They're going to go where the taxes are lower. Why wouldn't you? It's not like the old days where you're planted in one location. If you could get up and move, you move. And that happened all too often.
And the third problem is what I call abandonment. The state government did not focus on upstate New York. It focused more on downstate New York. And we didn't want to admit it, we didn't want to say it, but it was true. Most of the state legislature comes from downstate New York, just in terms of numbers. And downstate was predominately the focus of the state government for many, many years. We have reversed all three of those problems. We went from gridlock to now working together. We passed budgets on time, we worked out our differences, we're not always happy with everything, but rather than play politics and rather than have egos run wild, we work out our differences so we have compromise, so we move forward. Because in gridlock, everybody loses. Everybody gets to give a great political speech, but the people lose. So we have government that is working.
On taxes, we have reduced taxes to historic lows. All across the board, everybody in this room pays a lower income tax rate than they did four years ago. We have a state spending cap of 2 percent. We have a local property tax cap of 2 percent. We reduced the corporate tax. We have more to do, but all of the taxes are down and we've communicated to business, "Stay with us, we hear you and we get it, but taxes are on the way down."
We also changed the culture of New York where we're not anti-business, with a lot of regulations. We're actually facilitating businesses and as far as abandoning upstate New York, the past four years, this state government has spent more time focusing on upstate New York and invested more money in upstate New York than at any time since the investment in the Erie Canal, believe it or not.
So we have done largely what we needed to do in Albany. We have more to do, but we have accomplished what we set out to do. And now we move to step two. Before I leave step one, the credit for the lack of gridlock, the focus on upstate New York, this year we have $1.5 billion for upstate New York in economic development. That goes to my colleagues in the legislature who are here today and who you have seen.
Senator John DeFrancisco, Senator Valesky, Senator Magnarelli -- I want to thank them specifically. Assemblyman Stirpe for really, a spirit of collegiality, of partnership. Senator Richie, putting their politics aside and looking like Trojans for their district. Because remember, if you are an upstate Senator of Assemblyman, you are always outnumbered -- five to one, six to one, by colleagues who are fighting for their districts. So in terms of statesmanship, and not fighting. In terms of advocating and terms of delivering, they couldn't have been any better. And just so I don't miss any names, because they are also a very sensitive group, I'll have you know: Senator De Francisco, Senator Valesky, Senator Richie, Senator Magnarelli, Assemblyman Stirpe, Assemblyman Will McGee, and Assemblyman Barclay. Let's give them a round of applause.
So now we go to step two, okay? Step one was making the state a functioning partner and an asset not a liability. Step two is that each region has to develop their own vision for a sustainable economic future. There is no upstate New York, there is Western New York and there is the North Country and there is the southern Tier. There is no New York State Economy. There is New York City and Long Island and the Hudson Valley and you see now differentiation among the regions in how they do economically. It is not like it was by the way thirty years ago.
Everybody goes up or everybody goes down, it now depends on how well your region does. We have some regions doing very, very well, we have other regions not doing as well. Some say, "Well downstate has always done better than upstate." Yes, there is no good reason for it but downstate has done better economically over the long term than upstate. But even among the regions upstate, you are now seeing differentiation. So your regional vision and your regional plan makes the world of difference. How are you going to do economically? It's up to you, it really is up to you. And you look at the regions, now Buffalo which was the slowest economy in Upstate New York, the slowest economy was Buffalo. Buffalo worked tirelessly, the state invested money in Buffalo. Buffalo has now done 180 degrees. Howard Zemsky who is now head of ESD, started by being the key figure in Buffalo. Capital District, had billions of dollars invested in Nano-technology. It became the Nano-tech center of the world, so it now is up to the regions and their vision.
Now why do I keep stressing region, because it is the region. These Governmental subdivisions now don't matter anymore. I am the city of Syracuse, I am the county of Onondaga, and I am the village. No, no there is no village line, city line, county line, it is an economic region. And either that region has a thriving economy or it doesn't. So take your mindset out of the old governmental lines and the "this is my turf, that is your turf and don't come over here, and don't go over there." You are one region together and that is why it is so good to have all the regional officials here today. And then what is your vision for your particular economic plan. What can you do, make, sell or market that is going to create jobs here and how do we then make that happen and how do we do everything that we need to do to make that economic vision happen.
This is not just jobs, it is not just about bringing a company here and now we have jobs. You need housing, you need quality of life. You need parks you need cultural events because people want to living in a community. You need schools right? It's not just a job. The business comes because it is a place they want to locate it is a place they want to live. So that is what today is all about and then it is a very simple device which is that we come here to work with you to see what you need what you have accomplished what are your problems, what are your plans and then how do we fit in? Internally for us, with all of these different commissioners and agencies, how do we get all of these different commissioners and agencies to work together on the state side and then with local officials.
So, we have one seamless approach where everyone is driving towards their goals. All of these bureaucracies and all these silos breakdown to actually focus on the goal. Show me what you need and what you want to accomplish and let's get all the agencies together rather than send memos back and forth to each other for the next nine months and actually work it out and work it out now. That is what today comes down to, you have made tremendous progress over the past few years. There are a lot of exciting developments and good news, much of which we are going to talk about today, but we still have more to do, let's be honest there is still so much more to do.
We are making up for forty years of decline, forty years of decline. Forty years of abandonment from the state, forty years where the state taxed people right out of New York State. Forty years of a dysfunctional government but, we have made tremendous progress in a relatively short period of time and I think that after today you are going to see that rate of progress increase.
Again, I thank my colleagues in the legislature, whom have been professionally and personally extraordinary in their accomplishments and their collegiality and with that let me turn it back to County Executive Joanie Mahoney. Thank you.

Source: http://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-audio-transcript-governor-cuomo-hosts-capital-day-central-new-york
