Public Statements
Branstad, Reynolds Recognize Impact of Affordable Housing in Iowa
Press Release
By: Kim Reynolds Terry Branstad
Date: April 10, 2017
Location: Unknown

Today, at the Administration's weekly press conference, Governor Terry Branstad, Lt. Governor Kim Reynolds and Executive Director of the Iowa Finance Authority Dave Jamison recognized the importance of affordable housing in Iowa by celebrating the 49th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act and announce a resource to connect Iowans with housing.
The Fair Housing Act protects against housing discrimination due to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability and the presence of children, when applying for home financing or buying or renting a home.
"In Iowa, we enjoy an overall low cost of living, and rank 3rd best in the country for housing affordability," said Governor Branstad. "Adequate affordable housing has an incredible impact on the economy, provides housing for our workforce, improves academic outcomes for our children and fosters health of Iowans and our communities."
The Iowa Finance Authority administers a free, statewide housing locator service at IowaHousingSearch.org which aims to ensure all Iowans can easily locate rental housing to fit their needs and is supported by a toll-free, bilingual call center.
This service allows landlords to list their properties and for renters to be able to access real-time information on available rental units in their area, all for free.
"Home is where we make our memories, build our future and feel a sense of security," said Lt. Governor Reynolds. "I encourage all Iowans in search of housing to visit IowaHousingSearch.org. This important resource provides a critical link between the rental units in Iowa and the Iowans looking for them. It's also a valuable tool for small businesses who are recruiting talent to their community to fill the open jobs they have."
"The Iowa Finance Authority has partnered with developers to build more than 28,000 affordable homes for Iowans," said Iowa Finance Authority Executive Director Dave Jamison. "Affordable Housing Month is an ideal time to say thank you for the tireless efforts of our partners and we look forward to working together to ensure Iowans have an affordable place to call home for generations to come."

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2017/04/branstad-reynolds-recognize-impact-of-affordable-housing-in-iowa
