Public Statements
Branstad, Reynolds highlight importance of severe weather preparedness
Press Release
By: Kim Reynolds Terry Branstad
Date: April 3, 2017
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Terry Branstad and Lt. Governor Kim Reynolds highlighted the importance of preparing for Iowa's severe weather season. The Governor and Lt. Governor were joined by Mark Schouten, Director of the Iowa Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management (HSEMD).
"Several Iowa communities were hit by tornadoes in early March, so severe weather season has already begun," said Branstad. "I'm asking all citizens of this state to take the time now to prepare for severe weather."
Branstad issued a proclamation of disaster emergency for Appanoose, Muscatine, Scott, and Wayne counties on March 8, 2017. The proclamation allowed state resources to be utilized to respond to and recover from the effects of the severe weather. The proclamation also activated the Iowa Individual Assistance Program for qualifying residents of the four counties.
Reynolds added, "Disaster preparedness is a partnership, not just between government and responders, but with citizens, too, who must be ready to take care of themselves and those they love when an emergency happens."
To prepare for the 2017 severe weather season, HSEMD has been in close communication with local, state, and federal partners to discuss current conditions, weather projections, and coordination of response actions, if needed.
According to Schouten, there are three steps citizens can take to be better prepared:
· Make an emergency plan
· Build an emergency supply kit
· Be aware of hazards in your area.
"We are at the beginning of severe weather season, and it's almost certain we will see more bad weather in the coming weeks and months," said Schouten. "Take a few minutes today to think about what you can do to keep yourself and your family safe."
Learn more about how to be prepared for severe weather at www.beready.iowa.gov.

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2017/04/branstad-reynolds-highlight-importance-of-severe-weather-preparedness
