Public Statements
Branstad, Reynolds highlight new Navigant Report demonstrating Iowa's leadership in Wind Energy
Press Release
By: Kim Reynolds Terry Branstad
Date: March 27, 2017
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Terry Branstad and Lt. Governor Kim Reynolds highlighted Iowa's leadership in wind energy at their Monday morning press conference, citing a new report. The Governor and Lt. Governor were joined by John Boorman, Vice President of the Iowa Wind Energy Association and Doug Spoon, General Manager of TPI Composites in Newton.
Over 17,000 wind-related jobs and over $9 billion in additional economic activity are possible by 2020, according to a new Navigant Consulting analysis released today by the American Wind Energy Association (AWEA). By the state continuing to grow wind energy, wind-related jobs can reach 11,500 direct and indirect jobs by 2020 according to Navigant. When considering induced jobs this rises to 17,300 wind-related jobs. And Iowa is projected to contain the third most wind-related jobs, trailing only Texas and Colorado.
"Perhaps the most important impact wind has had on our state are the high-quality, good-paying jobs that are helping grow family incomes in Iowa," said Branstad. "But wind has also helped us reduce our dependence on foreign oil--something that Iowa was almost exclusively reliant upon in the 1980's when I was first governor."
Reynolds added, "As Chair of the Iowa Energy Plan, I've seen and heard first-hand from existing and prospective companies how important it is to have clean, renewable and reliable sources of energy like wind. This report shows that by attracting businesses with sound policy, our economy has benefited from wind energy by creating jobs and attracting billions in private investment."
Over $9 billion in economic activity is expected to be contributed by the wind industry in Iowa from 2017-2020 according to Navigant. This includes investments in new wind projects, operational expenditures, land lease payments, and sales, income, and property tax payments. Only Texas will experience more economic activity from the U.S. wind industry.
More than $370 million in income, sales, and property tax payments are expected to be made by wind projects located in Iowa over the next four years. These payments, which often are the largest funding source for local programs, help counties support school districts, public servants, and infrastructure investments. At over 36 percent, Iowa already leads the country in the percentage of electricity the state obtains from wind energy, and according to the U.S Department of Energy that can grow to 40 percent by 2020.
By growing wind, Iowa has already seen tremendous economic benefits including, $11.8 billion in private investment to the state's economy, over 9,000 well-paying direct and indirect jobs, including manufacturing jobs at 11 wind-related manufacturing facilities in Iowa, and wind farm owners pay $20 million a year to Iowa farmers and other rural landowners.
Wind energy supplies 5.5 percent of U.S electricity today and is on track to supply 10 percent of U.S electricity by 2020. Nationally, Navigant Consulting projects with that additional wind growth, there can be 248,000 wind-related jobs by 2020.

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2017/03/branstad-reynolds-highlight-new-navigant-report-demonstrating-iowa%E2%80%99s-leadership-in-wind
