Public Statements
Branstad, Reynolds, Northey Announce 12 Urban Water Quality Demonstration Projects Selected to Receive Funding
Press Release
By: Kim Reynolds Terry Branstad
Date: March 13, 2017
Location: Unknown

Today, Governor Terry Branstad, Lt. Governor Kim Reynolds and Iowa Sec. of Agriculture Bill Northey announced 12 urban conservation water quality initiative demonstration projects have been selected to receive $820,840 in funding. The 12 projects will provide nearly $1.18 million in matching funds to support water quality improvement efforts as well as other in-kind contributions.
Area communities participating in newly announced projects are: Ankeny, Burlington, Cedar Falls, Cedar Rapids, Clive, Denison, Des Moines, Emmetsburg, Readlyn, Slater, Spencer, Urbandale, Windsor Heights and Waterloo.
"Water quality is a very important issue and today's announcement is the next step for the Iowa Water Quality Initiative, which is continuing the effort to implement the Iowa Nutrient Reduction Strategy," said Branstad. "Lt. Gov. Reynolds and I have already visited a couple of the demonstration projects in place and have seen first-hand the work being done by Iowans on their farms and in their communities."
Reynolds added, "We're excited to get these 12 new projects underway. I want to commend and congratulate these communities for taking the necessary steps to support water quality in the state. We also look forward to continuing our conversation with the Legislature in the weeks ahead to finalize a plan that will continue to grow water quality efforts in the state."
"The water quality demonstration projects, both those in urban and rural areas, have been incredibly valuable in helping us learn how to best implement these practices and have created a strong foundation as we look to further expand our efforts," Northey said.
Projects will focus on conservation measures that capture and allow stormwater to be absorbed into the ground and reduce a property's contribution to water quality degradation, stream flows and flooding. They also include strong partnerships and outreach/education components to disseminate information to promote increased awareness and adoption of available practices and technologies for achieving reductions in nutrient loads to surface waters.







































Source:
