Public Statements
Gov. Branstad signs Senate File 166 into law
Statement
By: Kim Reynolds Terry Branstad
Date: Feb. 8, 2017
Location: Unknown

Today, Gov. Terry Branstad signed the following bill into law.
Senate File 166: an Act relating to the state school foundation program, by modifying requirements for the enactment of the state percents of growth, establishing state percents of growth, modifying provisions relating to school district property tax replacement payments, and including effective date and applicability provisions.
"In my Condition of the State address, I challenged the legislature to set school funding in the first 30 days of the legislative session. Today, with the help of House and Senate Republicans, we made that goal a reality," said Gov. Branstad. "With $40 million additional dollars, the total state commitment to schools next year will be $3.184 billion dollars. While Iowa is facing challenging budget times because of the downturn in our agricultural economy, I'm appreciative of the House and Senate Republicans working with us to exempt K-12 education funding cuts in fiscal year 2017 and increasing funding for next year. I remain hopeful that the legislature will be able to set funding for fiscal year 2019 after the March revenue estimate."
Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds added, "By setting funding levels early in the session, we are able to provide predictability and stability that administrators, school boards and teachers need. I want to thank the legislature for moving quickly on this important issue. This is a difficult budget, but this $40 million increase for K-12 education is on top of the $150 million provided through the Teacher Leadership System that rewards our great teachers. Teachers are the key to giving students a globally competitive education and helping us close the skills gap in Iowa."
The bill passed the Iowa House 55-40 on Feb. 6, 2017 and the Iowa Senate on Feb. 2, 2017, 28-21.

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2017/02/gov-branstad-signs-senate-file-166-into-law
