Public Statements
Branstad, Reynolds Announce Launch of Future Ready Iowa Website
Press Release
By: Terry Branstad Kim Reynolds
Date: Jan. 23, 2017
Location: Unknown

Today, at the Administration's weekly press conference, Gov. Terry Branstad and Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds announced the launch of the new Future Ready Iowa website.
The goal of the Future Ready Iowa initiative is for 70 percent of the workforce to have education or training beyond high school by the year 2025. Less than half the workforce does now. The Future Ready Iowa Alliance is charged with making policy recommendations by Oct. 31, 2017, on how to reach the 70 percent goal.
The Future Ready Iowa website is a one-stop shop where students and adults can review and evaluate different career opportunities in Iowa and plan their path to landing a rewarding job. The website helps identify education and training needed as well as financial resources that may be available. More information about career pathways will be added in coming months.
"The Future Ready Iowa website is an important tool to help close the skills gap so more Iowans can have great career opportunities and employers can hire enough skilled workers they need to grow and innovate," said Branstad. "The website also promises to serve as a recruiting tool for the state by showcasing the outstanding education, training and jobs available in Iowa."
"Providing one easily accessible place to find information about education, training and high-demand jobs will enhance Iowans' quality of life and promote economic growth in communities across the state," said Reynolds, who serves as co-chair of the Future Ready Iowa Alliance with Dan Houston, chairman, president and CEO of Principal Financial Group. "The website will be useful for everyone considering their future career plans from high school students to adults already in the workforce to unemployed Iowans."
Through the Future Ready Iowa initiative, state leaders are continually seeking ways to better align education, workforce and economic development efforts. Iowa Workforce Development, in partnership with the Iowa Economic Development Authority, the Iowa Department of Education, and the Iowa College Student Aid Commission, collaborated with a variety of stakeholders to create the website.
The mobile-friendly site features a clearly defined menu that makes navigation easy for users to discover what advanced knowledge or technical skills are required for the careers of today and tomorrow, and where those jobs are located in Iowa. For example, the Career Coach tool features career exploration resources using information on high-demand jobs.
"It was very important to incorporate geographical features into the website so that when job seekers are researching career paths they can have accurate information based on their exact location," said Director Beth Townsend, Iowa Workforce Development. "The website uses Labor Market Information to identify the number of jobs, the average median income and what training is necessary."

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2017/01/branstad-reynolds-announce-launch-of-future-ready-iowa-website
