Public Statements
Branstad, Reynolds Urge Awareness of "See Something, Say Something" Campaign
Press Release
By: Terry Branstad Kim Reynolds
Date: June 20, 2016
Location: Unknown

Today, at the Administration's weekly press conference, Gov. Terry Branstad and Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds urged Iowans to pay attention to and report suspicious activity in the wake of recent violent acts in the United States and abroad.
The governor and lt. governor were joined by Mark Schouten, director of the Iowa Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, and Roxann Ryan, commissioner of the Iowa Department of Public Safety, to talk about the "See Something, Say Something" campaign, which is an initiative of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
"The recent mass shooting in Orlando and other violent acts have underscored the importance of being vigilant and reporting suspicious behavior," said Branstad. "That's why I've invited Commissioner Ryan and Director Schouten to talk about ways in which all Iowans can contribute to the safety of their communities, state and nation."
The See Something, Say Something campaign was developed several years ago by the New York City Transportation Authority. In 2010, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security launched the campaign nationwide and has partnered with all levels of government and the private sector with a focus on increasing awareness of terrorism and reporting suspicious activity to law enforcement.
"With increased travel in the summer and the prevalence of large events, including July 4th celebrations, this is a crucial time to ask for the public's help in preventing another large-scale tragedy," said Reynolds. "We ask Iowans to please be vigilant and if they see something unusual or out of place, to report it to law enforcement immediately."
Schouten and Ryan announced a new statewide initiative by their departments to increase public awareness of the See Something, Say Something campaign. Beginning in late June, public service messages will be aired on radio stations throughout Iowa. The radio messages will talk about what to watch out for and how citizens can report suspicious activity or behavior.
"This doesn't mean we should stop living our lives, or live in fear," said Branstad. "But we do need to pay more attention, and if we do see something, we need to speak up. As individuals, we can make a difference."

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2016/06/branstad-reynolds-urge-awareness-of-%E2%80%9Csee-something-say-something%E2%80%9D-campaign
