Public Statements
Branstad, Reynolds to recognize five new Home Base Iowa Communities, three new Home Base Iowa Champs Friday
Press Release
By: Kim Reynolds Terry Branstad
Date: March 4, 2015
Location: Des Moines, IA

Gov. Terry E. Branstad and Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds today announced that they will travel to Fort Dodge, Iowa, on Friday, March 6, 2015 to recognize five new Home Base Iowa Communities and three new Home Base Iowa Certified Higher Academic Military Partner (CHAMPs).
The following communities will be announced as Home Base Iowa Communities Friday: Webster County, Hancock County, Humboldt County, Carroll County and Clay County. The communities will join Union County, Mitchell County, Dubuque County, Greene County, Howard County, Clarke County, Floyd County and the City of Marion as current Home Base Iowa Communities.
The following academic institutions will become Home Base Iowa CHAMPs on Friday: Mercy College of Health Sciences, Iowa Central Community College and Eastern Iowa Community College. These institutions will join The University of Iowa, Iowa State University, University of Northern Iowa, Hawkeye Community College, University of Dubuque, Upper Iowa University, Des Moines Area Community College (DMACC) and Mount Mercy University as Home Base Iowa CHAMPs.
"The Home Base Iowa initiative aims to ensure that members of the military leaving the service are met with an abundance of career and academic opportunities right here in Iowa," said Branstad. "Lieutenant Governor Reynolds and I continue to be impressed by the outpouring of support for the Home Base Iowa initiative through the Home Base Iowa Community and Home Base Iowa CHAMPs programs."
"With thirteen Home Base Iowa Communities and twelve Home Base Iowa CHAMPs institutions, it is clear that Iowans are ready to welcome veterans and their families to our great state," said Reynolds. "I encourage all Iowa communities and higher education institutions to consider joining our Home Base Iowa initiative."
The following event is open to credentialed members of the press:
Friday, March 6, 2015
11 a.m. Gov. Branstad and Lt. Gov. Reynolds announce additional Home Base Iowa Communities and Home Base Iowa CHAMPs
Heartland Communications -- Fort Dodge
1003 Central Avenue
Fort Dodge, IA
Learn more about Home Base Iowa at www.HomeBaseIowa.org.

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2015/03/branstad-reynolds-to-recognize-five-new-home-base-iowa-communities-three-new-home-base-iowa-champs-friday/
