Public Statements
Governor and Lt. Governor Announce More Home Base Iowa Communities and Certified Higher Academic Military Partners
Press Release
By: Terry Branstad Kim Reynolds
Date: Nov. 24, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Terry E. Branstad and Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds today announced Union County, Mitchell County, Dubuque County and the City of Marion have met the criteria to become designated as Home Base Iowa communities. Today they also announced all three Regents Institutions--University of Iowa, Iowa State University and University of Northern Iowa-- Hawkeye Community College and University of Dubuque have become designated as Home Base Iowa Certified Higher Academic Military Partners (CHAMPs).
Union county, Mitchell County, Dubuque County and the City of Marion join the four existing communities -- Greene County, Howard County, Clarke County and Floyd County -- in becoming certified Home Base Iowa Communities. To become a Home Base Iowa Community, an area must meet the following criteria: 10% of its businesses sign on as Home Base Iowa Businesses; local government supports the effort; signage indicates the community is a Home Base Iowa Community and the community creates local incentives that offer additional benefits for Veterans and that complement those in the statewide Home Base Iowa Act.
"With almost 600 veterans hired through Home Base Iowa thus far, our Veterans jobs initiative is a growing success," said Branstad. "As these additional communities, Union County, Mitchell County, Dubuque County and the City of Marion have demonstrated, Iowans are embracing this initiative to create communities that are attractive to Veterans and to provide transitioning military members with every opportunity for success."
Five additional Home Base Iowa CHAMPS--the University of Iowa, Iowa State University, University of Northern Iowa, Hawkeye Community College and University of Dubuque--join the three existing HBI CHAMPs--Upper Iowa University, DMACC and Mount Mercy University. The Home Base Iowa CHAMP program allows Iowa colleges and universities to become certified for their ability to educate and assist veterans on campus. The certification will help attract veterans leaving the service to Iowa and help academic institutions market their campus as veteran friendly. To become a Home Base Iowa CHAMP campus, education institutions must meet criteria in each of the three categories: On-Campus Veteran Resources, Mindfulness of Service Member Transitions and Financial Considerations.
"Governor Branstad and I are pleased to see the continued support Home Base Iowa is receiving across the state," said Reynolds. "Today's announcement of additional Home Base Iowa Communities and Home Base Iowa Certified Higher Academic Military Partners ensures service members transitioning to civilian life have welcoming communities, educational resources and jobs--all here in Iowa."

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2014/11/governor-and-lt-governor-announce-more-home-base-iowa-communities-and-certified-higher-academic-military-partners/
