Public Statements
Floyd County Becomes Home Base Iowa Community
Press Release
By: Kim Reynolds Terry Branstad
Date: Sept. 23, 2014
Location: Des Moines, IA

Gov. Terry Branstad and Lt. Governor Kim Reynolds today congratulated Floyd County on achieving Home Base Iowa Community designation. Floyd County is now the fourth in the state to achieve this recognition. The designation was given to Floyd County today at an event attended by Reynolds at the Floyd County Courthouse.
"Lieutenant Governor Reynolds and I are pleased with the momentum continuing to build around our innovative veterans jobs plan, Home Base Iowa," Branstad said. "Our Home Base Iowa initiative won overwhelming bipartisan support in the Legislature and now communities across Iowa are fully embracing the program. With continued partnerships between the state, communities and businesses, Iowa will establish itself a premier location for service members leaving the armed forces for a civilian career."
Home Base Iowa connects transitioning military members and veterans with career opportunities in Iowa companies. This unique program is tailored to a state which ranks third in the U.S. for job creation, allows for no state taxes on military pension, offers a cost of living below the national average and has one of the lowest unemployment rates in the nation. To date, members of the Iowa Business Council, Iowa's largest employers, have hired more than 200 employees through Home Base Iowa.
"Our appreciation for veterans paired with the need for additional skilled and dedicated workforce was the driving force behind the launch of Home Base Iowa," says Lt. Governor Kim Reynolds. "Since implementation, we have seen tremendous interest within Iowa communities and Iowa companies to join Home Base Iowa. We are more than happy to announce Floyd County as a Home Base Iowa Community, and to welcome all veterans home to Iowa."
Home Base Iowa designates qualified communities as centers of opportunity for military veterans based on four standards; 10 percent of businesses within a designated community must become Home Base Iowa businesses, each community develops its own incentive package for veterans, the community prominently displays the Home Base Iowa Community designation and obtains a resolution of support from the appropriate local governing body. Floyd County's incentive package offers veterans up to $10,000 at zero percent interest for five years to assist with the down payment of a home, closing costs and potential repairs or updates. With this incentive, Floyd County is prepared for up to 50 veterans to make Floyd County their new home.

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2014/09/floyd-county-becomes-home-base-iowa-community/
