Public Statements
Governor Reynolds to Lead Historic all Iowa Agricultural Trade Mission
By: Kim Reynolds
Date: May 30, 2017
Location: Unknown

Gov. Kim Reynolds today announced that she will lead an all Iowa agriculture trade mission to China July 19-28. Traveling with her will be representatives from commodity groups and the Farm Bureau, emphasizing Iowa's corn, pork, soy, beef, egg, poultry, dairy and turkey industries.
This is the first time all of Iowa's farm groups have come together for a trade mission.
"There is no better time than now to market and pitch our products in China," said Reynolds. "Our relationship with the country is strong, and their growing middle class means increasing purchasing power and Iowa stands to gain significantly as a result."
The goal of the mission is to build relationships, understanding and trust with the hope of opening new possibilities for Iowa's agricultural products. The groups will be meeting with government officials and industry partners. Reynolds says they will be visiting Ambassador Terry Branstad in Beijing, whose insight will be important as the groups navigate solutions to some of the current issues.
"I want to thank the individuals who are stepping up to lead this trade mission on behalf of Iowans," said Lt. Gov. Adam Gregg. "Every time we open new markets, it means more career opportunities for families in every corner of this state."
For some of Iowa's commodities, China is a developed market. For others, it is a new opportunities to bring down barriers to products. Examples include:
Soy
China is by far the largest soybean importer projected at 83 million metric tons, or a little more than 3 billion bushels (U.S. Soybean Export Council)
Total aquafeed use in China was around 36 million metric tons with the soy product use for aquafeed estimated at around 8.8 million metric tons in 2015, which equals 408,232,000 million bushels of soybeans.
Beef:
Chinese ban on importation of US beef has been in place for 13 years, the recent announcement to lift the ban provides opportunity for cattle farmers as 13% of our beef production is exported.
Pork
Over the last decade, US pork exports to China/Hong Kong have surged from $271 million in sales and 169,000 metric tons in 2007 to over $1 billion in sales and 545,000 metric tons in 2016.
Corn
China imported more than 50 percent of the exportable supply of U.S. distiller's dried grains with solubles (DDGS), or 6.3 metric tons valued at nearly $1.6 billion in 2015.
Dairy
In 2016, China was our 4th largest market for U.S. dairy products imported of $384 million and potential for much more.
Turkey
Iowa is 5th in US turkey processing and 8th in turkey production, Iowa farmers and processors benefit by reopening access for turkey products back into this market.

The trip will be funded by the participating agricultural organizations.

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2017/05/governor-reynolds-to-lead-historic-all-iowa-agricultural-trade-mission
