Public Statements
Clarke County Becomes a Home Base Iowa Community
Press Release
By: Kim Reynolds Terry Branstad
Date: Aug. 19, 2014
Location: Osceola, IA

Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds today congratulated Clarke County on achieving its Home Base Iowa Community designation. Clarke County is one of only three counties statewide to secure this title, the others being Greene and Howard counties.
Home Base Iowa designated communities serve as centers of opportunity for military veterans. All Home Base Iowa Communities must have 10 percent of businesses in the area achieve Home Base Iowa Business status, develop its own incentive package for veterans and obtain a resolution of support from the appropriate governing body.
"Communities like Clarke County prove just how much Iowans respect the sacrifice our veterans and their families have made for this country," Governor Terry E. Branstad said. "As a veteran myself, I am proud of the commitment Clarke County is making and look forward to seeing our nation's heroes prosper in Clarke County and across the state."
Clarke County will take great pride in prominently displaying and marketing the Home Base Iowa designation within numerous websites and community signage. They also identified several items to be included for the Veterans in a welcome package including but not limited to:
-Military Home Assistance Program, providing eligible service members and veterans with a $1,000 -- $2,000 grant for closing costs to purchase a home in Clarke County.
-Complimentary rooms at Lakeside Hotel and Casino while finding housing in Clarke County.
Lt. Gov. Reynolds added, "I'm so proud of my home town. Clarke County demonstrates its commitment to our service men and woman who have sacrificed their lives for our freedoms. The Home Base Iowa initiative works to ensure every service member leaving the military can find a career right here in Iowa."
The Home Base Iowa is a unique non-profit private-public partnership that focuses on recruiting veterans and active duty service members for quality, well-paying private-sector jobs in Iowa.
-In March, Iowa was named one of only a handful of states to be designated an All-Vet State by "Hiring Our Heroes," a program of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
-In June, Iowa was named as the first state to offer "Hilton Honors Military Initiative." This is a program set up by Hilton Worldwide, and connects military members and their families across the nation with free lodging at Hilton hotels as they pursue their job hunt, or need somewhere to stay as they move for their careers.
-In July, Iowa was named the third "Get Skills to Work State" by the Manufacturing Institute and National Association of Manufacturers.
The initiative is currently co-chaired by Congressman Leonard Boswell and Casey's CEO Bob Meyers, both of whom are veterans themselves. For more information on Home Base Iowa, please visit www.HomeBaseIowa.org.

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2014/08/clarke-county-becomes-a-home-base-iowa-community/
