Public Statements
Howard County Becomes a Home Base Iowa Community
Press Release
By: Terry Branstad Kim Reynolds
Date: June 27, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Terry E. Branstad and Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds today congratulated Howard County on achieving Home Base Iowa Community designation. Howard County is one of only two counties statewide to secure this title, the other being Greene County.
Home Base Iowa designated communities serve as centers of opportunity for military veterans. All Home Base Iowa Communities must have 10 percent of businesses in the area achieve Home Base Iowa Business status, develop its own incentive package for veterans and obtain a resolution of support from the appropriate governing body.
"Communities like Howard County prove just how much Iowans respect the sacrifice our veterans and their families have made for this country," Governor Terry E. Branstad said. "As a veteran myself, I am proud of the commitment Howard County is making and look forward to seeing our nation's heroes prosper in Howard County and across the state."
As the home to Five Admirals, Ellen Church and Dr. Norman Borlaug, Howard County will take great pride in prominently displaying and marketing the Home Base Iowa designation within numerous websites and community signage. They also identified several items to be included for the Veterans in a welcome package including but not limited to:
o Ambassadors will greet them and take them on a detailed community tour along with visits with local veterans and the local director of the VA
o A complimentary night's stay in one of the local Hotels or Bed & Breakfasts
o A complimentary night's dinner at one of the many local restaurants
o Howard County Gift Basket upon check-in that will include:
 Tickets to current events, plays, concerts, or movie
 Locally produced products from Howard County
 Gifts from local businesses
 Information and packages from local banks for relocation loans
o Free Day pass to the Local Fitness Center
o Complimentary bike or ski rental, depending on the season
o Assistance in lining up interviews with Howard County employers
Lt. Gov. Reynolds added, "Our service men and woman have sacrificed their lives for our freedoms. The Home Base Iowa initiative works to ensure every service member leaving the military can find a career right here in Iowa."
The Home Base Iowa is a unique non-profit private-public partnership that focuses on recruiting veterans and active duty service members for quality, well-paying private-sector jobs in Iowa. The initiative is currently co-chaired by Congressman Leonard Boswell and Casey's CEO Bob Meyers, both of whom are veterans themselves. For more information on Home Base Iowa, please visit www.HomeBaseIowa.org.

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2014/06/howard-county-becomes-a-home-base-iowa-community/
