Public Statements
Iowa Workforce Development Awarded $6 Million Apprenticeship Job Training Grant
Press Release
By: Kim Reynolds Terry Branstad
Date: June 26, 2014
Location: Unknown

Gov. Terry E. Branstad and Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds today announced that Iowa Workforce Development received a $6 million Department of Labor (DOL) grant to assist with placing 1,500 dislocated Iowans in rapidly growing, apprenticeship based occupations in high-demand industries.
"Through the Skilled Iowa Initiative, the Iowa Apprenticeship and Job Training Act and Home Base Iowa, Iowa is taking significant steps to ensure our hard-working citizens are prepared with the skillsets to fill careers in our state," said Branstad. "This grant from the United States Department of Labor will help match Iowans with apprenticeships to advance their training, making them more qualified for careers in Iowa."
The new funding will help create and expand employer driven partnerships that provide opportunities for apprenticeships and industry-recognized credential. Funding will also be used to provide services, such as career coaching and counseling.
"Today's announcement is significant for Iowans who are working to improve their unique skillsets to meet the demands of Iowa's highly-skilled, good-paying jobs," said Reynolds. "We've worked diligently to put in place programs to help Iowans advance and refine their skills. This announcement is exciting for Iowans who are interested in continuing their job training and earning while they learn."
Iowa Workforce Development is partnering with over 26 Registered Apprenticeship programs to implement the grant on a statewide basis. The grant will expand work-based learning strategies and assist with the continued development of strong partnerships between workforce and industry organizations.
"Registered apprenticeships provide a win-win situation for Iowans and employers," stated Iowa Workforce Development Director Teresa Wahlert. "The apprenticeship program provides Iowans with an opportunity to secure a new opportunity while earning a high-paying wage and employers are awarded with highly skilled employees."
DOL awarded an additional $175,000 to IWD for infrastructure support related to the grant implementation. This includes increased access to certifications, enhanced electronic employment tools, expanded employer engagement and enhanced customer satisfaction.

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2014/06/iowa-workforce-development-awarded-6-million-apprenticeship-job-training-grant/
