Public Statements
Iowa Tourism Office Launches Ad Campaign, Updated Web Site to Inspire Travel to Iowa
Press Release
By: Kim Reynolds Terry Branstad
Date: March 10, 2014
Location: Unknown

The Iowa Tourism Office has kicked off its spring advertising campaign with television and digital ads designed to inspire travelers to visit Iowa.
Television ads are now airing in Chicago, Minneapolis/St. Paul, Kansas City, and Omaha. Digital ads are being served up on websites such as parents.com, TripAdvisor and Expedia as well as Google search.
"Travelers spend nearly $8 billion in our state annually and generate more than $300 million in revenue for the state," said Gov. Terry Branstad. "Iowans are humble, but it's important that we show off our state, promote what we have to offer and encourage our neighbors to visit."
"This campaign is targeted to metro areas within easy driving distance of Iowa," said Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds. "Less time traveling to Iowa means more time to actually enjoy it. Our ads showcase several locations across the state, but they really represent just the tip of the iceberg. There's no shortage of unique museums, shops, restaurants and hotels in Iowa where travelers can make lifelong memories."
The $1.5 million combined ad buy will run from March to June of this year.
Iowa Tourism Office also recently completed a major overhaul of web site, www.traveliowa.com, adding several news pages meant to inspire potential travelers with a range of interests, from history and culture to hunting to outdoor recreation to wine and beer. The ad campaign is intended to drive traffic to traveliowa.com were travelers can immerse themselves in learning more about destinations in the state.
Tourism in Iowa generates more than $7.6 billion in expenditures, employs 64,400 people statewide and generates $345 million in state taxes. The Iowa Tourism Office is part of the Iowa Economic Development Authority. For more information about Iowa tourism, visit www.traveliowa.com, call 800.345.IOWA or stop at any Iowa Welcome Center.

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2014/03/iowa-tourism-office-launches-ad-campaign-updated-web-site-to-inspire-travel-to-iowa/
