Public Statements
Gov. Branstad, Lt. Gov. Reynolds Announce Governor's Bullying Prevention Summit Video Contest Winners
Press Release
By: Kim Reynolds Terry Branstad
Date: Nov. 5, 2013
Location: Des Moines, IA

Algona High School took top prize in this year's video contest in conjunction with the second Governor's Bullying Prevention Summit, held yesterday in Des Moines.
Northwood-Kensett Junior-Senior High School came in second, followed in third by Clarion-Goldfield Middle School. (Photo credits: Office of Gov. Terry Branstad and Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds)
The schools will all receive cash prizes to be used toward bullying prevention efforts.
"We had a number of great videos submitted this year, and I congratulate the winners," said Gov. Branstad. "The Governor's Bullying Prevention Summit was again a wonderful learning experience and exchange on ideas and strategies of preventing bullying and the challenges we need to overcome. We need to have not just the schools but also the parents and the community actively involved also."
"It's very powerful to have this many students raising awareness and talking about the importance of preventing bullying," said Lt. Gov. Reynolds. "I hope all Iowans will get the opportunity to view these videos and learn from the important messages contained within each one. These videos send a clear message that bullying prevention should be a top priority for all of us."
The winners were determined by a panel of all-star judges (see below) using a 100-point scale (see below). There were a total of 30 videos submitted for the contest. Director Brad Buck announced the finalists and presented each school with a certificate as part of his closing remarks at the Summit this afternoon.
All the videos are available online to watch at: https://educateiowa.eduvision.tv/default.aspx under the "Bully Prevention Entries" channel.
Details on the winners and contest criteria are as follows:
Winners:
1st- Algona High School (prize: $500 check for bullying prevention efforts and visit by Governor and LG for all-school assembly)
2nd- Northwood-Kensett Junior-Senior High School (prize: $350 check for bullying prevention efforts)
3rd -- Clarion-Goldfield Middle School (prize: $150 check for bullying prevention efforts)
The cash prizes were sponsored by the Iowa Hall of Pride.
Judges:
Sarah Brown Wessling, Johnston High School English Teacher and 2010 National Teacher of the Year
Alan Heisterkamp, Director of Mentors in Violence Prevention Leadership Institute at University of Northern Iowa Center for Violence Prevention
Joel Pederson, Cardinal Community School District Superintendent
Sydni Rowen, former student at Waukee High School who created "Random Acts of Kindness" with other students from Waukee High School and freshman at University of Nebraska
Gary Telford, middle school softball coach at Ballard Community Schools and former Ankeny activities director
Judging Scale:
20 points = Highlighting how things would be different if bullying were drastically reduced or eliminated, both bullying that occurs in the cyber world and in person. How would that shift the culture in schools and the larger community?
20 points = Demonstrating how your school is engaging your larger community in some aspect of your campaign
20 points = Getting 50% of your student body to sign the "Are you a HERO?" campaign pledge from the Iowa Hall of Pride. You can earn fewer points for lower percentages who sign:
Earn 5 points for 10% of student body
Earn 10 points for 25% of student body
Earn 15 points for 35% of student body
10 points = Showing video to entire school
10 points = Demonstrating how your campaign will make a lasting impact by changing the culture of your school and community to prevent bullying.
10 points = Originality and creativity
10 points = Incorporation of primary and secondary sources

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2013/11/gov-branstad-lt-gov-reynolds-announce-governor%E2%80%99s-bullying-prevention-summit-video-contest-winners-2/
