Public Statements
Branstad signs Executive Orders 79 & 80
Press Release
By: Kim Reynolds Terry Branstad
Date: Aug. 20, 2012
Location: Des Moines, IA

Gov. Branstad and Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds announced today that the governor will be signing Executive Order 80, which will enact greater public participation in the administrative rules process.
The governor also signed Executive Order 79, which rescinded 12 previous executive orders.
By signing Executive Order 80, agencies will create stakeholder rulemaking groups consisting of individuals who can adequately represent the interests that will be significantly affecting by a draft rule proposal or subject matter.
Rulemaking authorities will now work with those who will be affected by new regulations, and they will be fully aware of the full consequences of each rule or regulation they look to put into effect.
"Public participation in the formulation of administrative rules will help our state to reform burdensome regulations and prevent overregulation or red tape, encouraging efficiency, economic growth and job creation," said Branstad.
Once formed, the stakeholder groups will then notify the public to their meetings, receive public comment and input, and then make recommendations to the entity with rulemaking authority.
Reynolds notes that she and the governor visit all 99 counties every year, and conducted a rules and regulations tour with legislators in order to hear the concerns of small business owners and working families.
"What has become apparent in our travels is that public input is vitally important, but it is missing in a critical aspect of state government: our rules and regulations process," said Reynolds. "Iowa government has a responsibility to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people of the state of Iowa. We must enact regulations that achieve this goal as effectively and efficiently as possible."
The governor added that this executive order is about injecting common-sense into the regulatory process.
"Our state will be well served by greater public participation and stakeholder input for regulation and administrative rules," said Branstad. "It is our hope that by giving stakeholders a stake in the process, we can all work together to enact smart, better ways to administer rules and regulations."

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2012/08/branstad-signs-executive-orders-79-80/
