Public Statements
Gov. Branstad and Lt. Gov. Reynolds Release Statements on Farm Inspections
Statement
By: Kim Reynolds Terry Branstad
Date: June 29, 2012
Location: Unknown

Gov. Terry Branstad and Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds, today, issued statements commending Department of Public Safety Commissioner Larry Noble for stopping illegal farm inspections.
Commissioner Noble issued an order on June 22, 2012 making it clear that his department would not conduct farm inspections, except as required by Iowa law. Inspections of farm homes and farm buildings open to the public will continue as required by law.
On January 23rd of this year, Gov. Branstad formally objected to an overbearing rule by the Electrical Examining Board mandating farm inspections by regulation, even though Iowa law does not require them.
Governor Branstad released the following statement:
"The Electrical Examining Board went beyond their statutory authority. Their overreaching rule required a state inspection for any electrical work on farm buildings or structures, even though the legislature provided a common sense exception for farmers in the law. This rule is unnecessary and costly, and it was created by a board that did not have the authority to create it. This power-grab by the Electrical Examining Board hurts hard-working Iowa farmers and the Iowa economy," said Branstad.
"I am glad that that DPS has taken this action to stop this regulatory overreach that hurts hard-working Iowa farmers. Iowa farmers have safely conducted electrical work on their barns, grain bins and outbuildings for years. They've hired experienced electrical contractors and licensed professionals who don't need the state looking over their shoulders. Overreaching regulation by the Electrical Examining Board hasn't changed that. Farmers still have qualified people do their electrical work. But, the rule added another significant expense to farmers' projects and caused delays lasting days or weeks that are especially costly when livestock are involved--or during busy times of the crop year. Now, with the action by Commissioner Noble, it is clear that these overreaching inspections will no longer be forced on farmers."
Lt. Gov. Reynolds released the following statement:
"Over-reaching rules hurt economic opportunities in agriculture and job growth in Iowa. Our administration is committed to regulatory reform. We know that small businesses, including farmers, are the greatest generators of job growth and are also disproportionately burdened by regulations. I applaud today's action by Commissioner Noble."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2012/06/gov-branstad-and-lt-gov-reynolds-release-statements-on-farm-inspections/
