Public Statements
Gov. Branstad and Lt. Gov. Reynolds Welcome Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping to Iowa
Press Release
By: Terry Branstad Kim Reynolds
Date: Jan. 23, 2012
Location: Des Moines, IA

Gov. Terry E. Branstad and Lt. Gov. Kim Reynolds today welcomed the White House's announcement that Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping will visit Iowa as part of his visit to the United States next month. The vice president will also visit California and Washington, D.C.
Vice President Xi visited Iowa in 1985 as a Hebei Province party official, and was the director of the Feed Association of Shi jiazhuang Prefecture. Now, he is the Vice President and this year he will become the president of China.
During a trade mission to China last September, Gov. Branstad met with Vice President Xi, and discussed at length the vice president's 1985 Iowa visit. The vice president informed the governor that he was impressed with the hospitality and friendliness of Iowans, and named a number of the Iowans he met with.
During their conversation, the governor invited him to visit Iowa again.
"I want to thank Vice President Xi for taking me up on my offer to visit Iowa," said Gov. Branstad. "The strong relationship Iowa has with the incoming leader of China has economic benefits that are beyond measure. This is a tremendous opportunity for Iowa, and we will make the most of our time with Vice President Xi."
Lt. Gov. Reynolds noted the administration has already been in talks with Vice President Xi's office, and are working with them to coordinate a smooth visit.
"We want to highlight the best of what Iowa has to offer while the vice president is in our state," said Lt. Gov. Reynolds. "We are working with state officials and business leaders to ensure economic development is the top priority during Vice President Xi's visit."
The governor noted that once the schedule is finalized, a news release will be sent.

Source: https://governor.iowa.gov/2012/01/gov-branstad-and-lt-gov-reynolds-welcome-chinese-vice-president-xi-jinping-to-iowa/
