Public Statements
The Daily Freeman-Journal - Reynolds Makes WC Campaign Stop
News Article
By: Kim Reynolds
Date: Oct. 25, 2010
Location: Unknown

By Anne Blankenship
With just over a week until election day, Kim Reynolds, Republican challenger for lieutenant governor, stopped by the Hamilton County Republican headquarters in Webster City on Friday morning to meet with supporters. Reynolds is finishing up her tour of all 99 counties in the state.
Reynolds said she had made the pledge to visit all of Iowa's counties and as of Friday had marked 97 off that list.
"Next week, I'll visit the other two," she added.
Terry Branstad and Reynolds are looking to upset incumbent Democrats Chet Culver and Patty Judge for the state's top two offices. Reynolds said the campaign has been very encouraged at each of the campaign stops.
"Next week, we're planning to visit 26 cities in seven days," she said. "We've also got several governors coming in to help us, including Tim Pawlenty, Bobby Jindal, Haley Barbour and Mitt Romney."
Reynolds said overspending, growth in government and the lack of jobs top the list of concerns from Iowans.
"Jobs, jobs, jobs You know, the unemployment rate stayed the same - 6.8 percent - with over 114,000 Iowans out of work," she said. "I've had business owners tell me that they are in the place to grow their businesses, bring on more employees, but they have no confidence in the climate."
Reynolds said many businesses in the state have the capital to expand or grow work forces, but are uncertain about many factors.
"One businesswoman told me that she is hunkered down because she doesn't know what the government is going to throw at me next with the state and the federal tax environment, regulatory climate, and health care," Reynolds said.
" We need to restore their confidence, get an environment in place that's conducive to job growth, get our fiscal house in order at the state," she said. "If we do that, then they'll take that capital and reinvest in our economy and our community and our workforce."

Source: http://www.webstercitynews.com/page/content.detail/id/513018/Reynolds-makes-WC-campaign-stop.html?nav=5006
