Public Statements
Beth Harkins Aldridge Confirmed to Workers' Compensation Commission
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: March 3, 2015
Location: Jackson, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant has appointed Beth Harkins Aldridge to a six-year term on the Mississippi Workers' Compensation Commission. Her appointment has been confirmed by the Mississippi Senate.
The Mississippi Workers' Compensation Commission resolves all questions relating to payment of workers' compensation claims. The Commission reviews decisions made by administrative law judges, decides certain medical fee disputes and regulates individual and group self-insurers.
"I am very pleased to appoint Beth to the Workers' Compensation Commission," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "Her experience as a physical therapist and as a business owner make her well suited to ensure both workers and employers are treated fairly."
Aldridge has practiced as a licensed physical therapist since 1999 and serves patients in a variety of settings, including acute hospital care, outpatient clinics, skilled nursing and long-term care facilities, children in the public school systems and most recently with outreach in independent and assistive living facilities. She also treats preschool-high school students in school setting environments. She is the former co-owner and president of Total Woman Health and Fitness, LLC in Ridgeland, Miss.
"I am honored to serve the people of Mississippi as the employee representative for the Mississippi Workers' Compensation Commission. I hope my medical background and experience as a physical therapist providing rehabilitation to restore function, mobility and quality of life for those who have been ill or injured will bring insight to the commission."
Aldridge holds a bachelor's degree in physical therapy from the University of Mississippi Medical Center. She was previously appointed to the Mississippi State Board of Health in 2013 by Gov. Bryant and resigned that position upon confirmation to the Workers' Compensation Commission.
Aldridge is the mother of two children and lives in Madison, Miss.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/beth-harkins-aldridge-confirmed-to-workers-compensation-commission/
