Public Statements
BPI Packaging Bringing 150 New Jobs to Olive Branch
Statement
By: Phil Bryant
Date: March 22, 2016
Location: Jackson, MS

BPI Packaging, LLC will invest $8 million and create 150 jobs in Olive Branch, Gov. Phil Bryant and company officials announced today.
"The state of Mississippi is glad to welcome BPI Packaging as its newest business partner," Gov. Bryant said. "I thank the BPI team for recognizing the numerous benefits of a North Mississippi location and for creating 150 new jobs for the residents of Olive Branch and the surrounding areas. When companies choose to invest in Mississippi, it shows the world that great things are happening here and that we are open for business. I wish BPI many years of success in DeSoto County."
BPI will locate its operations in a 291,000-square-foot facility on Magnolia Drive previously occupied by Sherwin Williams.
"We are tremendously excited about the purchase of the facility in Olive Branch," BPI President Bobby Dunn said. "This acquisition will provide BPI with the physical plant and opportunity to grow our contract manufacturing capabilities into the areas of industrial coatings and performance chemicals. We are especially thankful for the strong support and assistance that we have received from the city of Olive Branch, DeSoto County and the Mississippi Development Authority. We look forward to bringing quality manufacturing jobs to the area and building on our long history of corporate citizenship and community growth."
The Mississippi Development Authority is providing a rail spur to assist with the project. The city of Olive Branch is providing in-kind assistance.
"One-hundred-fifty new career opportunities are now available to the people of DeSoto County and North Mississippi through BPI Packaging's investment in Mississippi," said MDA Executive Director Glenn McCullough Jr. "We appreciate their long-term commitment to economic development in our state. MDA salutes our teammates at the DeSoto County Economic Development Council, the city of Olive Branch and the DeSoto County Board of Supervisors for their partnership with MDA on this project."
BPI Packaging is a Memphis-based, privately held contract manufacturer. Founded in 2000, BPI provides full-service custom chemical blending and packaging for a wide mix of Fortune 500, mid- and smaller-sized companies. Focusing on delivering high-quality products with efficiencies and economies of scale, BPI directly helps its customers build better brands.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/bpi-packaging-bringing-150-new-jobs-to-olive-branch/
