Public Statements
Gov. Phil Bryant Appoints Karen Elam to State Board of Education
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Jan. 30, 2015
Location: Jackson, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant has appointed Karen Elam, Ph.D., to the State Board of Education. Elam will fill the unexpired term of Danny Spreitler, who has resigned. She also serves on the Charter School Authorizer Board.
"I am very pleased to appoint Karen to this position," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "She has demonstrated commitment to public education in Mississippi through her work on the Charter School Authorizer Board, and I am confident she will bring the same enthusiasm to the State Board of Education."
Elam, a resident of Oxford, Miss., holds a doctorate degree in consumer economics from the University of Missouri, a master's degree in food science from Michigan State University and a bachelor's degree in home economics education from Purdue University. She has extensive experience in developing and implementing policy on nutrition, health and food safety and has done extensive interdisciplinary research related to nutrition assessment.
She is a former professor of food science and human nutrition at Michigan State University and a former professor of human nutrition, foods and food systems management at the University of Missouri. She held several executive positions with Nabisco, Inc. from 1987-2001 and, since 2001, has worked as president of Elam Consulting, a business that provides regulatory guidance to and domestic and international representation of food and drug ingredient industry associations
"Mississippi students are capable of great success if we work to ensure public schools are meeting their needs," Elam said. "I am grateful to Gov. Bryant for the opportunity to serve on the Board of Education, and I am committed to building excellence in Mississippi's K-12 education system."
Elam's appointment will be brought before the Mississippi Senate for confirmation.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/gov-phil-bryant-appoints-karen-elam-to-state-board-of-education/
