Public Statements
Winston Plywood Breaks Ground at Site of New Manufacturing Facility in Louisville, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Jan. 30, 2015
Location: Louisville, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant and officials from Winston Plywood and Veneer, manufacturer of specialty plywood products, gathered today for a groundbreaking ceremony at the site of the company's new manufacturing facility in Louisville, Miss. The project represents an investment of approximately $50 million and will create 400 new jobs.
In April 2014, a tornado destroyed the company's facility in Louisville. Since that time, Winston Plywood and Veneer has remained committed to rebuilding and expanding its operations in Louisville. In addition to the investment made by the company, disaster recovery funds from the Federal Emergency Management Agency will also be used to build the new facility.
"I am grateful to the Winston Plywood and Veneer team for their steadfast dedication to the Louisville community and the state of Mississippi following the tornado that devastated the area last spring. Their decision to rebuild here -- bigger and stronger than ever -- and create these new jobs demonstrates the commitment the company has made to the citizens of Louisville and Winston County," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "This milestone serves as a testament to the world that we have a strong, supportive business climate that fosters growth and success, and I look forward to watching the company thrive in Louisville for years to come."
"Winston Plywood and Veneer has forged a unique partnership with the state of Mississippi, Mayor Hill, and Winston County to not only rebuild this plywood mill but to help this region recover," said Dr. Richard Baldwin, president of Winston Plywood and Veneer. "That daily collaboration, since the first moments after the tornado hit, has delivered the resources and focus we needed to be here today, with construction on a new, state-of-the-art plywood mill officially underway. This will be a great facility and will enhance the quality of life in this community for many years to come."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for site preparation, relocation expenses, infrastructure needs and workforce training.
"MDA is glad to have the resources in place to assist companies like Winston Plywood and Veneer as they overcome adversity by rebuilding and creating new job opportunities for Mississippi's workforce. Today's groundbreaking is a great example of Winston Plywood and Veneer's continued contribution to the revitalization of the Louisville community following the April tornado, and we wish the company many years of success in its new facility," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "MDA thanks our partners at the Winston County Economic Development District Partnership, the Tennessee Valley Authority, the city of Louisville and Winston County for working together to help make this project possible."
Winston Plywood and Veneer is an operating company of New Wood Resources LLC. Based in Boise, Idaho, New Wood Resources owns and operates plywood and veneer manufacturing facilities in the Northwestern and Southeastern United States. The new facility in Louisville, Miss., operating as Winston Plywood and Veneer, will be one of the most modern and efficient mills in North America.
New Wood Resources LLC is owned and operated by Atlas Holdings LLC. Based in Greenwich, Conn., Atlas is a diversified group of manufacturing, distribution, service and trading businesses with 13,000 associates worldwide.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/winston-plywood-breaks-ground-at-site-of-new-manufacturing-facility-in-louisville-miss/
