Public Statements
Von Drehle Breaks Ground on Paper Machine Facility in Natchez, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Jan. 26, 2015
Location: Natchez, MS

Officials from von Drehle and state and local officials gathered today for a groundbreaking ceremony at the site of the company's future paper machine facility in Natchez, Miss. Von Drehle, a paper products supplier to commercial and industrial users nationwide, announced in 2013 it had acquired the former Mississippi River Pulp facility and would purchase new converting equipment and install a paper machine. The project represents an estimated $100 million corporate investment and will create at least 100 jobs with the potential to increase to 150 when completed.
"I am pleased to see von Drehle's progress in Natchez and commend the company on this milestone. Today's groundbreaking puts von Drehle one step closer to providing more than 100 new job opportunities for the area's residents, and it demonstrates the commitment the company has made to Natchez and Adams County," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "I congratulate the von Drehle team on this exciting event and look forward to watching the company thrive in Mississippi."
"We look forward to bringing NTT tissue technology here to Natchez. This machine will be capable of producing 30,000 tons annually, and it will be the first paper machine with this type of advanced technology in North America," said von Drehle President and CEO Randy Bergman. "We would like to thank the city of Natchez and state leaders for their assistance in moving this project forward."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for the construction of an access road to the new facility. Adams County provided assistance in the form of tax abatements.
"Today is an exciting day for the city of Natchez and Adams County, and MDA is proud to have provided assistance as von Drehle prepares to begin construction of its new paper machine facility," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We congratulate von Drehle on this exciting event, as well as our partners at Natchez, Inc. and Adams County who worked to bring this great company to our state."
Established in 1974, von Drehle maintains manufacturing operations in North Carolina, Nevada and Tennessee. Through an international network of more than 400 distributor partners, the Hickory, N.C.-based company sells towel, tissue and dispenser products to industrial, commercial and institutional distributors, contract cleaners and building-maintenance service providers. To learn more, visit von Drehle's website at www.vondrehle.com.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/von-drehle-breaks-ground-on-paper-machine-facility-in-natchez-miss/
