Public Statements
Gov. Bryant Activates State Disaster Housing Assistance for Tornado Survivors
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Jan. 9, 2015
Location: Jackson, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant was notified today that President Barack Obama denied Mississippi's request for FEMA assistance to individuals in Jones and Marion counties who suffered damage from the Dec. 23 severe storms and tornadoes. Gov. Bryant has authorized the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency to activate the state's Temporary Disaster Housing Assistance Program.
The National Weather Service confirms eight tornadoes touched down in the state on Dec. 23. Five Mississippians died and 50 others were injured. In Marion County, 82 homes and 43 businesses were heavily damaged or destroyed. In Jones County, eight homes and one business were heavily damaged or destroyed.
"While I thank the administration for providing aid to rebuild damaged public roads and facilities through the Public Assistance Program, I am disappointed with the denial of aid for individuals and families. The state is stepping in to help people recover from these deadly storms," said Gov. Bryant. "The rental assistance provided by the state program will help put Mississippians into secure housing in the short-term as they recover and rebuild."
Mississippi's Temporary Disaster Housing Assistance Program will provide eligible homeowners up to 90 days of rental assistance reimbursement and eligible renters up to 30 days of assistance.
For information about how to apply for the program, residents should contact the Jones and Marion county emergency management offices.
* Jones County Emergency Management Agency: 601-649-3535
* Marion County Emergency Management Agency: 601-736-9627
MEMA will also be working closely with volunteer organizations to help provide for storm survivors. For information on volunteering, visit the Mississippi Commission for Volunteer Services online at www.volunteermississippi.org.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/gov-bryant-activates-state-disaster-housing-assistance-for-tornado-survivors/
