Public Statements
Villa International Locating Operations in Belmont, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Oct. 23, 2014
Location: Jackson, MS

Villa International, the premier manufacturer of luxury furniture for motorhomes, announces the company is locating operations in the former Falcon Products facility in Belmont, Miss., in Tishomingo County. The project represents a $250,000 corporate investment and will create 75 jobs over a five year period.
"I am proud to welcome Villa International as the newest member of the Mississippi business community and appreciate the company for placing its confidence in our business environment and trust in our workforce. These 75 new jobs will certainly have a positive impact on the Belmont community for years to come," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "I wish the Villa International team many successful years in our state."
"The Mississippi development team, from the state to the local level, was a joy to work with," said Villa International President Andrew Greenthal. "Representatives were professional, organized and sensitive to our unique business needs. Their business friendly perspective was a breath of fresh air. We look forward to a long and prosperous partnership with the city of Belmont, Tishomingo County and the state of Mississippi."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for the purchase of the facility and building improvements. The Appalachian Regional Commission and Tishomingo County provided assistance, as well.
"Working together with economic developers throughout the state, we strive to provide an inviting business climate that encourages new businesses to locate in Mississippi and our existing businesses to grow. Villa International's decision to locate in Belmont is a result of that team work and collaboration," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We thank our partners at the Appalachian Regional Commission and Tishomingo County for working to bring this great company to our state."
Focused primarily on the recreational vehicle market, Villa International provides original furniture to more than 30 of the top motorhome manufacturers in the industry. These include Airstream, Fleetwood, Foretravel, Forest River, Gulf Stream, Jayco, Newell, Newmar, Tiffin, Winnebago, and more. For more information, visit www.villainternational.com.
About Mississippi Development Authority
Mississippi Development Authority is the state of Mississippi's lead economic and community development agency. Nearly 300 employees are engaged in providing services to businesses, communities and workers in the state. While the agency is best known for its efforts to recruit new businesses to Mississippi, the Authority provides services to promote tourism, help communities improve their quality of place, help existing employers identify and meet opportunities and challenges and help workers improve their skills -- all with the goal of improving the quality of life and economic well-being of Mississippians. For more information, visit MDA's website at www.mississippi.org.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/villa-international-locating-operations-in-belmont-miss/
