Public Statements
Governor Phil Bryant Declares State of Emergency for Flooded Areas, Orders National Guard Deployed to Gulf Coast
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: March 10, 2016
Location: Jackson, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant declared a state of emergency this afternoon for areas affected by flooding and issued an executive order mobilizing the Mississippi National Guard to assist with any needed high-water rescues.
According to the National Weather Service, parts of Mississippi have received eight to 10 inches of rain over the last 24 hours, with more rainfall in the forecast. Parts of South Mississippi are expected to receive up to 10 inches of rain over the next two days. Coastal tides are nearly three feet above normal, and could rise, causing minor to moderate inundation.
"I have declared a state of emergency to assist local officials with any available state resources," said Gov. Bryant. "It is important for Mississippians to remember the phrase "Turn Around, Don't Drown.'"
Residents of neighborhoods, subdivisions and communities that historically flood during heavy rains should remain aware of the changing weather conditions in their area. Evacuate before water rises to the point that you must call first responders to rescue you. This storm system will bring up to 10 inches of rain over the weekend, and could be similar to rainfall amounts seen during Hurricane Isaac in 2012.
Gov. Bryant has authorized Major General Augustus Collins, the Adjutant General of Mississippi, to deploy up to 80 soldiers to the Gulf Coast. They will be positioned in Hancock, Harrison, Jackson and Pearl River Counties and will be prepared to evacuate residents of flooded areas. They will also work with local responders in security patrols to ensure the protection of property.
Numerous roads have been closed due to flooding and debris. For the latest on road conditions, go to www.mdottraffic.com, download the free MDOT mobile phone app or call 5-1-1.
A state of emergency is an administrative tool that authorizes the use of additional state resources to assist areas that are affected by an emergency.
Residents are asked to report any damage to their county emergency management director. For a full list of emergency managers in Mississippi, go to www.msema.org/local-ema.
The best way to get up-to-date information during this event is to "Like" MEMA on Facebook, or "Follow" the agency on Twitter.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/governor-phil-bryant-declares-state-of-emergency-for-flooded-areas-orders-national-guard-deployed-to-gulf-coast/
