Public Statements
Mars Food North America Expanding in Greenville, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Oct. 21, 2014
Location: Jackson, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant and Apu Mody, President, Mars Food North America, which produces UNCLE BEN'S® and SEEDS OF CHANGE® products, announced today that the company is expanding operations at its manufacturing facility in Greenville. The project represents a corporate investment of $31 million and will create 25 new jobs for its manufacturing and research and development operations.
As part of this investment, Mars Food will construct a new state-of-the-art Research and Development Application Center to support innovations for Mars Food's brands globally, as well as expand its existing Greenville manufacturing operations.
Gov. Bryant also announced a new public/private workforce development initiative between the state and the company that is designed to grow an even stronger and more vibrant workforce throughout the Delta region.
"Less than one year ago, Mars Food celebrated its 35th anniversary of operations in our state. Today the company reaffirms its commitment to the state of Mississippi, Washington County and the Greenville community as it further strengthens its roots in the Delta and creates new job opportunities for the area's residents," Gov. Bryant said. "We are committed to working with Mississippi companies like Mars Food to attract and develop a talented workforce, which helps ensure the state continues to fuel industrial growth. I thank the team at Mars Food for once again placing its confidence in our business climate and its unwavering commitment to the workforce of the Mississippi Delta."
"This is an exciting day for Mars Food as this investment will modernize our Greenville facility, increase our site's capacity and allow us to build a state-of-the-art Research and Development Application Center that will serve our global innovation efforts," Apu Mody said. "We have a long and proud history here in Mississippi, and this is another demonstration of our commitment to both the Greenville site and the surrounding community."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided grant assistance in support of Mars Food's substantial $31 million investment in the Greenville site, including the R&D Application Center.
"For nearly four decades, Mars Food has been a valued business partner to the state of Mississippi, investing in and growing its Greenville operations and providing job opportunities for residents of the Delta region. MDA is glad to assist this great company as it once again pursues growth opportunities in the state," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We thank our partners at the Chamber and Economic Development Center of Washington County, the city of Greenville, and the Greenville City Council and Board of Supervisors for working with us to help bring this project to fruition."
Mars opened its plant in Greenville in 1978 with five packaging lines and one processing line. Increasing market demand necessitated convenience lines to be added in 1987, a Ready to Heat area added in 2007, and a new milled rice area added in 2011. Today, the plant sits on 110 acres of property and has 250,000 square feet of space. The Greenville facility produces products under iconic brands such as UNCLE BEN'S®, SEEDS OF CHANGE®, and ABU SIOUF®, which is exported to the Middle East. To learn more about Mars Food, please visit www.mars.com.
About Mississippi Development Authority
Mississippi Development Authority is the state of Mississippi's lead economic and community development agency. Nearly 300 employees are engaged in providing services to businesses, communities and workers in the state. While the agency is best known for its efforts to recruit new businesses to Mississippi, MDA provides services to promote tourism, help communities improve their quality of place, help existing employers identify and meet opportunities and challenges and help workers improve their skills -- all with the goal of improving the quality of life and economic well-being of Mississippians. For more information, visit MDA's website at www.mississippi.org.
About Mars Food
Mars Food is a fast-growing food business, making tastier, healthier, easier meals for all consumers to enjoy.
Headquartered in Brussels, Belgium, Mars Food is a leader in producing great tasting products. Our portfolio includes the following brands: UNCLE BEN'S®, DOLMIO®, SEEDS OF CHANGE®, MasterFoods®, SUZI WAN®, EBLY®, ROYCO®, KAN TONG® and RARIS®. In 2013, global sales were approximately $2 billion.
Our ambition is to become a model business in the areas of health and nutrition and sustainability, as expressed by our purpose: Better Food Today. A Better World Tomorrow.
Mars Food is a segment of Mars, Incorporated.
About Mars, Incorporated
In 1911, Frank C. Mars made the first Mars candies in his Tacoma, Washington kitchen and established Mars' first roots as a confectionery company. In the 1920s, Forrest E. Mars, Sr. joined his father in business and together they launched the MILKY WAY® bar. In 1932, Forrest, Sr. moved to the United Kingdom with a dream of building a business based on the objective of creating a "mutuality of benefits for all stakeholders" -- this objective serves as the foundation of Mars, Incorporated today. Based in McLean, Virginia, Mars has net sales of more than $33 billion, six business segments including Petcare, Chocolate, Wrigley, Food, Drinks, Symbioscience, and more than 74,000 Associates worldwide that are putting its Principles into action to make a difference for people and the planet through its performance.
Mars brands include: Petcare -- PEDIGREE®, ROYAL CANIN®, WHISKAS®, KITEKAT®, BANFIELD® Pet Hospital and NUTRO®; Chocolate -- M&M'S®, SNICKERS®, DOVE®, GALAXY®, MARS®, MILKY WAY® and TWIX®; Wrigley -- DOUBLEMINT®, EXTRA®, ORBIT® and 5™ chewing gums, SKITTLES® and STARBURST® candies, and ALTOIDS® AND LIFESAVERS® mints. Food -- UNCLE BEN'S®, DOLMIO®, EBLY®, MASTERFOODS®, SEEDS OF CHANGE® and ROYCO®; Drinks -- ALTERRA COFFEE ROASTERS™, THE BRIGHT TEA COMPANY™, KLIX® and FLAVIA®; Symbioscience -- COCOAVIA™, WISDOM PANEL™ and SERAMIS®.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/mars-food-north-america-expanding-in-greenville-miss/
