Public Statements
Ice Industries Expanding Operations in Grenada, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Oct. 15, 2014
Location: Jackson, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant and officials from Ice Industries Grenada announced today the company is continuing to expand and improve operations at its facility in Grenada, Miss. The project marks the company's fifth expansion since 2010. It represents a company investment of $1.8 million and will create 50 new jobs, bringing the total number employed at the facility to approximately 290.
Ice Industries Grenada, formerly known as Grenada Stamping and Assembly, supplies parts to the appliance, automotive, heavy truck, and alternative energy markets. Improvements will include infrastructure upgrades, overhead crane improvements, and shipping and safety enhancements that will allow the company to continue to expand service to its customers. New metal stamping and assembly equipment is also being installed to accommodate additional work from existing customers, as well as new work the company has acquired in the furniture industry.
"Ice Industries is a shining example of a Mississippi business that continues to place its confidence in the state's supportive business climate and trust in its workforce," Gov. Bryant said. "I am grateful to Ice Industries team for once again creating new job opportunities for the area's residents and for helping show the world that Mississippi is a great place to do business."
"We continue to find ways to grow our capabilities and add value to our global customer base by not only providing metal stamping, but also through assembly operations, welding, and painting. This latest investment clearly demonstrates the commitment Ice Industries has made to world class manufacturing in Grenada, Mississippi," said Ice Industries Chairman and CEO Howard Ice. "We appreciate the considerable efforts that MDA and Grenada County have undertaken to support Ice Industries, our customers, and our employees."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for building improvements. Grenada County provided assistance for the project, as well.
"MDA is proud to once again support Ice Industries as it pursues growth opportunities in Grenada County. Ice Industries is a valued member of the Grenada business community and business partner to the state, and we look forward to working with the company again in the future," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We thank our partners in Grenada County for working with us to help this great company with its latest expansion."
Headquartered in Sylvania, Ohio, Ice Industries Grenada, formerly known as Grenada Stamping and Assembly, has a broad menu of capabilities, including the ability to blank, form, weld and assemble a variety of materials, strengths and thicknesses. In addition to being a supplier to Electrolux® in Canada, the company provides parts to Ford Motor Company in Argentina; First Solar Panels in Canada; Copeland in Northern Ireland, Belgium, Thailand and China; and Toyota Boshoku in Indiana. The company's Grenada operations are housed in a 300,000-square-foot main plant and a recently-renovated 40,000-square-foot facility. For more information, please visit www.iceindustries.com.
About Mississippi Development Authority
Mississippi Development Authority is the state of Mississippi's lead economic and community development agency. Nearly 300 employees are engaged in providing services to businesses, communities and workers in the state. While the agency is best known for its efforts to recruit new businesses to Mississippi, the Authority provides services to promote tourism, help communities improve their quality of place, help existing employers identify and meet opportunities and challenges and help workers improve their skills -- all with the goal of improving the quality of life and economic well-being of Mississippians. For more information, visit MDA's website at www.mississippi.org.
About Ice Industries
Ice Industries, Inc., is a world-class supplier with a broad range of capabilities including: deep draw metal stamping; CNC machining; MIG, TIG, and resistance welding; assembly; rolled and welded pressure vessels; and powder coating. Customers are assured of both company stability and quality performance through a diversified customer base serving markets including appliance, automotive, commercial and heavy truck, computer and networking, defense, energy, filtration, fire and safety, furniture, healthcare, HVAC-R, and off-highway vehicles. Facilities are distributed throughout the central manufacturing corridor, with locations in Cincinnati and Toledo, Ohio; Grenada, Mississippi; and Apodaca/Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico. A certified SDVOSB, Ice's production facilities are ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and TS 19649 certified. Ice works with companies that require the highest levels of quality and delivery, and those who are in need of localization or de-integration of the stamping operations. Further information can be obtained on the Ice Industries website at www.iceindustries.com

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/ice-industries-expanding-operations-in-grenada-miss/
