Public Statements
Innpack, Inc. Locating Operations in Olive Branch, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Oct. 10, 2014
Location: Jackson, MS

Officials from Innpack, Inc., manufacturer of packaging for the food industry, announced today the company is locating manufacturing operations in Olive Branch, Miss. The company currently has operations in Memphis, Tenn., where it rents a facility. Innpack has purchased its new production facility in Olive Branch and will move the 23 jobs at the Memphis location to Olive Branch over the next several months. The project represents a $2 million corporate investment.
"Innpack's decision to purchase a facility and locate these operations in Olive Branch further strengthens my position that Mississippi is open for business, and our strong business climate encourages new investment and business growth in all areas of the state," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "I thank the Innpack team for selecting Olive Branch as the location of its new home."
"Our company has invented the inside laminated tubular pp woven bag first in the world, and through the continuous research and development, we are keeping the world's first place in this field," said Innpack CEO Joshua Ahn. "With our new manufacturing plant in the city of Olive branch, we are proud to serve safe and strong food packaging bags to U.S. customers right here in the state of Mississippi. I believe the Mississippi's strong business climate will help us grow our business."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for building improvements and one-time relocation costs. The city of Olive Branch and DeSoto County provided assistance in the form of ad valorem tax exemptions.
"MDA takes pride in using our resources to best meet the needs of companies from around the world as they locate or expand in Mississippi. Innpack is the first Korean company MDA has assisted in locating to the state, and we wish the company many years of successful operations in Olive Branch," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We thank our partners at the city of Olive Branch, DeSoto County and the DeSoto County Economic Development Council for working to bring this great company to our state."
Korean-owned Innpack, Inc. is a manufacturer of flexible packaging for the food industry, including plastic and natural fiber processes. The company's primary customer base is bulk rice producers and marketers. For more information, please visit www.innpack.com.
About Mississippi Development Authority
Mississippi Development Authority is the state of Mississippi's lead economic and community development agency. Nearly 300 employees are engaged in providing services to businesses, communities and workers in the state. While the agency is best known for its efforts to recruit new businesses to Mississippi, the Authority provides services to promote tourism, help communities improve their quality of place, help existing employers identify and meet opportunities and challenges and help workers improve their skills -- all with the goal of improving the quality of life and economic well-being of Mississippians. For more information, visit MDA's website at www.mississippi.org.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/innpack-inc-locating-operations-in-olive-branch-miss/
