Public Statements
Calbee North America Locates Operations in Senatobia, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Oct. 7, 2014
Location: Jackson, MS

Snack food manufacturer Calbee North America announce the company has located operations in the former BMW distribution facility in Senatobia, Miss., in Tate County. The project represents a corporate investment of $51.1 million and will create 254 jobs over the next five years.
"I am honored Calbee North America looked to Mississippi for the site of its new snack food manufacturing operations and look forward to the company being a valued business partner to the state," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "I am particularly grateful for the number of jobs Calbee is creating for the residents of Senatobia and Tate County. It will positively impact those individuals, their families and the community well into the future. I thank the Calbee team for investing in our state and placing its trust in our workforce."
"Senatobia compliments our food manufacturing plants in California and Oregon with the central placement in the U.S.," said Calbee North America President Gene Jensen. "We've enjoyed tremendous growth, and this site will address not only our current need but the needed growth for years to come. There are great people in Senatobia that we look forward to joining our team. Credit also needs to be given the teams at the Mississippi Development Authority, the city of Senatobia, Tate County and The Hollingsworth Companies for assisting us as we establish our operations in Mississippi."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance for rail and infrastructure improvements. The city of Senatobia and Tate County also provided assistance for the project.
"We have had a great year for economic development, and Calbee's decision to locate in Mississippi and create so many new jobs for the citizens of Tate County continues that momentum as we enter the final quarter of 2014," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We thank our partners at the Tate County Economic Development Foundation, the Tate County Board of Supervisors and the city of Senatobia for working to bring this great company to our state."
Calbee North America is a joint venture of Calbee, Inc., Tokyo, Japan and R.D. Offutt, Fargo, ND. The company became one of the first Japanese food manufacturers in North America when it began selling its Saya and Shrimp Chips brands in the early 1970s. Calbee's snack food brands include Harvest Snaps, Jagabee, Potato Chips, Saya Snow Pea Crisps and Shrimp Chips. For more information, please visit www.calbeena.com.
About Mississippi Development Authority
Mississippi Development Authority is the state of Mississippi's lead economic and community development agency. Nearly 300 employees are engaged in providing services to businesses, communities and workers in the state. While the agency is best known for its efforts to recruit new businesses to Mississippi, the Authority provides services to promote tourism, help communities improve their quality of place, help existing employers identify and meet opportunities and challenges and help workers improve their skills -- all with the goal of improving the quality of life and economic well-being of Mississippians. For more information, visit MDA's website at www.mississippi.org.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/calbee-north-america-locates-operations-in-senatobia-miss/
