Public Statements
Columbia Parachute Company Expanding Operations in Columbia, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Sept. 30, 2014
Location: Jackson, MS

Officials from Columbia Parachute Company announce the company is expanding its operations in Columbia, Miss. The project represents a $300,000 corporate investment and will create 26 new jobs, bringing the total number employed by the company to 50.
Columbia Parachute Company currently leases space in the Pioneer Aerospace facility in Columbia. The expansion requires the company to relocate into an independent facility. As a result, Columbia Parachute Company will occupy 11,000 square feet of an existing facility in the Marion County BusinessPlex, which was formerly the Columbia Training School campus.
"I appreciate Columbia Parachute Company for choosing to expand in Marion County and creating these new jobs for the area's workforce," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "When our existing companies grow, it demonstrates to the world that great things are happening here and Mississippi is open for business. I wish the company many more years of success in Columbia and look forward to watching their continued growth."
"Columbia, Mississippi has a rich legacy of textile manufacturing, and Columbia Parachute Company is proud to be able to help grow that tradition. With the help of the Marion County Development Partnership, Mississippi Development Authority and the Marion County Board of Supervisors, we were able to find an excellent location for our manufacturing facility," said Columbia Parachute Company President Brad Boyles. "This partnership will enable Columbia Parachute Company to keep its current employees in Columbia and provide the extra space needed to support future growth."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for building renovations. Marion County provided assistance, as well.
"Successful economic development requires the collaboration of units of government and economic developers at all levels, and Columbia Parachute Company's expansion is a shining example of that," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "MDA is glad to have assisted this great company as it strengthens its roots in the state, and we thank our partners in Marion County and at the Marion County Development Partnership for working with us to help Columbia Parachute Company expand and create new job opportunities for the residents of Marion County."
Established in 2012, Columbia Parachute Company manufactures some of the most complex parachutes in the government inventory. The company currently employs 24 workers and has plans to increase its workforce by 100 percent within the next three years.
About Mississippi Development Authority
Mississippi Development Authority is the state of Mississippi's lead economic and community development agency. Nearly 300 employees are engaged in providing services to businesses, communities and workers in the state. While the agency is best known for its efforts to recruit new businesses to Mississippi, the Authority provides services to promote tourism, help communities improve their quality of place, help existing employers identify and meet opportunities and challenges and help workers improve their skills -- all with the goal of improving the quality of life and economic well-being of Mississippians. For more information, visit MDA's website at www.mississippi.org.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/columbia-parachute-company-expanding-operations-in-columbia-miss/
