Public Statements
Avectus Healthcare Solutions Expanding in Corinth, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Sept. 29, 2014
Location: Jackson, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant and officials from data processor Avectus Healthcare Solutions, LLC announced today the company is expanding into the former Chadco building in downtown Corinth, Miss. The project represents a corporate investment of $300,000 and will create 50 new jobs while retaining the company's 150 existing employees.
Avectus Healthcare is expanding into the larger facility to accommodate an increase in business, which has resulted in an increase in the company's workforce.
"Today is a great day for Corinth and Alcorn County as Avectus Healthcare expands and provides new job opportunities for the area's residents. Additionally, the company is bringing new life to an existing facility in downtown Corinth, which in turn will help create an even more vibrant community," Gov. Bryant said. "I thank the team at Avectus for being such great business partners to the state of Mississippi and for once again placing their confidence in our business climate and trust in our workforce."
"Avectus Healthcare Solutions is very excited about expanding operations in Corinth. As our business has expanded across the country, we have been faced with challenges of adequate office space options locally. This expansion is providing our operation the ability to consolidate thus allowing us to enter new markets, create new jobs and protect existing jobs. We appreciate the leadership and support from MDA, The Alliance of Corinth and Alcorn County. It has been a collaborative effort by all agencies to ensure the retention and creation of additional jobs in Corinth and Alcorn County."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for building improvements and infrastructure needs. Alcorn County and the Appalachian Regional Commission provided assistance, as well.
"MDA takes pride in using our resources to assist the state's existing companies, which comprise the backbone of Mississippi's economy, as they pursue growth opportunities and create jobs for the state's residents," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We thank our partners at Alcorn County, the Appalachian Regional Commission and the Alliance for working with us to help Avectus Healthcare expand into its new location, and we wish the company many more successful years in Corinth."
Headquartered in Corinth, Avectus Healthcare Solutions has become a leader in coordinating third party liability and workers' compensation accounts for hospitals and trauma centers throughout the United States. Annually, Avectus processes more than 1 billion dollars in third party liability accounts. To learn more, please visit www.avectushealth.com.
About Mississippi Development Authority
Mississippi Development Authority is the state of Mississippi's lead economic and community development agency. Nearly 300 employees are engaged in providing services to businesses, communities and workers in the state. While the agency is best known for its efforts to recruit new businesses to Mississippi, MDA provides services to promote tourism, help communities improve their quality of place, help existing employers identify and meet opportunities and challenges and help workers improve their skills -- all with the goal of improving the quality of life and economic well-being of Mississippians. For more information, visit MDA's website at www.mississippi.org.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/avectus-healthcare-solutions-expanding-in-corinth-miss/
