Public Statements
Newport Home Furnishings Expanding Operations in New Albany, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Sept. 10, 2014
Location: Jackson, MS

Officials from upholstered furniture manufacturer Newport Home Furnishings announce the company is expanding its operations in New Albany to accommodate an increase in sales. The project represents a corporate investment of $270,000 and will create 45 new jobs.
"The state's furniture manufacturers are key players in north Mississippi's economy, and I appreciate the team at Newport Home Furnishings for further strengthening its roots in New Albany and creating new jobs," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "When our existing companies pursue growth opportunities, it serves as a testament to our supportive business climate and dedicated workforce. I thank Newport Home Furnishings for investing in its existing operations and wish them many years of continued success."
"Newport Home Furnishings, LLC is pleased to partner with the state of Mississippi, the Mississippi Development Authority, the Appalachian Regional Commission, Union County and the City of New Albany as we expand our business," said Wayne Stewart, managing partner at Newport Home Furnishings. "We appreciate the efforts and contributions of all involved."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for the construction of an industrial access road that will serve Newport Home Furnishings and the Glenfield Industrial Park in New Albany. The Appalachian Regional Commission, Union County and the City of New Albany provided assistance, as well.
"MDA takes pride in utilizing our resources to assist great companies like Newport Home Furnishings as they create new investment and generate new jobs for Mississippi's workforce," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We thank our partners in Union County, the city of New Albany, and at the Appalachian Regional Commission and Three Rivers Planning and Development District for working with us to facilitate this project."

Source:
