Public Statements
HomeStretch, Inc. Expanding Operations in Nettleton, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Sept. 2, 2014
Location: Jackson, MS

Officials from upholstered reclining furniture manufacturer HomeStretch, Inc. announce the company is expanding its operations in Nettleton, Miss., by adding 60,000 square feet of manufacturing and warehouse space to its existing facility. The project will create 60 new jobs, bringing the number of employees at the Nettleton location to approximately 250.
"This latest investment by the HomeStretch team is a testament to the skilled workforce and business climate found in Mississippi," Gov. Bryant said. "We work hard to provide an environment where businesses can grow and remain competitive in today's marketplace. I thank HomeStretch for strengthening its roots in Nettleton and wish the company continued success for many years to come."
"This expansion will facilitate our business plan over the next three to five years. Thanks to a solid product line and a highly dedicated workforce, we have enjoyed steady growth since our opening in early 2010. We remain focused on our build-to-stock strategy and will continue to exercise discipline as we take steps to respond to increased demand," said HomeStretch President Skipper Holliman. "The decisions to increase our capacity and to become a more vertical company represent an investment in our future and a firm belief in where we're headed."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for infrastructure needs. The Appalachian Regional Commission and Monroe County provided assistance, as well.
"Mississippi's existing companies are at the heart of the state's economy, and we are grateful to HomeStretch for its continued confidence in our state and in our workforce," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We thank our partners at Monroe County, the city of Nettleton, the Appalachian Regional Commission and Three Rivers Planning and Development District for their hard work and collaboration in helping this great company expand."
HomeStretch, Inc. is a domestic manufacturer of upholstered reclining furniture available to the public through authorized retailers. Based in Nettleton, the company has been in operation since early 2010.
About Mississippi Development Authority
Mississippi Development Authority is the state of Mississippi's lead economic and community development agency. Nearly 300 employees are engaged in providing services to businesses, communities and workers in the state. While the agency is best known for its efforts to recruit new businesses to Mississippi, the Authority provides services to promote tourism, help communities improve their quality of place, help existing employers identify and meet opportunities and challenges and help workers improve their skills -- all with the goal of improving the quality of life and economic well-being of Mississippians. For more information, visit MDA's website at www.mississippi.org.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/homestretch-inc-expanding-operations-in-nettleton-miss/
