Public Statements
Philips Lighting Expanding Operations in Tupelo, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Aug. 7, 2014
Location: Tupelo, MS

Officials from Philips Lighting announced today the company will be expanding operations at its facility in Tupelo, Miss. The project represents a $2 million investment, and it will allow the company to retain the facility's existing employees and create 50 new jobs.
Philips Lighting, leading global manufacturer of lighting solutions, is creating a major manufacturing hub for the company at its Tupelo facility. This includes incorporating LED technology made at the company's San Jose, Calif., facility into the Tupelo facility's production line-up, which includes state-of-the-art intelligent fixtures that automatically respond to their environment, adding to the technology's already high level of energy efficiency.
"The decision to expand the innovative product lines at Philips Lighting's Tupelo facility is great news for the local community and the area's residents," Gov. Bryant said. "It serves as a testament to the supportive business climate and dedicated workforce found in Mississippi. I appreciate the team at Philips Lighting for further investing in its Tupelo operations, creating new jobs and being such a valued business partner to the state of Mississippi."
"As the world's largest lighting company, Philips is leading the LED revolution, enabling our customers to embrace more efficient lighting solutions -- solutions that are made right here in Tupelo," said Iain Logan, head of operations for Philips Lighting Americas. "Our expansion at this facility reinforces our commitment to this community, which helps us to turn innovations into world-class products that are good for the local economy and the environment. It is a great example of a public-private partnership that works."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for building modifications.
"MDA is committed to helping companies such as Philips Lighting as they pursue growth and investment opportunities in our state, and the addition of these 50 jobs at the company's Tupelo facility will benefit the local community for years to come," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We thank our partners at the Community Development Foundation and the City of Tupelo for their efforts in helping to bring this project to fruition."
Philips Lighting is a global market leader with recognized expertise in the development, manufacturing, and application of innovative lighting solutions. For more information, please visit www.usa.philips.com.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/philips-lighting-expanding-operations-in-tupelo-miss/
