Public Statements
MTM, Inc. Locating Medical Transportation and Call Center Operations in Jackson, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: July 18, 2014
Location: Jackson, MS

Health care and transportation management company MTM, Inc. is locating non-emergency medical transportation and call center operations in Jackson, Miss. The project represents a $400,000 corporate investment and will create 80 new jobs.
"I am glad to welcome MTM as the newest business partner to Mississippi and as the newest member of our growing health care economy," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "Creating high-quality job opportunities for Mississippi's residents is a top priority in today's economy, and I appreciate the company for placing its trust in our workforce and its confidence in our business climate. I wish MTM many years of success in our state."
"As MTM expands our operations to Mississippi, we are committed to creating an ongoing investment into the state's people and economy," said MTM President and CEO Alaina Maciá. "We look forward to creating dozens of job opportunities for the local workforce and being an active member of the Jackson community well into the future."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for building renovations and workforce training.
"Projects such as MTM are instrumental to the economic growth and prosperity of Jackson, Hinds County and the entire state of Mississippi. MDA is pleased to have provided assistance to this great company as they locate in our state," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We thank our partners at the city of Jackson and the Hinds County Economic Development Authority for working with us to facilitate this project and for bringing MTM to Mississippi."
MTM, Inc. manages transportation, care coordination activities, call center operations, ambulance claims adjudication, functional assessments and travel training for state and county governments, Medicaid and Medicare-managed organizations, transit agencies, third-party administrators and healthcare providers.

Source:
