Public Statements
Green Bay Converting Locating Operations, 300 Jobs in Hattiesburg, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: July 7, 2014
Location: Hattiesburg, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant and officials from Green Bay Converting, converter of sanitary towel and tissue products, announced today the company is expanding its operations into Mississippi with a facility in Hattiesburg. The project represents a corporate investment of $48 million and will create 300 new jobs.
"I am proud to welcome Green Bay Converting as the newest member of the Hattiesburg business community and the newest business partner to the state of Mississippi," Gov. Bryant said. "I thank the Green Bay team for placing its confidence in our business climate and for creating so many job opportunities for the residents of Forrest County, which will certainly have a positive impact on the local economy for years to come."
"We are excited about the continued growth of our business and believe Hattiesburg to be the perfect location for our next expansion. We appreciate the efforts and assistance provided by Governor Bryant, as well as the state and local economic development staffs in making this a win-win opportunity," said Green Bay Converting President and CEO Greg Santaga.
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for site preparation, workforce training and additional expenses related to the project. The Area Development Partnership, city of Hattiesburg, Forrest County, and the Forrest County Industrial Park Commission provided assistance, as well.
"This is a great day for economic development in Hattiesburg and the state of Mississippi as Green Bay Converting announces its plans to locate its tissue converting operations here," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "MDA is proud to have provided assistance for this project, and we thank our local economic development partners for their hard work and dedication to bringing this great company to Mississippi."
Headquartered in Green Bay, Wis., Green Bay Converting, Inc. produces a wide variety of tissue-related paper products. Founded in 1999, the company employs over 300 team members working around the clock with state-of-the-art tissue converting equipment.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/green-bay-converting-locating-operations-300-jobs-in-hattiesburg-miss/
