Public Statements
Mississippi's Unemployment Rate Falls to Lowest Level Since November 2008
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: March 12, 2014
Location: Jackson, MS

Bureau of Labor Statistics figures released today by the Mississippi Department of Employment Security show that Mississippi's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate for January 2014 was 7.5 percent--the lowest the state has seen since November 2008, when the rate was also 7.5 percent. The unemployment rate in Mississippi has fallen by 2.2 percentage points under Governor Phil Bryant's term.
The BLS figures also show that in January 2014, there were 10,000 more jobs in Mississippi than there had been in January 2013.
"Our relentless commitment to economic development and our dedication to building a strong business climate in Mississippi are yielding results," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "I set a goal of seeing the unemployment rate in Mississippi fall to at least 7.5 percent, and preliminary figures show we have reached that benchmark. This success motivates us to continue working hard to connect even more Mississippians with jobs.
"We know that the task will not always be easy. The administration in Washington continues to push job-killing policies and to burden businesses with onerous mandates, so jobs figures could fluctuate during this time of uncertainty. However, I said when I became governor that my first job was to make sure that every Mississippian who wants a job can find one, and that remains my chief priority."
For Job Seekers
In his 2014 State of the State Address, Gov. Bryant announced a cutting-edge website and mobile application to connect job seekers and employers in Mississippi. More than 27,000 job openings are currently posted on the site at www.mississippiworks.org.
The Mississippi Department of Employment Security and the Governor's Job Fair Network will host the Mississippi Employment Expo on Wednesday, March 19 from 9 a.m. until 2 p.m. at the Mississippi Trademart in Jackson. A list of upcoming job fairs is posted at www.mississippiworks.org and at www.jobfairs.ms.gov.

Source:
