Public Statements
Mississippi Launches Cutting-Edge Website and Mobile App to Connect Employers and Job Seekers
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Feb. 4, 2014
Location: Jackson, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant today unveiled a first-of-its-kind interactive resource that pairs employers and job seekers through both a website and a mobile application. Gov. Bryant first announced the new effort in his 2014 State of the State Address.
The website, www.mississippiworks.org, along with integrated iPhone and Android mobile applications, is a real-time, web-based system that puts cutting edge technology at the fingertips of Mississippians job seekers and employers.
The site and app function as a one-stop shop, allowing job seekers to search for openings based on job type, location or academic degree required and allowing employers to post openings at no cost and make connections with qualified candidates.
The system can also advise job seekers how completely their qualifications match a particular job opening, helping them understand what additional education, training or experience they may need to further qualify.
Once job seekers create a profile, they can receive automatic text or email notifications when new jobs that match their qualifications are posted.
"Since becoming governor, I have made it my priority to build a state where every Mississippian who wants a job can find a job," Gov. Bryant said. "We are accomplishing this goal through economic development efforts, education reform, improvements to our business climate and workforce development programs.
"Now with this online system and app, we have another tool to connect employers with Mississippians who want to work, putting companies and job seekers a click away from success."
The Mississippi Works system features specific portals for both returning veterans and college students. Graduates can search for openings based on their academic degree. More than 13,000 college students have registered for this service.
Mississippi Works also aids the Mississippi Department of Employment Security in quickly identifying Mississippians who have filed for unemployment benefits and then matches those individuals with appropriate jobs that need to be filled in the state.
MDES was recently awarded the 2013 Full Employment Best Practices Award from the American Institute for Full Employment. The agency won the award because of its success in reemploying people who have filed for unemployment insurance.
Between 2010 and 2013, MDES reduced the average length of unemployment benefits from 19 weeks to 15 weeks, resulting in savings of about $5.6 million. MDES achieved that reduction by helping more Mississippians get jobs sooner.
The Mississippi Works system was developed through a partnership with the Governor's Office, MDES and nSPARC, a nationally recognized research center at Mississippi State University.
At the time of Gov. Bryant's announcement, the website listed more than 26,000 job openings available in Mississippi.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/mississippi-launches-cutting-edge-website-and-mobile-app-to-connect-employers-and-job-seekers/
