Public Statements
Mississippi Ranked among World's Top Places for Oil and Gas Investment
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Dec. 5, 2013
Location: Jackson, MS

Speaking to more than 800 attendees at the Governor's Energy Summit, Gov. Bryant announced the Fraser Institute has again ranked Mississippi among the world's most attractive places for oil and gas investment. Mississippi ranks number two globally for energy policy and is first in its tier when energy policy is considered along with proven oil and gas reserves.
The Fraser Institute developed the rankings by surveying petroleum industry executives about barriers to investment in 157 oil- and gas-producing regions throughout the world. According to the report, barriers to investment can include high taxes, cost of regulatory compliance, uncertainty over environmental regulations and the interpretation and administration of regulations.
"As I have said before, Mississippi's energy sector literally helps fuel the state's economy," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "This report by the Fraser Institute continues to prove that our energy policy, our diversity of resources and our energy infrastructure make us a significant energy state and one with great opportunities."
Mississippi's number two ranking with regard to energy policy bested other top performing locations including, Saskatchewan, Texas, Arkansas, Kansas, Alabama, North Dakota, Manitoba and the North Sea region of the Netherlands.
This year's survey also overlays the rankings with the size of each location's proven oil and gas reserves. Mississippi ranked first within its tier, placing ahead of Saskatchewan, Kansas, Alabama, the Canadian province of Manitoba, and the North Sea region of the Netherlands.
"Mississippi has achieved this ranking by building a strong business climate and pursuing sensible, forward-thinking energy policy," Gov. Bryant said. "These factors and the innovative legislative initiatives we have enacted make the state an ideal location for oil and gas investment and growth throughout the energy sector."
For more information on the report and the Fraser Institute, visit http://www.fraserinstitute.org/.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/mississippi-ranked-among-worlds-top-places-for-oil-and-gas-investment/
