Public Statements
Jackson Furniture Locating Operations in Two Mississippi Locations
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Nov. 25, 2013
Location: Jackson, MS

Manufacturer of motion and stationary furniture Jackson Furniture is investing $2 million and creating 250 jobs over three years at two different locations.
Tennessee-based Jackson Furniture will manufacture motion furniture under its Catnapper reclining products brand and stationary furniture under its Jackson brand. Jackson Furniture will have production facilities in Mantachie, Miss., in Itawamba County and in Myrtle, Miss., in Union County.
"I welcome Jackson Furniture as the newest member of the Mississippi business community, and I appreciate the company for investing in our state and providing these job opportunities for the residents of Itawamba and Union counties," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "These jobs will certainly have a positive impact on their local communities and the northeast Mississippi region, while further strengthening our furniture industry. I wish the company many years of success in our state."
"Jackson Furniture is excited about expanding production in Northeast Mississippi, the ideal location for us based on an excellent labor pool of experienced living room furniture makers," said Ron Jackson, CEO of Jackson Furniture Industries. "MDA and state of Mississippi have been outstanding partners in our location search and start up. We're expecting great things from our new Mississippi team members and look forward to continued growth."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for building modifications, relocation needs and workforce training. The Appalachian Regional Commission provided assistance for the project, as well.
"MDA is happy to have assisted this great company with this project, and we are grateful for the Jackson Furniture team for choosing to locate manufacturing operations in two previously-vacant facilities," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We appreciate our partners at the Appalachian Regional Commission, the Itawamba County Development Council and Three Rivers Planning and Development District for helping make this project and these new jobs possible."
Headquartered in Cleveland, Tenn., Jackson Furniture manufactures sofas, recliners, camouflage furniture, lift chairs, accent chairs, tables and rugs. For more information, please visit www.catnapper.com.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/jackson-furniture-locating-operations-in-two-mississippi-locations/
