Public Statements
Customized Distribution LLC Locating Distribution Operations to Jackson, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Nov. 21, 2013
Location: Jackson, MS

Officials from Customized Distribution LLC, distributor of food products to quick service restaurants, have announced the company is locating a distribution center in Jackson, Miss. and creating 60 new jobs.
Customized Distribution LLC will locate in the 138,000-square-foot facility previously used by U.S. Foods. This project represents a $1 million corporate investment.
"It is great to welcome Customized Distribution as the newest member of the Jackson business community and newest business partner to the state of Mississippi," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "I know the centralized location of this facility and our excellent transportation network will help the company effectively and efficiently serve its customers throughout the southeast. I thank the company for choosing to locate this center in Hinds County and for creating these new job opportunities for the residents of central Mississippi."
"We are confident that the city of Jackson, Hinds County and the State of Mississippi are going to be a tremendous benefit to our company's growth," said Marc Gruber, President, Customized Distribution, LLC. "The work ethic of the Jackson community will provide great stability for our company and enable CDI to grow and provide even more jobs for the area in the future."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for building renovations and relocation needs, and Hinds County provided assistance for public infrastructure improvements.
"We appreciate the team at Customized Distribution for selecting Jackson as the home of its newest distribution center and for bringing new life to an existing facility in Hawkins Field Industrial Park," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We thank our partners at the Hinds County Economic Development Authority and the City of Jackson for working with us to help bring this great company to our state."
CDI is a second generation foodservice distributor that serves as a premier supplier to the quick service restaurant industry. Since its start in 2000, CDI has grown to serve multiple restaurant chains throughout the entire southeastern U.S. For more information, visit www.cdi-llc.com.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/customized-distribution-llc-locating-distribution-operations-in-jackson-miss/
