Public Statements
2013 SEUS-Japan Meeting Adjourns
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Nov. 18, 2013
Location: Billoxi, MS

The 36th Annual Joint Meeting of the Southeast U.S. -- Japan and Japan/U.S. Southeast Associations was held today on the Mississippi Gulf Coast. The state of Mississippi served as host state of this year's event, which was themed "Success through Harmony, Tradition and Innovation".
The joint meeting was presided over by SEUS-Japan 2013 co-chairmen William Yates III, president and CEO of Yates Construction, and Chairman of the Board for Toshiba Corporation Atsutoshi Nishida.
Gov. Phil Bryant led the Mississippi delegation throughout the meeting. Also participating were leaders from the SEUS-Japan member states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee. Japan's Ambassador to the United States, Ambassador Kenichiro Sasae, served as keynote speaker during the event.
"Since 1975, SEUS-Japan has been helping promote trade, investment, understanding and friendship between Japan and the southeastern U.S. region," Gov. Bryant said. "Mississippi was honored to host this year's event, and we are thankful for the opportunity to deepen friendships and business relationships with our colleagues from Japan. We are pleased with the outcome and attendance at the 2013 SEUS-Japan Joint Meeting and look forward to the business opportunities that will come about as a result of this successful event."
In keeping with the overall mission of SEUS-Japan, Gov. Bryant -- in an event with Chairman Yates, Chairman Nishida, Ambassador Sasae and Consul General Motohiko Kato -- proclaimed Monday, Nov. 18 as Japanese Friendship Day in Mississippi to promote international business, friendship and collaboration between Mississippi and Japan.
To learn more about the 36th Annual SEUS-Japan Joint Meeting, please visit www.seusjapan2013.org.
RESOURCES:
36th Annual Meeting Joint Statement: http://www.governorbryant.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/11/SEUS-Joint-Statement-Nov.-18.pdf
Japanese Friendship Day Proclamation: http://www.governorbryant.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/Japanese-Friendship-Proclamation.pdf

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/2013-seus-japan-meeting-adjourns/
