Public Statements
Continental Tire Locating Tire Manufacturing Plant in Hinds County, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Feb. 8, 2016
Location: Clinton, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant and executives from Continental Tire the Americas, LLC, manufacturer of passenger, light truck and commercial vehicle tires, officially announced today the company is locating a commercial vehicle tire manufacturing plant near Clinton, Miss., in Hinds County. The project represents a corporate investment of $1.45 billion and will create 2,500 new jobs.
For the project, Continental will construct a multi-million-square-foot facility on Norrell Road off I-20 West in Hinds County. Construction of the facility is slated to begin in January 2018.
"Today is truly a great day for the state of Mississippi and our thriving automotive industry as we officially welcome Continental to Hinds County. The company's decision to bring 2,500 new jobs to Central Mississippi speaks volumes about our dedication to developing the workforce of the future, as well as a business environment that spurs growth, expansion and innovation," Gov. Bryant said. "I thank Continental's Executive Board Member Nikolai Setzer and the entire Continental team for choosing to invest in Mississippi and our citizens. The positive impact this manufacturing plant will have on the region, the state and our automotive industry will be felt for many years to come. I look forward to the company's success and longevity in Hinds County."
"The project in Hinds County, Mississippi, is part of our global growth strategy. In a first step, the new plant is especially addressing our commitment to grow our commercial vehicle tire business in North America," said Nikolai Setzer, Continental's Executive Board Member for the tire business. "The announcement of a new tire plant in the U.S. is the second in just five years for Continental. We thank the state of Mississippi, Hinds County and the city of Clinton and Governor Bryant for his leadership in bringing us to the Jackson area, and we look forward to a strong business relationship for years to come."
On Feb. 4, the Mississippi Legislature voted on an incentive package in support of the project. Lawmakers approved $263,000,000 through the Mississippi Major Economic Impact Authority for site acquisition and site preparation, infrastructure improvements and workforce training. Of that amount, Hinds County contributed $20 million.
"Mississippi's automotive industry continues to grow at a fast pace. Continental's decision to locate in Hinds County significantly strengthens Mississippi's leadership position in the Southern Automotive Corridor," said MDA Executive Director Glenn McCullough, Jr. "MDA salutes Gov. Phil Bryant, Lt. Gov. Tate Reeves, Speaker Philip Gunn and the entire Mississippi Legislature for their support of this project, as well as our teammates at the Hinds County Economic Development Authority, MDOT, the Hinds County Board of Supervisors, Greater Jackson Partnership/Alliance, City of Clinton, Mississippi Community College System, Atmos Energy and Entergy. Their teamwork with MDA served to make this project a reality, bringing 2,500 new career opportunities for the people of Central Mississippi. We look forward to Continental's many years of success in Hinds County."
"The greater Jackson area has been seeking a project with this magnitude of economic impact for well over a decade," said Hinds County Economic Development Authority Executive Director Blake Wallace. "We have always been confident in the ability of our residents and neighbors to produce world class products, and we appreciate Continental for sharing in this confidence via a direct investment in Hinds County. Our organization, along with the Hinds County Board of Supervisors, Hinds Community College and our local, regional and state partners, look forward to Continental's successful presence in our community for many years to come."
Based in Fort Mill, S.C., Continental Tire the Americas, LLC (CTA) is a unit of the Continental Corporation of Germany and offers a complete premium line of ultra-high performance, passenger, light truck and commercial vehicle tires. CTA operates throughout North and South America. For more information about CTA, visit www.continentaltire.com.
In 2015, Continental, based in Hannover, Germany, generated preliminary sales of approximately €39.2 billion with its five divisions, Chassis & Safety, Interior, Powertrain, Tires, and ContiTech. Continental employs more than 208,000 people in 53 countries.
The Tire Division currently has 24 production and development locations worldwide. The broad product range and continuous investments in R&D make a major contribution to cost-effective and ecologically efficient mobility. As one of the world's leading tire manufacturers with more than 47,000 employees, the Tire Division achieved sales of €9.8 billion in 2014.
Continental Commercial Vehicle Tires is one of the largest manufacturers of truck, bus and commercial specialty tires worldwide. The business unit is continuously developing from a pure tire manufacturer to a solution provider, offering a broad range of products, services and tire-related solutions. For more information about Continental Corporation, visit www.continental-corporation.com.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/continental-tire-locating-tire-manufacturing-plant-in-hinds-county-miss/
