Public Statements
Ajinomoto Windsor Expanding Operations in Oakland, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Jan. 13, 2016
Location: Jackson, MS

Officials from frozen food manufacturer Ajinomoto Windsor, formerly known as Windsor Foods, along with state and local officials, announced today the company is expanding by adding a new production line at its facility in Oakland, Miss., in Yalobusha County. The project represents a corporate investment of more than $20 million and will create 60 jobs.
Ajinomoto Windsor located its 140,000-square-foot facility in Oakland in 2007, creating 250 jobs. The company also added jobs in 2010 and 2013. Ajinomoto Windsor currently employs 312.
"Ajinomoto Windsor is a valued member of the north Mississippi business community and an important business partner to the state. This latest expansion serves as a testament to the supportive business climate and quality workforce companies find throughout all of Mississippi," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "I thank the Ajinomoto Windsor team for once again growing its Oakland operations and for creating so many new jobs for the area's residents. I wish the company many more years of success in Yalobusha County."
"Ajinomoto Windsor is very appreciative of the support we have received from the city of Oakland, Yalobusha County and the state of Mississippi since we began our journey together in 2007. We are excited about this new opportunity as we look to continue to grow our operations here in Mississippi," said Ajinomoto Windsor Vice President of Operations Steve Charles. "The support we have received that helped us move forward with this latest expansion is a great opportunity for us all."
Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for infrastructure improvements. The Appalachian Regional Commission and Tennessee Valley Authority provided assistance, as well.
"We salute the talented teams at the Yalobusha County Economic Development District, Appalachian Regional Commission, TVA and the Yalobusha County Board of Supervisors who, together with the MDA team, assisted in Ajinomoto Windsor's latest expansion, creating new career opportunities for the people of Yalobusha County," said MDA Executive Director Glenn McCullough. "New careers are imperative to a healthy economy, and we thank Ajinomoto Windsor for its commitment to Oakland and Yalobusha County."
Founded in 1996, Ajinomoto Windsor manufactures and markets high-quality specialty frozen foods for consumers, commercial restaurants and foodservice operations from nine plants in six states. In 2014, Windsor Foods became a member of Ajinomoto Co., global manufacturer of high-quality seasonings, processed foods, beverages, amino acids, pharmaceuticals and specialty chemicals. For more information, visit www.winsdorfoods.com.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/ajinomoto-windsor-expanding-operations-in-oakland-miss/
