Public Statements
Gov. Bryant to Host Second 5K Run for Health
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: April 15, 2013
Location: Jackson, MS

For the second year in a row, Gov. Phil Bryant is urging Mississippians to join him on a run through downtown Jackson in an effort to help fight obesity in our state and help raise money for the Batson Children's Hospital.
"Gov. Phil Bryant's 5K Run for Health" will take place on Saturday, April 27. The race begins at 8 a.m. at the Mississippi Trademart in Jackson, Miss., and will wind through downtown Jackson.
Last year, more than 800 people participated in the Run for Health, helping raise a $10,000 donation to Batson Children's Hospital. Organizers hope to raise a similar donation for the hospital again this year.
"It is important that we take responsibility for our personal health, and I was encouraged to see so many people join us at our first 5K to get a little exercise and help support Batson Children's Hospital," Gov. Bryant said. "We had a great time, and I challenge everyone who participated last year to bring a friend this year."
Patrick House, season 10 winner of NBC's Biggest Loser, will help kick off the pre-race program, and volunteers from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Mississippi will lead the pre-race warm-up.
Blue Cross volunteers will also act as pace runners so 5K participants have an easy way to track their time and progress.
Participants will enjoy live music at the Trademart after the race.
Governor Phil Bryant's 5K Run for Health is also sponsored by SuperTalk, AT&T Mississippi, Centene Corporation, Horne LLP, Jackson Heart Clinic and Weight Watchers.
Registration Information
Online registration, race map and other details available at www.governorbyrant.com/5k.
Early registration is $25. Day of registration is $35.
Make checks payable to the Commission to Promote MS; P.O. Box 80; Jackson, MS; 39205.
Race participants can pick up bib numbers and registration packets on April 25 and 26 from 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. at the Mississippi Trademart in Jackson. The Trademart is located at 1207 Mississippi St.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/gov-bryant-to-host-second-5k-run-for-health/
