Public Statements
ACCO Brands Corporation Announces Reshoring Expansion Project in Booneville, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Jan. 12, 2016
Location: Jackson, MS

Officials from ACCO Brands, one of the world's largest suppliers of branded school, office and consumer products and print finishing solutions, announce a reshoring expansion project at the company's facility in Booneville, Miss. The project represents a corporate investment of more than $159,000 and the creation of 34 jobs, which are being brought to Booneville from Manila, Philippines. The addition of the 34 jobs brings ACCO Brands' total employment in Booneville to 613.
The jobs being reshored will be front-office positions, focused on the management and processing of accounts receivable. This expansion continues the company's trend of relocating corporation-wide functions to the Booneville facility. ACCO Brands last expanded in Booneville in 2014 when the company announced the addition of call center operations to help meet its customer service and internal sales needs. That expansion was a $1.6 million investment that created 162 jobs.
"The reshoring of these positions from Manila to the U.S., specifically to Booneville, is great news for the local community and all of Prentiss County. The efforts being undertaken at the local, state and national levels to bring jobs back to the U.S. from other countries are paying off, and ACCO Brands' announcement is a testament to that," Gov. Bryant said. "I thank the ACCO Brands team for choosing to expand its workforce in Booneville and for once again placing its confidence in the state's business climate. I wish the company many more years of success in North Mississippi."
"During the past two years, we have seen great success from our partnerships with the state of Mississippi and the Prentiss County Development Association. The greatest of those successes has been the contributions made to ACCO Brands and our customers by the strong workforce in Northeast Mississippi," said ACCO Brands Vice President Matt Kiesling. "Over the past few years, we've been able to add new jobs, incorporating additional skills and knowledge to our area, as well as expanding on greater job opportunities within the area. When the opportunity came for us to bring jobs back to the U.S., expanding our regional headquarters in Booneville was the place to go."

Source:
