Public Statements
Governor Phil Bryant, Hol-Mac Officials Celebrate Company's Expansion in Bay Springs, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Feb. 26, 2013
Location: Bay Springs, MS

Governor Phil Bryant, officials from Hol-Mac and local officials cut the ribbon today on the recently-completed expansion of a manufacturing facility at the company's location in Bay Springs, Miss. The project represents a company investment of $3.8 million and is creating 150 jobs, 100 of which are already in place.
Hol-Mac is a manufacturer and supplier of steel fabrications, cylinders and tanks. This latest expansion involves the addition of approximately 40,000 square feet to one of the company's facilities in order to accommodate an increase in production.
"I am grateful to Charles, Jamie and Jeffrey Holder for continuing to invest in Hol-Mac and the state of Mississippi and for their ongoing commitment to creating jobs for Mississippi's workers," Governor Bryant said. "Hol-Mac has been a valued member of the Bay Springs community and valued business partner to the State of Mississippi for fifty years, and I appreciate the company for its continued trust in our business climate and confidence in our workforce."
"Each member of the Hol-Mac team is excited to celebrate the ribbon cutting of our expanded facility in Bay Springs," said Jamie Holder, president and chief operating officer of Hol-Mac Corporation. "We've received tremendous support from the Mississippi Development Authority and our local community and look forward to the continued growth of our business."
The Mississippi Development Authority (MDA) provided assistance in support of the project through the Existing Industry Productivity (EIB) Loan program for the purchase of new equipment. The agency also provided assistance through the Development Infrastructure Program (DIP) for the construction of the building additions. Jasper County and the City of Bay Springs provided assistance for the project, as well.


Source:
