Public Statements
Governor Bryant, General Dynamics Information Technology Announce New Operations and More Than 200 New Jobs in Hattiesburg, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Feb. 20, 2013
Location: Hattiesburg, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant and officials from General Dynamics Information Technology, a business unit of General Dynamics (NYSE: GD), announced today the company is opening new operations in the Cloverleaf Center on Hwy. 49 South in Hattiesburg, Miss. The project is expected to be create 225 new jobs by summer 2013, increasing to 250 by spring 2014.
The Hattiesburg facility, a Federal Student Aid Information Center, will process applications and eligibility for more than $100 billion in federal student assistance for higher education. Workers will also aid the public in completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid. In 2012, more than 251,000 Mississippians completed a FAFSA. The company expects the new facility to be operational by April.
"I am proud to welcome General Dynamics Information Technology, a business unit of Fortune 100 company General Dynamics, to Mississippi," Gov. Bryant said. "The decision by General Dynamics to locate these operations here and create so many jobs for the area's residents is great news not only for the Hattiesburg region but for the entire state, and it will certainly have a positive impact on the local community. I thank General Dynamics for placing its confidence in our business climate and in our workforce."
"General Dynamics Information Technology is pleased to be part of Hattiesburg's growth and economic development while at the same time continuing on our promise to deliver superior customer service to the U.S. Department of Education's Federal Student Aid program and its stakeholders," said Marcus Collier, senior vice president for General Dynamics Information Technology's Health and Civilian Solutions division. "Our efforts to staff our facility are beginning immediately and we look forward to becoming a true part of the Hattiesburg community."
The Mississippi Development Authority is providing $150,000 in ACE funds in support of the project, in addition to local and state statutory tax incentives and workforce training assistance.
(more)
"This is an exciting day for Hattiesburg and the state of Mississippi as General Dynamics Information Technology becomes the newest member of the Hattiesburg business community," MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen said. "I am grateful MDA could assist with this project, and I thank our partners at the Area Development Partnership who worked with us to bring General Dynamics to our state. We wish the company many years of success at its new location in Hattiesburg."
General Dynamics will hold career open houses at two locations for positions in the Hattiesburg facility on Friday, Feb. 22 and Saturday, Feb. 23 from 9 a.m. until 2 p.m. The career open houses will be held in Hattiesburg at the Hattiesburg WIN Job Center at 1911 Arcadia St. and at the Pearl River Community College Woodall Technology Center located at 906 Sullivan Dr. The company expects to hire customer service representatives and call center supervisors.
About General Dynamics Information Technology Services:
Headquartered in Fairfax, Va., General Dynamics Information Technology provides information technology, systems engineering, professional services and simulation and training to customers in the defense, federal civilian government, health, homeland security, intelligence, state and local government and commercial sectors. With approximately 21,000 professionals worldwide, the company delivers IT enterprise solutions, manages large-scale, mission-critical IT programs and provides mission support services. For more information, visit www.gdit.com.
Additional Statements Regarding This Economic Development Announcement:
"Mississippi's workforce continues to prove that it can meet the needs of the world's best companies," said U.S. Senator Roger Wicker. "General Dynamics has made an excellent choice that will benefit our state greatly. I applaud the cooperation at the state and local level that made this opportunity possible."
"General Dynamics Information Technology will bring greater economic diversity to Hattiesburg. I welcome these new jobs, which are a good complement to our efforts to expand employment opportunities for Mississippians," said U.S. Senator Thad Cochran.
"South Mississippi is wide open for business, and I'm proud to join the Hattiesburg community in welcoming General Dynamics IT to town," Congressman Steven Palazzo stated. "We have a highly-skilled and well-educated workforce that stands ready to fill these jobs. I thank General Dynamics' leadership for their continued commitment and investment in South Mississippi."
"Having a Fortune 100 company select Hattiesburg is truly an honor. We welcome General Dynamics Information Technology with open arms and look forward to a successful partnership for years to come," stated Mayor Johnny DuPree, City of Hattiesburg.
"We are extremely pleased to have a company of this caliber join our corporate community. These new jobs will mean so much to our citizens here in Forrest County and throughout Greater Hattiesburg," said David Hogan, President, Forrest County Board of Supervisors.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/governor-bryant-general-dynamics-information-technology-announce-new-operations-and-more-than-200-new-jobs-in-hattiesburg-miss/
