Public Statements
36th Annual Joint Meeting of Southeast U.S.-Japan and Japan/U.S. Southeast Associations to be held in November in Biloxi, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Jan. 30, 2013
Location: Biloxi, MS

Governor Phil Bryant announced today the state of Mississippi will host the 36th Annual Joint Meeting of the Southeast U.S. -- Japan and Japan/U.S. Southeast Associations. The meeting will be held November 17-19, 2013, at the Beau Rivage Resort in Biloxi, Miss.
The Southeast U.S. -- Japan and Japan/U.S. Southeast Associations, collectively known as SEUS-Japan, were established in 1975 to promote trade, investment, understanding and friendship between Japan and the organization's southeastern U.S. member states. Member states include Mississippi, which joined the association in 2007, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee.
The associations' annual joint meeting attracts more than 300 Japanese and southeastern U.S. business leaders, government officials and economic development professionals each year and provides opportunities to strengthen investment and trade relationships between the two regions.
"Mississippi has been a proud member of SEUS-Japan since 2007, and we are delighted to be hosting this year's SEUS-Japan joint meeting," Governor Bryant said. "Mississippi is already home to leading Japanese businesses such as Nissan and Toyota, and this event will allow us to pursue new investment and trade opportunities with our Japanese counterparts and showcase our beautiful Gulf Coast. I thank Biloxi Mayor A.J. Holloway and the Mississippi Gulf Coast for welcoming our guests in November and for hosting this important event."
During the 2013 meeting, government officials, business leaders and economic development professionals from Mississippi and the other six southeast U.S. member states will have opportunities to discuss investment and trade opportunities with participating Japanese business executives. The theme of the 2013 event is "Success through Harmony, Tradition and Innovation."
William Yates, president and chief executive officer of Mississippi-based Yates Construction, will serve as the meeting's private sector co-chairman alongside co-chairman Atsutoshi Nishida, chairman of the board of Toshiba Corporation.
"This event is an excellent opportunity for Mississippi to join together with our southeastern neighbors and Japanese counterparts in order to strengthen our ties, celebrate our successes and continue to encourage future success through innovation," said Yates.
"Mississippi's involvement with SEUS-Japan allows us to grow our existing relationship with Japan, our state's largest source of foreign direct investment," said Brent Christensen, executive director of the Mississippi Development Authority (MDA). "I am proud our state is this year's host, and I encourage Mississippi business leaders and economic development professionals interested in trade and investment opportunities with Japan to make plans now to join us in Biloxi in November."
More information about the 2013 SEUS-Japan joint meeting can be found at www.seusjapan2013.org.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/36th-annual-joint-meeting-of-southeast-u-s-japan-and-japanu-s-southeast-associations-to-be-held-in-november-in-biloxi-miss/
