Public Statements
Teleflex Locating Operations in Olive Branch, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: July 30, 2012
Location: Olive Branch, MS

Officials from Teleflex Incorporated, a leading global provider of medical devices for critical care and surgery, have announced the company is relocating its distribution operations into an existing 627,000-square-foot facility in Olive Branch, Miss., which is expected to employ approximately 225 workers within four years of operation.
"I am pleased to be welcoming Teleflex to Mississippi," Governor Phil Bryant said. "I thank Teleflex officials for locating these operations in the state, and I applaud the Mississippi Legislature for passing the Mississippi Health Care Industry Zone Incentive Program this year. Teleflex is the first company that is able to take advantage of this new program, which will help us grow this industry of necessity in the state and create additional high-paying job opportunities for state residents."
Benson Smith, Teleflex Incorporated chairman, president and chief executive officer, stated, "We are excited at the opportunity to have our distribution center located in Mississippi. A single, centralized distribution facility will generate improved operating efficiencies and improved customer service, and we look forward to being here for many years to come."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance through the Momentum Mississippi Incentives program and guidance on available tax incentives to support of the project. Additionally, the City of Olive Branch is providing the company with local tax incentives to assist with the project.
"I am grateful to Teleflex for selecting north Mississippi for these operations, and I know our state's prime location and dedicated workforce will serve the company well," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "I thank our local partners, the City of Olive Branch, the DeSoto County Board of Supervisors and the DeSoto County Economic Development Council, along with the Tennessee Valley Authority, for their work on this project and am pleased MDA could assist Teleflex with its move to Mississippi."
Teleflex is a leading global provider of specialty medical devices for a range of procedures in critical care and surgery, offering solutions that enable healthcare providers to improve outcomes and enhance patient and provider safety. Headquartered in Limerick, Penn., Teleflex employs approximately 11,500 people worldwide and serves healthcare providers in more than 130 countries. Additional information about Teleflex can be obtained from the company's website at teleflex.com.

Source: http://www.new.ms.gov/webcontent/partnerSite.html
