Public Statements
Governor Phil Bryant Attends 5th Annual Southeastern United States - Canadian Provinces Alliance Conference
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: May 21, 2012
Location: Myrtle Beach, SC

Gov. Phil Bryant today is attending the 5th Annual Southeastern United States -- Canadian Provinces Alliance conference and trade mission in Myrtle Beach, S.C. Bryant will also meet with Ambassador Gary Doer, Canadian Ambassador to the United States.
SEUS-CP is a strategic partnership between states in the southeastern United States and member provinces from Canada. The alliance works to promote trade and investment opportunities between and among its member states and provinces.
"Canada is our state's top trade partner, and Mississippi along with other southeastern U.S. states have long-established cultural and economic ties with our counterparts in Canada," Bryant said. "This annual conference connects business and government leaders from the two regions in pursuit of new or expanded trade, investment or research and develop partnerships that create jobs for our citizens."
This year's conference focuses on the technology, advanced manufacturing, energy and logistics sectors. The event, attended by hundreds of business leaders, university representatives and economic development officials from the member states and provinces, includes more than two days of business-to-business matchmaking meetings with the goal of forging new business relationships and further building upon the close trade and investment ties that already exist between the two regions.
Delegations from each jurisdiction of the alliance, led by state governors, provincial premiers or their designees, comprise business and industry leaders from a wide array of industry sectors. Mississippi's delegation at this year's conference includes Lockheed Martin Company and Huntington Ingalls Industries, both of which are serving as anchor companies in the business-to-business matchmaking sessions.
The State of Mississippi is a charter member of the SEUS-CP Alliance, and Mississippi hosted the SEUS-CP conference in 2010.
SEUS-CP member states include Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee. Member provinces include Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Prince Edward Island and Quebec.

Source: http://www.new.ms.gov/webcontent/partnerSite.html
