Public Statements
Governor Bryant Launches New Economic Development Advisory Council
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: April 12, 2012
Location: Jackson, MS

While addressing business leaders at the annual meeting of the Mississippi Economic Council, Gov. Phil Bryant today announced the creation of a new group designed to spark job growth and economic expansion.
Bryant named more than 100 businessmen and businesswomen to his "Mississippi Works" committee as part of his long-term economic development initiatives.
Mississippi Development Authority Director Jim Barksdale and businessman Bill Lampton will spearhead the group's efforts.
"As I said in my inaugural address, my first job is to make sure every Mississippian has a job," Gov. Bryant said. "From our policy summit in December to Blueprint Mississippi, many great ideas have been put forward to help advance the economic success of our state. I have taken great care in selecting these exceptional leaders who come from across all regions of Mississippi and who reflect the great diversity of industry within our state."
Mississippi Works is a privately funded, statewide coalition of business leaders who are striving to build and sustain an economic development vision for Mississippi.
The group will collaborate through a series of business roundtables and will develop strategies to expand economic opportunities and workforce development for Mississippi, bring new investments to each region of the state and create new jobs.
Gov. Bryant added: "Together, the members of the Mississippi Works committee will provide insight into the varying economic challenges of communities and will develop comprehensive and resourceful plans to spur development throughout the state."
Mississippi Works has three primary objectives:
Help craft a comprehensive strategy to expand economic opportunities in Mississippi.
Help bring new investments to new regions of our state and continue to grow existing businesses to expand to new markets.
Allow for a forum for Mississippi Business Leaders to learn about all the great work going on throughout our state, giving them tools they can use in spreading Mississippi's good story around our nation and world
"Mississippi Works looks to the businessmen and businesswomen who have a strong track record of generating private sector jobs across the state for recommendations on how Mississippi can most effectively pursue growth opportunities that will create high-paying jobs for Mississippians," Co-Chair Jim Barksdale said. "It is critical we capitalize on the assets and the expertise we have to ensure our state is well-positioned for long-term economic development prospects, and Mississippi Works will do just that."
Mississippi Works, Executive Committee 2012-2013
Jim Barksdale, director, Mississippi Development Authority
Carl Chaney, CEO, Hancock Bank
Ed Day, CEO, Mississippi Power
Tommy Dulaney, CEO, Structural Steel Services Inc.
Haley Fisackerly, CEO, Entergy Mississippi
Mayo Flynt, president, AT&T Mississippi
Warren Hood Jr., CEO, Hood Companies Inc.
Bill Lampton, president, Asphalt Div. Ergon Inc.
Hu Meena, CEO, C-Spire Wireless
former Ambassador to Portugal John Palmer, CEO, GulfSouth Capital
Aubrey Patterson, CEO, BancorpSouth
Mary Peavey, president, Peavey Electronics Inc.
Carol Pigott, CEO, Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Mississippi
Joe F. Sanderson Jr., CEO, Sanderson Farms
Leland Speed, chairman, Eastgroup Properties
Jerry St. Pe, CEO, St. Pe Enterprises
William G. Yates Jr., CEO, Yates Companies
Jerry Host, CEO, Trustmark
David Landrum, senior national sales director, Primerica
For more information about "Mississippi Works" please go to www.mississippiworks.org

Source: http://www.new.ms.gov/webcontent/partnerSite.html
