Public Statements
Governor Urges Lawmakers to Approve Bills that Nurture Job Creation and Economic Growth
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: March 29, 2012
Location: Jackson, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant is urging legislators to approve three bills that are key to economic development and job creation in the state. One bill promotes the growth of sustainable energy sources; another provides incentives for job creation in the health care industry; the third establishes a committee of small-business representatives to gauge the business-friendliness of state laws.
Gov. Bryant spoke about the importance of these bills at the annual Business and Industry Political Education Committee luncheon. He remarked that it is important for Mississippi to foster an environment where businesses can grow and hire more workers.
"To nurture job creation and economic growth, we must focus on key components that contribute to development: creating a skilled workforce, reducing government regulations that hinder growth and identifying sectors of the economy that are ripe for expansion," Gov. Bryant said. "We have unprecedented opportunities in energy development and health care expansion, and it is my goal to help take these sectors to the next level."
House Bill 1330, the Energy Sustainability and Development Act of 2012, aims to increase energy jobs, development and research. The act creates the Biomass Center for Excellence to encourage and coordinate biomass research, development and industry. Mississippi is home to notable biomass producers, and Bryant hopes that the legislation will encourage expansion in the industry.
The measure encourages further growth in the private sector by defining incentives for businesses to make energy efficiency upgrades. Business can invest savings into operations and workforce expansion.
The measure also requires Mississippi to develop a statewide energy plan to forecast energy needs and deficiencies. To increase energy savings, the state would also track energy consumption in its buildings and develop cost-saving strategies to improve energy efficiency.

Source:
