Public Statements
Mississippi State of the State Address 2012
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Jan. 24, 2012
Location: Jackson, MS

Following is the prepared text of Gov. Phil Bryant's (R) 2012 state of the state address:
Thank you Governor. First, let me congratulate you on your excellent appointments of committee chairs. I know them all very well and look forward to our successes together. Mr. Speaker, you have also honored yourself with great leadership in your committee chair selections. They are a reflection of your character and grace. Mississippi is truly blessed to have two young and dynamic leaders in you and our Lt. Governor. I am so very proud of you both.
Tonight, I also want to recognize the woman who has been my first lady for 35 years, and the woman who will be a great first lady for our state: my wife Deborah.
As I make this address tonight, I am mindful of the sacrifices of our military who have fought so hard to make our freedoms endure. The right to speak here tonight has been bought by the courage and commitment of our armed services, and I thank them for their valor. I am honored to have our Mississippi National Guard represented tonight by Adjutant General Leon Collins.
Thank you to the membership of the House and Senate for allowing me the privilege of using this beautiful venue for the State of the State address. Thank you all for being part of this very historic Joint Session. To the President Pro-Temp and Speaker Pro-Temp, to all Federal officials, State and Local and members of the Mississippi House and Senate, I offer my profound gratitude and warmest welcome. To the taxpayers who are here today, let me express my humble appreciation. You are the sovereigns of this government, and we are here as your servants.
Just fourteen short days ago, I was sworn into office as the 64th Governor of the State of Mississippi. Our team immediately went to work to properly transfer the responsibility of six executive agencies to new leadership while reappointing five others. I was more than gratified to see one of the nation's top entrepreneurs and business leaders begin his service as Director of the MS Development Authority. No state in this nation could claim a better economic development leader than our own Jim Barksdale.

Source:
