Public Statements
Bryant Takes Day 3 of Jobs Tour through Northeast Mississippi, Golden Triangle
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Sept. 15, 2011
Location: Starkville, MS

Lt. Gov. Phil Bryant, the Republican gubernatorial nominee, today took his Jobs Tour to Tupelo and Columbus, the site of manufacturing success stories for Mississippi.
Bryant examined the operations T&L Specialty Co. in Tupelo, maker of specialty chemicals ranging from industrial general-purpose cleaners to coolants and paint strippers. In Columbus, Bryant reviewed Severstal, a groundbreaking, high-tech facility that covers more than one million square feet on a 1,400 acre site in Columbus.
Endorsed by trade associations representing major employers statewide -- including the Mississippi Manufacturers Association, the Associated General Contractors, Associated Builders & Contractors, the Mississippi Association of Realtors and Homebuilders Association of Mississippi -- Bryant has repeatedly stressed the importance of manufacturing jobs in the state.
"We're extremely pleased to support Phil Bryant for Governor because of his experience in supporting existing industry and in bringing new industry to our state," said Jay Moon, president and CEO of the Mississippi Manufacturers Association. "Phil won't be starting from scratch, and he's worked to develop new job opportunities all over the state.
"The reason all five of these key pro-business groups are endorsing Phil Bryant for Governor is that we all collectively believe that Phil Bryant is the best candidate for Governor to reach the goal he has set to make Mississippi the most job-friendly state in America."
Bryant's job creation strategy delves into various facets that affect Mississippi's ability to develop or recruit new businesses and industries, from a commitment to keep corporate taxes low and the elimination of a punitive inventory tax to measures to protect jobs for Mississippians and a forward-thinking push to ensure
Mississippi trains its workforce for the jobs needed to improve every area of the state.
"Ronald Reagan said, "I think the best possible social program is a job,'" Bryant said. "Considering our economy under the Obama Administration, those words may be more true now than when Reagan said them."
Previous stops on the Jobs Tour have included furniture makers, cooking equipment manufacturers, cutting-edge solar panel producers, and a metals manufacturer from Olive Branch, Jackson, Hattiesburg, and Gulfport. Details of Bryant's job-creation plan can be found on his website, www.PhilBryant.com.
"Phil Bryant has a proven track record of doing what he says he will do--like cutting taxes, supporting the recruitment of new business and industry, and making sure we have a fair legal climate without frivolous lawsuits that harm job creators," said John Bass, MMA's Director of Government Affairs. "If Mississippi is to grow and prosper, even during a national economic downturn, we must have someone with the right experience and right ideas about how to bring more jobs and opportunities to the people of our state."

Source: http://philbryant.com/index.php?p=638
