Public Statements
Mississippi Physicians Endorse Phil Bryant for Governor
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: July 7, 2011
Location: Rigeland, MS

On Thursday, July 7, Phil Bryant received the endorsement of Mississippi physicians at a news conference in Ridgeland. The Mississippi Medical Political Action Committee (MMPAC) announced their endorsement of Phil Bryant for Governor citing Bryant's strong support for tort reform and his proposals to improve health care in Mississippi.
MMPAC chair Dr. Randy Easterling thanked Bryant for his strong support of lawsuit reform saying, "Physicians vividly remember the days when it seemed our ability to take care of patients was on life support due to lawsuit abuse. We now have tort laws that level the playing field so my colleagues and I can focus on our patients' needs."
Dr. Easterling also applauded Bryant's plan to grow 1,000 new physicians for Mississippi by investing in scholarship programs and additional residency slots. "Mississippi is often number 50 when it comes to chronic diseases such as heart disease and diabetes, and Mississippi needs more physicians to lead the health care team," Dr. Easterling said. "We pledge to work with Phil Bryan to identify where and how many physicians are needed and to support his efforts to make Jackson's medical corridor into a larger and invigorated medical city."
"I appreciate this endorsement from Mississippi physicians," Bryant stated. ""I'm committed to making Mississippi the most job-friendly state in America, and to do that, we have to continue improving our health care system to take care of our residents as well as attracting new businesses to come here. Every new physician will result in $1.5 million in local economic impact including new jobs they create with nurses, other staff, medical equipment and construction. Because health care is such a key component to the quality of life in any community, by having 1,000 more doctors, not only will we have healthier communities, we'll have more economic development tools to recruit new jobs to Mississippi."
Research shows that Mississippi physicians annually generate $5 billion in direct and indirect economic stimulus for our state. "Phil Bryant understands that Mississippi physicians are small business owners who create jobs throughout the state in large communities and small," Dr. Easterling said. "Physicians are about the business of taking care of Mississippians; but, we are also big business for the state." A recent study shows that Mississippi physician offices create or support 24,217 jobs for a total of $3 billion in the state wages and $192 million in local and state tax revenues.
"The next four years will be an exciting time for medicine in Mississippi," Dr. Easterling said, " and that's why Mississippi physicians have endorsed and encourage you to support Phil Bryant -- he is a Healthy Choice for Mississippi."
The endorsement from Mississippi physicians today joins many other groups who have endorsed Phil Bryant's campaign for Governor. Phil Bryant has also been endorsed by the National Rifle Association Political Victory Fund, the Mississippi Police Benevolent Association, the Home Builders Association of Mississippi, the Mississippi Association of Realtors, Mississippi Right to Life, and the Mississippi Federation for Immigration Reform and Enforcement (MFIRE). For more information about Phil Bryant, visit www.PhilBryant.com

Source: http://philbryant.com/index.php?p=548
