Public Statements
Phil Bryant Discusses Experience and Specifics on Key Issues at Mississippi Press Association Forum
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: June 24, 2011
Location: Biloxi, MS

On Friday, June 24, Phil Bryant talked specifics about key issues facing Mississippi during the Mississippi Press Association candidates' forum in Biloxi.
Questions from members of the organization included issues such as economic development, education reform, eminent domain, the national economy, illegal immigration and government accountability. Bryant discussed his experience as well as several items outlined in his 15-page "Phil's Vision for Mississippi's Future" plan that includes his ideas and principles for the future.
"Over the past four years, I've worked closely with Governor Barbour to fill the rainy day fund, create an environment where job creation can flourish with six targeted tax cuts to help save jobs, and bring more industry to Mississippi," Bryant said. "By keeping lawsuit reform policies in place, focusing on growing more energy jobs, and educating and training 1,000 additional doctors by 2015, we can make Mississippi the most job-friendly state in America."
"With the Children First Act in place, we're bringing more accountability in education to make sure our children receive a high-quality education regardless of where they live," Bryant stated. "I continue to believe that charter schools will also help improve results in education, and we must push forward to make sure we have more charter schools."
"We need to continue fighting illegal immigration in Mississippi," Bryant said. "With the report I published in 2005 about how illegal immigration is costing Mississippians $25 million every year, and the resulting e-verify legislation passed into law in 2008, fighting illegal immigration continues to be a top priority and must be in the future."
Tomorrow, Phil Bryant will participate in the debate hosted by the Central Mississippi Tea Party at Northwest Rankin High School. For more information about Phil Bryant, visit www.PhilBryant.com.

Source: http://philbryant.com/index.php?p=512
