Public Statements
Phil Bryant Receives Endorsement from the NRA
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: June 23, 2011
Location: Jackson, MS

On Thursday, June 23, the National Rifle Association Political Victory Fund (NRA-PVF) endorsed Phil Bryant's campaign for Governor. The endorsement is for the Republican primary election as well as the general election.
"As a Lifetime Member of the NRA and former Law Enforcement Officer, I am so very pleased to receive this endorsement," said Phil Bryant. "As a gun owner and defender of the 2nd Amendment, I believe the work of the NRA is critical in protecting our freedom. As Governor, I will always be true to this mission."
Chris W. Cox, chairman of the National Rifle Association Political Victory Fund and executive director of the NRA's Institute for Legislative Action informed Phil Bryant of the endorsement for Governor in a letter on Wednesday, June 22. Cox wrote, "Your rating and endorsement are based on your positive responses to NRA-PVF's candidate questionnaire and your strong record of leadership on issues of importance to gun owners and sportsmen as presiding officer of the Mississippi Senate. Working together we have secured protections for shooting ranges in the state, so that both civilians and law enforcement officers will have safe places to train and shoot for years to come, and we have worked to loosen restrictions on where law-abiding carry permit holders may legally defend themselves. We thank you for your steadfast support of our Second Amendment rights and wish you the best of luck in your campaign."
Established in 1871, the National Rifle Association is America's oldest civil rights and sportsmen's group. Four million members strong, NRA continues to uphold the Second Amendment and advocates enforcement of existing laws against violent offenders to reduce crime. The Association remains the nation's leader in firearm education and training for law-abiding gun owners, law enforcement and the armed services.
The endorsement by the NRA is another major endorsement received by Phil Bryant's campaign for Governor. The Home Builders Association of Mississippi, the Mississippi Association of Realtors, Mississippi Right to Life, and the Mississippi Federation for Immigration Reform and Enforcement (MFIRE) have also endorsed the campaign. For more information about Phil Bryant, visit www.PhilBryant.com

Source: http://philbryant.com/index.php?p=508
