Public Statements
Miss. Leaders Welcome L-3 Expansion in Madison County
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant Thad Cochran Gregg Harper Roger Wicker
Date: Nov. 23, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

Members of the Mississippi congressional delegation and Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant today welcomed news that the communication and electronic systems corporation L-3 will expand its presence in Mississippi by establishing its L-3 Logistics Solutions headquarters in Madison.
U.S. Senators Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) and Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), U.S. Representative Gregg Harper (R-Miss.) and Governor Bryant have been working to demonstrate Mississippi's strong support for the firm. With today's announcement, L-3 is expected to soon add a significant number of new skilled jobs to its Madison office and grow operations in the state as market conditions improve.
"The decision by L-3 to focus its Logistics Solutions business in Madison is another vote of confidence in Mississippi's growing high-tech industry," Cochran said. "I appreciate the company's willingness to engage with local, state and federal officials on its future in Madison County. We want to ensure that our state's productive partnership with L-3 only grows stronger."
"This expansion is a great development for Madison County," Wicker said. "L-3 is a proven leader in aerospace and communications. These are good-paying, high-tech jobs that will help strengthen Mississippi's workforce and ensure that our military remains the best-equipped and most advanced fighting force in the world."
"This is certainly an exciting day for Madison County as L-3 plans to expand its presence in our state," said Harper. "L-3 could have chosen to expand at other locations, and the fact that they plan to grow in the Madison office speaks volumes of Mississippi's business climate. This decision is a credit to the hard work of our congressional delegation, Gov. Bryant and his team, and our industry partners to foster economic development here in Mississippi. I am pleased to see that L-3 is dedicated to thriving in Mississippi."
"I thank L-3 for choosing to expand their operations in Mississippi, locating their Logistics Solutions headquarters in Madison, and creating more career opportunities for area residents," Bryant said. "When companies choose to expand or locate in the state they put Mississippi on the global stage and show companies around the world that we are open for business. L-3 is a valued member of our business community, and we look forward to having them in Mississippi for years to come."

Source: http://harper.house.gov/press-release/miss-leaders-welcome-l-3-expansion-madison-county
