Public Statements
VT Halter Marine Opens Dry Dock Expansion, Breaks Ground on New Blast and Paint Facility in Pascagoula, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: Aug. 3, 2015
Location: Jackson, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant and officials from shipbuilder VT Halter Marine gathered today to celebrate the completion of the company's dry dock expansion and to break ground on its new blast and paint facility. The dry dock expansion represents a corporate investment of more than $13 million and the creation of 400 jobs, which were announced in 2012. The blast and paint facility is a $7 million corporate investment and will create 40 jobs.
"I am grateful to the team at VT Halter Marine for again investing in its Pascagoula operations and creating new jobs in our thriving shipbuilding industry for the residents of the Mississippi Gulf Coast. The company's investment will have a positive effect on the Gulf Coast economy," Gov. Bryant said. "VT Halter Marine is a prime example of the longevity companies enjoy in our state, and I wish the company many more years of success in Jackson County."
"With the completion of the dry dock expansion, we have realized the core segment of VT Halter Marine's five-year strategic plan to develop a full service repair facility that complements our existing shipbuilding operations. The construction of the blast and paint building will not only greatly improve efficiencies and competitiveness, but it will continue our commitment to provide jobs that benefit our economy," said Jack Prendergast, VT Halter Marine chief executive officer. "We are grateful to all of our local, state and federal partners that made these opportunities possible."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance for site preparation and the construction of the dry dock, as well as assistance for the construction of the blast and paint facility.
"MDA is glad to have assisted VT Halter Marine as it once again creates so many great career opportunities for Mississippians along the Gulf Coast, and we thank the company for being such a valuable member of the state's business community," said MDA Executive Director Glenn McCullough. "Successful economic development requires teamwork, and we thank our partners at Jackson County Economic Development Foundation, the Port of Pascagoula and the Jackson County Board of Supervisors for their hard work in making these two projects a reality."

Source:
