Public Statements
Quality Iron Fabricators Expanding Operations in Houston, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: July 29, 2015
Location: Houston, MS

Governor Phil Bryant and officials from structural and miscellaneous steel supplier Quality Iron Fabricators announce the company is expanding operations at its facility in Houston, Miss., in Chickasaw County. The project represents a $4.9 million corporate investment and will create 50 jobs, bringing employment at the Houston location to 70.
For the expansion, the company will construct a 90,000-square-foot addition at its existing facility.
"I appreciate the team at Quality Iron Fabricators for placing its confidence in Mississippi's business climate and for creating new job opportunities for the residents of Chickasaw County and the surrounding areas," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "Our state is a great place to do business, and companies of all sizes recognize the advantages of a Mississippi location. I congratulate Quality Iron Fabricators on this expansion and wish the company many more years of success in Mississippi."
"We at Quality Iron are very excited to be expanding our operations in Houston, Miss. Through the site selection process, we have been encouraged by the warm reception that our project has received from the state and local business development partners," said Quality Iron Fabricators President Brian Eason. "We look forward to this and future expansions in this community."
Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for site preparation and equipment relocation.
"The Mississippi Development Authority proudly supports our existing industries, such as Quality Iron Fabricators, as they grow, creating more and better career opportunities for Mississippians throughout our state," said MDA Executive Director Glenn McCullough. "We thank our economic development partners at Three Rivers Planning and Development District, the Chickasaw County Board of Supervisors, the mayor of Houston and the Houston Board of Aldermen for their commitment to helping ensure Quality Iron Fabricators' long-term growth and success in North Mississippi."
Quality Iron Fabricators was founded in 1974 in Memphis, Tenn., as a miscellaneous fabricator serving the local market. Today, the company supplies the structural and miscellaneous steel needs of its customers locally and regionally. For more information, visit www.qifab.com.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/quality-iron-fabricators-expanding-operations-in-houston-miss/
