Public Statements
Fusion Furniture Inc. Expanding Operations, Creating 100 Jobs in Ecru, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: July 28, 2015
Location: Ecru, MS

Governor Phil Bryant and officials from upholstered furniture manufacturer Fusion Furniture Inc. announce the company is expanding operations at its facility in Ecru, Miss., in Pontotoc County. The project represents a corporate investment of $1.6 million and will create 100 jobs, bringing employment at the Ecru location to 430.
For the expansion, Fusion Furniture will construct a 100,000-square-foot addition at its existing facility.
"This announcement is yet another exciting economic win for Pontotoc County and North Mississippi, and I thank the Fusion Furniture team for choosing to grow in our state and create so many new jobs for the area's workforce," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "I wish the company many years of continued success in Mississippi's furniture industry."
"We are very excited about our latest expansion project. It is going to create the room needed for our immediate production needs, as well as the space for expected increases over the next few years. With our business continuing to grow at a 25 percent to a 30 percent rate per year, it will give breathing room for our employees and customers alike. It is going to allow us to produce more product in a timely manner for our valued customers," said Fusion Furniture President Bo Robbins. "Our thanks go out to BNA Bank, Three Rivers Planning and Development, the Pontotoc County Board of Supervisors and MDA for helping us make this possible. At Fusion, we look forward to being the best employer to the best employees for many years to come."
Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for site preparation.
"The Mississippi Development Authority is pleased to team with Three Rivers Planning and Development District and the Pontotoc County Board of Supervisors to support Fusion Furniture's expansion as they provide 100 new career opportunities for Mississippians, building a stronger North Mississippi furniture industry and bolstering the region's economy," said MDA Executive Director Glenn McCullough.
Founded in 2009 in Ecru, Fusion Furniture specializes in the manufacture of upholstered sofas, sectionals, loveseats, sleeper sofas, chairs, ottomans and chaises. For more information, visit www.fusionfurnitureinc.com.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/fusion-furniture-inc-expanding-operations-creating-100-jobs-in-ecru-miss/
