Public Statements
Governor Bryant Authorizes National Guard Adjutant General to Arm Personnel at State Military Facilities
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant Augustus Collins
Date: July 20, 2015
Location: Jackson, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant has issued an Executive Order authorizing the Adjutant General of the Mississippi National Guard, Maj. Gen. Augustus L. Collins, to arm certain full-time military personnel at military facilities, including certain National Guard recruiting centers. The governor's action follows a deadly attack on two military recruiting facilities in Tennessee last week.
"As commander in chief of the Mississippi National Guard and as governor of the state of Mississippi, I take the safety and security of our military personnel very seriously," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "These men and women put their lives on the line to protect us, and they deserve the opportunity to defend themselves from violent attacks."
The Executive Order also directs the Mississippi National Guard to examine existing security policies and procedures at military facilities throughout Mississippi and identify any opportunities to enhance the security of those facilities.
"Our thoughts and prayers continue to be with the families of our heroes lost in the terrible shootings in Tennessee," The Adjutant General of Mississippi Maj. Gen. Augustus L. Collins said. "The security and safety of our Mississippi National Guard personnel is a top priority. We support Governor Bryant's executive order to strengthen security for our Magnolia Guardsmen."
There are approximately 12,500 soldiers and airmen in the Mississippi National Guard.
Mississippi National Guard recruiters work in nine standalone recruiting offices and also work on college campuses and at Community Readiness Centers around the state. The Mississippi National Guard operates two military installations--Camp McCain and Camp Shelby--and has a presence in 72 of Mississippi's 82 counties.
Since 2009 there have been at least nine attacks on military facilities in the United States.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/governor-bryant-authorizes-national-guard-adjutant-general-to-arm-personnel-at-state-military-facilities/
