Public Statements
Next Gear Solutions Expanding in Oxford, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: June 30, 2015
Location: Jackson, MS

Officials from Next Gear Solutions, provider of management software for the restoration industry, announce the company is expanding its customer service operations in Oxford, Miss. The project represents a corporate investment of $58,800 and will create 60 new jobs.
"Mississippi's economy continues to grow and our economic development efforts continue to yield success. Small businesses and global corporations alike understand that our state is a great place to do business," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "I appreciate the Next Gear team for its commitment to Oxford, Lafayette County and the state of Mississippi and thank the company for creating these new jobs. I wish Next Gear many more years of success in Mississippi."
"The team at Next Gear Solutions is thankful that the state of Mississippi is interested in reinvesting in small businesses in order to create economic growth in our communities, and we are excited for our planned expansion because of the change it will bring for our company and for the stimulus it provides for our area," said Next Gear Solutions President and CEO Garret Gray. "We are forever grateful to all parties involved in assisting us in this process and hope to continue to exceed expectations."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for building improvements. Additionally, the city of Oxford and Lafayette County provided assistance for the project through the Oxford-Lafayette County Economic Development Foundation.
"We are grateful to the Oxford-Lafayette County Economic Development Foundation, the city of Oxford and the Oxford-Lafayette County Board of Supervisors for their teamwork in helping Next Gear Solutions expand and create exceptional career opportunities for the people of Oxford and Lafayette County," said MDA Executive Director Glenn McCullough. "Mississippi's existing businesses are at the core of our state's economy, and when they choose to invest in their current operations and increase their footprint within their communities, it shows the world that Mississippi is a great place to do business."
Based in Oxford, Next Gear Solutions is the creator of DASH, a web-based restoration service management system that allows restoration contractors and restoration companies to streamline their job management, company marketing, customer contacts, equipment, business accounting, job estimating and more into one integrated restoration management portal for maximum efficiency across their organizations. For more information, visit www.nextgearsolutions.com.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/next-gear-solutions-expanding-in-oxford-miss/
