Public Statements
H.M. Richards Launching Major Expansion in Guntown, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: June 8, 2015
Location: Guntown, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant and officials from upholstered furniture manufacturer H.M. Richards announced today the company is expanding operations at its location in the Harry A. Martin North Lee Industrial Complex in Guntown, Miss., in Lee County. The project represents a corporate investment of $8 million and will create 500 jobs.
H.M. Richards currently has 977 employees in Guntown and operates in a 900,000-square-foot facility. For its expansion, the company will purchase the land adjacent to its current facility and construct a new building to house the expanded operations.
"Today is a fantastic day for Lee County and North Mississippi as H.M. Richards expands its presence in our state and announces hundreds of new jobs for the area's workers," Gov. Bryant said. "The company could have chosen to expand elsewhere, and the fact the H.M. Richards team chose its Guntown location speaks volumes about the strength of Mississippi's business climate and furniture industry and about the productive workforce throughout the region and entire state. I wish the company many more years of success in Lee County."
"We are thrilled to partner with Gov. Bryant and the state of Mississippi, the Mississippi Development Authority, the Appalachian Regional Commission and the Tennessee Valley Authority, as well as the Community Development Foundation," said H.M. Richards Vice President of Manufacturing Thomas Wells. "We are grateful for the support, and their combined efforts persuaded us that the expansion of our existing facility is the right decision at the right time."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for infrastructure needs, site preparation, electrical needs, parking lot improvements, and workforce training. Community Development Foundation, Lee County, Appalachian Regional Commission, and Tennessee Valley Authority provided assistance, as well.
"H.M. Richards has been a valued member of the state's business community for nearly 20 years, and this expansion will position the company for many more years of prosperity in Lee County," said MDA Executive Director Glenn McCullough. "We appreciate the talented teams at the Community Development Foundation, Lee County, Appalachian Regional Commission, and Tennessee Valley Authority for working together to help this great company expand and create good career opportunities for northeast Mississippians."
Founded in 1997 in Saltillo, Miss., H.M. Richards built its current facility in the Harry M. Martin North Lee Industrial Complex in 1999. The company's mission is to make beautiful furniture while constantly reducing its environmental footprint by using planet friendly materials and processes. H.M. Richards' products are distributed through an elite group of major furniture and department stores throughout the U.S. and Canada. H.M. Richards also produces products for successful licensed home brands Cindy Crawford Home and the Sofia Vergara Collection.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/h-m-richards-launching-major-expansion-in-guntown-miss/
