Public Statements
AmerisourceBergen Locating Distribution Operations in Olive Branch, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: June 3, 2015
Location: Jackson, MS

Officials from AmerisourceBergen, a global health care solutions leader, announce the company is locating a distribution facility at the IDI-Crossroads Distribution Center in Olive Branch, Miss. The project represents a $48 million investment and will create 129 new jobs.
"I am proud to welcome AmerisourceBergen as the newest member of the state's business community. North Mississippi is a prime location for companies with distribution needs, and I know the company's Olive Branch location will provide ease-of-access to major transportation networks, allowing AmerisourceBergen to efficiently and effectively serve its customers," Gov. Bryant said. "I thank the AmerisourceBergen team for choosing to locate in DeSoto County and for creating so many new job opportunities for the area's workers. I wish the company many years of success in our state."
"Expanding our operations into Mississippi provides AmerisourceBergen with a new avenue to better serve our customers by continuing to improve product access, increase supply chain efficiency and enhance patient care," said Chuck Ball, Senior Vice President, Distribution Services at AmerisourceBergen. "Mississippi is a great place to do business and we look forward the ongoing partnership with the MDA and counting Mississippi residents among our workforce."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for relocation needs, installation of equipment, and public infrastructure improvements. The city of Olive Branch and DeSoto County Board of Supervisors assisted with the project, as well.
"We appreciate the AmerisourceBergen team for realizing the competitive advantages offered by a Mississippi location and for choosing to locate its new distribution operations in Olive Branch. The jobs being created as a result of this project will positively benefit the local community and North Mississippi region for many years to come," said MDA Interim Executive Director Manning McPhillips. "Successful economic development requires teamwork, and we thank our partners at the city of Olive Branch, the DeSoto County Board of Supervisors and the DeSoto County Economic Development Council for their efforts in bringing AmerisourceBergen to Mississippi."
AmerisourceBergen also announced today that it will build new distribution facilities in New York State and Minnesota.
Headquartered in Valley Forge, Pa., AmerisourceBergen is one of the largest global pharmaceutical sourcing and distribution services companies, helping both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical and biotech manufacturers improve patient access to products and enhance patient care. With services ranging from drug distribution and niche premium logistics to reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, AmerisourceBergen delivers innovative programs and solutions across the pharmaceutical supply channel in human medicine and animal health. With over $120 billion in annual revenue, AmerisourceBergen is headquartered in Valley Forge, PA, and employs approximately 16,000 people. AmerisourceBergen is ranked #28 on the Fortune 500 list.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/amerisourcebergen-locating-distribution-operations-in-olive-branch-miss/
