Public Statements
Pride Mobility Products Corp. Locating Operations in Pontotoc, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: May 27, 2015
Location: Pontotoc, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant and officials from Pride Mobility Products Corp., manufacturer of mobility chairs and scooters, announced today the company is locating operations in the former Genesis Furniture facility in Pontotoc, Miss. The project represents a corporate investment of $2 million and will create 150 jobs.
"Today is a great day for Pontotoc as Pride Mobility becomes the newest member of Mississippi's business community. Again and again, companies are choosing Mississippi. These 150 new jobs will positively affect the local community and north Mississippi region well into the future," Gov. Bryant said. "I thank the Pride Mobility team for choosing to invest in our state and for placing its trust in our workforce. I wish the company many successful years in Pontotoc."
"We at Pride Mobility Products are proud to become a part of the Pontotoc community as a manufacturer within both the local region and the state of Mississippi," said Pride Mobility Chairman and CEO Scott Meuser. "The Mississippi Development Authority has played an instrumental role in the establishment of our facility, and the MDA reflects the remarkable opportunities for commerce that the state and region present. Most of all, we're privileged to draw from such a dedicated local workforce, where the success of our venture will extend not just to the employees, but to their families and the community."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for building improvements. The city of Pontotoc, Pontotoc County, Tennessee Valley Authority and the Appalachian Regional Commission provided assistance, as well.
"MDA is grateful to Pride Mobility for realizing the numerous advantages of a Mississippi location, including the state's productive workforce, and we look forward to working with the company in the future," said MDA Interim Executive Director Manning McPhillips. "Recruiting new businesses to the state requires the collaboration of economic developers at all levels, and we congratulate the teams at TVA, Three Rivers Planning and Development District, the city of Pontotoc and Pontotoc County on their success in bringing Pride Mobility to north Mississippi."
Pride Mobility Products® Corporation is the world's leading designer and manufacturer of mobility products including Jazzy® Power Chairs, Go-Go® Travel Mobility, Pride® Mobility Scooters, Pride® Lift Chairs, and Pride® Lifts and Ramps. The Pride® family of companies also includes Quantum® Rehab, a leader in complex rehab power chairs with the Q6® Series of power bases, TRU-Balance® Power Positioning Systems, and Q-Logic Drive Controls, as well as Stealth® Products, the foremost manufacturer of positioning components. Headquartered in Exeter, Pa., Pride also has operations in Australia, Canada, China, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/pride-mobility-products-corp-locating-operations-in-pontotoc-miss/
