Public Statements
Emerald Home Furnishings Locating Operations in New Albany, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: May 27, 2015
Location: New Albany, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant and officials from stationary furniture manufacturer Emerald Home Furnishings announced today the company is locating operations in New Albany, Miss. The company will locate in the facility formerly occupied by Hickory Springs. The project represents a corporate investment of more than $2 million and will create 150 jobs.
"The decision by the Emerald Home Furnishings team to locate these operations in New Albany is great news for north Mississippi, and it will further bolster the region's growing presence in the furniture industry," Gov. Bryant said. "Economic development is a competitive field, and I thank the company for recognizing the many advantages of a Mississippi location and for creating so many new jobs in Union County. I wish the company many years of success in New Albany."
"We were delighted with the combined efforts of The Mississippi Development Authority, along with Three Rivers Planning and Development District, the city of New Albany, Union County, and the Tennessee Valley Authority. All of these entities teamed together to create a vision of the opportunity of manufacturing in Mississippi," said David Beckmann, CEO of Emerald Home Furnishings. "We are a Seattle-based company and have been importing for decades, but this is our first effort in manufacturing upholstery in the U.S. The commitment to business in North Mississippi and the outstanding quality of the workforce here made our decision very easy."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for building renovations. Union County, Appalachian Regional Commission, and Tennessee Valley Authority assisted with the project, as well.
"We strive to provide our new and existing companies with a business environment that fosters sustainable growth, success and innovation, and we thank Emerald Home Furnishings for placing its confidence in our business climate and trust in our workforce," said MDA Interim Executive Director Manning McPhillips. "We look forward to working with the company again in the future."

Source:
