Public Statements
Raytheon Cuts Ribbon on New Facility in Forest, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: April 8, 2015
Location: Jackson, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant and officials from Raytheon Space and Airborne Systems gathered today for a ribbon cutting ceremony at the company's new 20,000-square-foot Far Field Test Facility in Forest, Miss. This facility is part of an overall growth plan that includes a significant corporate investment and the creation of 150 new jobs.
The expansion at Raytheon's Forest Consolidated Manufacturing Center was announced in Nov. 2013 in conjunction with Veteran's Day and the facility's 30th anniversary.
"Today is an exciting day for Forest and the entire state of Mississippi as Raytheon officially opens its new facility. The company chose to expand here in anticipation of future growth, and now Raytheon is ready to move ahead and pursue even more opportunities and contracts," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "I thank the Raytheon team for moving so quickly to complete this project and creating so many new high-tech job opportunities for the area's workforce. The work performed at Raytheon's Forest location is invaluable to our nation's military and allies, and I wish the company many more years of success in Forest."
"Raytheon has been part of this community's fiber for more than three decades," said Fred Darlington, a vice president in the company's Space and Airborne Systems business. "Raytheon stood by the governor's side here on Veterans Day 2013 with a pledge to add more space for our high-skill workforce, and we kept our commitment."
In 2013, the Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the expansion for infrastructure, site preparation, parking, construction, and rehabilitation needs.
"We are excited to see Raytheon's expansion come full-circle and are glad to have been a part of this project since its inception. Raytheon's decision to locate this facility in Forest demonstrates to companies around the world that Mississippi has the productive workforce and competitive advantages needed to be successful in today's demanding economy," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We congratulate Raytheon and everyone involved with this project on this milestone event and look forward to watching the company's continued growth in Forest."

Source:
