Public Statements
Avectus Healthcare Solutions Expanding in Corinth, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: April 7, 2015
Location: Jackson, MS

Officials from data processor Avectus Healthcare Solutions, LLC announce the company is expanding operations in Corinth, Miss. The project represents a $400,000 investment and will create 70 new jobs, bringing the total number employed at the facility to approximately 270.
In September 2014, Avectus Healthcare announced an expansion to accommodate an increase in business. That project created 50 new jobs and retained the company's 150 existing employees.
"I appreciate the team at Avectus Healthcare Solutions for once again investing in its Corinth operations and for creating new job opportunities for the area's residents. This second expansion in such a short amount of time demonstrates the fact that Mississippi has a strong, supportive business environment that spurs growth and success," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "I thank Avectus Healthcare for being a valued business partner to the state and wish the company many more prosperous years in Corinth."
"We are excited about expanding our operations in Corinth again. We look forward to being able to offer the local workforce more opportunities, and to continue to be an active part in the community," said Avectus CEO Tim Smith. "We value our partners in the Governor's office, MDA, The Alliance and Alcorn County. The business climate in Mississippi is positioned for excellence, and we are honored to be a part of it."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project for building improvements.
"We are glad to assist Mississippi's businesses, such as Avectus Healthcare Solutions, as they work to establish stronger and more vibrant communities by investing in their operations and creating new jobs for the state's workforce," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We thank our partners at the Alliance and at Alcorn County for working with us to help Avectus Healthcare expand again, and we look forward to watching the company's continued growth in Alcorn County."
Headquartered in Corinth, Avectus Healthcare Solutions has become a leader in coordinating third party liability and workers' compensation accounts for hospitals and trauma centers throughout the United States. Annually, Avectus processes more than 1 billion dollars in third party liability accounts. To learn more, please visit www.avectushealth.com.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/avectus-healthcare-solutions-expanding-in-corinth-miss-2/
