Public Statements
Southern Motion Expanding Operations in Baldwyn, Miss.
Press Release
By: Phil Bryant
Date: April 2, 2015
Location: Jackson, MS

Reclining furniture manufacturer Southern Motion is expanding operations at its facility in Baldwyn, Miss., to accommodate an increase in production. The project represents a $600,000 corporate investment and will create 60 jobs over the next 12 months.
This expansion will bring employment at the facility to 235. Southern Motion also has operations in Pontotoc, Miss., where the company employs 1,100 workers.
"Southern Motion is a significant contributor to Mississippi's furniture industry, and this new investment by the company in its Baldwyn facility demonstrates its commitment to the local community and the state of Mississippi," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "Over the years, Southern Motion has created hundreds of jobs for the residents of north Mississippi, and I thank the company for providing even more opportunities for the workforce of Prentiss County."
"Since 1996, Southern Motion has maintained operations in Mississippi. The support we have received over the years from officials at the state, regional and local levels, as well as the skilled workforce found in north Mississippi, has played a significant role in our company's success in the state," said Southern Motion President & CEO Roger Bland. "We are excited to once again create new jobs for the area's workforce, and we anticipate many more successful years in Mississippi."
The Mississippi Development Authority provided assistance in support of the project to expand the company's parking lot. The Prentiss County Development Association, the city of Baldwyn and Prentiss County provided assistance, as well.
"We appreciate the team at Southern Motion for choosing to once again invest in its Baldwyn operations, and we are glad to provide assistance as this great company grows and creates jobs for the area's residents," said MDA Executive Director Brent Christensen. "We thank our partners at the Prentiss County Development Association, the city of Baldwyn and Prentiss County for working to help ensure the continued success of Southern Motion in north Mississippi."
Founded in 1996 in Pontotoc, Miss., Southern Motion manufactures motion furniture, including recliners, sofas and loveseats, sectionals and home theater furniture. For more information, please visit www.southernmotion.com.

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/southern-motion-expanding-operations-in-baldwyn-miss/
