Public Statements
Three Confirmed to Mississippi Gaming Commission
By: Phil Bryant
Date: April 1, 2015
Location: Jackson, MS

Gov. Phil Bryant has appointed Tom Gresham of Indianola, Jerry L. Griffith, Sr. of Gulfport and Al Hopkins of Gulfport to the Mississippi Gaming Commission. Their appointments have been confirmed by the Mississippi Senate.
Mr. Gresham will represent the Mississippi Delta Region. His term will begin Oct. 1, 2015 and will expire Sept. 30, 2019. Mr. Griffith and Mr. Hopkins will both represent the Mississippi Gulf Coast Region. Mr. Griffith will succeed Mr. Wally Carter. Mr. Griffith's term begins immediately and will expire Sept. 30, 2016. Mr. Hopkins will succeed Mr. John Hairston. Mr. Hopkins' term begins immediately and will expire Sept. 30, 2017.
"Mississippi's gaming industry is important to the state's economy and important to our tourism efforts," Gov. Phil Bryant said. "The Mississippi Gaming Commission has the important mission of regulating this industry, and I am confident these appointees are up to the task."
About the Appointees
Tom Gresham
Tom Gresham is president and CEO of Double Quick, Inc., a company that owns and operates convenience stores in the Mississippi Delta. He is president of SIGMA, a national trade organization for fuel marketers, and is past president of the Mississippi Association of Convenience Stores. He holds a bachelor's degree in business administration and a bachelor's degree in journalism, both from Southern Methodist University. Mr. Gresham is vice chairman of the Mississippi Community College Board. He is also a member of Delta Council and is chairman of Delta Council's Development Department. He is past chairman of the Mississippi Economic Council. He and his wife Louise are members of St. Stephen's Episcopal Church. They have three children.
"I am honored to serve on the gaming commission for the state of Mississippi and appreciate the trust that Gov. Bryant and the state Senate have put in me," Tom Gresham said. "The gaming industry is important to all parts of Mississippi by providing good jobs for Mississippians as well as tourism opportunities for visitors to our state. The Mississippi Gaming Commission has a great national reputation, and I will do my best to protect its integrity."
Jerry L. Griffith, Sr.
Jerry L. Griffith, Sr. has more than 40 years of experience in government accounting and management. He is a career agent with the Internal Revenue Service, serving from 1973-2014. During his tenure with the IRS, Mr. Griffith managed the agency's anti-money laundering program in five states and ensured casinos were in compliance with Title 31 under the Bank Secrecy Act program. Additionally, he served as a general program manager for Examination. He also developed an inventory management system to aid in anti-money laundering efforts and directed audits of businesses and casinos. He is experienced in investigating tax fraud and during his career was responsible for planning, directing, coordinating and reviewing the work of professional and technical employees engaged in determining the liability for federal taxes. Mr. Griffith holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from Delta State University. He is a member of Delta Omicron Subordinate Boule of Sigma Pi Phi Fraternity Grand Boule where he serves as the Thesauristes. Mr. Griffith is a community mentor and a member of Rotary International of Gulfport. He and his wife Veta are members of Greater Mt. Olive Baptist Church of Gulfport, where he is chairman of the Trustee Board and past chairman of the Brotherhood. Mr. Griffith is a Vietnam Veteran and served in the United States Navy. The Griffiths are the parents of two children.
"I am no stranger to the gaming industry. During my 40 plus years with the Internal Revenue Service, I have served in a number of positions including management," Jerry Griffith said. "I was responsible for managing the Anti-Money Laundering program, also known as the Bank Secrecy Act, ensuring that the gaming industry was in compliance with Title 31. The gaming industry plays a vital and significant role in the state of Mississippi's economy, and I will certainly carryout the mission statement of the Mississippi Gaming Commission to the best of my ability. I thank Gov. Bryant for this opportunity and his confidence in me to serve as a commissioner for the Mississippi Gaming Commission."
Al Hopkins
Al Hopkins is former Assistant Adjutant General of the Mississippi National Guard and retired with the rank of Major General. During his military service, he earned multiple awards, including the Legion of Merit and the Magnolia Cross. He served 13 years as Chief Judge of the Court of Military Appeals. He holds bachelor's degrees in English and History from Delta State University and earned his Juris Doctor degree from the University of Mississippi School of Law. He also holds a bachelor's degree in Biblical Studies from William Carey University and an Honorary Master of Laws degree in law from Mississippi College School of Law. Mr. Hopkins founded his own law firm in 1977, which operates today under the name Hopkins, Barvié & Hopkins, P.L.L.C. Gulfport. He is senior partner. He is also president of ANH Enterprises, Inc. and Muddy River Farms, LLC, a farming, ranching, and land development company. Mr. Hopkins is an active member of his community and serves many organizations, including the Girl Scouts of Gulf Pines Council and the Spanish Trail Council of the Boy Scouts of America. He is a member of the Gulf Coast Chamber of Commerce and is past president of the Harrison County Tourism Commission. He is a 32nd Degree Mason, an avid outdoorsman and a life member of the National Rifle Association. He and his wife Ruth are members of First Baptist Church of Gulfport, where Mr. Hopkins is a Deacon and teaches Sunday School. The Hopkins have two children.
"I am honored that Gov. Phil Bryant and the Legislature would place this great trust in me," Al Hopkins said. "My promise to the people of Mississippi is that I shall work diligently and faithfully to carry out my duties and responsibilities as a member of the Mississippi Gaming Commission."

Source: http://www.governorbryant.com/three-confirmed-to-mississippi-gaming-commission/
