Public Statements
March 2017 Column: Alabama will Celebrate 200th Birthday in 2019
Statement
By: Kay Ivey
Date: March 30, 2017
Location: Unknown

Alabama is well known for many historic milestones in our State's history, but none would have been possible without the United States Congress creating Alabama as a territory in 1817.
The Alabama territory held a Constitutional Convention in Huntsville on July 5, 1819, to begin the transition to become a state by drafting and approving the Constitution to create a state government. On December 14, 1819, Alabama was approved by Congress to become the twenty-second State in the country and led by Alabama's first Governor, William Wyatt Bibb. Alabama's Capital Cities have evolved throughout our history beginning with St. Stephens in 1817, Huntsville in 1819, Cahawba in 1820, Tuscaloosa in 1826 and currently Montgomery for the past 171 years.
The Alabama Bicentennial Commission was created in 2013 to commemorate the 200th anniversary of Alabama's Statehood on December 14, 2019. The Commission is chaired by Senator Arthur Orr and its members include: Lee Sentell, Director of Alabama Tourism Department; Joel Anderson of Anderson Media; Representative Mike Ball; Hilary Claybourne, President of CCINC Innovative Strategies; Patricia Ford, Director of State Black Archives Research Center and Museum; Steve Murray, Director of Alabama Department of Archives and History ; Tami Reist, Director of Alabama Mountain Lake Tourist Association; Fitzgerald Washington, Commissioner of Alabama Department of Labor; and Bart Williams, Executive Director of EarlyWorks Family of Muesums. I was proud to make appointments to the Commission: Cartledge Blackwell, City of Mobile Architectural Historian, and Priscilla Hancock Cooper, Birmingham Civil Rights Institute.
Earlier this month on Friday, March 3rd, on the steps of the Alabama State Capitol, the Alabama Bicentennial was announced to begin the three-year celebration highlighting historic people and places to commemorate two hundred years in our State's history. As the crowd gathered, small handheld red flags displaying the 200th Alabama Bicentennial were held and waved by all in attendance. The formal ceremony will officially launch on May 5th in the City of Mobile, the oldest city in Alabama.

Source:
