Public Statements
Ivey Blasts Folsom On His Continuing Hypocrisy
Press Release
By: Kay Ivey
Date: Sept. 20, 2010
Location: Montgomery, AL

Just three days after making claims that the Lieutenant Governor's office is nonpartisan, Democrat incumbent Lt. Governor Jim Folsom used his authority to appoint a Democrat seeking reelection in Senate District 2 to a position on the Joint Transportation Legislative Committee for the 5th Congressional District. On Thursday, September 16th, Folsom replaced retiring State Senator Bobby Denton with Senator Tom Butler (D-Madison), who is in a heated battle for re-election against Republican nominee, Madison City Councilman, Bill Holtzclaw.
When Folsom made the announcement appointing Butler, Folsom posted it on his re-election campaign website. As of September 20, 2010, there was no mention on the Lieutenant Governor's official website or from the Lieutenant Governor's office regarding the appointment.
"Seems like Jim Folsom needs to look up the word "nonpartisan.' It means "not supporting or controlled by a political party.' Appointing his long-time Democratic buddy Tom Butler to this Transportation Committee underscores what partisanship is all about in Montgomery," Kay Ivey said today. "Insider deals such as this are why voters are fed up with the Democrat-controlled Senate leadership that continues to make decisions for self-serving political reasons and to fulfill campaign promises," she added.
In a recent campaign commercial, Folsom says, "he's not afraid to pull the trigger to get things done," and "he is not a lap dog for anyone or any special interest." "When you look at the political history of Jim Folsom, you will find those to be empty words," Ms. Ivey stated.
Ms. Ivey grew up in Wilcox County in Southwest Alabama. She is currently the State Treasurer and handily won the Republican nomination for Lieutenant Governor in the June 1st Primary.

Source: http://kayivey.org/_blog/News_Releases/post/Ivey_Blasts_Folsom_On_His_Continuing_Hypocrisy/
