Public Statements
Issue Position: Federal Intrusion into Personal Privacy
Issue Position
By: Kay Ivey
Location: Unknown

Federal intrusion into personal privacy
Kay's Answer: I have no doubt that our Founders would be shocked and horrified if they were granted a "supernatural field trip" to modern-day America to observe and take stock of the Great Experiment they fought for, crafted and put into practice.
James Madison wisely put the challenge they faced this way, "In framing a government which is to be administered by men over men, the great difficulty lies in this: you must first enable the government to control the governed; and in the next place oblige it to control itself."
I am totally opposed to the government managing any more of my life, my job, my health, my home, or my family. The government's proper role at any level is not to micromanage your life or mine. It should neither act as our nanny nor function as an economic hammock. Instead, government is best when its powers are defined and its scope is limited.
We, the people, granted specific powers and constructed institutions to protect individual liberties and provide economic freedom so individuals could strive to reach their highest potential and happiness. Unfortunately, our government has grabbed much more than we really intended. Its mammoth reach is unwelcome and unsustainable.
I believe that entrepreneurs do a much better job of managing their own businesses than the government ever could. While sensible rules and regulations are essential for an orderly society to operate, government must simply ensure that laws are enacted and enforced to protect lives and property and to facilitate justice. I have faith that the people of Alabama can make responsible choices without the intrusion and excessive oversight of the government.
To end the unwanted intrusion into our lives, Americans and Alabamians must be vigilant of our rights and keenly aware of the activities and shenanigans of our government. I feel very strongly about that and have tried the best I could as State Treasurer to bring more transparency and openness into how state government operates.
We must ask ourselves, are we willing to do the things necessary to safeguard our liberties? If we answer in the affirmative, then we must expel the apathy and complacency that has allowed government's unbridled encroachment into our private lives.
So, (1) Will we dedicate ourselves to being much more informed and aware about what government at all levels is doing? (2) Will we commit ourselves to do a better, more effective job of voicing opposition to new programs that turn our country into even more of a socialist state? And, (3) Will we join others to organize active movements to roll back programs that already exist which keep us from having more freedom, prosperity, and a responsible society.
The T.E.A. Party rallies and townhall gatherings opposed to Obamacare give me great hope that there is a renewed spirit of patriotism, vigilance and conservative activism among our citizens. Let's not lose our current vigor, nor waver in our resolve to remain free.
The Benefit To You:
By reducing the nosiness of government in our lives, the people of Alabama and the rest of the United States would be freer to chase their dreams for themselves and their families.

Source: http://kayivey.org/FAQRetrieve.aspx?ID=40533
