Public Statements
Governor Ivey Visits Washington, DC, Attends Infrastructure Meeting Hosted by President Trump
Press Release
By: Kay Ivey
Date: June 8, 2017
Location: Montgomery, AL

Earlier today, upon receiving an invitation from President Donald J. Trump, Governor Kay Ivey took part in a series of meetings related to the President's infrastructure plan. In attendance, in addition to the Governor, were numerous administration officials including President Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao and Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue. Also at the meeting was Mayor Sheldon Day of Thomasville, Alabama.
"I am thankful President Trump asked me to join him in helping identify priorities for his upcoming infrastructure spending plan. I used the opportunity to stress the need to rebuild our roads and bridges and to invest in modern infrastructure such as high-speed internet and telecommunications," Governor Ivey said after the meetings. "I am pleased to hear that the administration also understands infrastructure is more than transportation and that it plans for investments in building schools, hospitals and meeting other government service related needs, especially in rural areas."
Governor Ivey was only one of eight governors - and the only female governor - to participate in a White House Infrastructure Summit hosted by President Trump at the White House. The event was held as part of White House Infrastructure Week. The Trump-Pence Administration called the meeting with administration officials and 30 state and tribal leaders from across the United States to develop policies that strategically utilize federal dollars in targeted ways that incentivize state, local and private sector infrastructure investments.
The attendees participated in working sessions which explored the topics of rural infrastructure, permitting reform and expediting infrastructure, transformative projects, water infrastructure, transportation infrastructure, and energy infrastructure.
The series of meetings concluded with Governor Ivey participating in a roundtable discussion focusing on infrastructure alongside President Trump.
"After today's meetings, I am confident President Trump will put forward an infrastructure plan that can achieve bi-partisan support and will meet many needs here in Alabama. As we move closer to the realization of the President's promise to rebuild our country, it is even more evident that Alabama must be ready to do our part in helping fund these projects around our state," Governor Ivey commented. "I look forward to working with the Alabama House and Senate to ensure we are ready to hit the ground running once the federal infrastructure plan is implemented."
President Trump called the series of meetings to encourage dialogue among leaders on both the federal and state levels. Since taking office, the president has focused on advances in infrastructure. "Crumbling infrastructure will be replaced with new roads, bridges, tunnels, airports, and railways gleaming across our very, very beautiful land," said President Donald Trump.
The infrastructure summit took place this afternoon. Upon its conclusion, Governor Ivey returned to Alabama.

Source: http://governor.alabama.gov/news/press-releases/governor-ivey-visits-washington-dc-attends-infrastructure-meeting-hosted-by
