Public Statements
Jobs Announcement: Nation's Largest Food Industry Redistributor to Locate Distribution Center in Northwestern Arizona
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: June 7, 2016
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Arizona Governor Doug Ducey, the Arizona Commerce Authority, Mohave County and Bullhead City are pleased to announce Dot Foods, the nation's first and largest food industry redistributor, will be taking steps to establish a new distribution center in Mohave County, Arizona. This facility will create 125 projected new Arizona jobs over a three-year period. Dot Foods plans to invest more than $45 million in infrastructure and various equipment.
"Building a new distribution center in Mohave County will allow us to better serve our customers," Dot Foods Senior Vice president Jim Tracy explained. "It will provide a much-needed access point into the Southern California, Arizona, New Mexico and Southern Nevada and Utah markets. From our experience working with the State of Arizona, Mohave County and Bullhead City, it is evident the area is open for business. We are excited to establish roots in this region, although we still have challenges to address to make this facility a success."
The company plans to break ground on the Mohave County facility late this year, with a goal of opening in late 2017.
"This is great news for Mohave County," Governor Doug Ducey said. "The Dot Foods facility will have a highly positive impact on the community by creating hundreds of quality jobs and bringing significant capital investment to the region. I am confident that Dot Foods will find success in Arizona and thank them for their commitment to our state. I'd also like to thank our partners for their work in bringing this great company to Arizona."
Founded in 1960 by Robert and Dorothy Tracy, Dot Foods remains family-owned and operated today. Headquartered in the small town of Mt. Sterling, Illinois, Dot buys full truckloads of product from 830 manufacturers and consolidates those products in 10 distribution centers located across the country. Dot then resells products in less-than-truckload (LTL) quantities to distributors on a weekly basis.
Food manufacturers are experts at product development, production and marketing, but their transportation systems are only set up to efficiently sell full truckloads of their products. In the United States, there are more than 15,000 distributors. Many of them are not large enough to regularly order from manufacturers in truckload quantities, or do not want to store large quantities for long periods. Through Dot Transportation Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Dot Foods, the company distributes more than 112,000 food service, convenience, retail and vending products in LTL quantities to distributors in all 50 states and over 25 countries with short lead times. This business model effectively addresses challenges for everyone in the food supply chain.
"Dot Food's selection of Arizona for a new distribution center speaks volumes about our state's strategic geographic location and excellent transportation infrastructure," Sandra Watson, President and CEO, Arizona Commerce Authority said. "This project demonstrates how collaborative regional partnerships continue to attract quality employers such as Dot Foods to Arizona and strengthen our statewide economy."
"With Dot Foods' announcement to locate in Mohave County, I would like to recognize the collaborative efforts of Governor Doug Ducey, the Arizona Commerce Authority, Bullhead City and Mohave County Economic Development Department who jointly worked to attract this major distribution center," said Jean Bishop, Chair Mohave County Board of Supervisors. "We are excited about the new employment opportunities and the economic impact that Dot Foods presence will have on our communities and look forward to other businesses realizing that Mohave County is open for business."
"Dot Foods will be a great addition to Mohave County's growing business community. We anticipate that many more forward-thinking companies like Dot Foods will continue to find their home in Mohave County," Mohave County Supervisor Steve Moss said. "Mohave County's low tax environment, low cost of doing business and proximity to markets will provide Dot Foods the ideal location to service their Southwestern customers."
"The decision of the nation's largest food redistribution company to locate their Southwestern US distribution center in Mohave County, Arizona, and provide more than 125 local Arizona jobs will be an economic boost to the Mohave County, Fort Mohave, and the Bullhead City region for many years to come," said Bennett Bratley, Mohave County Economic Development Director.
"We are very excited that Dot Foods chose Mohave County as the site for its newest distribution center," Bullhead City Mayor Tom Brady said . "Bullhead City will partner with Dot & Mohave Community College to expand the college's truck driving school into Bullhead City. I am very proud of the support our city will bring, not only to Dot Foods, but also to other companies looking to take advantage of the affordability of the region, low tax environment and the availability of workers. This is a win-win situation for the company and our community."
Dot recorded $6.2 billion in sales in 2015 and sits at #68 on Forbes' list of America's Largest Private Companies. Dot and Dot Transportation currently employ more than 4,800 people.
The new Mohave County distribution center will house a main and outbuilding facilities totaling over 162,980 square-feet. That includes 41,000 square-feet of refrigerated, frozen and dry storage and a 9,700 square-foot garage.

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/2016/06/jobs-announcement-nations-largest-food-industry-redistributor-locate
