Public Statements
Governor Doug Ducey Signs Legislation To Expand Educational Opportunity For Foster Kids
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: May 13, 2016
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today signed legislation that gives school-age foster children enrollment preference at the public school of their choice.
HB 2665 also includes an advance appropriation of up to $1.5 million in fiscal year 2018 to expand statewide the FosterEd Program, currently in pilot status in Pima County. An initiative of the National Center for Youth Law, the FosterEd program is based on a model in which every foster child is assigned an Education Champion who can support the student's long-term education success, along with an education team of adults who develop and support an individualized education plan based on the student's academic strengths and needs.
The governor acknowledges the integral work of our Arizona philanthropic foundations and their impacts in our schools, particularly for low-income children, and this measure reinforces his intention to partner with foundations to provide an even greater opportunity and impact. HB2665 begins this new model of public/philanthropy partnership by combining state dollars, with matching charitable investment, to scale statewide pilot projects that have shown to provide positive outcomes for Arizona youth.
"We must ensure our most vulnerable children have every chance at success," said Governor Ducey. "That includes supporting programs like FosterEd, which provides foster kids access to the quality education that will best prepare them for their future -- whether that includes heading to college or entering the workforce. I look forward to partnering with Arizona's excellent philanthropic organizations as we magnify our efforts and ability to better serve all of Arizona's children.
"Additionally, I want to thank Rep. John Allen and Sen. David Bradley for their leadership on this legislation and their tireless support of Arizona's foster kids and families."

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/2016/05/governor-doug-ducey-signs-legislation-expand-educational-opportunity-foster
