Public Statements
Governor Doug Ducey Signs Bills To Help Arizonans Suffering From Addiction
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: May 12, 2016
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today signed two bills aimed at preventing and treating opioid addiction in Arizona.
SB1283 targets "doctor shopping" by requiring physicians in Arizona to access and update the Controlled Substance Prescription Monitoring Program (CSPMP) database before prescribing a controlled substance to a patient.
HB 2355 allows a pharmacist to dispense Naloxone without a prescription to a person at risk of experiencing an opioid-related overdose, a family member or community member in a position to assist that person.
"For those suffering from addiction, law enforcement can only go so far. We must find help for those who want it," said Governor Ducey. "In an average month, more than 1,000 Arizonans are in possession of as many as four prescriptions at a time from four different doctors. By requiring physicians to access and update the prescription drug database before prescribing to a patient, SB 1283 will help identify, address and end "doctor shopping' among Arizonans. This is an important step in preventing new addictions and even death, as prescription opiates can serve as a gateway to more dangerous and often fatal illegal drugs. I'm thankful to Sen. John Kavanagh for his leadership and commitment to reversing this tragic epidemic."
"As we work to curb the trend of addiction, we are also focused on helping those already suffering. In 2014, 552 people died of opioid poisoning in Arizona. Thanks to Rep. Heather Carter and all who championed on behalf of HB 2355, we're giving family members the tools to save a loved one's life. We are committed to ensuring that more substance abuse treatment options are available, and hope that those who are given a second chance at life because of this legislation will seek help in overcoming their addiction."

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/2016/05/governor-doug-ducey-signs-bills-help-arizonans-suffering-addiction
