Public Statements
Governor Doug Ducey Praises Passage Of Structurally-Balanced Budget That Prioritizes K-12 Education
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: May 4, 2016
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today praised the passage of Arizona's fiscal year 2017 budget -- a fiscally-responsible spending plan that makes critical investments in K-12 education, child and public safety, while bringing the state to a positive structural balance for the first time since 2007.
"This budget would have been unattainable just 15 short months ago, when the state was in a billion dollar hole and government was living beyond its means. Because of the decisions elected leaders made to set priorities, we are now in a position to make strategic investments in K-12 education, higher education, child safety and public safety," said Governor Ducey. "I want to thank all the legislators, especially Speaker David Gowan and President Andy Biggs, for their partnership and hard work in passing a responsible budget package that is balanced and values-based."
Highlights of the Fiscal Year 2017 Balanced Budget:
Balances the budget and eliminates the structural deficit to achieve the state's first structural balance since 2007.
Invests $181 million -- above the education settlement agreement from Prop 123 -- in the K-12 system to ensure every Arizona student has access to a quality education.
Provides additional funding to Arizona's world-class universities.
Includes $26.6 million to expand the border strike force and crack down on illegal drug trafficking and cartels in Southern Arizona
Makes a $116 million two-year investment in child safety, while focusing on safely reducing the growth rate of children in state care.
Provides $10 million for a new veterans home in Flagstaff.
Invests an additional $86.5 million in Arizona's transportation system, which will be used to leverage additional federal dollars for infrastructure projects.
Provides $8 million dollars in tax relief for small businesses.

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/2016/05/governor-doug-ducey-praises-passage-structurally-balanced-budget-prioritizes-k
