Public Statements
Ziprecruiter, Governor Ducey Announce Opening of Sales and Customer Success Hub in Tempe, Arizona
Statement
By: Doug Ducey
Date: April 4, 2016
Location: Phoenix, AZ

ZipRecruiter, the market-leading hiring platform for small to medium-sized businesses (SMBs), and Arizona Governor Doug Ducey today announced the expansion of the company's sales and customer service operations, which will be located in Tempe, Arizona at Hayden Ferry Lakeside. Since 2014, ZipRecruiter has more than doubled its employee head count. The new office will support the increased market demand for simpler and faster job-matching and hiring services for both job-seekers and employers across the country.
Technology hubs are increasingly taking root in midsized American cities, and the trend is creating a wealth of new career opportunities for diverse markets. With more than 20 percent of Tempe jobs in the technology industry, ZipRecruiter aims to help enhance and expand the city's innovation and technology communities. The lease of more than 15,000 square feet of space near Tempe Town Lake marks ZipRecruiter's first expansion beyond its home base of Santa Monica, and comes as the 300-employee company looks to add hundreds of new team members over the next few years, many of those in Arizona. The new facility will create a projected 238 high-value jobs in Tempe over a five-year period.
"Arizona's deep talent pool and active lifestyle make it an ideal location for ZipRecruiter's brand, culture and growing team," said Ian Siegel, CEO and co-founder of ZipRecruiter. "As a company focused on finding talented people for great jobs, we tested our own service in the Tempe market before committing to opening this new location, and we were blown away by the quality of local candidates for our expansion."
"Arizona's proximity to California presents an excellent opportunity for companies such as ZipRecruiter looking to expand their operations into a market that offers a world-class environment for business growth," said Arizona Governor Doug Ducey. "ZipRecruiter's selection of Arizona echoes a larger trend of technology-driven companies -- from innovative startups to industry icons -- choosing Arizona due to our state's pro-business environment, highly skilled and available talent, and unmatched quality of life."

Source:
