Public Statements
National Adoption Day Remarks
Statement
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Nov. 21, 2015
Location: Unknown

I'm honored to be here today to help kick off Maricopa County's 16th Annual Adoption Day -- and what a celebration it's going to be for so many Arizona children.
I just want to note that all across the country today, courts and communities in every state in America are going to help make dreams come true for thousands of children, parents and families.
So -- how great is it that the largest Adoption Day celebration is happening right here in Maricopa County?
It's a remarkable testament to the passionate, devoted and hardworking judges, attorneys, adoption professionals, advocates, volunteers -- and of course -- the families joining us here today.
Year after year, more adoptions are finalized here on this day than in any other county in the United States -- and that's something to be proud of.
I'm told that last year, Maricopa County finalized the adoptions of more than 300 children -- with the help of 27 judicial officers, 23 clerks and more than 150 community volunteers.
And this year -- today -- 280 adoptions are expected to be finalized.
Let's think about that for a minute. By the end of this day -- just in time for the holiday season -- 280 Arizona children are going to go home.
That's 280 kids who, on Thursday, will sit at a table for the best -- if not the first -- Thanksgiving they've ever had.
Kids who, next month, will wake up on Christmas morning in their new bed, in their new home, with their new and forever family.
And no matter how many presents surround the tree this year, you're all helping to ensure these children have the most priceless, precious gifts of all: Love. Warmth. Well-being. Security. Family. Forever.
I had the pleasure and privilege of meeting with some of the families here this morning -- and all I can say is -- what a blessed holiday season and New Year it's going to be for them.
Anyone who knows me and my wife Angela -- knows how close this issue is to our hearts. We're aunt, uncle and godparents to a boy who was adopted through the foster care system. And we've long been advocates for foster care and children finding permanent, loving homes in Arizona.
It's something that I care deeply about personally, but also professionally, as governor of Arizona.
There are more than 17,000 foster children in our state waiting for their forever families.
Every single one of them deserves a home in which they are safe  in which they are warm  in which they are comfortable, clothed and fed  and in which they are loved.
Over 17 thousand. I know that's a figure that we're used to hearing in our positions. What we must not do -- is forget what that number represents.
Today, as hundreds of kids are adopted -- thousands across the nation -- I reiterate my pledge to you that I will do everything in my power to fight for those children.
When it comes to promoting the need for more adoptions, more foster parents, more advocates, more permanency  more children in safe, stable and loving homes  I'll be on the front lines -- sending that message loudly, often and statewide.
But I can't do it alone, and that's why Arizona's so very fortunate to have this event -- and the people who made it possible.
Judges Barton and McNally, Chief Justice Bales, Katheryn, Janet and the entire American Academy of Adoption Attorneys, all the national partners who make this day a success year after year, all the volunteers, advocates and Maricopa County employees who dedicate their lives to serving others.
And of course: the adoptive parents and children we're here to celebrate. We're so incredibly happy -- and grateful for you. And we wish you and your families a lifetime of love, laughter and light.
Thank you all again for everything you do, and have done to make this National Adoption Day possible and memorable for so many Arizonans.
Have a great day, a blessed holiday season and a wonderful New Year. Thank you, and God Bless.

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/2015/11/national-adoption-day-remarks
