Public Statements
White Mountain Independent - Gov. Doug Ducey's Back-to-School Message: Focus Should be on School Funding
News Article
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Sept. 4, 2015
Location: Unknown

By Governor Doug Ducey
For the past month, Gov. Ducey has been visiting classrooms across the state talking to students and teachers about getting the school year off to a great start. This is the message he has been sharing:
Back-to-school season is an exciting and important time for all Arizona families, because it sets the tone for the rest of the year.
And having quality public schools and teachers is crucial to a successful learning environment.
Over the last several months, I've talked about educational excellence in Arizona  and how quality, access and choice are key to the future of this state and our economy.
As you're probably aware, I'm proposing a plan to put more than $2 billion into our K-12 system, without raising taxes or touching the state general fund.
These are NEW dollars that give our teachers, principals and students the resources they desperately need.
I've had the opportunity to visit some awesome schools these first few weeks of the academic year, and the teachers and students I meet are so enthusiastic about making this year great.
It goes without saying that we have some truly excellent students and incredibly dedicated teachers here in Arizona.
I am extremely grateful these teachers who have chosen to make Arizona their home and make a difference in the lives of our kids.
I want to thank them for the excellent work they do and encouraging our children to exceed their potential.
I look forward to working with them -- and the entire education community -- to get more money into our classrooms, to improve results for all Arizona schools and students, and to ensure that every child in Arizona has a shot at an excellent education.
I wish all Arizona teachers, kids and their families a successful school year.'

Source: http://www.wmicentral.com/opinion/editorials/gov-doug-ducey-s-back-to-school-message-focus-should/article_51372120-5293-11e5-98ef-8bd24253b0e9.html
