Public Statements
Governor Doug Ducey Announces Arrest of Fires State Employee Suspected of Fraud, Embezzlement
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Sept. 2, 2015
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today announced that a significant arrest has been made against a fired AHCCCS employee suspected of defrauding the agency of at least $1.5 million starting as early as 2006.
"I've made it clear from day one that I take extremely seriously this administration's duty and commitment to following the law and protecting Arizona taxpayers," said Governor Ducey. "The fraudulent activities that led to this arrest are unacceptable, appalling, infuriating and have absolutely no place in state government."
AHCCCS took immediate steps upon learning of a potential procurement irregularity, launching an investigation with the Attorney General's office, which led to the employee's termination and arrest. AHCCCS worked with the Attorney General's office to immediately seize assets and accounts. AHCCCS is also launching a full-scale audit and review of its internal protocols that will be conducted by an independent, private auditing firm.
"Director Betlach took prompt action and immediately brought this to the attention of law enforcement authorities." added Governor Ducey. "He's assured me he will provide any and all necessary support to Attorney General Brnovich and his office during its criminal investigation into this matter, which is underway. Moreover, I've also ensured that appropriate and necessary actions are already in motion at AHCCCS to prevent similar unlawful activities from occurring in the future.
"Let this be a wake-up call to any state employee who tries to cheat the system and exploit our taxpayers for personal gain: Not on our watch. Actions that violate the law, or the public's trust in their government, will not be tolerated. And individuals who engage in such actions will be punished to the fullest extent of the law."

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/2015/09/governor-doug-ducey-announces-arrest-fired-state-employee-suspected-fraud
