Public Statements
GOvernor Doug Ducey Lauds New Education Initiatives to Benefit Navajo Nation Children & Families
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Aug. 14, 2015
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today made his first official trip to the Navajo Nation, where he met with tribal leaders, elected officials and members of the education community to tout new education initiatives that will benefit Navajo children and families.
As part of his visit, the governor hosted a bill signing for S.B. 1332 -- legislation passed earlier this year that expands Arizona's Empowerment Scholarship Account (ESA) to children living on Native American reservations.
"I was proud to sign this important piece of legislation, joined by the very individuals who will benefit most," said Governor Ducey. "This was a great opportunity to reiterate my commitment to ensuring parental choice and education excellence for all Arizona students -- regardless of where they live -- and this bill reflects that priority. I want to offer my thanks to Senator Begay for his sponsorship on this bill and his leadership on this issue."
In keeping with the theme of expanding educational opportunities, another highlight of the governor's visit was the announcement of a new, innovative education project --The Code Writers Education Initiative. A partnership with the Navajo Nation, the State of Arizona, Intel, Science Foundation Arizona, Arizona STEM Network and others, the initiative will bring together business, philanthropy, education and government leaders to create a technology-based education for Arizona's Native Americans.
"Arizona has the third-highest Native American population in the country, so as companies look to expand and diversify their workforce to reflect community demographics, we want them to look to Arizona first," said Governor Ducey. "This great initiative helps Native American students by giving them the training and computer programming skills they need to pursue technology-based careers, and it also helps companies as they continue to build a diverse and talented workforce. I want to thank Senator Begay for his work on this program, as well as all the partners joining forces to empower all Native American students with new education and training opportunities."

Source:
