Public Statements
Governor Doug Ducey Makes Appointments to the Maricopa County Superior Court
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Aug. 6, 2015
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today announced the appointments of Jeffrey Rueter, Stephen Hopkins and Ronee Korbin Steiner to the Maricopa County Superior Court.
Jeffrey Rueter graduated from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln in 1990 and received his law degree from Arizona State University College of Law in 1993.
Before his appointment, Jeffrey served as a commissioner for the Maricopa County Superior Court for seven years, where he managed criminal cases, conducted settlement conferences and presided over jury trials. He also previously worked as an assistant attorney general and a deputy Maricopa County attorney, prosecuting various criminal cases.
"Jeffrey is a devoted and talented public servant," said Governor Ducey. "His extensive prosecutorial experience and background as a commissioner make him an outstanding addition to the bench."
Stephen Hopkins graduated from Knox College in 1982 and received his law degree from the University of Kansas Law School in 1985.
Before opening his own law firm in 1995, Mr. Hopkins was a trial lawyer at Snell & Wilmer, L.L.P. for 10 years. He has practiced in the areas of construction, real estate, commercial, corporate and tort litigation. Mr. Hopkins is active with the State Bar of Arizona, having served on the Trial Practice Executive Council, Ethics Committee, and Civil Jury Instructions Committee. In addition, he has served as a judge pro tempore for the Maricopa County Superior Court and the Arizona Court of Appeals.
"Stephen is a skillful advocate and an experienced litigator," said Governor Ducey. "His well-balanced work experience and competency in the legal profession will be tremendously valuable on the bench and to the people of Arizona."
Ronee Korbin Steiner graduated cum laude from the Ohio State University in 1990 with Honors in the Liberal Arts. She received her law degree from Temple University Law School in 1993. After school, Ronee clerked for Judge Samuel Lehrer in the Court of Common Pleas in Philadelphia, and then worked as a criminal defense attorney for the Maricopa County Public Defender's Office.
Ronee currently works as a family law attorney at her own firm, Korbin Steiner & Marquis. Ronee also serves as a judge pro tempore for the Maricopa County Superior Court. In 2010, Ronee received the Family Law Litigator of the Year Award from the Volunteer Lawyers Program, and was recognized as one of the top 50 pro bono lawyers of the year.
"Ronee is an effective communicator with a successful track record managing difficult cases," said Governor Ducey. "I'm impressed with her background in family law and mediation, and I'm confident that she, Jeffrey and Stephen will serve the state of Arizona well on the Maricopa County Superior Court."
The appointments of Jeffrey Rueter, Stephen Hopkins, and Ronee Korbin Steiner were made to fill the vacancies created by the retirements of the Honorable Linda Miles, Honorable Robert Miles, and Honorable Boyd Dunn.

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/2015/08/governor-doug-ducey-makes-appointments-maricopa-county-superior-court
