Public Statements
Governor Doug Ducey Expands Arizona's Trade Efforts in Mexico
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: July 6, 2015
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today announced plans to increase Arizona's trade efforts in Mexico by enhancing the Arizona-Mexico Commission's (AMC) current efforts in Sonora, Mexico.
In an expansion of his current role as director of the Governor's Southern Arizona Office, Juan Ciscomani has been appointed by Governor Ducey to serve as director of the Arizona-Mexico Commission's Sonora Office.
The Sonora Office will coordinate through the AMC leadership team of Kim Sabow, Executive Director, Justin Dutram, Deputy Executive Director and David Farca, President of the Board of Directors.
"Mr. Ciscomani is an active participant in economic development initiatives in Southern Arizona," said Governor Ducey. "His previous experience with the Tucson Hispanic Chamber of Commerce will serve him well in this role, as supporting the growth and expansion of small and medium enterprises is vital to growing bilateral trade between the two states."
"I am honored to represent Governor Ducey in Sonora and advance his vision for strengthening Arizona's trade relations with Mexico," said Mr. Ciscomani. "As a native of Hermosillo, this opportunity is particularly meaningful, and I look forward to promoting the strength and economic vitality of our region."
In addition, Governor Ducey announced the appointment of Juan Francisco Moreno, a partner of the Gómez del Campo and Moreno Law Firm, to serve as AMC's private initiatives liaison in Sonora.
Mr. Moreno will join the AMC as the private initiatives liaison for the State of Arizona in Sonora. An attorney with practices in Arizona and Sonora, Mr. Moreno brings many years of experience in representation of U.S. and Mexican companies on investment opportunities, secured lending, cross-border manufacturing and resort, commercial and industrial development in Mexico.
"Mr. Moreno brings a wealth of experience advising Mexican clients on commercial real estate, business formation and contract negotiations in Arizona," said Governor Ducey. "His knowledge and experience in cross-border business development will be a tremendous asset to the office and will help enhance Arizona's efforts to expand trade with Sonora."
"It is an honor to be appointed to the role, and to be able to further Governor Ducey's objectives of strengthening our relationship with Mexico -- Arizona's largest trading partner -- while creating jobs and economic development in the region," said Mr. Moreno. "I look forward to working together with President David Farca, Executive Director Kim Sabow and the talented and dedicated individuals at the AMC."
"Mr. Ciscomani and Mr. Moreno have the combined skills and experience that will bring our office in Sonora to a whole new level," said AMC President David Farca. "They represent an expansion of an incredible team being built at the AMC to bring a completely new approach to the Arizona-Mexico relationship, and will be key in helping to carry out Governor Ducey's vision for the region."

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/news/governor-doug-ducey-expands-arizona%E2%80%99s-trade-efforts-mexico
