Public Statements
Yarnell Hill Memorial Site Officially Named "Granite Mountain Hotshots Memorial State Park"
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: June 25, 2015
Location: Phoenix, AZ

In a historic meeting, the Arizona State Parks Board yesterday named the future site of the Yarnell Hill Memorial. By unanimous vote, the Board adopted "Granite Mountain Hotshots Memorial State Park" as the official site name.
"No words will ever fully convey our gratitude for these 19 heroes -- we owe them a debt that can never be repaid," said Governor Ducey. "But this memorial, named in their honor, will remind us every day of their sacrifice, and of how blessed we are to have brave first responders like them out there protecting us every day. I'm proud we can honor them with this due tribute."
"This is a historic moment and Arizona State Parks and the Board are proud to be part of the process," said Arizona State Parks Board Chairman R.J. Cardin. "We continue to work to make the site a special place that will honor the 19 Granite Mountain Hotshots who lost their lives there."
In 2014, House Bill 2624 tasked the Board with purchasing the site and establishing a memorial park. Today, the Board fulfilled an important part of this mission by officially naming the future park. The Board, which is chaired by Arizona State Parks Executive Director Sue Black, is working with elected officials and family members of the 19 wildland firefighters to create a place to pay tribute to the Granite Mountain Hotshots.
House Bill 2624 also set aside $500,000 for the purchase of the State Trust land on which this tragedy occurred. On June 30, 2015, Parks will attend a public auction and bid on this 320-acre parcel. Following a successful bid, Parks will designate the land as a memorial to the 19 Granite Mountain Hotshots who sacrificed their lives fighting the Yarnell Hill Fire on June 30, 2013.
The name, "Granite Mountain Hotshots Memorial State Park," was chosen after thorough consultation with the Yarnell Hill Memorial Site Board Design Subcommittee and the families of the Granite Mountain Hotshots.
The following members serve on the Design Subcommittee:State Forester Jeff Whitney; co-chair Michael King; Glen Hopkinson; Chuck Tidey; Darrell Willis; Deborah Pfingston; Geri Ann Boyd; Pete Gordon; William Neal Gauslow; and TJ Ashcraft. Amanda Marsh led the Design Subcommittee in accomplishing this endeavor. Together, the Board members and families worked to develop a name that honors the Hotshots and the sacrifices they made for their fellow Arizonans..

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/news/yarnell-hill-memorial-site-officially-named-%E2%80%9Cgranite-mountain-hotshots-memorial-state-park%E2%80%9D
