Public Statements
Governor Doug Ducey Briefs Arizona Commerce Authority Board on Trade Trips to Paris and Mexico City
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: June 22, 2015
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today briefed the Arizona Commerce Authority on his successful visit to the Paris Air Show and Mexico City, reiterating his commitment to expanding and strengthening the Arizona-Mexico relationship and actively meeting with CEOs to pitch them on Arizona's great business climate.
While in Paris, Governor Ducey met with 35 CEOs over a two-day period.
The Paris Air Show -- only held every other year -- is where companies, manufacturers and system developers present their latest innovations to the world. It is the world's largest gathering of the aerospace and defense industry.
After the Paris Air Show, Governor Ducey took a red-eye flight to Mexico City to lead a trade delegation of Arizona business leaders, where they met with elected officials and companies from critical economic sectors including mining and copper, trade, financial, agribusiness, health and other industries.
"I'm extremely encouraged by the positive and productive meetings we had with some of the top elected officials and executives in Paris and Mexico this week," said Governor Ducey. "This was an important trip at an important time. Mexico is far and away Arizona's largest trading partner, and the economic opportunities between us are countless. We must make sure we identify them, and more importantly, that we capitalize on them. That was the focus of this delegation and will continue to be a priority of this administration. I look forward to furthering our partnership over the coming weeks, months and years -- and working together to ensure a prosperous future for both Arizona and Mexico.
"The Paris Air Show was also a huge opportunity for Arizona, and we capitalized on it," added Governor Ducey. "More than 1,200 Arizona-based companies make Arizona the United States' third-largest supply chain contributor for aerospace & defense."
In 2014, Arizona's total exports to Mexico were valued at $8.6 billion, and imports from Mexico were valued at $7.3 billion. Visitors from Mexico spend an average of $7.3 million per day in the State of Arizona.

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/news/governor-doug-ducey-briefs-arizona-commerce-authority-board-trade-trips-paris-and-mexico-city
