Public Statements
Arizona Capitol Times - Ducey Urges Vigilance in Dealing with Feds as Water Shortages Loom
News Article
By: Doug Ducey
Date: June 9, 2015
Location: Unknown

By Rachel Leingang
Don't punish Arizona for California's bad behavior.
That was Gov. Doug Ducey's prevailing theme Tuesday on water issues that plague the Colorado River and states that rely on its water. He made his remarks at the East Valley Partnership and Salt River Project forum.
"It's no accident that Arizona is not facing the same challenges that face California at this time. Instead, Arizona stands where California could have, had they taken our path decades ago," Ducey said.
Arizona isn't in the dire straits California is because leaders have stored water and made tough policy decisions, like the 1980 Groundwater Management Act, he said. But the governor urged stakeholders to stay proactive and find new ways to save water or assure future supplies.
"We must never succumb to the idea that we are good for the moment. Because as history has taught us, the moment will pass," Ducey said.
Ducey said the state needs to be a part of all federal discussions related to the Colorado River as shortages loom and be "vigilant" when dealing with the feds. The chance of Lake Mead dropping below 1,075 feet, triggering cuts to Colorado River allottees, is 33 percent for next year, according to projections released in April by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation. The likelihood of a shortage in 2017 is 75 percent.
The first level of cuts would only affect agricultural users in Arizona, though the state would lose 340,000 acre feet of water at that first level, more than 10 percent of its Colorado River allotment. First level cuts to other junior rights holders are much lower: Mexico would lose 50,000 acre feet, while Nevada would lose 13,000. Since California has senior rights to the Colorado, it wouldn't see any cuts.
"I see the potential for a productive and an effective partnership with the federal government, so long as their actions to aid California do not reduce Arizona's flexibility or ability to manage our own water," Ducey said.
California Gov. Jerry Brown ordered cities to cut water usage by 25 percent across the board on April 1 as the drought wore on. Later that month, he announced a proposal to dramatically bump up fines for those who waste water, from a $500 maximum now up to a $10,000 maximum fine.
Ducey outlined several challenges the state faces with water that need to be addressed: a shrinking Lake Mead, potential for further cuts to water allotments, conservation programs that benefit all Colorado River users, augmenting water supplies, and mitigating wildfire risks through forest restoration programs.
"We must impress upon (the federal government) what Arizona has already done and what is already put on the table to ensure that their decisions empower us to control our own destiny," Ducey said.
Before Ducey spoke, Sarah Porter, director of the Kyl Center for Water Policy, said there's a void in leadership now when it comes to water. Former lawmakers like Bruce Babbitt, Carl Hayden and Burton Barr set the state up for success, but there's still a lot of work to be done on water as Lake Mead drops, Porter said.
"For various reasons, and these aren't the fault of elected leaders, we don't have the political will that we've had in the past to put aside partisan differences and do the really hard water planning," Porter said.
The governor's office will be meeting with water leaders across the state and staying in touch with Arizona's congressional delegation to make sure Arizona's interests are a part of any conversations about the Colorado River.
"We have made it very clear that Arizona has a role to play in the western water discussion," Ducey said.
Tom Buschatzke, director of the Arizona Department of Water Resources, told a U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources last week that any potential solutions for addressing the declining levels at Lake Mead need to consider all users of the river's supply.
Water leaders have called on Ducey and the legislature in recent months to add money to the Department of Water Resources, which has seen its annual budget cut nearly in half to $13.3 million in 2015, down from $24.1 million in 2008.
On Tuesday, Ducey said he would call on the legislature to make sure all agencies, starting with DWR, are "properly resourced to accomplish the important work we're asking them to do."

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/arizona-capitol-times-ducey-urges-vigilance-dealing-feds-water-shortages-loom
