Public Statements
Governor Doug Ducey Appoints New Executive Team To Lead Arizona-Mexico Commission
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: May 29, 2015
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today announced the appointment of Kim Sabow as executive director of the Arizona-Mexico Commission (AMC).

Ms. Sabow currently serves as the governor's director of international affairs and strategic initiatives, working to advance Arizona's position in the global arena through enhanced international economic and protocol efforts as well as educational and community collaborations. In her expanded position, Ms. Sabow will continue to serve as international advisor to the governor.

"Kim has been a well-known and reputable figure around the Arizona Capitol for more than two decades, bringing keen expertise and across-the-board experience in state government," said Governor Ducey. "Her extensive knowledge of legislative issues, public affairs, business and workforce development, foreign affairs and more -- coupled with the strong ties she has helped build for Arizona over the years -- will be a tremendous asset to the Arizona-Mexico Commission."
Prior to joining the Ducey administration, Ms. Sabow served as assistant vice president of state relations for the University of Arizona, working as the liaison between the University and the State Legislature, Governor's Office and numerous state agencies to promote UA's legislative priorities at the State Capitol.

Ms. Sabow has served the State of Arizona under three previous gubernatorial administrations and in a number of capacities, most recently as director of public affairs, acting as the governor's liaison with business and community entities as well as media organizations throughout the country. Through her work to advance Arizona's business development efforts, Ms. Sabow was responsible for organizing and executing several international trade and tourism missions and facilitating interactions with numerous foreign delegations and high-profile dignitaries. She also spent several years as an international trade specialist at the Arizona Department of Commerce, representing numerous Arizona companies and promoting the state at events throughout Latin America, Canada, Asia and Europe.

Ms. Sabow earned a Bachelor of Arts in media arts and double minors in communications and Spanish from the University of Arizona. She also holds a Master of Business Administration in international management from the Thunderbird School of Global Management.

Also joining the Arizona-Mexico Commission as deputy executive director is Justin Dutram.

Mr. Dutram currently serves as program coordinator for the University of Arizona's Office of Global Initiatives, developing strategic, bilateral initiatives between the University and Mexico.

"Justin has been an active participant in the Arizona-Mexico Commission for several years through his service at the University of Arizona," said Governor Ducey. "His familiarity with education and economic development on a bilateral scale, as well as his affinity and talent for building strong international relationships, will serve him and the AMC well. Both he and Kim are welcome additions to the team."

Mr. Dutram previously worked for the University as academic outreach coordinator for Santa Cruz County. In this role, he coordinated in the establishment of UA Santa Cruz, a regional learning center offering new education opportunities -- including a quality option to receive a bachelor's degree -- for place and circumstance-bound students in Nogales and Santa Cruz County.

He holds a Bachelor of Science in geography and double minors in Latin American studies and Spanish from New Mexico State University, a Post-Baccalaureate in secondary education from the University of Arizona and a Master of Education in bilingual and multicultural education from Northern Arizona University.

"Kim is an excellent choice to lead the AMC," said David Farca, president of the Arizona-Mexico Commission. "Her level of expertise, leadership and passion for this work will be hugely valuable as we continue to build upon our relationship with Mexico and make our region more globally competitive.

Additionally, I'm pleased Justin will round out our leadership team. He's done great work for the University of Arizona, the AMC and southern Arizona, and I look forward to working with both of them in this important effort."

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/governor-doug-ducey-appoints-new-executive-team-lead-arizona-mexico-commission
