Public Statements
Governor Doug Ducey Appoints Laura Reckart and Ted Campagnolo to the Maricopa County Superior Court
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: May 21, 2015
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today announced the appointments of Laura Reckart and Ted Campagnolo to the Maricopa County Superior Court.
Ms. Reckart, a third-generation Arizonan, is a criminal prosecutor with the Maricopa County Attorney's Office, Capital Litigation Bureau. She has prosecuted many high-profile criminal cases, including the cases against the 2005-2006 "Serial Shooters" and the "Honor Killing" case in 2011. Ms. Reckart has also prepared legislation on matters such as victims' rights, date rape, and sexual assault, which have become law in Arizona.
Ms. Reckart obtained her undergraduate degree from the University of Arizona in 1984 and law degree from the Arizona State University College of Law in 1988.
"Laura has made remarkable progress in helping to protect our most vulnerable community members," said Governor Ducey. "Her commitment to public service and the rule of law will make her an outstanding addition to the bench."
Ted Campagnolo is Senior Litigation Counsel in the Fraud and Special Prosecutions Section of the Arizona Attorney General's Office, and was previously a prosecutor with the Maricopa County Attorney's Office. Mr. Campagnolo serves on the Maricopa County Arson Task Force, teaches Criminal Law as an adjunct professor at Arizona Summit Law School, and has been active at the highest levels of the State Bar of Arizona, including the Board of Governors.
Mr. Campagnolo graduated from Southern Methodist Law School in 1978. He clerked for Judge Reynaldo Garza of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, and then for Judge Garza at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Prior to joining government service, Ted worked in private law practice in Texas, where he gained experience in civil litigation, business law, family law, and probate law.
"I am very impressed with Ted's broad legal experience and his excellent reputation in the community," said Governor Doug Ducey. "I have faith that he will make a unique contribution to the bench."
"I am honored to appoint Laura and Ted to the Maricopa County Superior Court," added Governor Ducey. "I am confident they will serve Arizona well."
These appointments were made to fill the vacancies created by the retirements of the Honorable Brian Ishikawa and the Honorable Carey Snyder Hyatt.

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/governor-doug-ducey-appoints-laura-reckart-and-ted-campagnolo-maricopa-county-superior
