Public Statements
Governor Ducey Takes New Step Towards Reducing Licensing In Arizona
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: March 29, 2017
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today signed an executive order aimed at reducing Arizona's regulatory system by seeking information from state boards and commissions about overly burdensome licensing requirements. By requiring new information from these boards and commissions, the Governor's Office seeks to eliminate unnecessary barriers to entering the job market and to expand opportunities for Arizonans who want to work.
"We've made great strides in keeping Arizona the best state in the nation to find a job and expand a business," said Governor Ducey. "I'm proud to take this new step toward modernizing our licensing system so that barriers to economic opportunity are a thing of the past. There is great value and purpose in work. Government should never stand in the way of someone's efforts to start a new life or profession. Arizona always needs to stay ahead of the national curve--and that's exactly what today's executive order aims to do."
The governor's executive order requires a number of state boards and commissions to review all requirements for each type of license that they issue--and then report these requirements accordingly. If the licensing requirements are found to be excessive (compared to the national average for that license), the board will have to justify the regulation in question, specifically citing potential harm to individuals in our state.
The goal is to identify unnecessary and burdensome licensing requirements that are making it harder for Arizonans to find, keep, and create jobs.
In addition, in keeping with Governor Ducey's efforts to reduce recidivism and help inmates acclimate to life after prison, the executive order requires these boards to report whether applicants with a criminal record are barred from being licensed in each occupation. Even if there is no bar, the boards will be required to report how many applicants with criminal convictions were denied due to character concerns each year for the past five years.
The following boards and commissions are subject to today's executive order:
State Board of Accountancy
Arizona Boxing and MMA Commission
State Board of Acupuncture
State Board of Athletic Training
State Board of Barbers
State Board of Behavioral Health
State Board of Chiropractic Examiners
State Board of Cosmetology
State Board of Dental Examiners
State Board of Funeral Directors and Embalmers
State Board of Homeopathic and Integrated Medicine Examiners
State Board of Massage Therapy
Arizona Medical Board
Naturopathic Physicians Board of Medical Examiners
State Board of Nursing
State Board of Examiners of Nursing Care Institution Administrators and Assisted Living Facility Managers
State Board of Occupational Therapy Examiners
State Board of Dispensing Opticians
State Board of Optometry
State Board of Osteopathic Examiners
State Board of Pharmacy
State Board of Physical Therapy
State Board of Podiatry Examiners
State Board of Psychologist Examiners
State Board of Respiratory Care Examiners
State Board of Technical Registration
State Board of Veterinary Medical Examining.
You can see the executive order here: [Executive Order 2017-03]

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/2017/03/governor-ducey-takes-new-step-towards-reducing-licensing-arizona
