Public Statements
Governor Doug Ducey Announces New Business Leadership Group To Focus On Economic Development, Promoting Arizona
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: May 13, 2015
Location: Phoenix, AZ

"I want the world to know that Arizona is the ideal place to live, work, play, recreate, retire, visit, build a business and get an education." To make that bold vision a reality, Governor Doug Ducey today announced a new business leadership group called the Arizona Zanjeros, comprised of active CEOs and business leaders from across the state and led by Arizona Cardinals President Michael Bidwill and Tucson Hispanic Chamber of Commerce President and CEO Lea Marquez Peterson as co-chairs.

The group's objective is to promote Arizona's reputation as a prime place to conduct business with an unmatched quality of life. Utilizing the benefits and advantages of a public-private partnership, the organization will work closely with the state's economic development partners to host visiting CEOs and provide both hospitality and first-hand accounts of what it's like to live and do business here.

"The Zanjeros will be my go-to team when it comes to marketing Arizona to CEOs and business leaders across the country and around the world," Governor Ducey said. "As active business and corporate leaders, they know the challenges of running a company and how living and operating in Arizona not only benefits their bottom line but also their quality of life for themselves, their families and their employees. There is nobody better to help inform, promote and share why they choose to live and work in Arizona."

Traditionally, zanjeros are water masters who control the expansive canal systems that provide a sustainable water source to Arizona's metropolitan regions and allow life to flourish in the desert. In a similar vein, the Arizona Zanjeros will help promote the state and drive business growth, expansion and development by serving as ambassadors for the state and working to ensure Arizona continues to flourish economically.

"I've been to more than 40 states in my career, and I can say with certainty that no other state has the breathtaking attributes and opportunities that we have in Arizona," said Michael Bidwill, president and CEO of the Arizona Cardinals. "The Zanjeros will be focused on making sure CEOs and business leaders across the country know all about them."

Arizona residents and enthusiasts are also invited to join the Zanjeros as Ambassadors, who are encouraged to promote the state in their individual communities and workplaces. Those interested in becoming a Zanjero Ambassador can sign up at www.arizonazanjeros.com and will receive a message book highlighting the state's best assets and attributes, as well as future announcements and notifications. They will also be asked to participate in social media campaigns and other outreach efforts to promote Arizona and why they enjoy living here.

"We can't do this alone. All Arizonans are invited to join the Zanjeros as Ambassadors with the mission of marketing the state in their communities through social media and other interactions that promote Arizona as a great place to live, work and raise a family," said Lea Marquez Peterson, president and CEO of the Tucson Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/governor-doug-ducey-announces-new-business-leadership-group-focus-economic-development
