Public Statements
Governor Doug Ducey Holds Ceremonial Signing of American Civics Act
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Feb. 24, 2015
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today held a ceremonial bill signing of the American Civics Act. The governor was joined at the State Capitol by elected officials and the "We the People" state champion civics team of Corona del Sol High School, from Tempe.
The American Civics Act requires that all Arizona students pass a basic civics test before graduating from high school. It was the first bill Governor Ducey signed, making Arizona the first state in the country to enact such a law.
"It was great to see such a strong and united show of support for such a crucial issue," said Governor Ducey. "Arizona is now a national leader in terms of civics education, and I'll always be proud this was the first bill I signed as governor. I thank the legislators who worked swiftly and in good faith to get this done, as well as the students from Corona del Sol and across Arizona for their commitment and enthusiasm for American civics and education excellence."Governor Doug Ducey today held a ceremonial bill signing of the American Civics Act. The governor was joined at the State Capitol by elected officials and the "We the People" state champion civics team of Corona del Sol High School, from Tempe.
The American Civics Act requires that all Arizona students pass a basic civics test before graduating from high school. It was the first bill Governor Ducey signed, making Arizona the first state in the country to enact such a law.
"It was great to see such a strong and united show of support for such a crucial issue," said Governor Ducey. "Arizona is now a national leader in terms of civics education, and I'll always be proud this was the first bill I signed as governor. I thank the legislators who worked swiftly and in good faith to get this done, as well as the students from Corona del Sol and across Arizona for their commitment and enthusiasm for American civics and education excellence."

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/governor-doug-ducey-holds-ceremonial-signing-american-civics-act
