Public Statements
Governor Doug Ducey Announces Director of Office for Children, Youth & Families
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Feb. 6, 2015
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today announced the appointment of Debbie Moak as director of the Governor's Office for Children, Youth and Families (GOCYF).
"For more than three decades, Debbie has been doing exceptional work to educate, inspire and empower youth, families and communities throughout Arizona and across the nation," said Governor Ducey. "Her passion for serving others -- especially those most vulnerable in our society -- will be a tremendous asset to GOCYF, our administration and the state."
Debbie Moak is co-founder of the non-profit organization, notMYkid, where she has worked since 2000. In this role, Ms. Moak has created prevention-based programs for six common behavioral health issues facing children, including substance abuse, bullying, dating violence, internet safety, depression and eating disorders. Her notMYkid peer-to-peer education programming currently is being modeled in more than 300 Arizona schools.
Additionally, Ms. Moak has personally presented substance abuse education programs to thousands of parents and faculties in Arizona, as well as several other states and internationally in Scotland, Thailand and Guatemala. She also has spearheaded two national annual awareness campaigns focused on educating hundreds of thousands of adults in cities across the United States.
Previously, Ms. Moak worked for ten years as an elementary classroom teacher and a special education resource teacher in Arizona, Ohio and Kentucky (1986-1996). She also volunteered as a librarian and was a board member and donor for the Thomas J. Pappas School for the Homeless (1996-1999).
She is a current member of the Young Life Area Board, served on the Joe Foss Institute Board, and in 2010 was awarded the Social Venture Partners Social Entrepreneur of the Year Award. Ms. Moak obtained a Bachelor of Arts in Elementary Education from Northern Kentucky University (1985).
"I am honored to have the opportunity to continue serving the youth and families of Arizona through the office of GOCYF," said Debbie Moak. "I am grateful to Governor Ducey and his administration for their enthusiasm and vision to meet the needs of all of Arizona's families."

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/governor-doug-ducey-announces-director-office-children-youth-families
