Public Statements
Governor Ducey Names Department of Public Safety Director
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Jan. 27, 2015
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey has appointed Mesa Police Chief Frank Milstead director of the Arizona Department of Public Safety.
"Chief Milstead has led a long, dedicated and successful career improving the safety of our communities while creating efficiencies in his departments," said Governor Ducey. "I am proud to announce he will continue to serve our state and defend the safety of our citizens."
Chief Milstead has served the Mesa Police Department since 2010, overseeing 1,250 sworn and civilian employees. As police chief, he has placed an emphasis on street-level crime fighting, community partnership, transparency and economic efficiency, including through the use of innovative technology.
Prior to joining the Mesa Police Department, Chief Milstead served for 25 years with the Phoenix Police Department, including command positions in the Homeland Defense Bureau, Major Offender Bureau and the Traffic Bureau. Chief Milstead was also involved in several multi-agency high-status cases and served in the Unified Command structure for Super Bowl 42 and the 2009 NBA All Star games.
He is a member of several law enforcement organizations, including the Major Cities Chiefs Association; International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP); and the Arizona Association of Chiefs of Police.
Chief Milstead holds a Bachelor's Degree in organizational management from the University of Phoenix, and is a graduate of the University of Louisville Southern Police Institute Chief Executive Leadership Program.
"I am honored Governor Ducey has appointed me to lead the Department of Public Safety and oversee its critical mission," said Chief Milstead. "I am committed to ensuring our department serves the people of Arizona with honor and integrity, and I will work tirelessly to make our state a safer place for all."

Source: http://www.governor.state.az.us/governor/news/governor-ducey-names-department-public-safety-director
