Public Statements
Governor Doug Ducey Announces Additional Agency Directors
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Jan. 9, 2015
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey has announced the names of additional state agency directors who have been retained to serve as members of the governor's cabinet: Henry Darwin, Arizona Department of Environmental Quality (ADEQ); Will Humble, Arizona Department of Health Services (ADHS); Alberto Gutier, Arizona Governor's Office of Highway Safety (AZGOHS); and Daniel Bergin, Arizona Department of Gaming.
"I'm gratified that these talented and dedicated directors will continue their service to the state as members of my administration," said Governor Ducey. "Each of them has played a vital role in the accomplishments of their departments, and I'm confident will continue to carry out their agencies' important missions with integrity and success."
Henry Darwin: Henry Darwin was appointed director of the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality in 2011. He previously served as deputy director; acting director for the Water Quality Division; and administrative counsel for the department. Prior to joining ADEQ, Mr. Darwin worked as in-house environmental counsel for Salt River Project and served briefly as an Assistant Attorney General on special assignment to ADEQ's hazardous waste program.
Will Humble: Director of Health Services since 2009, Will Humble has more than 25 years of experience in the public health sector, including more than 20 years with ADHS. Mr. Humble previously served as deputy director of the Division of Public Health; assistant director for Public Health Preparedness; bureau chief of Epidemiology and Disease Control; office chief of Environmental Health; manager of the Environmental Health Sciences Program; Environmental Program specialist; public health sanitarian. He has been an adjunct faculty member of the University of Arizona's College of Public Health since 2002.
Alberto Gutier: Alberto Gutier has been with the Governor's Office of Highway Safety for 20 years. In addition to serving as director of AZGOHS, Mr. Gutier also is the Sergeant-at-Arms for the State Republican Party. From 2003-2009, he worked for the public affairs/government relations firm Gutier Group LLC, and previously served as an Arizona Motor Vehicle Division administrator; Arizona State personnel director; director of marketing, circulation and sales for Arizona Highways Magazine; and held marketing and sales management positions with CBS, Inc. in Phoenix.
Daniel Bergin: Daniel Bergin was appointed director of the Arizona Department of Gaming in December 2013. He has been with the Department since 2009, previously serving as deputy director and agency counsel. Prior to joining the Department of Gaming, Mr. Bergin served as the Associate General Counsel for Arizona State University; Assistant Attorney General for the Administrative Law/Civil Division; and has several years of experience working in private practice.

Source: http://www.governor.state.az.us/governor/news/governor-doug-ducey-announces-additional-agency-directors
