Public Statements
Governor Doug Ducey Announces Retention of Agency Directors
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Jan. 8, 2015
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today announced the retention of several state agency directors. John Halikowski, director of the Arizona Department of Transportation (ADOT); Tom Betlach, director of the Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System (AHCCCS); Charles Ryan, director of the Arizona Department of Corrections (ADC); and Adjutant General Michael McGuire, director of the Arizona Department of Emergency and Military Affairs (DEMA) will continue their service as members of Governor Ducey's cabinet.
"These individuals have done an exceptional job overseeing their respective departments for the past several years," said Governor Ducey. "Their expertise and experience managing large agencies -- each serving a critically-important function with unique and complex issues -- is indispensable. I look forward to working with each of them, and I am grateful for their continued service to our administration and to the State of Arizona."
John Halikowski: John Halikowski has served as transportation director since February 2009. He previously served as deputy director of the Motor Vehicle Division, research director for the Arizona House of Representatives and research analyst for the Arizona House Transportation Committee. Additionally, Mr. Halikowski has served on several transportation-related boards and commissions. He is the immediate past president of the Western Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, chairs the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials Standing Committee on Research and co-chairs the Arizona Transportation and Trade Corridor Alliance.
Tom Betlach: As director of AHCCCS, Tom Betlach is responsible for the regulatory oversight and compliance of Medicaid-managed health care plans and providers to assure quality care, fiscal accountability and cost containment for 1.5 million Arizonans. Mr. Betlach previously served for five years as director of the Governor's Office of Strategic Planning and Budgeting under Governor Jane Hull and for nearly eight years as the deputy director of AHCCCS.
Charles Ryan: ADC Director Charles Ryan has worked in corrections for more than 35 years. Prior to his appointment as director, he served as deputy director for prison operations, as a prison warden and as a prison administrator. Mr. Ryan possesses extensive institutional knowledge of the prison system, from entry-level to executive positions and from minimum to super-maximum security. He is nationally-recognized for his leadership in the development of policies, processes and meaningful reforms in the field of corrections.
Maj. Gen. Michael McGuire: Maj. Gen. Michael McGuire has served concurrently as director of DEMA and adjutant general of the Arizona National Guard since August 2013. He possesses more than 30 years of active military experience, including more than a decade of service with the Guard. He has served as commander of the 162nd Fighter Wing, the Air National Guard's largest fighter wing, and previously commanded the 214th Reconnaissance Group in support of Operations Enduring Freedom, Iraqi Freedom and New Dawn.

Source: http://www.governor.state.az.us/governor/news/governor-doug-ducey-announces-retention-agency-directors
