Public Statements
Doug Ducey Announces Transition Committee On State Lands
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Dec. 28, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor-elect Doug Ducey today announced the formation of a subcommittee on state trust lands.
Ducey is committed to managing Arizona's state trust land to maximize a value for its beneficiaries. These co-chairs have significant experience working with state government managing its public lands. They'll be able to counsel Ducey regarding these issues with Arizona's best interests in mind.
Steve Betts, Former SunCor Development Company President
Cheryl Lombard, Government Relations Director of the Arizona Chapter of The Nature Conservancy
"Arizona's public trust lands are a critical part of our state infrastructure and I'm glad to have this team overseeing the transition committee," Ducey said. "Managing our state's assets is key in my role as state treasurer and it will be just as important as governor. In order to best benefit all Arizonans, I need to ensure we are managing our assets as efficiently and effectively as possible."
About Steve Betts: Betts is the recently retired president and CEO of SunCor Development Company, a subsidiary of the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation, and developer of master planned communities throughout the Mountainwest and large-scale office, industrial, retail and mixed use urban projects in metropolitan Phoenix. Prior to taking the helm of SunCor, Mr. Betts was a prominent land use and governmental affairs attorney for almost two decades, heading the practice groups of first Streich, Lang P.A., and later Gallagher and Kennedy. He received his law degree with honors from DePaul University in Chicago, Illinois, and a B.A. with honors from Augustana College in Rock Island, Illinois.
About Cheryl Lombard: As the government relations director for the Arizona chapter of The Nature Conservancy, Cheryl leads all federal, state, and local conservation/sustainability legislation, policy and political direction for Arizona chapter. As well, she is a national advisor on Congressional surface transportation reauthorization, US Border legislation and federal lands energy siting. Cheryl has 20 years experience in politics, public affairs, media and community relations and nonprofit management in development and conservation issues. She is an appointee by Arizona Governor Jan Brewer to the Arizona Governor's Regulatory Rules Commission (GRRC), Arizona Governor's Climate Change Advisory Commission, and Arizona Department of Transportation Framework Policy Committee.

Source: http://2015azgtc.com/2014/11/28/doug-ducey-announces-transition-committee-on-state-lands/
