Public Statements
Governor-Elect Doug Ducey Announces Tax Reform Transition Committee
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Nov. 26, 2014
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor-elect Doug Ducey announced today the formation of a subcommittee on tax reform, which will be chaired by Arizona Diamondbacks Managing General Partner Ken Kendrick and the Heritage Foundation's Chief Economist Stephen Moore. The subcommittee will advise the governor-elect on taxation policy during the transition.
"As a state, there's no doubt that we face serious fiscal challenges ahead. I've been clear that in addition to tough financial decisions we must also seek to grow Arizona's economy and make it easy and attractive to grow businesses," Ducey said. "Ken Kendrick and Stephen Moore's fiscal expertise and management experience will be key to determining tax policies that give Arizona an edge to do just that."
About Ken Kendrick: Ken Kendrick is managing general partner of the Arizona Diamondbacks. He is active in the team's day-to-day operations and has helped make the team one of Major League Baseball's model franchises. In addition, he has led developments in downtown Phoenix, including CityScape. He started his career at IBM before founding Datatel, Inc., a leading software development company. Kendrick was also a principal investor in Woodforest National Bank in Texas, which is now one of the nation's largest employee-owned banks.
About Stephen Moore: Stephen Moore, who formerly wrote on the economy and public policy for The Wall Street Journal, is chief economist at the Heritage Foundation. Moore, who also was a member of the Journal's editorial board, returned to Heritage in January 2014 ‒ about 25 years after his tenure as the leading conservative think tank's Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Budgetary Affairs from 1984 to 1987. Moore, who grew up in New Trier Township, Illinois, received a bachelor of arts degree from University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He holds a master's of arts in economics from George Mason University.

Source: http://2015azgtc.com/2014/11/26/governor-elect-doug-ducey-announces-tax-reform-transition-committee/
