Public Statements
Issue Position: Government Waste & Spending
Issue Position
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Agency audits. Our state government needs a top-down review. There are over 80 separate agency budgets that all report directly to the Governor. We need a task force that conducts internal reviews, researches other states' best practices, and then delivers a report on proposed cuts and efficiencies. This would include a review of state assets, including vehicles, aircraft, and repair shops. Real savings can be achieved and passed on to taxpayers.
Reduce duplication and overlap. It's not intentional -- state employees don't look for ways to waste money. But here's one example: Arizona has at least five agencies that issue debt without any coordination between them. They each hire their own bond counsel and financial advisor instead of consolidating that function in one place. Past efforts to streamline this have gone nowhere because no agency wants to give up control. There are many examples like this where costs can be cut and taxpayers will benefit.
Look for technology-driven savings. Some parts of Arizona's state government are modernized -- for instance, our safety net programs that distribute tax dollars -- but far too many offices and programs are stuck in the 20th century. Over the long haul, technology can save substantial amounts of money for the state.
Private sector solutions. Wherever possible, government services should be outsourced to give local Arizona businesses the chance to provide the service more efficiently. Government can pay for things, but it shouldn't attempt to do everything when the private sector can do it cheaper and better.
Restore spending discipline. We must hold state spending increases below the rates of inflation and population growth except in real emergencies. I will sign into law -- without new taxes -- a balanced budget every year that I serve as governor, and veto any bill that violates either of these commitments.

Source:
