Public Statements
Issue Position: Promoting Economic Growth & Opportunity
Issue Position
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

THE ISSUE: ARIZONA'S ECONOMY HAS ONLY RECOVERED A LITTLE MORE THAN HALF OF THE JOBS IT'S LOST SINCE THE GREAT RECESSION.
Reform the tax code. Arizona's tax code needs to be simpler and taxes need to be lower. There are too many rates, too many exceptions, and over the years there's been too much tinkering with the tax code. The tax climate is a primary consideration when companies choose where to locate. We will have an environment that creates more jobs -- both from local businesses that grow and new businesses that come here -- if we reform the tax code.
I will submit legislation to reduce taxes every year, with the goal of pushing income tax rates as close to zero as possible.
Change laws that are anti-Arizona. For example, the requirements we impose on banks that do business with the state favor "Too-Big-To-Fail" banks, none of which are located here in Arizona. We have many fine local banks that would be capable of managing large state accounts. Let's give them the chance to compete and grow in Arizona!
Recruit from California and Illinois. The 8th-largest economy in the world is right next door in California, and it's busy taxing and regulating employers and small businesses to death. Illinois is so bad that we're practically already Chicago's favorite suburb! Given my background growing Cold Stone Creamery, I can help persuade employers they should be expanding and creating jobs here instead of enduring the headaches of high-tax states such as these.
Eliminate unnecessary regulation. Ask small businesspeople what makes their lives difficult, and -- after taxes -- they inevitably say it's the cost and uncertainty of complying with so many regulations. Regulatory compliance almost always requires hiring a lawyer or some other specialist, and it costs money and takes time. We need a government-wide review of regulations, including strengthening and better publicizing the regulatory review mechanism that quantifies the costs of new rules on Arizona employers. By executive action I will eliminate bureaucratic regulations that are unreasonable and unfair to business owners and employees.
Stop lawsuit abuses. I will send to our legislature a civil-justice reform bill designed to end frivolous litigation, harassment, and excessive fee collection by trial lawyers.

Source: http://dougducey.com/issues/economy/
