Public Statements
Issue Position: Government Reform
Issue Position
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

THE ISSUE: GOVERNMENT HASN'T KEPT PACE WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR, AND THERE ARE MANY THINGS GOVERNMENT CAN DO TO BETTER SERVE TAXPAYERS.
End the reliance on special districts. The Arizona Republic did a study last year and found that Maricopa County alone has almost 1500 special taxing districts. As a result, people in the same neighborhood can pay hundreds of dollars more in taxes depending on how many special districts their house is in. Government needs to be transparent and accountable to citizens, and the current system is neither. Reforming the proliferation of special taxing districts would be a good first step.
Review existing practices. Here's an example: At the Treasurer's office we found the formula for distributing money from the Permanent Land Endowment was flawed. Some years schools received money, and some years they received nothing. We worked with the legislature, got voter approval, and changed the formula to ensure a steadier, more reliable stream of funding for education. There are many common-sense reforms that can be implemented, but they require conscious effort and a more business-like approach.
Changing government hours and making government more accessible via the Internet. Government generally works 9-5, Monday through Friday. That may have worked years ago, but with many Arizona families working more than one job, they may not have the ability to get to a government office in those hours. Flexible hours, as well as making more information and services available over the Internet, are both ways we can be more responsive to taxpayers and better fit their needs.
Repeal old, unnecessary laws. Arizona just turned 100 years old. Our statutes have 49 titles and 10,500 pages of laws. The governor and legislature should review how each title of our legal code could be simplified. Being in government shouldn't be just about adding new laws; it should be about repealing old and outdated ones as well.

Source: http://dougducey.com/issues/reform/
