Public Statements
Issue Position: Defending Liberty & Security
Issue Position
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

THE ISSUE: ARIZONA MUST PROTECT THE LIBERTY AND SAFETY OF ITS CITIZENS.
Child Protective Services. We need to commit ourselves to being the safest state in the country for children. We need to help and protect those who can't protect themselves, and as governor I will ensure we have the tools and the resources to do the job right.
Defend the most fundamental right of any person -- the right to life. We need to encourage across our state a culture of life in which the most vulnerable and needy are not viewed as a problem, but as a priority.
Emphasis on mental health. Arizona has solid protections for gun owners, hunters, and sportsmen. And yet whenever a violent act occurs, the kneejerk reaction is to call for more controls on guns.
The tragedies that have recently occurred -- Tucson, Aurora, Newtown -- would not have been averted with stricter gun laws. The common thread in these tragedies is that many warning signs were overlooked or ignored. Ensuring better cooperation between mental health agencies and law enforcement is the right approach.
Protecting our fundamental freedoms and keeping our communities and children safe. I will defend the constitutional right to keep and bear arms. I will also fully protect the rights of crime victims, make the protection of Arizona children from criminal abuse and neglect the first priority of our laws, and work with the federal government to ensure Arizona's veterans and military heroes receive top-level care and services as a symbol of a grateful nation.
Appropriate punishment for criminals who commit crimes with guns. The connection needs to be crystal clear: If you commit a violent act with a weapon, then you're going to be severely punished for it.
Conservative judges who respect individual rights. In our legal system, the men and women with the gavel matter. Ensuring Arizona's courts are populated with people who understand the impact their decisions have on our every-day lives and freedoms is essential.

Source: http://dougducey.com/issues/liberty/
