Public Statements
Issue Position: Education
Issue Position
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

THE ISSUE: TOO MANY ARIZONA SCHOOLCHILDREN ARE GRADUATING WITHOUT SKILLS THEY NEED. FOR THEIR SAKE AND OURS, ARIZONA'S SCHOOLS NEED TO DO BETTER.
More choices for parents. Parents need to make the choices that are best for their children, and should have the option to get their kids out of failing schools with consistently-poor track records. Arizona leads the nation in charter school excellence and they can be a great alternative. Unfortunately, many of them also have daunting waiting lists. As governor, I will submit legislation to eliminate waiting lists for excelling schools, while advancing broad and bipartisan reforms to apply the best practices of high-performing charter and district schools.
Money needs to be spent in the classroom. Each year since 2004, school districts have decreased the percentage of their resources they allocate to our classrooms. With almost 250 school districts and over 40 percent of the employment in district schools not being a teacher or a teacher's aide, the amount of money being spent on "overhead' is much too high. Money should go where it will do the most good -- rewarding superior teachers, and to providing materials, supplies, and technology that will enhance learning for all students.
More accountability at all levels. Principals need to be allowed to run their schools, and teachers need to be able to control their classrooms. Give them the authority they need and the results will be astounding. And if they don't measure up, then someone else should take their place. Schools should be graded and parents should be informed about the quality of the schools their children are attending. It's basic accountability, and it works.
Higher standards and higher expectations. Arizona has many great teachers and some of the highest-performing schools in the country. We need to take their successes and replicate them across the state. We also need to include more rigorous civics education standards. Arizona kids should graduate knowing the basics regarding American history and what it means to be a U.S. citizen.
State control, not federal. I will resist over-reach from the federal government, including Common Core, and protect our schools from federal intrusion into the state and local responsibility of public education.
It's not about the money. Between federal, state, and local money, Arizona spends more than $9 billion educating more than one million children. That's around $8700 per child. We need to make real reforms and get better results from the money we already spend, rather than simply throwing money into a system that's under-performing.

Source: http://dougducey.com/issues/education/
