Public Statements
Governor Ducey Appoints Adam Driggs and Ronda Fisk To The Maricopa County Superior Court
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Feb. 13, 2017
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey today announced the appointments of Adam Driggs and Ronda Fisk to the Maricopa County Superior Court.
Adam Driggs is the founding partner of Driggs Law Group. He represents clients in immigration, employment, criminal, and civil litigation matters. He also practices international sports law and has represented several Olympic athletes in litigation before national and international tribunals. In addition to practicing law, Adam has been a small business owner and served in the Arizona State Legislature. He served in the Arizona House of Representatives from 2007 to 2010, and in the Arizona State Senate from 2011 to 2016. Adam served as chairman of the Judiciary Committee in both the House and the Senate.
Adam graduated from Brigham Young University in 1990 with a Bachelor of Arts in Portuguese. He received his law degree from the Arizona State University College of Law in 1993.
"Adam has made significant contributions to the State of Arizona -- as both a lawyer and a member of the legislative branch.," said Governor Ducey. "His legal experience, work ethic, and dedication to the citizens of Arizona will make him an excellent addition to the judicial branch. I am pleased to appoint Adam Driggs to the Maricopa County Superior Court."
Ronda Fisk is a partner at Osborn Maledon, where she practices employment law, health care law, and commercial litigation. Ronda previously clerked for Chief Justice Charles Jones of the Arizona Supreme Court. Before entering law school, Ronda worked as a teacher in Phoenix as part of the Teach for America program.
Ronda graduated cum laude from the University of Washington in 1996. She received her law degree from the University of Arizona College of Law in 2002, where she graduated summa cum laude and Order of the Coif. In law school, Ronda was Symposium Editor of the Arizona Law Review.
"Ronda is highly-regarded in the legal community for her intellect and integrity," said Governor Ducey. "Ronda's legal background is impressive -- from her service as a law clerk to Chief Justice Jones, to her law practice where she routinely handles highly complex commercial legal matters. I am pleased to appoint Ronda Fisk to the Maricopa County Superior Court."
The appointments of Ronda Fisk and Adam Driggs were made to fill two vacancies created by the appointments of Judges Paul McMurdie and James Beene to the Arizona Court of Appeals, Division One.

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/2017/02/governor-ducey-appoints-adam-driggs-and-ronda-fisk-maricopa-county-superior
