Public Statements
Welcoming Caterpillar To Southern Arizona
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Oct. 24, 2016
Location: Green Valley, AZ

Governor Doug Ducey traveled to Southern Arizona today to officially welcome Caterpillar's Surface Mining & Technology Division to the region during an event at the company's Tinaja Hills Demonstration and Learning Center. It was announced in May that Caterpillar had selected Tucson as the new location for its centralized hub for this division.
Prior to the event, Governor Ducey took a walking tour of the facility, met with employees and company leadership, and toured the test field in a Cat® 797F mining truck.
Following remarks from Governor Ducey and Caterpillar executives, the governor kicked off a demonstration of some of the company's innovative technology and equipment by pushing the first load of dirt with a remote-controlled D11 bulldozer. The Tinaja Hills team also showcased mining trucks, hydraulic shovels, wheel loaders, motor graders, wheel tractor scrapers, remote controlled bulldozers, and autonomously controlled haul trucks.
"After much hard work, I am thrilled to officially welcome Caterpillar's Surface Mining & Technology division to Tucson," said Governor Ducey. "Caterpillar has a 70-plus year presence in Arizona, and I'd like to thank the entire Caterpillar team for their ongoing commitment to and confidence in our state. I can't think of a better place for Caterpillar to continue to thrive than right here in Southern Arizona."
Governor Ducey also recognized the Arizona Commerce Authority, the Rio Nuevo Multipurpose Facilities District, Sun Corridor Inc., the City of Tucson and Pima County for their instrumental roles in bringing this division headquarters to Arizona.
The Surface Mining and Technology Division will create over 600 quality jobs in the region over the next five years -- bringing total Caterpillar employment to about 1,000 -- and have an estimated economic impact of $600 million.

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/2016/10/welcoming-caterpillar-southern-arizona
