Public Statements
Governor Ducey Signs Legislation Repealing Duplicative State Entities
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: May 19, 2017
Location: Phoenix, AZ

Continuing his commitment to make government more efficient and responsive to Arizona citizens, Governor Doug Ducey today signed House Bill 2369 to consolidate seven duplicative or outdated state entities.
In addition, Governor Ducey today signed House Bill 2075, legislation to transfer the duties and responsibilities of the Arizona Radiation Regulatory Agency, the Radiation Regulatory Hearing Board and the Medical Radiologic Technology Board of Examiners to the Arizona Department of Health Services.
The legislation follows a review of functions performed by state agencies, boards, and commissions.
"Government should exist to serve the people, not the other way around," said Governor Ducey. "We took a fresh look at the 200-plus state boards and commissions to determine where we have duplication and where entities are no longer fulfilling their stated purposes. The result of this legislation is a leaner, more efficient government that can better serve and respond to Arizonans' needs. I thank Representative Shope and Representative Carter for their efforts and look forward to continuing to work to make government more accountable to our citizens."
Governor Ducey has prioritized improving government efficiency and reducing unnecessary licensing requirements that are making it harder for Arizonans to find, keep, and create jobs.
In March 2017, he signed an executive order requiring regulatory boards to justify barriers to entry for applicants. The order also requires boards to report on the effects of these barriers to entry for individuals with past criminal convictions.
Earlier this month, the governor signed House Bill 2290 to allow licensing boards to issue licenses to otherwise qualified applicants with criminal records. Prior to that, he signed "Right To Earn A Living" legislation (Senate Bill 1437), empowering individuals to challenge unfair and restrictive licensing requirements in court, as well as House Bill 2271, helping veterans transition to civilian life by eliminating duplicative licensing requirements.

Source: https://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/2017/05/governor-ducey-signs-legislation-repealing-duplicative-state-entities
