Public Statements
REMARKS: Governor Ducey Addresses The Canadian Club Of Toronto
By: Doug Ducey
Date: Oct. 5, 2016
Location: Unknown

Good afternoon and thank you all for being here. I'd like to thank the Canadian Club of Toronto for your warm welcome, and for hosting our entire Arizona delegation.
Toronto has been great to us, and as Arizonans, we're really enjoying your weather. I suspect, however, that in another month or two, many of YOU will be enjoying ours.
I'm also thrilled that later today, I'll be removing another item from my bucket list: a trip to the Hockey Hall of Fame.
Of all the great Canadian contributions to America -- Maple Syrup, Molson Lager, William Shatner-- within the Ducey household, it is Hockey, WITHOUT QUESTION, that is your greatest export. And my sons Joe, Jack and Sam are so jealous that their Dad gets to go be a kid today.
Before I get started, I would also like to acknowledge James Villeneuve -- Consul General of Canada -- and Glenn Williamson -- Honorary Consul of Canada in Arizona -- who are traveling with our delegation this week. The two of them are amazing supporters of both Arizona AND Canada, and we're excited to have them with us.
It's an honor to be here to showcase the special bond that Canada shares with my state, and explain why Arizona is the best place in the United States to do business.
The budding relationship between Canada, America and the state of Arizona isn't a coincidence.
We are vast, diverse melting pots who share a pioneering spirit, a sense of urgency, and limitless drive.
Arizona captures the essence of the America better than ANY other state. And Canada -- probably more than any other partner -- compliments our vision.
During the 1980's, Prime Minister Mulroney and President Reagan demonstrated for the world the importance of a Canadian-American alliance that valued free trade, opportunity and mutual benefit.
In today's 21st Century Economy, Arizona's strong relationship with Canada is vital to our state's economy AND to yours.
Arizona's annual trade with Canada exceeds $3.8 billion.
You're our 2nd largest export market and our 3rd largest trading partner.
One in 20 Arizona jobs is the direct result of trade and investment with Canada.
We are partners in a global marketplace. And the best way to be successful globally is for us to commit to working together.
There are currently 350 Canadian companies with operations in Arizona -- including BMO and Silent-Aire -- and they're thriving and contributing tremendously to our economy.
A great example is Bombardier Aerospace, which just celebrated 40 years in Tucson -- home to the LARGEST of its 9 worldwide aircraft service centers.
They're a pillar of our community and a BIG reason for Arizona's #1 ranking in Aerospace Manufacturing Appeal.
There ARE MANY reasons for our Canadian friends to expand in Arizona, beyond our 360 Days of Sunshine, sunny winters and World Class golf courses.
Arizona -- as a Right to Work state with one of the lowest corporate and individual income tax rates in the U.S. -- is OPEN FOR BUSINESS.
We have a $5 billion bilateral footprint with Canada, which includes foreign direct investment, trade and tourism.
We boast some of the most tax-friendly programs in the nation: No franchise tax, business inventory tax, or estate tax.
And we recently slashed our long-term capital gains tax by as much as 25% for property acquired after 2011.
Additionally, beginning next year, businesses with multi-state operations will benefit from our 100% sales factor income apportionment formula.
So if you're looking to expand, relocate or start up, Arizona has got to be at the top of your list.
Convenience and quality of life are also major reasons to hang your hat in Arizona.
There are over 125 direct flights per week between Arizona and Canada.
Commercial real estate is inexpensive, our housing is affordable, and our higher education system is STRONG.
We also have access to one of the largest concentrations of science technology graduates in the entire country, as well as 3 of America's 10 best high schools.
And as ANY businessperson will tell you, the 3 keys to success are Location, Location and Location.
Canadian companies can benefit tremendously from Arizona's strategic location as a neighbor to the major markets of California and Mexico.
Our low taxes and light regulations make us THE PERFECT spot for Canadian companies wanting to access the California market WITHOUT the expense and burden of operating in it.
I believe that Canadian businesses -- just like many businesses around the U.S. -- can expand in Arizona and see unparalleled success.
A recent New York Times headline summed it up right: "Bay Area Start-Ups Find Low-Cost Outposts in Arizona."
California tech companies and entrepreneurs are finding that Arizona offers much lower taxes and energy costs -- about 25 percent less in Phoenix than in San Francisco.
In the last 8 years, the exodus from California has brought Arizona 83 Companies, $3.3 Billion in Capital, and more than 12,000 Jobs.
Companies like Weebly, Uber, Shutterfly, and ZipRecruiter are just a few of the big names to expand to Arizona from the Golden State.
From Apple last year to Google last spring, innovators from California are discovering Arizona. It's no surprise that we are NOW the top destination for the testing of driverless cars.
And when it comes to biotech -- I believe that Arizona CAN BE and WILL BE the Biomedical Capital of the U.S. because we have the ingenuity, creativity, and a spirit of adventure that knows no boundaries.
Innovative Bioscience giants like TGen, Barrow Neurological Institute, and the Mayo Clinic are also excellent reasons for any Canadian business or startup to consider our state.
Arizona has become a home away from home for some of you, and a full time home for others.
For those of you haven't visited yet, I am certain you'll find a slice of Canada in all corners of our state.
If you come down and celebrate Canada Day with us, or maybe a Great Canadian Picnic, we'll probably recommend a Four Peaks -- but you're allowed to drink a LaBatt's.
And -- as our friends in Winnipeg well know -- live, professional hockey exists in the desert.
The point I want to make is this: In Arizona, no Canadian is too far from home. We share the same culture, the same values, and we always look to tomorrow.
Arizona has always been a destination for those looking for fresh opportunity and a new beginning.
70 percent of Arizonans come from someplace else -- including me. I'm a product of America's Heartland, Toledo, Ohio.
And what I can tell you is this: Arizona is always looking to the future; always looking for new faces; always changing; always improving; always welcoming outsiders.
That was true when I arrived at Arizona State University over 30 years ago, not knowing one person in the state. And it's EVEN MORE true today.
Arizona is the START-UP state, and we believe that EVERY entrepreneur has the opportunity to expand, grow and reach the pinnacle of their industry.
As a businessman -- and Governor -- I've had the opportunity to travel around my country -- and the world -- and meet some of the most amazing entrepreneurs on the scene.
I've found few other countries epitomize the spirit of innovation like the citizens of Canada.
They work hard, they innovate, and they DREAM BIG just like we do.
I would like to thank the historic Canadian Club again for hosting our delegation, and for connecting me with everyday Canadians. And I hope to see many of you in Arizona soon. Thank you.

Source: http://azgovernor.gov/governor/news/2016/10/remarks-governor-ducey-addresses-canadian-club-toronto
