Public Statements
Food Manufacturer SK Food Group Inc. Expanding Operations to Arizona
Press Release
By: Doug Ducey
Date: July 13, 2016
Location: Phoenix, AZ

SK Food Group Inc. (SK Food Group), a Premium Brands company and leader in the manufacturing and wholesale food sales industry with two U.S. and two Canadian locations, announced today that it will expand its operations into Arizona. The new 212,000-square-foot manufacturing facility will be located in the City of Tolleson and will create 550 projected new Arizona jobs.
"We are very excited to be locating our next facility in the greater Phoenix area," stated SK Food Group President and CEO Steve Sposari. "The emerging consumer and industry trends driving our growth are significant, and this new facility will help us to continue with our steady growth. The logistics infrastructure and access to available labor made the decision relatively easy for our management team to invest in the area. We look forward to a long and prosperous relationship with the greater Phoenix area while at the same time becoming a model corporate citizen."
"SK Food Group is the latest in a string of manufacturing wins for Arizona," said Governor Doug Ducey. "I had the pleasure of meeting with SK Food Group's leadership during a CEO Forum earlier this year and discussing the unique benefits Arizona offers to manufacturers, including infrastructure and affordable operating costs. I'm thrilled to officially welcome them and I am confident they'll find success in Arizona."
Executives from SK Food Group visited Arizona to attend the Spring Training CEO Forum in March of 2016, where they met with Governor Ducey and several of the Arizona Zanjeros.
"Under Governor Ducey's leadership and through our partnership with the Arizona Commerce Authority, the mission of the Arizona Zanjeros is to help bring companies like SK Food Group to our state," said Michael Bidwill, Arizona Cardinals President and Zanjeros co-chair. "Choosing the next location to grow a business is a major decision. The CEO Forum Programs are a helpful tool for executives during that decision-making process, and the announcement that SK Food Group has chosen to locate in Arizona emphasizes that."

Source:
