Public Statements
Governor Reaffirms Commitment to Business Community
Press Release
By: Bruce Rauner
Date: June 14, 2016
Location: Springfield, IL

Governor Rauner reaffirmed his commitment to the small business community today at the Illinois Chamber of Commerce annual luncheon. Since taking office, the Governor has advocated for a more competitive economic climate to create jobs and grow Illinois' economy.
"A strong, growing economy is vital to lifting up Illinois from years of fiscal mismanagement and put all Illinoisans on a path to prosperity," Governor Rauner said. "I thank you for standing strong as we work to implement structural reforms to make Illinois more competitive. I'm never going to stop fighting for reforms to our government."
Since taking office, Governor Rauner has dedicated his efforts to making Illinois more competitive by implementing common sense structural reforms to grow the economy. However, the majority party in the legislature has indicated it is not prepared to make these changes until after the November election. In absence of a balanced budget with reforms, the Governor supports a fiscally responsible bridge as outlined in HB 6585/SB 3435.
At the event Governor Rauner also signed a statement of support for the Illinois Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR). The Illinois ESGR works to promote an employer culture that supports and values military service in their employees who also serve in the National Guard and Reserve. It also works to inform and educate Reserve Component members on their rights and responsibilities under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act. Governor Rauner and the Illinois Chamber of Commerce encourage all Illinois businesses to sign and pledge their support for ESGR.
"It is important to support our men and women who serve our country through the National Guard and Reserve. The ESGR strengthens cooperation between the Illinoisans who risk their lives for our country and their civilian jobs," Governor Rauner said. "We owe these military members our thanks and our commitment that their service will be respected."

Source: http://www3.illinois.gov/PressReleases/ShowPressRelease.cfm?SubjectID=3&RecNum=13632
