Public Statements
Governor Issues Statement on the Passing of Rep. Esther Golar
Statement
By: Bruce Rauner
Date: Oct. 8, 2015
Location: Springfield, IL

Governor Bruce Rauner issued the following statement on the passing of Rep. Esther Golar:
"Rep. Esther Golar served the people of Illinois and her constituents in Chicago admirably, while advocating for some of our most vulnerable citizens. She championed change in the areas of housing, education, restorative justice and mental illness. She was a pillar of strength in her community and represented the people of the 6th District with tenacity and grace. Diana and I hold her family in our thoughts and prayers as they navigate this difficult time. We thank her for her service."Fitness took center stage today as Governor Bruce Rauner, Jake Steinfeld, Chairman of the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils and students from Abbott Middle School in Elgin, Drake Elementary School in Chicago and Lincoln Middle School in Rockford cut the ribbon on their brand new state-of-the-art Live Positively Fitness Center. These three schools were awarded for demonstrating new and innovative ways for promoting student physical activity and wellness. An attractive and unique feature of this campaign is that the Live Positively Fitness Centers are fully funded through public/private partnerships with companies like Coca-Cola, Anthem Foundation and Nike and does not rely on taxpayer dollars or state funding.
"Encouraging kids to eat healthfully and stay active are the cornerstones of combating childhood obesity," Governor Rauner said. "These new fitness centers will encourage students to develop healthy habits that they can carry through to adulthood. I thank Jake and the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils for providing three Illinois schools with this fantastic opportunity."
"Governor Rauner has wholeheartedly embraced our program and understands the importance of getting children to think about health and fitness at a young age. He welcomed us into Illinois to inspire students to make fitness and wellness part of their daily routine and it's paid off! Today we are visiting three Illinois schools to cut the ribbon on their new Live Positively Fitness Centers," said Steinfeld. "Abbott Middle School, Drake Elementary School and Lincoln Middle School are leading the way to get fit and companies such as Coca-Cola, Anthem Foundation and Nike have all stepped up to make this program possible. I've delivered fitness centers to other states around the country and have witnessed firsthand what happens when a school receives a brand new fitness center and it's pretty amazing. Fitness among kids is contagious and I am confident these new fitness centers will provide generations of students with the necessary tools to make physical fitness activities part their daily routine."
The National Foundation's goal is to build a nation of the fittest, healthiest kids in the world. Physical activity and exercise are shown to help prevent and treat more than 40 chronic diseases, enhance individual health and quality of life and reduce health care costs. In schools, studies show that physical activity improves academic achievement, increases confidence and self-esteem, reduces discipline problems, cuts absenteeism and fosters better interpersonal relationships.
"I've always said that academics and fitness go hand-in-hand and I firmly believe that if you provide the schools with the tools, students will excel beyond their wildest dreams," continued Steinfeld. "Not only will these students be healthier, but they'll be more confident, have greater self-esteem and ultimately achieve greater academic success."
The National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils program plans to bring its challenge to all 50 states in the coming years. Live Positively is part of Coca-Cola's commitment to bring people together to make a positive difference, which includes supporting physical activity programs. For more information about the National Foundation, visit www.natgovfit.org.

Source: http://www3.illinois.gov/PressReleases/ShowPressRelease.cfm?SubjectID=3&RecNum=13346
