Public Statements
Governor Rauner Requests FEMA Help with Flood, Storm Damage Assessments
Press Release
By: Bruce Rauner
Date: Aug. 3, 2015
Location: Springfield, IL

Governor Bruce Rauner today asked the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to assist with damage assessments in 23 counties devastated by a series of severe storms In June and July that caused heavy rainfall, flash and river flooding, tornadoes and straight-line winds. Governor Rauner also issued a state disaster proclamation for those counties.
"These counties were battered by a series of severe storms for most of June and July," Governor Rauner said. "We're working to do everything within our power to help people and communities affected by the tornadoes, flooding and damaging winds these storms generated. These damage assessments will provide us with greater detail as to the impact of these storms and could be used to support a request for federal assistance."
Personnel from FEMA, the Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA), the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) and local emergency management agencies are expected to begin assessing damage to homes and businesses in Adams, Grundy, Iroquois, Jersey, Mason, Tazewell and Warren counties later this week.
The state also requested FEMA assistance with assessments of storm-related costs incurred by local governments in Adams, Alexander, Brown, Calhoun, Cass, Coles, Fulton, Greene, Grundy, Iroquois, Jersey, Mason, Monroe, Morgan, Peoria, Pike, Randolph, Richland, Schuyler, Scott, Tazewell, Vermilion and Warren counties. Those assessments are expected to begin the week of August 10.
The state has provided assistance to many of the affected communities, including sandbags filled and placed by offenders from the Illinois Department of Corrections, debris removal and delivery of flood-fighting supplies by the Illinois Department of Transportation, emergency management support from the Illinois Emergency Management Agency, and security support from the Illinois State Police and Illinois Department of Corrections. In addition, the State Emergency Operations Center in Springfield was activated several times in June and July to coordinate state assistance.

Source: http://www3.illinois.gov/PressReleases/ShowPressRelease.cfm?SubjectID=3&RecNum=13244
