Public Statements
Illinois Honors Achievements in Hiring and Promotion of People with Disabilities
Press Release
By: Bruce Rauner
Date: May 19, 2015
Location: Springfield, IL

Governor Bruce Rauner joined Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) Director Rocco J. Claps and Illinois Department of Human Services (IDHS) Secretary James Dimas today to present the annual awards from the state Interagency Committee on Employees with Disabilities (ICED). The awards honor the achievements of those who have done an outstanding job of providing equal opportunity and access to people with disabilities, including the Illinois Tollway and a number of other agencies that have participated in the Successful Disability Opportunities Program.
"Today we recognize those who are expanding opportunities and empowering employees with disabilities to succeed in Illinois," Governor Rauner said. "We are a state that is committed to knocking down the barriers of independence for people with disabilities. All of the award winners today should be proud of the work they've done to help us achieve this goal."
The ceremony at the Historic Preservation Agency's Great Room also featured a presentation of Illinois School for the Deaf students and a panel discussion about opportunities for applicants with disabilities in Illinois. ICED, which represents the interests of more than 3,000 employees with disabilities in state government, hosts the annual ceremony to promote independence, access, and opportunities for employees with disabilities.
"It is an honor to be here today to spotlight the truly exceptional performance of these organizations and individuals who have all worked so hard to create opportunities for people with disabilities to participate in the workforce," said Director Claps. "The Illinois Tollway was deservedly singled out for setting a standard in recruitment, hiring, and accommodation practices that all Illinois employers would be wise to work towards."
Secretary Dimas was pleased with the selection of the two IDHS award winners. "IDHS is proud of the dedication and hard work of all of our employees, and I especially want to recognize the outstanding commitment and contributions of Kris Smith and Tommy Saunders. Employees like these are what allows IDHS to meet our goals in empowering persons with disabilities and providing them with the tools and resources to live full, active, and productive lives," said Dimas.
The ICED's Agency of the Year award recognizes the Illinois Tollway as a leader among state agencies for its approach to implementing the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Illinois Human Rights Act by fully engaging in a flexible and interactive process to explore reasonable, effective and sometimes creative accommodations. The Tollway currently employs 192 people with disabilities, about 13 percent of its workforce of nearly 1,500 employees.
"The Illinois Tollway constantly looks for ways to improve access for customers and employees alike," said Executive Director Kristi Lafleur. "We are committed to providing all our customers with access to the full range of Tollway services and accommodating the needs of our employees with disabilities so that they can achieve their full potential on behalf of our customers."

Source: http://www3.illinois.gov/PressReleases/ShowPressRelease.cfm?SubjectID=1&RecNum=13092
