Public Statements
Governor Announces Fourth Consecutive Year of Record-Breaking Visitors to Illinois in 2014
Press Release
By: Bruce Rauner
Date: May 7, 2015
Location: Springfield, IL

Governor Bruce Rauner today announced a record-breaking number of visitors traveled to Illinois in 2014, topping out at 107.44 million in total domestic travelers. It is a 3.8 percent increase over 2013, and the fourth consecutive year of record-breaking visitor numbers. One of the strongest growth sectors in 2014 was leisure travel, with day and overnight leisure visitors up 4.3 percent from 2013.
The increase in visitors also resulted in an increase in the state's hotel-motel tax revenue, up nearly 6.4 percent to more than $250.6 million. That tax revenue, combined with the other economic impact contributions the state tourism industry makes through job creation and other taxes, is vital to Illinois' economic growth.
"Increasing tourism and its resulting economic impact are central to driving Illinois' economy forward," Governor Rauner said. "The growth seen in Illinois visitor volumes and hotel-motel taxes is driven by efforts supporting tourism, and is a testament to the industry's contribution to the economic engine of the state."
The Illinois Office of Tourism's goal is to find unique and creative ways to showcase the state's diverse travel offerings. Its marketing and advertising efforts encouraging travelers to find something more in Illinois -- try new experiences, make new emotional connections -- are designed to result in memorable trips that draw visitors back time and time again.
"Attracting yet another year of record visitors is the resulting work of the dedicated hospitality industry in our great state," said Cory Jobe, Director, Illinois Office of Tourism. "The increases are an indication that the hard work that goes in to promoting Illinois is drawing not only new visitors, but repeat travelers as well, who find in our state a welcoming place with something for everyone."

Source:
