Public Statements
Illinois Celebrates National Ag Day
Press Release
By: Bruce Rauner
Date: March 18, 2015
Location: Springfield, IL

Governor Bruce Rauner and Acting Director Philip Nelson joined together with producers and commodity groups from across the State today to celebrate National Ag Day in Illinois. The two took the opportunity to recognize the hard work of generations of families and agribusinesses, as well as discuss the priorities of the Department to ensure that agriculture continues to be the #1 industry in Illinois and increase its market share, both domestically and internationally.
""Sustaining Future Generations'" is a fitting theme for this National Ag Day," said Governor Bruce Rauner. "The State is home to more than 74,000 farms, covering nearly 27 million acres of land. It is a priority of this administration to reduce burdensome regulations and red tape so that family farms and agribusinesses can thrive right here in Illinois and stimulate our economy."
"It also means ensuring young adults who want to return to the farm, or a career in agriculture, have this opportunity," said Acting Director Philip Nelson. "There are dozens of ag-related career paths out there, from farm production to landscape architecture, banking and marketing to urban planning and food science." Currently the state's food and fiber industry employs nearly one million people.
BRANDT served as the backdrop for the event, a multi-generation agribusiness established in Pleasant Plains and currently located in Springfield. The Sangamon County family has built their agri-business from a small company to a leader in the global marketplace. The family is committed to agriculture, growing our economy, and giving back to the community.
BRANDT Co-Founders, Glen Brandt and Evelyn Brandt Thomas, as well as Rick Brandt, President and CEO, were presented by Governor Rauner with a proclamation declaring March 18th as National Ag Day in Illinois.
"On behalf of the 500 members of the BRANDT family, thank you," said Glen Brandt, Founder of BRANDT, about the Governor's Ag Day Proclamation. "We work as a company to be stewards of agriculture, ensuring future generations will continue to lead our vital industry to help feed, fuel and cloth the world."

Source:
