Public Statements
Governor Rauner activates State Incident Response Center in Springfield
Press Release
By: Bruce Rauner
Date: Feb. 1, 2015
Location: Springfield, IL

Governor Rauner today activated the State Incident Response Center (SIRC) in Springfield to ensure state personnel and equipment are ready to be quickly deployed if needed to help local emergency responders deal with expected blizzard conditions in the Chicago area.
"I activated the State Incident Response Center to ensure we're ready to act quickly if any local responders need our assistance," said Governor Rauner. "Blizzard conditions are making travel extremely dangerous, and I encourage everyone to avoid travel if possible."
Representatives from several state agencies have reported to the SIRC, including the Illinois Emergency Management Agency, Illinois State Police, Illinois Department of Transportation, Illinois Commerce Commission, Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Illinois National Guard, Illinois Department of Central Management Services, Illinois Department of Public Health, and Illinois Department of Corrections.
State officials are assessing the storm's impact and communicating with local response officials to determine if state resources are needed to ensure citizen safety.
The SIRC will remain activated as long as necessary.
The Illinois Department of Transportation continues to encourage the public in the areas impacted by the storm to strongly consider traveling only if it is necessary. With winds picking up later today, blowing and drifting snow will significantly reduce visibility and potentially create hazardous driving conditions, particularly in rural sections of the state. Motorists should allow for extra distance between vehicles and expect travel times that are much longer than usual. Visit www.gettingaroundillinois.com for the latest in road conditions and closures.
Throughout the duration of the storm, IDOT will have approximately 1,700 trucks and 3,700 employees available statewide to fight snow and ice. If you are driving, please do not crowd the plows and take special precautions if you do encounter them on the roadways.

Source: http://www3.illinois.gov/PressReleases/PressReleasesListShow.cfm?RecNum=12962
