Public Statements
Chicago Tribune - Federal Judge Deals Quinn Ethics Blow on IDOT Patronage Hiring
News Article
By: Bruce Rauner
Date: Oct. 22, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Monique Garcia
A federal judge has granted a request by a Chicago attorney to appoint a monitor to oversee hiring at the Illinois Department of Transportation, dealing a blow to Democratic Gov. Pat Quinn less than two weeks before Election Day.
The transportation agency came under fire in April after Chicago attorney Michael Shakman, who has long crusaded against patronage, argued the Quinn administration was filling positions based on political considerations rather than job qualifications.
A subsequent report by the state Executive Inspector General Ricardo Meza outlined how Quinn had failed to rein in patronage abuses at IDOT after replacing ousted ex-Gov. Rod Blagojevich.
Meza maintained hundreds of people were hired into so-called "staff assistant" positions without having to go through strict personnel procedures under rules designed to keep politics out of most state hiring.
Quinn fired 58 people hired into staff assistant jobs, but decided to keep another 103. Attorneys for his office have argued a court monitor was not needed because reforms were put into place following the inspector general's report, contending the ethics watchdog acts as an independent watchdog.
Shakman argued the changes amounted to little more than public relations, and questioned the thoroughness of the inspector general report.
U.S. Magistrate Judge Sidney Schenkier said his order did not reflect criticism upon the inspector general, but that it was the court's duty to investigate what "broke down" in the hiring process. Schenkier said the monitor would provide a "transparent process" to review "the scope and reason of what occurred" at IDOT, prevent future inappropriate hires and ensure any changes put in place are effective.
Schenkier asked Shakman and attorneys representing the Quinn administration to work together to establish guidelines for the nature of the monitor's work. The judge said that he had someone "in mind" for the position, but did not share the candidate's name publicly. The judge set another hearing for Oct. 29.
Afterward, Shakman applauded the ruling.
"I think the federal court made the right decision this morning when it said that there are enough problems at IDOT and enough indications that those problems violated the court's order that it makes sense to appoint an agent that reports to the court, that's what a special master is, to investigate why these problems occurred and to make recommendations for how to fix it," Shakman said.
Republican governor challenger Bruce Rauner has hammered Quinn on the ethics issue for months.
"Pat Quinn is a phony reformer and a federal judge just confirmed it. I applaud today's decision and commit that my administration will work closely with the federal hiring monitor to root out Pat Quinn's patronage and corruption," Rauner said in a statement released by his campaign.
A spokesman for Quinn's administration said the office "took swift action" to address problems at IDOT, including appointing a new head of the agency to enact reforms and "ensure all hiring procedures are strictly followed.
Spokesman Grant Klinzman said in a statement the administration will "ensure IDOT works closely with the court and continues to follow all the rules."

Source: http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/local/politics/chi-federal-judge-deals-quinn-ethics-blow-on-idot-patronage-hiring-20141022-story.html?track=rss
