Public Statements
Chicago Tribune - Rauner Blames Quinn for DCFS Child Deaths
News Article
By: Bruce Rauner
Date: Oct. 7, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Rick Pearson
Republican governor candidate Bruce Rauner today said he blames Democratic Gov. Pat Quinn for the deaths of child-abuse victims whose families previously had contact with the state's child-welfare agency.
"Yes," Rauner said when asked by reporters if the deaths of 95 children with past contact with the Department of Children and Family Services from 2011-2013 were attributable to Quinn.
"Pat Quinn is, in the end, responsible for the failings at the Department of Children and Family Services. If it was a one-year problem or a temporary problem you could say, "OK, maybe, there was, it's not really his responsibility.' But he's been governor for six years. He's had a revolving door of failure at Department of Children and Family Services for years and years," Rauner said.
Rauner's remarks came as he stepped up his attacks over Quinn's DCFS oversight with a new TV ad today with a similar message to a radio ad that began airing a day earlier.
Quinn spokeswoman Brooke Anderson has called the ad campaign a "false and malicious attempt to smear the governor." She contended Rauner was cynically using for political purposes an agency that "intervenes in emergency life and death situations" involving at-risk children.
"To imply the governor is somehow responsible for the deaths of children in the horrific circumstances that this agency enters into while trying to save lives is despicable and a new low," she said.
Rauner's latest attacks appear aimed at trying to gain support among women voters, particularly those in the suburbs who tend to be socially moderate on issues involving child care and education. It comes as Quinn's campaign this week is featuring high-profile women to back his campaign, including First Lady Michelle Obama today and former secretary of state and potential 2016 presidential contender Hillary Clinton on Wednesday.
Speaking to reporters after greeting about two-dozen women supporters at a Gold Coast hotel, Rauner noted a 2011 inspector general's report into the Department of Children and Family Services uncovered an alleged multi-million dollar contracting scheme that led to the agency director's resignation.
"This cronyism, this corruption, this has major costs. This has financial costs but it also has costs in human life and human suffering," Rauner said.
"We've learned that there have been 95 deaths under the supervision of the Department of Children and Family Services under Pat Quinn's administration for vulnerable children for abuse and neglect -- 95 deaths since 2011 --- more deaths than were reported in the past," the Republican said.
Rauner has come under criticism from Quinn's campaign, which contends the Republican has not accepted responsibility for business failures involving the equity firm that he formerly chaired, GTCR.
Rauner is former chairman of the equity firm GTCR, which is among the defendants in a Tampa, Fla., federal bankruptcy case involving wrongful death judgments against nursing homes. GTCR and other investors owned the nursing home firm at the center of the allegations.
Rauner, who is not personally part of the court proceedings, has denounced any potential wrongdoing. But he also said he was distant from the management of the nursing homes.
Asked today if he felt any moral responsibility in any wrongful nursing home deaths, Rauner said he felt "terrible" that deaths had occurred but said he had "done our darnedest to invest in quality businesses."
"That (nursing-home) company failed. We lost all our money in the business. It was a failure. The company went bankrupt," he said.
"To the degree that there was any unethical or illegal behavior there, I hope it's punished to the full extent of the law. I feel terrible about those deaths and they're tragedies, but the simple fact is we've worked hard and (the businesses backed by GTCR have) done well, by and large, for decades," Rauner said.
The new Rauner DCFS TV ad features a female narrator characterizing child-abuse victims' deaths as "lives cut short tragically, senselessly from abuse, neglect, while in the care of Pat Quinn's administration. Incompetence or corruption? It doesn't matter. Pat Quinn failed those who needed him most."
The figure of 95 deaths used by the Rauner campaign is a reference to numbers obtained in a joint Sun-Times-WBEZ-FM investigation which found from 2011 to 2013 there were at least 95 instances in which DCFS had contact with the child or family within a year of the child's death.
Quinn spokeswoman Anderson said that an increase in deaths from 2010 to the 2011-2013 time period was in part attributable to a change in reporting requirements. That change required a finding of neglect if an infant died after being left in an unsafe sleep situation, such as in bed with a parent. Those reporting requirements were changed to the former rules in March.

Source: http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/local/politics/chi-rauner-blames-quinn-for-dcfs-child-deaths-20141007-story.html?track=rss
