Public Statements
Chicago Tribune - Rauner Hits Quinn on Tax Hike Timing
News Article
By: Bruce Rauner Pat Quinn
Date: Sept. 29, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Monique Garcia, John Byrne
Republican governor candidate Bruce Rauner today criticized Gov. Pat Quinn over his idea to push lawmakers to make permanent the 2011 income tax increase when they return to Springfield following the November election, warning of lame duck legislators on their way out of office who'd vote for the proposal in exchange for "sweetheart deals."

Bruce Rauner explains his plans to roll back Quinn's tax hike.
Rauner called on legislative leaders to refuse to hear any proposals on taxes until after a new set of lawmakers take office in January. Without action from lawmakers, the income tax rate is scheduled to drop from 5 percent to 3.75 percent on Jan. 1. The rate would eventually drop to 3.25 percent in 2025.
"Do not put through an income tax hike on working families in Illinois and small businesses everywhere in the dark of night, quickly with General Assembly members who are not going to be serving," Rauner said during a stop at a bakery in the Little Village neighborhood on the city's West Side. "Do not allow folks to take a tough vote and then get sweetheart deals and sweetheart jobs."
Democrats raised the personal income tax rate to 5 percent from 3 percent during the lame duck session in January 2011, just hours before new lawmakers were sworn into office. To win enough votes, Quinn offered more money for education and construction projects, while at least two lawmakers who voted for the tax hike landed jobs in Quinn's administration.
Rauner's comments came after Quinn told the suburban Daily Herald that he planned to push to make the tax hike permanent when lawmakers return to Springfield following the Nov. 4 election.
"It's going to happen in 2014, in November and December," Quinn said last week. "The legislature comes back in Nov. 19, and they're going to have to take a look at what I proposed and realize that that is the best way to go. We have to build a majority. I really feel we will. We're close to getting that majority in both houses. In the Senate we already have it, in the House we have some work to do."
On Monday, Rauner said that should he be elected, he would let the rate drop to 3.75 percent on Jan. 1 with the goal of eventually lowering it back to 3 percent over a four-year term. Still, Rauner acknowledged there is a "possibility" he would have to again raise the rate above 3.75 percent as part of a larger overhaul of the state's tax code.
Quinn on Monday declined to discuss the timing of his push to make the tax increase permanent, instead saying he'd work "with the legislature in the course of the fiscal year to make sure we have a balanced budget."
Still, Quinn called Rauner's plan to roll back the tax increase "irresponsible," saying it would lead to extreme cuts in education and other social services.

Source: http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/local/politics/chi-rauner-hits-quinn-on-tax-hike-timing-20140929-story.html
