Public Statements
Rauner Calls on Quinn to Halt Secret Medical Marijuana Licensing
Press Release
By: Bruce Rauner
Date: Sept. 17, 2014
Location: Chicago, IL

Bruce Rauner today called for openness and transparency in the application process for Illinois medical marijuana licensing. Recent media reports have shined a light on Pat Quinn's effort to block public access to information regarding Illinois medical marijuana facility license applicants. The legislation enabling the sale of medical marijuana makes the applications for companies vying for facility licenses "secret."
"My message to Pat Quinn is this: Governor, the jig is up. Stop this rigged process before it moves forward any further," Rauner said. "The application process for medical marijuana should not be held in secret where insiders win and taxpayers lose; it should be open and transparent."
Under legislation signed by Pat Quinn, 22 licenses will be issued by the Illinois Department of Agriculture for "cultivation centers" that are legally allowed to grow medical marijuana. The Department of Financial and Professional Regulation will issue 60 licenses for medical marijuana dispensaries. By statute, Pat Quinn's administration will get to pick the winners and losers for both types of licenses.
Enter Quinn's former chief of staff, Jack Lavin. During Tuesday's televised Chicago Tribune gubernatorial debate, Pat Quinn was pressed to explain who in his office recommended illegal patronage hires to the Illinois Department of Transportation. Quinn pointed the finger at his former chief of staff and best friend, Jack Lavin. A federal grand jury also recently subpoenaed Lavin's email as part of the U.S. Attorney's investigation into Quinn's failed anti-violence program. After signing off on illegal hires at IDOT, Lavin is now representing one of the potential medical marijuana applicants. Last week, Bruce called on Quinn to direct all state agencies to refuse lobbying efforts from Lavin.
"The medical marijuana process is straight out of the Rod Blagojevich playbook," said Bruce Rauner. "Instead of a non-transparent program manipulated by Pat Quinn's cronies, we should auction off licenses to the highest qualified bidder, with full disclosure of each company's financial interests."
The Illinois General Assembly should pass new legislation authorizing a competitive and transparent process for pre-approved applicants to bid on medical marijuana growing and dispensary licenses, ensuring appropriate safeguards for intellectual property, financial and security capabilities and detailed information on the financial interests of bidders. Winning participants unable to meet the terms set forward by the state would lose their license, allowing the state to competitively rebid for services.

Source: http://brucerauner.com/rauner-calls-on-quinn-to-halt-secret-medical-marijuana-licensing/
