Public Statements
Governor Rauner Signs Lead Testing Bill
By: Bruce Rauner
Date: Jan. 16, 2017
Location: Chicago, IL

Governor Bruce Rauner joined by Reverend Jesse Jackson, State Sen. Steans and state agency directors today signed Senate Bill 550, legislation to protect Illinois children from possible exposure to lead in drinking water.
"Today is about our future, about making sure our students are not exposed to lead poisoning," said Governor Rauner. "This shows what is possible when we work together. It is a step in protecting our children from the devastating effects of lead exposure."
"Lead in the paint and in the pipes threatens the health and the futures of far too many children," Rev. Jackson said. "This is a life-saving bill. I applaud Governor Rauner for signing it."
SB 550 will ensure proper health protections are in place to protect Illinois' youngest residents. It provides the requirement for schools and daycares to sample for lead contamination from sources of potable water in school buildings. The oldest school buildings, those constructed before January 1, 1987, must complete water testing by the end of 2017. Schools constructed between January 2, 1987 and January 1, 2000 must complete testing by the end of 2018. Daycares constructed on or before January 1, 2000 and serve children under the age of 6 will also be required to conduct testing. Further, parents and guardians of students must be notified of elevated lead results.
"This legislation, along with the enhancements Illinois EPA has proactively implemented with community water supplies over the last year, is an important step towards eliminating the risk of lead exposure to our most vulnerable citizens, Illinois' children," said Illinois EPA Acting Director Alec Messina. "The public can be assured this is a top priority of the Agency and we will continue to implement program improvements and coordinate efforts with our fellow state agencies."
"Elevated levels of lead in children can cause developmental and behavioral disabilities," said IDPH Director Nirav D. Shah, M.D., J.D. "We have made great progress in reducing the number of children with elevated levels and we will continue to work to protect one of our most vulnerable populations."

Source:
