Public Statements
Governor Discusses Department of Corrections Transformation and Criminal Justice Reforms
Press Release
By: Bruce Rauner
Date: Dec. 14, 2016
Location: Springfield, IL

Governor Bruce Rauner today joined Illinois Department of Corrections Director John Baldwin to highlight efforts the administration has made to transform the Department of Corrections (DOC) along with other criminal justice reforms. The governor pointed out nearly 13,000 security, non-security and contract DOC staff have participated in a two-day Mental Illness 101 -- See the Person not the Illness training session in 2016 with almost 100 percent compliance.
"Criminal justice reform has been a top priority of our administration from the very beginning, which is why the progress we've seen at the Department of Corrections is so encouraging," said Governor Rauner. "Through the hard work and dedication of Department of Corrections staff, we are closer every day to reaching our goal of safely reducing Illinois' prison population by 25 percent before 2025."
In Illinois, roughly 27 percent of DOC's population is on the mental health caseload. DOC has partnered with the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) to provide corrections officers with mental health training. To date, nearly 13,000 members of IDOC's staff have received two days of focused mental health training. The course provides lessons on conditions such as schizophrenia and bi-polar disorder, helps staff understand the effects of psychotropic medications, gives staff tools to recognize when someone is in distress and offers suggestions on how to better communicate with them.
"We are committed to reforming Illinois' criminal justice system and this mental health training is an important step in that transformation," said IDOC Director John Baldwin. "The training gives our staff a glimpse of what offenders with mental illness are experiencing and provides strategic methods on how to better communicate with them. We will continue to invest in our staff so they can be safe and successful on the job, while also working to better assist and rehabilitate our mentally ill offenders. We will continue to work towards improving outcomes for all offenders, giving them a real chance to get a job and take care of their families when they go home."

Source:
