Public Statements
Illinois Submits Medicaid Waiver to Improve Delivery of Behavioral Healthcare
Press Release
By: Bruce Rauner
Date: Oct. 13, 2016
Location: Springfield, IL

Governor Rauner joined agency directors, local officials and stakeholders today to announce Illinois has officially submitted the 1115 Medicaid waiver proposal to the federal government. This waiver will allow Illinois to use innovative health strategies for better coordination and integrated care, and will address behavioral health and substance abuse treatment for some of our most vulnerable residents.
"Illinois is transforming the way we provide behavioral and mental health care services to our residents," Governor Rauner said. "This waiver focuses on helping the whole person by getting the right services to the right person in the right setting at the right time. I want to thank our agency directors, especially Directors Norwood and Sheldon and Secretary Dimas, for their work on this waiver. I also want to thank the hundreds of stakeholders who provided input and feedback to make our waiver proposal even stronger."
Historically, the state has spent most of its resources--tens of billions of dollars--on a broken patchwork of reactive, expensive, and ineffective interventions. This waiver allows Illinois to take a holistic look at the individual and better coordinate their care across all state agencies. The changes the Administration is seeking will allow the State to intervene earlier and increase access to services, leading to more stability and a more productive life.
"With this waiver, we will be able to build a behavioral health system that offers integrated and comprehensive care focused on the whole person, and by maximizing federal assistance, we will be able to achieve this goal in a fiscally sustainable way," Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services Director Felicia Norwood said.
"I thank the Rauner Administration for recognizing the behavioral and mental health challenges we face in Illinois and their willingness to confront them," Rep. Sara Feigenholtz (D-Chicago) said.

Source:
