Public Statements
Governor Rauner Signs Firearms Trafficking Bill to Help Protect Communities from Gun Violence
By: Bruce Rauner
Date: Aug. 23, 2016
Location: Chicago, IL

Governor Bruce Rauner today signed HB 6303 to strengthen laws against gun trafficking in Illinois. The bill enhances penalties for firearms trafficking and aims to reduce the growing gun violence epidemic. This will help keep our kids and communities safe by allowing our law enforcement agencies to take action on those who are trafficking guns.
"We must stand up and help our kids and our communities find safety from violence," said Governor Rauner. "Children are often in the crossfire. They're vulnerable and impressionable. They deserve to see better things in the world. They deserve to feel safe in their own homes. They should not fear that guns will take the life of their friends, their family members, or even themselves. They should not live in fear or have their innocence shattered."
The Governor signed the bill at the Illinois State Police (ISP) crime lab in Chicago and was joined by House Republican Leader Jim Durkin (R-Western Springs) and Senate Republican Leader Christine Radogno (R-Lemont), the chief legislative sponsors of the bill.
"425 people have been murdered by firearms in Chicago this year and another 2320 have been shot and wounded. Each weekend in Chicago is bloodier than the last," House Republican Leader Durkin said. "Many of the shootings involved illegally acquired guns by Chicago street gangs. It is estimated that approximately 60 percent of guns used to commit violent crimes in Chicago were purchased outside of Illinois. The laws are more focused on holding the shooter accountable, but not the person who armed the shooter. That changes today with House Bill 6303.
"This law targets straw purchasers -- those who skirt Illinois firearm laws by buying guns in other states with the intent to resell in the illegal black markets of Illinois," Leader Durkin added. "The Cook County State's Attorney's Office brought this legislation to me and I am honored to have sponsored the bill in the Illinois House of Representatives. I thank the Illinois General Assembly for their bi-partisan unanimous support."

Source:
