Public Statements
Commonwealth Responds to Flooding and Power Outages across Virginia
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Oct. 9, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

The Commonwealth of Virginia is responding to flooding that occurred overnight due to heavy rains and winds from Hurricane Matthew. The Virginian Emergency Operations Center remains staffed as state, federal, and local agencies respond support local government needs.
"As anticipated, we have had some impacts from the storm and I have directed our state agencies to make every resource available to local authorities as they respond to floods and power outages, particularly in the Hampton Roads area," stated Governor McAuliffe. "As our response continues, I urge Virginians in affected areas to monitor local reports and limit unnecessary travel so responders can do their jobs quickly."
Six localities (Hampton, Norfolk, Newport News, Virginia Beach, Middlesex County, and Portsmouth) have declared emergencies and shelters are currently open in Portsmouth, Norfolk, and Hampton. Virginia Department of Emergency Management, Virginia National Guard, Department of Fire Programs, Virginia Department of Social Services, Virginia Department of Health, Virginia Department of Transportation, and Virginia State Police are providing assistance. The Virginia National Guard currently has 160 personnel with high water vehicles and debris teams positioned to provide support.
Virginians are encouraged to listen to local officials and follow any instructions. It is imperative to allow local government work crews and power companies do their work. If you come across a downed power line, stay away and notify the power company. Do not drive through standing water. It is NEVER safe to drive or walk into flood waters. Report hazards to 911. If you lose power and are dependent on electricity, contact your local officials to find out where to go and what routes are safe.
Governor McAuliffe declared an emergency on October 6, 2016 to provide assistance to other states impacted by the hurricane. For information about the impact and response efforts in your area, visit www.vaemergency.gov.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=18034
