Public Statements
Issue Position: Education
Issue Position
By: Terry McAuliffe
Location: Unknown

Virginia is not going to be able to attract and sustain jobs of the future if we don't have a workforce that is ready for those jobs. Right now, we know those jobs are in the energy field. But in 50 years, it could be something different. In this fast-paced, global economy, teaching to the test is not enough. Our students need to learn how to innovate and think critically. This will serve them well in five years and in fifty years.
In recent years, other countries have made advances in education while our system has remained essentially the same. In this global economy, it is not enough for our students to just be able to take a test. Terry McAuliffe believes that while it's important for our students to have basic knowledge, we need to look beyond multiple-choice questions and teach them how to think.
There are some steps we can take to get there.
One of the most important things we can do to help our children live their lives to their fullest potential is get off to the right start. Governor Tim Kaine has made significant investments in early childhood education, and Terry believes we need to continue this progress and invest even more in pre-k. Ultimately, if a child is ready for school, he or she is far more likely to be successful upon entering kindergarten and less likely to get into trouble down the road.
Terry also knows that Virginia has to do more for our teachers. There needs to be a focus on attracting and retaining bright individuals to teaching. The federal and state government continue to place demands on teachers but with little to no incentive to stay and do a good job. It's no wonder nearly half of teachers these days leave the profession within the first five years. Virginia must pay teachers at least the national average.
And finally, in the area of higher education, any student who wants to go to college should have that opportunity. Virginia's colleges and universities have a lot to offer - many are doing innovative research that could lead to great economic development opportunities. Terry believes we need to help our institutions of higher education capitalize on research. Ultimately, the result will be more dollars for colleges and universities and more opportunities to keep tuition low and offer scholarships.

Source: http://www.terrymcauliffe.com/issues#education
