Public Statements
Issue Position: Energy
Issue Position
By: Terry McAuliffe
Location: Unknown

We need to realize where the jobs of the future are and work towards making Virginia the leader in creating them. Terry believes those jobs are renewable energy jobs.
Terry believes that we have got to plan now for a green energy future. Virginia's technology sector can make huge gains in the green economy over the next 10 years, and with agriculture and forestry as our #1 industry, we have tremendous potential to grow biofuels and create new markets for our farmers. Virginia needs to partner with the federal government, the private sector, and our colleges and universities to help make Virginia a leader in renewable energy.
We all realize that we need to fight global warming and compete in the emerging green sector - but realizing it isn't enough. We need our next Governor to plan boldly and make things happen.
Terry believes that Virginia ought to have a strategy to increase use of renewable energy. We know that we can't continue to rely on traditional sources of energy. We should be increasing state support for the development of renewable energy sources like wind and solar. Not only will this reduce our dependence on foreign oil, but it will also create thousands of new jobs across Virginia.
There are some initial steps we can take toward the long-term goal of increasing use of renewable energy and creating jobs. For example, right now Virginia has a voluntary standard for power companies to produce 12% of their power from renewable energy sources by 2022. Terry believes that there must be a mandatory standard. It creates renewable energy jobs; it's good for our environment; and it helps the energy companies make money in the end.
Another step we can take is converting organic waste into energy. There's no reason why poultry farmers, for example, should have to pay people to haul waste away. Too often it ends up in our waterways. Converting waste into energy would allow farmers to be paid for the waste instead of paying others to take it away. And, it would create a clean and affordable Virginia-based energy for consumers, while helping to clean up the Chesapeake Bay and other Virginia watersheds.
Terry believes that Virginia can become a leader in renewable energy, and these are just a couple of ways to get us there.

Source: http://www.terrymcauliffe.com/issues#energy
