Public Statements
Issue Position: Transportation, Chapter Five of My Business Plan for Virginia
Issue Position
By: Terry McAuliffe
Location: Unknown


Issue Position: Transportation, Chapter Five of My Business Plan for Virginia
Chapter Five of My Business Plan for Virginia: Transportation
I've spent a lot of time traveling the Commonwealth, listening to Virginians tell me what's on their minds. And one thing I've noticed is that the people who are dealing with challenges day to day often have the best ideas about how to overcome them. Too often we see the same old policies come from the top-down. But not all good ideas come out of Richmond. They come from all corners of the Commonwealth.
That's why I've spent the past several weeks asking you - online, and at economic roundtables all over Virginia - what would you do if you were governor?
Today. I'm unveiling the fifth chapter of my Business Plan to get Virginia's economy moving, and I've incorporated a lot of great ideas that I heard from you.
I'm running for governor because I believe we need to think bigger. Instead of just focusing on how to get through the next month, the next year, or the next election, we need to think more imaginatively about how to make our Commonwealth run better. And instead of compartmentalizing our thinking - developing separate plans for "jobs," "schools," "health" or "the environment" - we need a coherent and comprehensive business plan for the Commonwealth that approaches all these issues as inter-related.
That's what my plan does. Even though I'm releasing it one chapter at a time, my Business Plan was developed as a whole, and it recognizes that these issues and strategies all must work together to add value and create jobs in our state.
We cannot get our economy moving again and create the jobs of tomorrow if we don't fix our transportation mess. Building a strong 21st century transportation system in Virginia will allow us to maintain and enhance our competitiveness, quality of life, and environmental sustainability. Virginia has a unique set of opportunities in the transportation sector. First, Virginia's geographical location and transportation corridors uniquely position it to provide access for passenger and freight travel throughout the country and the world. Second, Virginia has the opportunity to be not only a consumer of new and emerging transportation technologies, but also a producer. We can become a national leader in developing transportation industries that will not only help us solve our own transportation problems here in Virginia, but can also be exported to other areas of the country and the world. There is great opportunity to create both white and blue collar jobs in the transportation field throughout all parts of the Commonwealth.
But there are substantial challenges that we face as well. First, our traditional vision of transportation - that we can move most people, goods, and information on highways - will not meet the demands of a growing Commonwealth. Second, the Department of Transportation projects significant decreases in transportation revenue moving forward as motor vehicle sales and fuel tax collections have declined. And third, the recent federal investment for transportation included in President Obama's recovery package will not alone be a long-term solution for Virginia's transportation funding needs.
First, my plan will build strategic transportation assets throughout the Commonwealth, recognizing that Virginia's economic viability is directly tied to the success of its transportation systems. Second, we must encourage development of 21st century transportation technologies. We cannot simply build our way out of the problem. We must pursue new and emerging technologies to help us address our problems. Better yet, we should develop these "transportation solutions" industries here in Virginia so that we can grow both white- and blue-collar jobs in all parts of the Commonwealth. Third, we should integrate community and transportation planning, coordinating our land-use and transportation planning to make the best decisions about growth in our communities. Fourth, we have to have an honest discussion about revenue.

Source: http://www.terrymcauliffe.com/businessplan/chapter5
