Public Statements
Issue Position: Education, Chapter Four of My Business Plan for Virginia
Issue Position
By: Terry McAuliffe
Location: Unknown


Issue Position: Education, Chapter Four of My Business Plan for Virginia
Chapter Four of My Business Plan for Virginia: Education
I've spent a lot of time traveling the Commonwealth, listening to Virginians tell me what's on their minds. And one thing I've noticed is that the people who are dealing with challenges day to day often have the best ideas about how to overcome them. Too often we see the same old policies come from the top-down. But not all good ideas come out of Richmond. They come from all corners of the Commonwealth.
That's why I've spent the past several weeks asking you - online, and at economic roundtables all over Virginia - what would you do if you were governor?
Today. I'm unveiling the fourth chapter of my Business Plan to get Virginia's economy moving, and I've incorporated a lot of great ideas that I heard from you.
I'm running for governor because I believe we need to think bigger. Instead of just focusing on how to get through the next month, the next year, or the next election, we need to think more imaginatively about how to make our Commonwealth run better. And instead of compartmentalizing our thinking - developing separate plans for "jobs," "schools," "health" or "the environment" - we need a coherent and comprehensive business plan for the Commonwealth that approaches all these issues as inter-related.
That's what my plan does. Even though I'm releasing it one chapter at a time, my Business Plan was developed as a whole, and it recognizes that these issues and strategies all must work together to add value and create jobs in our state.
Attracting businesses is primarily about human capital: businesses — particularly those with the potential to produce good jobs with good wages and benefits — will locate where they can find the skilled workers they need. To attract the employers and jobs we want in the future, we need to ensure that Virginia has the best-educated, best-trained, and most skilled workforce in the world. We must tackle this challenge at every level of our educational system. Virginia has had a long history of investing in our workforce, but to prepare our children for the jobs of the 21st century, we must retain and attract the highest-quality teachers, reduce the cost of college, and provide our students with the tools required to attain meaningful employment in high-demand industries.
First, we must invest in higher education and help Virginia families afford college. By increasing commercialization of university research to help fund tuition reductions, supporting our community college system, increasing student aid programs, and creating a new "Scholars for Service" program, every Virginian who seeks to continue his or her education and successfully attain a college degree should be able to do so, regardless of financial means.
Second, we must invest in the base of our education system by investing in school buildings, expanding access to technology and broadband, and supporting our teachers. My plan will increase innovation in the classroom; recruit, train, and retain high-performing teachers; and ensure that our kids get a strong start.
Third, I will invest in our workforce system, which is too often overlooked as part of a human capital investment strategy. While we invest in a good education system for our kids, we should also help older students make the transition from the schoolroom to the workplace. A strong workforce development system will tell employers around the world that they can find the workers they want here in Virginia. We will create a demand-driven system that trains workers for the jobs that employers need.

Source: http://www.terrymcauliffe.com/businessplan/chapter4
