Public Statements
Issue Position: Economic Security, Chapter Three of My Business Plan for Virginia
Issue Position
By: Terry McAuliffe
Location: Unknown


Issue Position: Economic Security, Chapter Three of My Business Plan for Virginia
Chapter Three of My Business Plan for Virginia: Economic Security
I've spent a lot of time traveling the Commonwealth, listening to Virginians tell me what's on their minds. And one thing I've noticed is that the people who are dealing with challenges day to day often have the best ideas about how to overcome them. Too often we see the same old policies come from the top-down. But not all good ideas come out of Richmond. They come from all corners of the Commonwealth.
That's why I've spent the past several weeks asking you - online, and at economic roundtables all over Virginia - what would you do if you were governor?
Today. I'm unveiling the third chapter of my Business Plan to get Virginia's economy moving, and I've incorporated a lot of great ideas that I heard from you.
I'm running for governor because I believe we need to think bigger. Instead of just focusing on how to get through the next month, the next year, or the next election, we need to think more imaginatively about how to make our Commonwealth run better. And instead of compartmentalizing our thinking - developing separate plans for "jobs," "schools," "health" or "the environment" - we need a coherent and comprehensive business plan for the Commonwealth that approaches all these issues as inter-related.
That's what my plan does. Even though I'm releasing it one chapter at a time, my Business Plan was developed as a whole, and it recognizes that these issues and strategies all must work together to add value and create jobs in our state.
The third chapter of my plan lays out a vision for building economic security for Virginia's families. In the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, the foundations of our quality of life -- our homes, our health, our education, and our retirement -- are under threat. As Gina Dixon from Gloucester told me online, "the health of our economy is a function of the mood of our people." If we are going to create jobs and grow our economy, we need to make health insurance more affordable, help families save for and afford college, develop strategies to build assets through homeownership, and enable everyone to save for a decent retirement.
In Virginia, one million of our people go without health insurance because the cost is prohibitive. My plan will rein in health care costs, work to expand coverage, and continue the progress in mental health reform. At the same time, the rising cost of college tuition is putting college out of reach for too many Virginia families. My plan will create a "Scholars for Service" program that will offer four years of loan forgiveness up to the average cost of tuition at a public college in return for two years of public service, especially in high-need professions. My plan will also increase the transferability of college credit, better publicize financial aid opportunities to hard-working students, and require half of the money leveraged from the commercialization of university research to fund reductions in tuition costs.
Our current financial crisis was caused by a mortgage crisis, and we are now faced with a rising rate of foreclosures that threatens the dream of homeownership for too many Virginia families. My plan will assist first-time homebuyers by providing tax-free homeownership savings accounts, improving financial literacy, and creating a loan fund for qualified homebuyers. The plan will also protect against foreclosure by putting an end to bad practices and ensuring accountability. And finally, the security of our retirement is at risk, which is why my plan will enhance and facilitate portability through pension pooling programs, offer tax credits to encourage employers to offer pensions and defray start-up costs, and improve financial literacy to encourage workers to save for retirement.

Source: http://www.terrymcauliffe.com/businessplan/chapter3
