Public Statements
Issue Position: Creating Jobs, Chapter Two of My Business Plan For Virginia
Issue Position
By: Terry McAuliffe
Location: Unknown


Issue Position: Creating Jobs, Chapter Two of My Business Plan For Virginia
Chapter Two of My Business Plan For Virginia: Creating Jobs
I've spent a lot of time traveling the Commonwealth, listening to Virginians tell me what's on their minds. And one thing I've noticed is that the people who are dealing with challenges day to day often have the best ideas about how to overcome them. Too often we see the same old policies come from the top-down. But not all good ideas come out of Richmond. They come from all corners of the Commonwealth.
That's why I've spent the past several weeks asking you - online, and at economic roundtables all over Virginia - what would you do if you were governor?
Today. I'm unveiling the first chapter of my Business Plan to get Virginia's economy moving, and I've incorporated a lot of great ideas that I heard from you.
I'm running for governor because I believe we need to think bigger. Instead of just focusing on how to get through the next month, the next year, or the next election, we need to think more imaginatively about how to make our Commonwealth run better. And instead of compartmentalizing our thinking - developing separate plans for "jobs," "schools," "health" or "the environment" - we need a coherent and comprehensive business plan for the Commonwealth that approaches all these issues as inter-related.
That's what my plan does. Even though I'm releasing it one chapter at a time, my Business Plan was developed as a whole, and it recognizes that these issues and strategies all must work together to add value and create jobs in our state.
The second chapter of my Business Plan for Virginia is focused on the single most important thing we have to do to get our economy moving again -- we have to create jobs. My plan will provide incentives and tax credits to produce long-term growth in high-wage, high-value jobs with benefits in the parts of the state that need them most. I understand that not all parts of the Commonwealth are the same - and each region needs a targeted approach. That is why my plan will create competitive regional site planning grants that local governments could use to prepare for potential "mega projects" that create 1000 or more jobs. And as governor, I will continue efforts to bring renewable-energy and green businesses to Virginia and make sure we are growing not just any business, but the right businesses in the Commonwealth.
As a businessman, I understand that entrepreneurs need help so they can create good jobs. In addition to bringing in new, large industries that can create thousands of jobs, my plan will help small, women-, and minority-owned businesses start and flourish in Virginia. And I know that startup businesses need help the most to finance job growth - and that is why I propose deferring the taxable income of qualified businesses for a few years as well as providing facilities and office equipment as these firms get underway. And, my plan encourages the development and expansion of entrepreneurship programs at our institutions of higher education -particularly at our Historically Black Colleges and Universities.

Source: http://www.terrymcauliffe.com/businessplan/chapter2
