Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces New Exports to Canada for Virginia Coal Equipment Manufacturer
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Oct. 4, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Ceramic Technology, Inc., a Cedar Bluff-based manufacturer of ceramic-lined coal and mineral process equipment, made more than $300,000 in sales to new customers in Canada as a result of its participation in the Go Global with Coal & Energy Technology (GGCET) program. GGCET is a collaboration of the Governor's Office, the Virginia Coalfield Economic Development Authority (VCEDA) and the Virginia Economic Development Partnership (VEDP), resulting from the Governor's 2014 Energy Plan. Canada was Virginia's largest product export destination in 2015, with product exports totaling more than $3.4 billion.
"As part of our 2014 Energy Plan, we laid out a vision for facilitating access to international markets for coal supply chain companies based in Southwest Virginia," said Governor McAuliffe. "GGCET gives these businesses in the Coalfield region an opportunity to export their expertise and products, helping them expand their businesses and create jobs. Ceramic Technology, Inc. is a great example of a Virginia business that expanded its international clientele with the help of this important program. We will continue to find innovative ways to help grow existing businesses as we build the new Virginia economy."
Ceramic Technology, Inc. recently celebrated its 32nd year of operation. This anniversary marks an innovative progression into the design and development of the current CTI-X7 ceramic-lined process equipment being used throughout the coal, power, potash, phosphate, and gold mining industries.
Ceramic Technology, Inc. graduated from the Virginia Leaders in Export Trade (VALET) program in July 2013. The company conducted a business trip to Toronto and Montreal in October 2015 through the GGCET program. Traveling to this important international market provided the company with the opportunity to meet with potential customers in the country through connections made by VEDP's in-country partner.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=17964
