Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Virginia On-Time Graduation Rate Tops 91 Percent
Statement
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Sept. 28, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced that over nine out of ten students who entered the ninth grade in 2012 earned a diploma within four years, and more than half graduated from high school with the Commonwealth's most rigorous diploma, the Virginia Department of Education (VDOE) reported today. Of the 95,130 students in the class of 2016, 91.3 percent earned a Board of Education-approved diploma, compared with 90.5 percent of the 2015 cohort.
"The success demonstrated by our students is a testament to the resolve of teachers, administrators, parents, and community leaders across the Commonwealth to ensure that every individual gets the best possible education," said Governor McAuliffe. "We have the best schools and the best teachers in Virginia and the increased graduation rate highlights our educators' and students' dedication and hard work across the Commonwealth. Our schools are the foundation of the new Virginia Economy and it is essential that we continue to build on this achievement as we educate the workforce of the 21st century."
"Virginia's improved graduation rate shows the dedication of our education community to create a learning environment that inspires students to work hard, stay engage, and ultimately achieve their goals," said Secretary of Education Dietra Trent. "I want to congratulate our students, parents, faculty and staff for their hard work in reaching this important milestone."
"An improving graduation rate is evidence of system-wide success in improving outcomes and providing support and guidance throughout students' K-12 careers," stated Superintendent of Public Instruction Steven R. Staples. "Educators at every level can take pride in this success, especially given the commonwealth's high expectations for learning."

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=17923
