Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Utility-Scale Solar Project in Northampton County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Aug. 17, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor McAuliffe announced today that Hecate Energy, LLC has received a permit for a new utility-scale solar facility to be built in Cape Charles in Northampton County, Virginia. Once complete, the 20-megawatt "Cherrydale Project" will provide enough energy to power over 3,000 households throughout the region.
"This project builds on important investments we are making in the solar industry across Virginia," said Governor Terry McAuliffe. "Investing in clean, renewable power sources will continue to cut carbon emissions and increase energy security throughout the Commonwealth. This is a significant step forward for the Eastern Shore and I look forward to continuing to work with businesses and Virginians to expand access to clean energy sources, improve environmental stewardship, and grow the new Virginia economy."
Construction of the approximately 185-acre facility will utilize an innovative tracking system that maximizes energy output with the efficient use of available sunlight. The facility will interconnect with the Old Dominion Electric Cooperative and A&N Electric Cooperative system. The "permit by rule," issued by the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality, contains provisions to ensure the environment is protected at the Cape Charles site.
"As a Virginia native with family ties to the Eastern Shore region, the 20-megawatt Cherrydale solar development has been an exciting and gratifying project with which to be involved. We are grateful to Northampton County for their support throughout the development of the Cherrydale Project" said Preston Schultz of Hecate Energy LLC. "In my opinion, the Commonwealth of Virginia Permit by Rule process strikes the right balance between protecting critical local environmental, cultural and historical resources while at the same time providing opportunities for the new clean energy economy to take root and flourish in the Old Dominion."

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=16231
