Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 145 New Jobs in Dinwiddie County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Aug. 16, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that ALDI, a leader in the grocery retailing industry, will invest $57 million to establish a division headquarters and 500,000-square-foot distribution facility in Dinwiddie County. Virginia successfully competed against North Carolina for the project, which will create 145 new jobs.
"The decision by ALDI to choose Dinwiddie County as their division headquarters and distribution center is a wonderful testament to Virginia's economic development assets and competitiveness," said Governor McAuliffe. "The Commonwealth continues to be a top state for the retail and distribution industry, and I am pleased to welcome one of the nation's fastest growing retailers to Virginia. This announcement is a significant win for Dinwiddie County and a great step forward in our efforts to diversify and build a new Virginia economy."
"I congratulate Dinwiddie County on the addition of 145 new, good-paying jobs to the region," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "Virginia is located within a 10-hour drive of over 50% of the U.S. population, which makes the Commonwealth a strategic location for companies' distribution centers. I thank ALDI for trusting in Virginia's prime location, best-in-class infrastructure and talented workforce and wish the company continued growth and success within Virginia and throughout the country."
A leader in the grocery retailing industry, ALDI operates more than 1,500 US stores in 34 states and serves more than 32 million customers each month. One of the fastest growing retailers in the US, ALDI currently is in the midst of an accelerated growth plan to operate nearly 2,000 stores by the end of 2018, bringing high-quality, affordable groceries to 45 million customers nationwide. ALDI has a strong track record of paying its employees market-leading wages and offering generous benefits. In fact, part-time staff working at least 25 hours per week receive full health insurance benefits and dental coverage, and all ALDI employees are invited to participate in the 401(k) savings program.
"We're proud to locate our new division headquarters and distribution center in business-friendly Virginia. The access to qualified and capable employees and transportation options first attracted us to this location, but it was the integrity and positive attitude of the Dinwiddie County leaders that truly won us over," said Jason Hart, CEO, ALDI. "Today, we have 32 ALDI stores in Virginia and we plan to open up to 60 additional locations across the Commonwealth over the next five years, helping more people save time and money by offering them premium quality groceries at everyday low prices in easy-to-shop stores."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Dinwiddie County to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $450,000 grant from the Commonwealth's Opportunity Fund to assist Dinwiddie County with the project. The Virginia Tobacco Region Revitalization Commission approved $680,000 in Tobacco Region Opportunity Funds. The company is eligible to receive state benefits from the Virginia Enterprise Zone Program, administered by the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"We welcome ALDI to the tobacco region," said Delegate Terry Kilgore, Co-Chairman of the Virginia Tobacco Region Revitalization Commission. "This is a great investment for the Tobacco Commission. This will help Southside and Dinwiddie County to move forward, and it represents a great victory for the Commission and the Commonwealth. "
"ALDI has a strong reputation for providing quality employment opportunities," said Brenda Ebron-Bonner, Chair Dinwiddie County Board of Supervisors. "They are the kind of company that Dinwiddie County is proud to welcome into our community."
"Congratulations to Dinwiddie County for continuing to be a quality jobs leader in the region," said Senator Rosalyn Dance. "You have continuously demonstrated how to best utilize every tool to bring new revenue and jobs to the region. I am grateful for the ALDI commitment and decision to establish its division headquarters and distribution center in Dinwiddie County."
"We have always recognized Dinwiddie's great promise, and it is wonderful to see that one of the nation's fastest growing grocery retailers recognizes this potential as well," said Delegate Lashrecse Aird. "The decision by ALDI to locate its division headquarters and distribution center in Dinwiddie County over several competitors is further proof of the great opportunity for business growth and economic development in this region. This investment of jobs to central Virginia will have a significant role in improving the livelihood for my constituents."
"The Tobacco Commission is glad that we could help Dinwiddie County in attracting ALDI to locate their distribution center in the county," said Tobacco Commission Vice-Chairman Senator Frank Ruff. "Dinwiddie's location provides an ideal site for ALDI. The jobs and capital investment in the region are important for the continuing growth of the county and surrounding localities."

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=16222
