Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 30 New Jobs in Warren County
Press Release
By: Christopher Collins Terry McAuliffe Mark Obenshain
Date: Aug. 4, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Toray Plastics (America), Inc., a subsidiary of Toray Industries, Inc., headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, will invest $45 million to expand its Front Royal facility in Warren County. Toray Plastics (America) is a global leader in high-performance films, synthetic fibers and textiles, carbon fibers, plastics, chemicals and pharmaceuticals. The company will add extrusion capability and a new production line to meet growing customer demand. The project will create 30 new jobs.
"This exciting announcement is another win for Virginia's thriving advanced manufacturing sector, as well as our ongoing efforts to help corporate partners like Toray Plastics (America) expand and create new jobs in communities like Front Royal," said Governor McAuliffe. "We are working aggressively to leverage Virginia's world-class business environment and workforce to help more companies like Toray make the right decision to locate, grow and succeed here in Virginia. The manufacturing sector continues to be a cornerstone of our efforts to build a new Virginia economy, locally and internationally, and my administration is committed to supporting Toray's continued success in Front Royal."
"Toray Plastics is an excellent example of an international firm investing and choosing to grow in Virginia after experiencing the Commonwealth's world-class business environment, quality of life and workforce," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "Congratulations to the company and Warren County on the exciting expansion. We look forward to further strengthening our relationship in order to create even more jobs and opportunities for growth in the region."
Toray Plastics (America), Inc. is a manufacturer of polyester, polypropylene, bio-based and metallized films for flexible and rigid packaging, lidding, graphic, industrial, optical, and electronic applications, and polyolefin, polypropylene, and polyethylene foams for the automotive and flooring industries. The company is a subsidiary of Tokyo-based Toray Industries, Inc., the world leader in synthetic fibers and textiles, carbon fibers, plastics, chemicals, pharmaceuticals and high-performance films, which has annual sales exceeding $19 billion.
"We have had a long and successful relationship with the State of Virginia and to base this new expansion in Front Royal was the best, most logical choice," said Michael Brandmeier, President & CEO, Toray Plastics (America), Inc. "Our existing workforce is the backbone of our business, and we look forward to adding this new capacity and these 30 new jobs over the next several years."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Warren County to secure this project for Virginia. Funding and services to support employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"We are so happy to see Toray Plastics (America) expanding," said Linda Glavis, Chairwoman of the Warren County Board of Supervisors. "They have been a good corporate neighbor to Warren County and their success is our success as well."
"Toray was one of the very first industries attracted to Warren County when we began our aggressive recruitment back in the late 1990's," said Patty Wines, Chairwoman of the Front Royal-Warren County Economic Development Authority. "We applaud them for their expansion, additional investment in Warren County and creation of new jobs. That's what you always hope for when new industries locate in your community."
"I am once again pleased that our area continues to draw investment interests from home and abroad," said Delegate Christopher Collins. "This significant investment, along with the continued investment in the inland port, will create good paying jobs for our community. I am pleased to work with the Governor, Warren County and businesses to continue to bring this type of investment to our area."
"This is welcome news and a gratifying acknowledgement that our motivated workforce and transportation infrastructure make the Shenandoah Valley a great place for businesses like Toray Plastics to locate and expand," said Senator Mark Obenshain.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=16160
