Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Major New Exports to China for Frondita Biogroup
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 27, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Frondita Biogroup, a Richmond-based supplier of innovative animal feeds, additives and supplements, made new export sales to China as a result of its participation in the China Animal Husbandry Expo held in Shenyang, China in May. The company worked with the Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services (VDACS) international marketing and development team, with assistance from the Virginia Economic Development Partnership's (VEDP) international trade staff, to capture the new international business.
"I am excited to see new sales opportunities for Frondita Biogroup in fast-growing and competitive markets like China that were facilitated by the assistance of Virginia's export promotion programs," said Governor McAuliffe. "Deals like this are exactly what we need to help build the new Virginia economy and further diversify the customer base of our smaller companies. In addition, China is a vital customer as we work to make Virginia the East Coast capital for agriculture and forestry exports, and this new business for Frondita puts us another step closer toward that goal."
Frondita, formerly Agrivita Biogroup, was assisted by VDACS and VEDP in attending the exhibition in China through a grant from the U.S. Department of Commerce's State Trade Export Promotion program. Frondita's new export business further expands the company's recently developed customer base in China, which it also obtained with assistance from VDACS' China-based trade representative office (click here to see the announcement).
"I commend Frondita on its perseverance in the international arena and its commitment to growing its export sales to China, the Commonwealth's top customer of agricultural and forestry products," said Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry Todd Haymore. "Thanks to Governor McAuliffe and the General Assembly we have the necessary resources to put VDACS' network of global trade representatives in place to facilitate deals like this and to ensure that our exporters have guidance and assistance in navigating the complexities of international business."
Arunas Vanagas, CEO of Frondita Biogroup, added, "Making sales, especially in international markets, is not just about providing high quality products and excellent service. Companies must also understand the importing country's regulations and requirements and how to overcome many local barriers. Achieving all of this would be very difficult without the knowledge and support of VDACS, and financial support from export promotion programs like those at both VDACS and VEDP."
VDACS international marketing and trade staff and the VDACS China trade representative have supported Frondita since 2014 to overcome significant certification and regulatory challenges and to develop a marketing strategy to compete in a rapidly growing sector of the animal feed business in China. While focusing on the China market remains the priority for Frondita, the company has worked to develop contacts in the growing markets of Southeast Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, Europe and India. VDACS international trade representatives around the world continue to assist Frondita with market research and developing new buyer contacts in all of these markets.
Agricultural and forestry exports from Virginia totaled $3.19 billion in 2015, the second highest value ever. China is the number one international market for Virginia agriculture and forestry products. In 2015, Virginia exported more than $694 million in these products to China, up 1.4 percent from the previous year. Virginia's top agriculture and forestry exports to China are soybeans, lumber and pork.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=16080
