Public Statements
Governor Announces "Permanent' to Film in Virginia
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 27, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that the upcoming feature film "Permanent," starring Patricia Arquette and Rainn Wilson will shoot in Central Virginia this summer.
The comedy, set in the early 1980s, is about a young girl coming of age in a small town. The film was penned and will be directed by Colette Burson, the co-creator/executive producer of the HBO television series "Hung." A University of Virginia graduate, she has written original television for Showtime, FX, NBC and Canal+. Burson based "Permanent" on a memorable incident that occurred when she attended E.B. Stanley Middle School in Abingdon.
"The Commonwealth of Virginia offers filmmakers an incomparably versatile backdrop, having served as the picture-perfect location for projects from the 17th century through today, and now back again to the 1980s," said Governor McAuliffe. "The film will greatly benefit from our state's natural beauty and the hardworking Virginians who will assist with all aspects of the production process. I am thrilled to add "Permanent' to our Virginia filmography, and excited to see the continued success of our film industry as we work to build a new Virginia economy."
"Film projects create an excellent boost to the Commonwealth's economy" said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "The Commonwealth's film production industry has grown exponentially in recent years, and independent films like "Permanent' have played an essential role in the development and success of this industry."
The film is set to star Oscar-winner Patricia Arquette ("Boyhood") and Rainn Wilson ("The Office"). 2929 Productions is partnering with Park Pictures and Washington Square films to make the film. Mary Ann Marino, Haroula Rose, Sam Bisbee and Joshua Blum will produce. Executive producers are Todd Wagner, Ben Cosgrove, Jackie Kelman Bisbee, Lance Acord and Danielle Renfrew Behrens.
Director Colette Burson said, "I feel like I can deliver a movie that looks way beyond my budget because all my Virginia locations are incredibly beautiful and authentic. And I'm not shooting a historical piece; mine is a comedy set in 1983! Because I was raised in Abingdon, went to UVA and still consider myself a Virginian, I contacted the film office staff, who encouraged me to do my movie where it is written, and I've been so glad they did. They have been an incredible help in every way, and in fact helped make my movie possible."
"Colette Burson is a fantastically talented writer and director, and we are delighted that her smart and sweet comedy will be shot here in the Commonwealth," said Andy Edmunds, Director of the Virginia Film Office. "Projects like "Permanent' bring jobs to our experienced local crew and unparalleled opportunities for new workers in the industry, helping to grow the production infrastructure and, in turn, attract more productions. We're honored to host this dynamic film."
"Permanent" will begin filming in early August in Central Virginia. It is eligible to receive a Virginia film tax credit and grant. The exact amount is based on the number of Virginia workers hired, Virginia goods and services purchased, and deliverables, including Virginia tourism promotions. The economic impact of Virginia's film industry in 2014 was $413.6 million, providing $59.4 million in state and local tax revenue for the Commonwealth, as well as 3,438 full-time jobs.
The Virginia Film Office is part of the Virginia Tourism Corporation, the state agency charged with marketing the Commonwealth of Virginia. Tourism is an instant revenue generator in Virginia. In 2015, visitors spent $23 billion, supporting nearly 222,600 jobs and contributing $1.6 billion in state and local taxes.
- See more at: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=16082#sthash.lLKOXJop.dpuf

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=16082
