Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Publication of Geology of Virginia
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 25, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today the release of The Geology of Virginia, the first comprehensive review of Virginia geology in more than a century. The book, published by the Virginia Museum of Natural History, examines the geological history and features of the Commonwealth and offers detailed, regionally specific information. Editors, representatives of the Virginia Department of Mines, Minerals and Energy, and leaders from the museum joined the Governor in Richmond to present a signed copy of the 538-page book.
"Every Virginian should be proud of the unique geologic diversity found within the Commonwealth," said Governor McAuliffe. "The Geology of Virginia is an incredible tool for the academic community and amateur enthusiasts alike, and I am thrilled to celebrate its publication with the experts and editors responsible for its creation. This caliber of scholarly achievement advances the field of geology and underscores Virginia as one of the best places to study this topic in the world."
The Geology of Virginia is the 18th installment of the Virginia Museum of Natural History's "Special Publications" series, which includes contributions from museum scientists and researchers throughout the United States. The series includes handbooks, bibliographic catalogs and checklists, and edited volumes of symposium proceedings.
"To protect the natural world, we must first understand it," said Virginia Secretary of Natural Resources Molly Ward. "By gathering geological information of this variety, validity, and depth, the Virginia Museum of Natural History has done a real service for students, teachers, environmentalists, and anyone interested in Virginia's unique landscape."
Virginia encompasses five distinct geologic provinces and contains a rich variety of igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks, some as old as 2.5 billion years. Few states can match Virginia's distinctive landforms and geologic diversity.
According to Dr. Jim Beard, curator of earth sciences at the Virginia Museum of Natural History, this publication will serve as the standard reference for geologists studying the Commonwealth's geological makeup.
"The Geology of Virginia is the first comprehensive review of Virginia Geology in more than a century," said Dr. Jim Beard, who also serves as Director of Research and Collections at the museum. "It represents the combined efforts of more than 40 geoscience professionals and covers all aspects of regional, historical, economic, and hazards geology, as well as fossil life. This book provides a baseline for future work and will be a standard reference for geologists for decades to come."
The Geology of Virginia is now available for purchase exclusively through the museum's website at www.vmnh.net and the Museum Store, located in Martinsville. Please visit the museum's website to learn more about the museum's publications, exhibits and programming.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=16063
