Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Launches Workforce Innovation Datathon Challenge
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 18, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today launched the 2016 Workforce Innovation Datathon Challenge, a competition inviting citizens, students, and government teams from across the Commonwealth to come together to create innovative workforce solutions.
"We must embrace innovation and leverage data in order to advance our workforce efforts for a new Virginia economy," said Governor McAuliffe. "Jobs today require adaptive technical skills, as cyber and communication innovations are developing at an ever-increasing rate. We must cultivate a deeper understanding of current and future job opportunities to strengthen the connection between the skillsets we are imparting on our workforce and the needs employers have to grow successful businesses in the 21st century."
"We look forward to seeing who registers to participate," added Virginia Secretary of Technology Karen Jackson. "This challenge is an open invitation for Virginians to have direct input on how their government uses data and technology to improve how the Commonwealth serves employers and employees. Technology and apps developed by civic coders can contribute greatly to our workforce efforts".
"Workforce development is a top priority of this administration. I am thrilled that the Governor's annual Datathon will be focused on helping jobseekers and education and workforce professionals learn more about current job requirements and availability," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "I look forward to seeing the new apps and visualizations for labor market data that will be produced as a result of this competition. "
"The Workforce Innovation Datathon Challenge will provide participating high school and college students with a fantastic opportunity to solve real-world problems and gain skills through hands-on learning, essential to laying a firm foundation for the 21st century economy," Secretary of Education Anne Holton said. "I commend the Library of Virginia for hosting this important event, and I thank them for their continued partnership and commitment to providing the Commonwealth's young people with innovative opportunities to learn and grow."
This year's two-day challenge is scheduled for August 25-26 at the Library of Virginia. For registration, additional information, and Datathon rules, please visit the event website: http://data.virginia.gov/datathon-2016.
Top teams will be invited to participate in final judging at the Commonwealth of Virginia Innovative Technology Symposium (COVITS) on September 7th, 2016.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=16011
