Public Statements
Wrap-up: Governor McAuliffe Completes 18th International Trade Mission
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 15, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

This week, Governor McAuliffe completed his 18th trade mission on behalf of the Commonwealth of Virginia. On his latest mission, the Governor travelled to Israel and the United Kingdom. During the trip, the Governor and his team had the opportunity to engage with companies looking to bring jobs and invest in the United States. Governor McAuliffe met with leaders from many economic sectors including technology, finance, tourism, and energy.
While in England, Governor McAuliffe announced the completion of a new lumber export deal with the U.K. company James Latham PLC. The deal, which includes four lumber companies from across the Commonwealth, was put into motion during his last European Trade mission in April. Virginia's agriculture and forestry exports to the U.K. reached a new high in 2015 at $133 million, with about $110 million being wood products exports.
Governor McAuliffe believes the relationships forged and the ties strengthened during this trip will continue our success of bringing new businesses and economic investments to the Commonwealth.
In honor of the Governor securing another economic deal for Virginia, the McAuliffe Administration has created a list of 10 of the most significant economic deals produced as a result of the trade missions:
Governor McAuliffe Announces New Virginia Apple Exports to India
Shandong Tranlin Paper Co., Ltd. will invest $2 billion in first U.S. advanced manufacturing operation
Governor McAuliffe Announces Lifting of Poultry Products Bans in Kuwait and Oman
Italian automotive manufacturer ELDOR Corporation to invest about $75 million to establish first U.S. production plant
Governor McAuliffe Announces New Seafood and Agricultural Product Exports to Canada
Governor McAuliffe Announces 1,173 New Jobs in Henrico County Following Meeting with Parent Company in Cardiff, United Kingdom
Governor McAuliffe Announces New Biotech Agricultural Export Deal to China
Governor McAuliffe Announces 700 New Jobs in Arlington and Spotsylvania Counties Following Meeting in Neckarsulm, Germany
Governor McAuliffe Announces New Exports for Virginia Lumber Companies to the United Kingdom
Governor McAuliffe Announces $100 Million Investment in City of Newport News

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15979
