Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 41 New Jobs in City of Danville
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 12, 2016
Location: London, United Kingdom

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Overfinch, the world's leading creator of bespoke Range Rover vehicles, will invest $1.82 million to establish a manufacturing operation in the City of Danville. The company plans to upfit Jaguar Land Rover vehicles, which will be sold to customers across the U.S. The investment includes an assembly and conversion workshop, vehicle servicing, diagnostics, and parts warehouse. Virginia successfully competed against California for the project, which will create 41 new jobs.
"I am pleased to congratulate Overfinch for their expansion and applaud their decision to establish their new manufacturing operation in the City of Danville," said Governor McAuliffe, speaking at the announcement. "As Virginia expands our global partnerships, this deal exemplifies our advantages as highly skilled, workforce-ready state and speaks to the competitive business advantages of the Southside Virginia region. As a well-regarded international automotive company, Overfinch will be a great corporate partner in our continuing efforts to diversify and build a new Virginia economy."
"Overfinch's operation is an exciting addition to the City of Danville and the Commonwealth of Virginia, and I want to thank the many partners involved in this win," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "Advanced manufacturing is a critical sector and essential for the Commonwealth's ongoing success. Danville's robust business environment and talented workforce makes it an ideal home for Overfinch."
Headquartered in Leeds, England, Overfinch was founded under the name Schuler in 1975. Since then, the company has remained dedicated to the Land Rover brand, enhancing the luxury 4x4 with a continuous R&D program, top class production facilities and designs that improve the vehicle as opposed to altering it from standard.
"Overfinch is delighted to announce that our US engineering and production facility will be based in Danville, Virginia," said Kevin Sloane, Chair and CEO of Overfinch. "The community's commitment to workforce training, with an emphasis on advanced manufacturing skills, was a critical factor in our decision. In 2016, we have taken the step from being Britain's leading creator of bespoke Range Rovers to a global luxury brand. Our prospects in the USA are extremely strong and we're excited to commence this new chapter with the support and contribution of the Danville community."
"CCAM is delighted that a British household name and one of the world's most prestigious automotive companies, Overfinch, will be locating its first non-UK facility in Danville, in Southside Virginia," said William T. Powers III, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Commonwealth Center for Advanced Manufacturing. "They chose Southside Virginia due to our US leading workforce development provision, international connectivity from three hub airports and business costs 20% below the national mean."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with the City of Danville to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $125,000 grant from the Commonwealth Opportunity Fund to assist Danville with the project. The Virginia Tobacco Region Revitalization Commission approved $275,000 in Tobacco Region Opportunity Funds. The company is eligible to receive state benefits from the Virginia Enterprise Zone Program, administered by the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"We are delighted to have this economic development announcement of a global luxury brand like Overfinch, here at the Farnborough Airshow," said Sherman Saunders, Mayor of the City of Danville. "We are ecstatic to learn that after a broad and extensive search for ideal locations for its first U.S. engineering and production facility, Overfinch has chosen the City of Danville-Pittsylvania County Region. That speaks volumes about the confidence Overfinch North America has in our region."
"We are thankful and appreciative of the investment and good paying jobs that Overfinch is bringing to our community," said Jesse Barksdale, Chairman of the Pittsylvania County Board of Supervisors. "I am confident that the Company will find tremendous success in Southern Virginia, particularly because of the major investments this region has made in creating an extraordinary workforce solution centered around precision manufacturing."
"The City of Danville and the surrounding region are perfectly positioned for supporting the automotive industry, and having Overfinch bring their operation to our area clearly demonstrates that Southside is poised once again to lead Virginia's economy in manufacturing," said Senator William Stanley. "No one builds it better in the United States than the people of Southside Virginia, and companies like Overfinch are proving that by their investment here. The Tobacco Commission is proud to join in the investment of this very important economic project."
"We enthusiastically welcome Overfinch to our region," said Delegate Danny Marshall. "With a 40 year history, this is a company that brings experience, a world market and higher-paying jobs for advanced manufacturing workers in our area. This is a combination of successful factors for Tobacco Commission incentive funding, where advanced training is already in place and workers can get skilled jobs. We are happy that Overfinch will locate in Danville."

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15900
