Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Leads Marketing and Trade Mission to Israel and United Kingdom
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 8, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe will lead a marketing and trade mission to Israel and the United Kingdom July 8-13. The Governor will be accompanied by Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones, Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry Todd Haymore and representatives of the Virginia Economic Development Partnership, the Virginia Department of Agricultural and Consumer Services, the Virginia Tourism Corporation and the Virginia Israel Advisory Board.
"Bringing new jobs and investment to our Commonwealth and expanding markets for Virginia products all over the globe is a top priority for my administration as we continue to grow and diversify our state's economy," said Governor McAuliffe. "These marketing and trade missions provide the best opportunity to meet with company representatives face-to-face and promote Virginia's world-class workforce and business climate. They also offer the opportunity to market Virginia products to the world market and to invite tourists from all over the globe to come enjoy our unmatched historic and recreational attractions."
The delegation will spend two days in Israel prior to departing for London to attend the Farnborough International Airshow, which draws more than 100,000 trade visitors and more than 1,500 corporate exhibitors from all over the world.
The Governor will meet with senior business executives, government leaders, and tourism officials to recruit businesses and jobs back to Virginia, bolster the export of Virginia goods and services, and promote the Commonwealth's world-class tourism assets. The Governor and his delegation will attend more than 50 meetings over the course of the mission.
In addition to one-on-one business meetings, the Governor will host two receptions to showcase Virginia's economic development opportunities, its agriculture and food and beverage assets, and great quality of life to prospective corporate investors. During the airshow, the Governor will host an executive roundtable, in partnership with the Aerospace Industries Association, to promote Virginia's aerospace, unmanned and cyber assets.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15829
