Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 142 New Jobs in Arlington County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 7, 2016
Location: Arlington, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Phone2Action, a civic engagement software platform, will invest $150,000 to relocate from Washington, D.C., to Arlington County and expand its software operation. Launched in 2014, the company supplies social advocacy and civic engagement tools that connect constituents with their elected officials. The project will create 142 new jobs.
Speaking at the announcement, Governor Terry McAuliffe said, "I am delighted to welcome another thriving, entrepreneurial tech company to Northern Virginia. The Commonwealth offers many advantages to technology firms. From our skilled, high-tech workforce to our IT infrastructure and quality-of-life assets, Virginia continues to be recognized nationally in the technology industry. We are proud that a high-caliber company like Phone2Action has selected Arlington County for its new home, and are confident they will benefit from this region's assets."
"I am thrilled that Phone2Action has chosen Arlington County to relocate its operation and create 142 new tech-related jobs," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "Not only will Phone2Action benefit from Northern Virginia's superior business environment, but the company's focus on social innovation and civic engagement will also be valuable to the region and the Commonwealth. I wish the company success in its new home, and look forward to working with it in the future."
Phone2Action is designed for organizations to attract and engage supporters. The company's campaign management and mobile-optimized tools simplify the process of engaging new supporters to help them take quick, concrete action, such as phone calls or emails, to elected officials at the local, state and federal level, or enroll in public programs and services.
"We are thrilled to accept the invitation of Virginia to bring our headquarters to this dynamic state," said Ximena Hartsock and Jeb Ory, Co-Founders of Phone2Action. "Virginia and Arlington attract a top-notch talent pool that our company needs to continue leading the digital transformation of advocacy. Virginia's investment package and business-friendly ecosystem demonstrate understanding of the kind of support high-growth tech companies need to thrive. We are proud to be part of the transformation of Rosslyn into a smart city and in helping it become the technology hub of the East Coast."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Arlington County to secure the project for Virginia. The company is eligible to receive $127,800 in funding and services to support its employee training activities, which is provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"Phone2Action's decision to relocate to Arlington is another example of how our skilled workforce and commitment to the tech sector are true assets to Arlington's economy," said Arlington County Board Chair Libby Garvey. "We are proud to welcome Phone2Action to our business community and look forward to working with them as the company continues to grow."
"Once again, I am happy to welcome another tech company, Phone2Action, to Arlington, Virginia," said Senator Barbara Favola. "I am confident that Phone2Action will thrive here, given our 21st century workforce and the high quality of life offered by the Northern Virginia region. The decision of this young company to move to Northern Virginia demonstrates the importance of making necessary investments in education, transportation, fiber optic infrastructure and other building blocks."
"I am thrilled to see Governor McAuliffe bring another innovative tech company into the 48th district," said Delegate Rip Sullivan. "Companies like Phone2Action are at the leading edge of the new Virginia economy in the 48th district and the Commonwealth. I look forward to welcoming Phone2Action and its 142 employees to Arlington."

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15817
