Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Inaugural Members of the School Readiness Committee and New Members of the SOL Innovation Committee
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 6, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor McAuliffe announced today the inaugural members of the recently-created School Readiness Committee and the new membership of the Standards of Learning (SOL) Innovation Committee. The School Readiness Committee was established by the 2016 General Assembly in order to better equip the next generation of early childhood educators with skills that will ensure student success. The new members of the SOL Innovation Committee will build on the work of the inaugural group by pursuing additional reforms.
"I would like to congratulate these new committee members and commend them for their willingness to serve the Commonwealth's students," Governor McAuliffe said. "The School Readiness Committee will help us to improve how we train early childhood educators to prepare every student to succeed, and the SOL Innovation Committee will continue to provide bold recommendations to bring more innovation into our classrooms. Both committees were created as part of a bipartisan effort to ensure that all of our public schools are preparing our students to succeed in the new Virginia economy."
Membership on each committee was determined following an exhaustive review of stakeholder recommendations and applications. The citizen members of the SOL Innovation Committee were selected by Virginia Secretary of Education Anne Holton, while citizen members of the School Readiness Committee were chosen by Secretary Holton in consultation with Virginia Secretary of Health and Human Resources, Dr. Bill Hazel.
The SOL Innovation Committee will continue to provide recommendations in accordance with Governor McAuliffe's call to "be bold" when rethinking SOL assessments and innovation in the K-12 system.
"I am proud that the inaugural members of the SOL Innovation Committee helped reshape Virginia's approach to public education, and I am confident our new members will bring fresh perspectives to this vital work," said Secretary of Education Anne Holton. "Additionally, I am excited about the new School Readiness Committee, and I look forward to working with our members to help strengthen the early childhood education workforce."
The School Readiness Committee's first goal is to make recommendations to the Board of Education and the General Assembly on ways to enhance and align early childhood education professional development and credentialing to support the needs of young students. It will periodically review its goals and may address other priorities within the early childhood care and education systems.
"The School Readiness Committee will do the important work of taking a broad-based look at the workforce that supports early childhood education, and help better prepare our educators to optimize early childhood learning," said Secretary of Health and Human Resources Dr. Bill Hazel.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15815
