Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces $2.8 Million in Flood Mitigation Grants
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 1, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced that seven residential properties in flood-prone areas of Virginia will be elevated and another six properties will be acquired to reduce future flood damage through $2.8 million in federal grants administered by the Virginia Department of Emergency Management (VDEM).
"These funds are critical to the long-term safety of many Virginia communities. The projects will protect vulnerable homes and reduce or even eliminate the effects of repeated flooding," said Governor McAuliffe. "I commend the Virginia Department of Emergency Management for its partnership with each locality to protect lives and at-risk properties through these grants. We will continue to direct proper funding to homes and communities affected by flooding to ensure the Commonwealth remains a safe and secure place for all Virginians."
VDEM received the funding from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) under the fiscal year 2015 Flood Mitigation Assistance and Pre-Disaster Mitigation grant programs. The agency awards funds for eligible projects submitted by localities throughout the state as part of the grant process.

Six properties will be acquired as part of the hazard mitigation initiative, which will involve removal of the homes so the land can be converted to open space. For seven properties, existing structures will be raised to the base flood elevation level or higher. Homeowner participation in any mitigation grant is voluntary.
"These grants represent an excellent opportunity to support building safe, secure and resilient communities in response to the potential impact of hurricanes and recurrent flooding," said Secretary of Public Safety and Homeland Security Brian Moran. "This is another innovative tool for enhancing the Commonwealth's resilience."

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15786
