Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Statement on the Selection of Todd Haymore as Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade
Statement
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: June 23, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today released the following statement announcing that Virginia Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry Todd Haymore will become the next Secretary of Commerce and Trade in Virginia, succeeding Secretary Maurice Jones as he assumes Chief Executive Officer of the Local Initiatives Support Corporation in September:
"As Virginia Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry, Todd Haymore has been instrumental in making those key industries innovative and robust sectors of the new Virginia economy. Todd brings the right combination of economic development experience, global trade understanding, and administrative expertise to build on the outstanding success Secretary Maurice Jones has achieved as a member of my cabinet.
"The agencies that comprise the Secretariat of Commerce and Trade are at the epicenter of my administration's efforts to grow and diversify our economy, and I know that Secretary Haymore will hit the ground running creating jobs and new economic opportunity for families in every corner of our Commonwealth."
Governor McAuliffe reappointed Secretary Haymore to serve as Virginia's Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry in 2014. He had served in the same capacity since 2010, when he was first appointed by then-Governor Bob McDonnell. During his tenure, Haymore has been responsible for the Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services (VDACS), the Virginia Department of Forestry (DOF), and the Virginia Racing Commission. Prior to his appointment as Secretary, Haymore served as VDACS Commissioner under former Virginia Governor Tim Kaine.
Secretary Maurice Jones will leave the McAuliffe administration in September to become the Chief Executive Officer of the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, an organization that works with low-income communities to create new opportunities for businesses and residents to thrive. He was appointed Secretary of Commerce and Trade in January 2014. Prior to the McAuliffe administration, Jones served as the Deputy Secretary for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15725
