Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Administration Appointments
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: June 17, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced additional appointments to his Administration today. The appointees will join McAuliffe's Administration focused on finding common ground with members of both parties on issues that will build a new Virginia economy and create more jobs across the Commonwealth.
Secretary of the Commonwealth
Traci DeShazor, Deputy Secretary
Traci DeShazor previously served as the Deputy Director of the Virginia Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. In this role, Traci served as a federal liaison between the Commonwealth, the Virginia Congressional Delegation, the White House, and other states and territories. Prior to joining Governor McAuliffe's Administration, Traci served on the Governor-Elect's transition team and as the African American Outreach Coordinator for McAuliffe for Governor. A native of Danville, Virginia, Traci received her Bachelor's of Arts in International Studies from Virginia Tech and her Master's in Justice and Legal Studies from Hollins University.
Secretariat of the Commonwealth
Board Appointments
Board for Professional and Occupational Regulation
Laurence A. Benenson* of Alexandria, Policy and Advocacy Manager, National Immigration Forum
Waylin Ross of Herndon, President, ParaLobby, LLC and Economic Instructor, Northern Virginia Community College
Board of Forestry
Anne Beals* of Fredericksburg, retired tree farmer
Don Bright* of Clarksville, President, Meherrin River Forest Products, Inc.
Joel L. Cathey* of Keysville, Resource Manager, Ontario Hardwood Co., Inc.
Fort Monroe Authority
Colin G. Campbell* of Williamsburg, Chairman Emeritas, Colonial Williamsburg Foundation
The Honorable James P. Moran* of McLean, Senior Legislative Advisor, McDermott Will & Emery LLP; former member, United States House of Representatives
*denotes reappointment

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15649
