Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 348 New Jobs in Arlington County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: June 16, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Grant Thornton LLP, a leading U.S. professional-services firm, will invest $15.75 million to consolidate offices and grow its presence across the Northern Virginia region. Virginia successfully competed against Washington, D.C. for the project, which will retain 994 jobs and create 348 new jobs.
"Retaining Grant Thornton in Virginia is a big win for the Commonwealth, as we continue to make Virginia the best place in the country for business and workforce development," said Governor McAuliffe. "The firm's consolidation is a great testament to the business advantages of Arlington County and we are excited to announce that this project is, not only retaining nearly 1,000 jobs in Virginia, but also creating 348 additional jobs. I am pleased with our success and will continue to work with industry leaders to ensure the new Virginia economy is innovative, diverse, and competitive in the global marketplace."
"I am thrilled we were able to help Grant Thornton find a new, state-of-the-art home in Arlington County that can meet the company's growing needs as it consolidates locations and expands in the region," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "Grant Thornton will continue to benefit from the Commonwealth's superior workforce and Northern Virginia's best in class business environment, and I congratulate the company on this exciting new chapter."
"This move reinforces Grant Thornton's commitment to Virginia and Arlington County," said Jamie Fowler, Grant Thornton's Atlantic Coast managing partner. "We'll be combining our area offices to create a more efficient footprint, but also the "workplace of the future,' a concept developed with input from Grant Thornton employees. The "workplace of the future' equips and engages our people to leverage technology and design to do their jobs smarter, faster and better. More importantly, it allows them to feel connected no matter where they work."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Arlington County to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $1 million grant from the Commonwealth's Opportunity Fund to assist the County with the project.The company will also be eligible to receive a Major Business Facility Job Tax Credit. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"Grant Thornton is a well-established company with clients around the globe, and we could not be happier to welcome them to Arlington," said Libby Garvey, Chair of the Arlington County Board. "The company's expansion in Arlington County will bring significant job growth here, and we are confident Grant Thornton will find the workforce, resources and support it needs to ensure its success."
"This is another win for Arlington County and Governor McAuliffe," said Delegate Rip Sullivan. "Grant Thornton's decision to consolidate its Northern Virginia offices in Arlington will bring hundreds of talented workers--and taxpayers--to the County. Today is a great day for our Arlington community and for Grant Thornton."
"Grant Thornton has made a wise choice selecting Arlington County as the place to expand its Atlantic coast operations," said Senator Barbara Favola. "Arlington County and the entire Northern Virginia region offer a highly educated and technologically savvy workforce, coupled with first-class school systems and research institutions. Clearly, Virginia's investments in human capital are yielding positive results every day. We welcome Grant Thornton to the region."
About Grant Thornton LLP
Founded in Chicago in 1924, Grant Thornton LLP (Grant Thornton) is the U.S. member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd, one of the world's leading organizations of independent audit, tax and advisory firms. In the United States, Grant Thornton has revenue in excess of $1.45 billion and operates 59 offices with more than 550 partners and 7,000 employees. Grant Thornton works with a broad range of dynamic publicly and privately held companies, government agencies, financial institutions, and civic and religious organizations.
"Grant Thornton" refers to Grant Thornton LLP, the U.S. member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd (GTIL). GTIL and the member firms are not a worldwide partnership. Services are delivered by the member firms. GTIL and its member firms are not agents of, and do not obligate, one another and are not liable for one another's acts or omissions. Please see grantthornton.com for further details.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15645
