Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Administration Appointments
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: June 13, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced his appointments to the Boards of Visitors at Virginia's colleges and universities, the State Council for Higher Education for Virginia and the State Board for Community Colleges.
"Virginia's economic future runs through our colleges and universities, and the leaders I appointed to boards of visitors this year understand the imperative to strengthen our academic institutions and make them more accessible to students from all walks of life," said Governor McAuliffe. "I speak personally with every person I appoint to serve our college and university system, and I ask each one to use his or her knowledge and experience to foster innovation at their institutions, to keep the burden of tuition as low as possible and to emphasize access and completion for every student. Virginia has one of the best higher education systems on the globe and I am confident that these leaders will keep their schools moving forward as we work together to build a new Virginia economy."
Governor McAuliffe's appointments to Virginia college and university boards, as well as to the State Council for Higher Education and the State Board for Community Colleges are below.
Secretariat of the Commonwealth
Board Appointments
Christopher Newport University
Lindsey A. Carney, Esq. of Newport News, Partner of Patten, Wornom, Hatten & Diamonstein, LC
Terri M. McKnight, CPA of Fairfax Station, Partner and Director of Audit Department of Gelman, Rosenberg & Freedman CPAs
Kellye L. Walker of Williamsburg, Corporate Vice President & General Counsel, Huntington Ingalls Industries (HII)
George Mason University
James W. Hazel of Charlottesville
J. Wendy Marquez of McLean, EVS Communications, President Emeritus and CEO of Onyx Media
Bob Witeck of Arlington, President of Witeck Communications
Lisa Zuccari of McLean
James Madison University
Michael B. Battle* of Clarksville, Maryland, CEO of BRMi
Maribeth Daley Herod of Herndon, Senior Vice President of Bank of America
Lara Major of Purcellville, Educational Consultant
John C. Rothenberger* of Great Falls, founder and CEO of SE Solutions
Michael M. Thomas* of Reston, Executive Vice President of Booz Allen Hamilton
Longwood University
Katharine Bond of Mechanicsville, Senior Policy Advisor at Dominion
Steven Gould of Danville, Attorney, Clement Wheatley; Member, City of Danville School Board
Nettie L. Simon-Owens, Ed.D. of South Boston, Chief Economic Advancement Officer of the Southern Virginia Higher Education Center
Norfolk State University
Devon M. Henry of Henrico County, CEO & President of Team Henry Enterprises, LLC
B. Keith (B.K.) Fulton of Richmond, Chairman of dityApps.com
Old Dominion University
R. Bruce Bradley of Virginia Beach, retired Publisher of The Virginia-Pilot and President of Landmark Communications Publishing Group
Larry Hill of Virginia Beach, President of L.R. Hill Custom Builders Inc.
Toykea Jones of Princeton Junction, New Jersey, Senior Manager Manufacturing Excellence at Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies
Kay A. Kemper of Norfolk, President of Kemper Consulting, Inc.
Radford University
Robert A. Archer of Salem, President and CEO of Blue Ridge Beverage Co., Inc.
Rachel D. Fowlkes of Abingdon, retired Executive Director of Southwest Virginia Higher Education Center
Jay A. Brown, Ph.D. of Henrico County, Director of Budget and Strategic Planning - City of Richmond, VA
Ann Segaloff of Smithfield
Deb McMahon, Ph.D. of Charlottesville, CEO, Scitent
State Board for Community Colleges
Nathaniel L. Bishop, D.Min. of Christiansburg, President of Jefferson College of Health Sciences, Roanoke
David Broder of Vienna, President of SEIU Virginia 512
Susan Gooden, Ph.D. of Henrico, Professor, Public Administration and Policy, Virginia Commonwealth University
Joe F. Smiddy, M.D. of Church Hill, Tennessee, Medical Director of Health Wagon, Wise, VA
The Honorable Walter A. Stosch of Glen Allen, retired state Senator
Robin Sullenberger* of Monterey, Retired, Consultant SRI International
State Council of Higher Education for Virginia
Ken Ampy of Midlothian, CEO of Astyra Corporation
Tom Slater of Richmond, Special Counsel, Hunton & Williams
H. Eugene Lockhart* of Keswick, Senior Advisor, General Atlantic LLC
University of Mary Washington
The Honorable Sharon Bulova of Fairfax, Chairman of the Fairfax County Board of Supervisors
Edward B. Hontz of Stafford County, Vice President of Basic Commerce and Industries, Inc.
Deirdre Powell White of Fredericksburg, President & CEO of DPW Training & Associates, LLC and Chairman of The DPW Foundation
University of Virginia and Affiliated Schools
Mark T. Bowles* of Goochland, Partner, McGuireWoods LLP & Executive Vice President, McGuireWoods Consulting LLC
Elizabeth M. Cranwell of Roanoke County, public relations professional
Thomas A. Depasquale of Alexandria, private investor
Babur Bari Lateef, M.D. of Manassas, Physician/President of Advanced Ophthalmology, Inc.
James B. Murray, Jr. of Keene, Managing Partner, Court Square Ventures and Founder, the Presidential Precinct
Virginia Commonwealth University
H. Benson Dendy, III of Richmond, President of the Vectre Corporation.
Robert D. Holsworth, Pd.D.* of Richmond, Managing Partner of DecideSmart
John A. Luke, Jr.* of Richmond, Chairman, Westrock Company
Keith T. Parker of Atlanta, Georgia, General Manager/CEO of the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority
Shantaram Talegaonkar, M.D. of North Chesterfield, Retired Ophthalmologist, Virginia Eye Institute
Virginia Military Institute
George J. Collins* of Miami Beach, Florida
Charles E. Dominy of Fairfax County, LTG, USA (Retired)
Scot W. Marsh of Winchester, Presiding Partner of Marsh & Legge Land Surveyors, PLC
Carl Strock of Essex County, Lieutenant General, U.S. Army (Retired)
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
Greta J. Harris of Richmond, President and CEO of Better Housing Coalition
Chris Petersen of McLean, Partner at Morris, Manning & Martin, LLC
Dennis H. Treacy* of Hanover, President of the Smithfield Foundation
Jeff E. Veatch of Alexandria, Co-Founder of Apex Systems, Inc.
Virginia State University
Daryl Cumber Dance* of Henrico County, Professor Emerita, Virginia Commonwealth University and University of Richmond
Pam Currey of New Kent County, State Adviser, Lumina Strategy Labs and Consultant to HCM Strategists
Jennifer L. Hunter* of Chesterfield, Senior Vice President--Communications and Corporate Citizenship for Altria Client Services
Paul D. Koonce of Richmond, EVP Dominion Resources and CEO Dominion Generation
James J. L. Stegmaier of Chesterfield County, County Administrator
The College of William and Mary
Warren W. Buck, III, Ph.D, S.D. of Seattle, Washington, Professor of Physics and Chancellor Emeritus University of Washington, Bothell
S. Douglas Bunch of Washington, District of Columbia, Partner, Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC
Ted Dintersmith of Earlysville, Founder, edu21c Foundation
Anne Leigh Kerr of Richmond, President, Kerr Government Strategies
Brian Woolfolk of Fort Washington, Maryland, Principal of Swan Creek Strategies
*denotes reappointment

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15623
