Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Low-Interest Recovery Loans Available for February 24th Tornado Recovery
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: June 10, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor McAuliffe announced today that the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) has made low-interest disaster loans available to homeowners, renters, businesses and private, non-profit organizations, such as charities, churches and private universities, in the counties of Appomattox, Essex, and contiguous counties for relief and recovery from the impacts of the tornadoes that touched down on February 24th, 2016.
The disaster loans are available in these counties that are contiguous to Appomattox: Amherst, Buckingham, Campbell, Charlotte, Nelson and Prince Edward. The loans are also available in these counties that are contiguous to Essex: Caroline, King and Queen, King George, Middlesex, Richmond and Westmoreland.
"These loans are instrumental in helping the families and individuals affected by tornados rebuild and move forward in the long-term recovery process," Governor McAuliffe said. "My administration is working closely with the SBA to ensure Virginians receive adequate assistance and support after this disaster. Allocating the proper resources efficiently and effectively is a top priority so these communities can rebuild and move forward."
Loans up to $200,000 are available to homeowners to help repair or restore their primary home to its pre-disaster condition. Personal property loans are also available to provide homeowners or renters with up to $40,000 to help repair or replace personal items, such as clothing, furniture, appliances and automobiles. Businesses that suffered damage can receive loans of up to $2 million to help repair or replace damaged property or provide working capital.
The SBA will open two Disaster Loan Outreach Centers (DLOC) -- one in Appomattox at the Appomattox Community Center, 220 Community Lane and one in Tappahannock at the Essex County Administration Building, 202 South Church Lane. The outreach centers will open Tuesday morning, June 14 to assist with the application process. Applicants in contiguous counties must apply at one of these locations or apply online.
The DLOC hours in Appomattox will be:
Tuesday, June 14 - 10 a.m. -- 7 p.m.
Wednesday through Friday, 9 a.m. -- 6 p.m.
Saturday, June 18 - 10 a.m. -- 2 p.m.
Closed Sunday, June 19.
Final day -- Monday, June 20 -- 9 a.m. -- 3 p.m.
The DLOC hours in Tappahannock will be:
Tuesday, June 14 through Friday - 9 a.m. -- 6 p.m.
Saturday, June 18 - 10 a.m. -- 2 p.m.
Closed Sunday, June 19.
Final day -- Monday, June 20 -- 9 a.m. -- 3 p.m.
Applicants may apply online using the electronic loan application via SBA's secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela. Disaster loan information and applications may also be obtained by calling the SBA's Customer Service Center at 1-800-659-2955 (1-800-877-8339 for the deaf and hard-of-hearing) or by emailing disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Loan applications can also be downloaded at www.sba.gov/disaster. Completed applications should be mailed to: U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, Texas 76155.
In the aftermath of the storm system that caused eight tornadoes on February 24th, 2016, almost 400 residential structures were impacted in 12 localities across Virginia. Of those, 114 were either destroyed or they had major damage. The storm caused approximately $31.5 million in damages statewide.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15592
