Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Administration Appointments
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: June 3, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced additional appointments to his Administration today. The appointees will join McAuliffe's Administration focused on finding common ground with members of both parties on issues that will build a new Virginia economy and create more jobs across the Commonwealth.
Office of the Governor
Kathleen L. "Khaki" LaRiviere, Special Assistant for Policy and Counsel
Khaki has been promoted to Special Assistant for Policy and Counsel. She has been with the administration since December 2015. Khaki previously worked in the House Clerk's Office during the 2015 General Assembly session, and also served as a session aide and legislative intern for two Senators. Khaki was a 2013 Governor's Fellow and received the 2012 Governor's Award for Volunteerism. She graduated from The College of William & Mary with a Bachelor's degree in Public Policy and Economics, and received her Master's of Public Administration degree from Virginia Tech.
James "J.D." Ratliff, Special Assistant for Constituent Services
J.D. Ratliff previously served as an intern in the White House during the spring of 2016. Prior to that, J.D. participated in the Governor's Fellows Program in the Communications Office in 2015. He is a recent graduate of the University of Virginia, with a Bachelor's degree in Government.
Secretariat of the Commonwealth
Board Appointments
Board of Agriculture and Consumer Services
Richard Sellers, PAS, Dipl., ACAN of Burke, Senior Vice President, Public Policy and Education, American Feed Industry Association
Breaks Interstate Park Commission
The Honorable Larry D. Yates of Haysi, Mayor, Town of Haysi
Chesapeake Bay Bridge and Tunnel Commission
Reeves W. Mahoney of Norfolk, Senior Managing Member, Mahoney Nashatka Richmond, PLLC
The Honorable Chris Snead* of Hampton, Member, Hampton City Council
E-911 Services Board
Richard C. Clark of Hillsville, Chief of Police, City of Galax
Lee W. Miller III of Mechanicsville, Captain, Information & Communication Technology Division, Virginia State Police
Southeastern Public Service Authority
John M. Keifer, PE of Norfolk, former Director of Public Works, City of Norfolk

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15539
