Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Ballast Point Brewing and Spirits Chooses Botetourt County for East Coast Brewing Operation
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: May 24, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Ballast Point Brewing and Spirits will invest $47.8 million to establish an East Coast brewing operation in Botetourt County. The Governor met with company officials at their headquarters in San Diego during his September 2015 West Coast Marketing Mission. Virginia successfully competed against several Eastern states for the project, which will create 178 new jobs.
"I am thrilled to announce that Ballast Point Brewing and Spirits will join the Commonwealth's world-class, award-winning roster of craft breweries," Governor McAuliffe said. "Winning this significant project was a top priority, and we are proud that Botetourt County will be home to the company's East Coast brewing operation. Virginia has truly become a leader in the industry and a destination for craft beer lovers. Today is another milestone of our ongoing success in diversifying and building a new Virginia economy, and we look forward to Ballast Point thriving in the Commonwealth."
"This project is great news for the growing tourism, manufacturing and craft beverage sectors in the Roanoke Valley and the Commonwealth," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "Ballast Point's decision to locate its East Coast operation in Virginia is a strong testament to our great talent, strategic location and superior business climate. Additionally, the company will benefit from our outstanding workforce training programs. Congratulations to Botetourt County and Ballast Point. We look forward to a long, prosperous partnership."
"Ballast Point Brewing and Spirits' choice of Botetourt County for its East Coast operation reinforces Virginia's reputation as a leader in the nation's burgeoning craft beer industry, which saw retail sales increase by almost 19% from 2014 to 2015," said Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry Todd Haymore. "This announcement highlights Virginia as the top East Coast destination for craft beverage lovers. Ballast Point's investment will not only create local jobs and generate new revenue streams; it also will bring increased agri-tourism activity and additional production and market opportunities for Virginia's agricultural producers."
Celebrating its 20th anniversary this year, Ballast Point first began in 1996 as a back room brewery behind founder Jack White's home brewing shop, Home Brew Mart. Guided by a philosophy of innovation and exploration, the company has developed a wide portfolio of award-winning beers, including its signature Sculpin IPA. Today an internationally recognized leader in the craft brewing industry, Ballast Point is distributed globally and in nearly all 50 states nationwide.
"We are fortunate that there is a growing appreciation for our beer across the country and the world, and opening a brewery location in Virginia will better allow us to get fresh, great quality beer in the hands of our customers," said founder Jack White. "We look forward to getting to know the Botetourt County community as we build our brewery there."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Botetourt County and the Roanoke Regional Partnership to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $2.4 million grant from the Commonwealth's Opportunity Fund to assist Botetourt with the project. The company will also be eligible to receive a $250,000 grant from the Governor's Agriculture and Forestry Industries Development Fund (AFID), administered by the Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"Ballast Point is creating an amazing opportunity for Botetourt County and the region," said Botetourt County Board of Supervisors Chair Jack Leffel. "We see this particular project as key to our goals of attracting younger folks to live, work and play in Botetourt. Ballast Point will also be able to take advantage of what Botetourt County has to offer in location, workforce and many amenities."
"Attracting Ballast Point is a fantastic way of adding employment opportunities in Botetourt County with an industry leader creating a destination location," added Joyce Kessinger, Chair of the Botetourt County Economic Development Authority. "Botetourt County, the Roanoke Regional Partnership and private sector team members have worked hard for this project."
"One of my goals as Delegate of the 19th district is to create job opportunities and grow the region," said Delegate Terry Austin. "Ballast Point will do just that, offering a diverse workforce with many opportunities for employment. We are delighted the company has chosen Botetourt as its East Coast brewery and welcome Ballast Point to the Commonwealth of Virginia."
"I am delighted that the Commonwealth has secured an East Coast brewing operation for Ballast Point Brewing and Spirits in Botetourt County," said Senator Stephen Newman. "Virginia has earned a reputation for economic growth and opportunity for individuals and businesses. Due to their sound economic policies, Botetourt County has experienced a surge of new businesses in recent years, and I am pleased that 178 new jobs will be coming to the county."
"Botetourt County is helping to lead the way for Roanoke Valley economic development," said Delegate Chris Head. "We look forward to adding another 178 jobs to a string of recent successes in the region. This also helps serve notice that the Roanoke Valley is becoming the place to locate for craft brewers on the East Coast."

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15374
