Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Signs Executive Order Extending Validity of Expiring Driver's Licenses
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: May 24, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe this week took executive action to give Virginians affected by a weekend computer disruption additional time to renew driver's licenses scheduled to expire during the service interruption.
"My executive order will aid citizens who experienced delays because of this unexpected outage," said Governor McAuliffe. "With this action, Virginians have certainty that their licenses will be valid, and that our state agencies are functioning properly and responding quickly to address the impacts related to this incident."
The order follows Governor McAuliffe's verbal direction to the Commissioner of the Department of Motor Vehicles on May 23 to extend driver's licenses for a period of one week to avoid imposing fines on citizens affected by the disruption.
The full Executive Order is below:
Number 55 (2016)
DIRECTING THE COMMISSIONER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES TO EXTEND THE VALIDITY OF EXPIRING DRIVER'S LICENSES
Importance of the Issue
On Saturday May 21, 2016, an internal power disruption temporarily interrupted the electronic services provided by the Commonwealth's data center. This disruption greatly impacted the ability of many Virginians to renew their driver's licenses. On May 23, 2016, I verbally directed the Commissioner of the Department of Motor Vehicles to extend the validity period for expiring licenses for a period of one week. This unforeseen disruption of services places citizens at risk of suffering fines and others costs resulting from their inability to timely renew their driver's licenses.
Therefore, by virtue of the authority vested in me as Governor, and subject always to my continuing and ultimate authority and responsibility to act in such matters, I hereby confirm, ratify, and memorialize in writing that verbal directive issued on May 23, 2016, whereby it was determined that the Department of Motor Vehicles suffered a disruption in service that prevented the Department from processing applications for renewal of driver's licenses.
In order to prevent any further hardship to the citizens of Virginia, and in accordance with my authority contained in §§ 46.2-330(A) and 46.2-345 of the Code of Virginia, I hereby order the following measures:
I hereby direct the Commissioner of the Department of Motor Vehicles, and such other executive branch agencies as deem appropriate in their discretion, to extend the validity period of Virginia driver's license, permits and commercial driver's licenses issued by the Commonwealth that expire May 21, 2016 through May 22, 2016 until May 28, 2016.
Effective Date of this Executive Order
This Executive Order shall be effective retroactively from May 21, 2016, and shall remain in full force and effect until May 28, 2016.
Given under my hand and under the Seal of the Commonwealth of Virginia, this 24th day of May, 2016.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15372
