Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Tidewater Community College's designation as a National Center of Excellence in Cyber Defense
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: May 19, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor McAuliffe announced today that Tidewater Community College is the latest Virginia institution to be named a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense by the United States National Security Agency (NSA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). This designation recognizes schools that excel in preparing students to become leaders in cybersecurity and establishes TCC as a national model in this growing field.
"Making more Virginia community colleges National Centers of Excellence in Cyber Defense is a key part of our administration's efforts to strengthen our workforce development system and build a new Virginia economy," Governor Terry McAuliffe said. "Our two-year institutions are bastions of innovation and creativity, and this new designation at TCC will be key in providing our students with the training they need to be successful in high-tech, high-paying jobs. This is another great step in making Virginia a leader in the global cybersecurity sector."
TCC is only the third Virginia community college to receive this designation. The others are Northern Virginia Community College and Lord Fairfax Community College.
"It is clear that our institutions of higher learning are committed to expanding and improving their cybersecurity programs," Secretary of Education Anne Holton said. "TCC and other colleges that have earned this designation are paving the way for continued academic accomplishment and economic success, and we are proud to support their work."
Since its inception, TCC's network security/cybersecurity curriculum has been aligned with national standards for cybersecurity established and maintained by National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) and NSA.
"Bridging the gap between educational offerings and industry demand is paramount to advancing Virginia's cyber leadership position," said Secretary of Technology Karen Jackson. "By earning this certification, Tidewater Community College has made it possible for more students to join Virginia's growing cyber community."
"TCC is honored to receive the distinction of being named a National Center of Academic Excellence," said President Edna V. Baehre-Kolovani. "Our faculty and administrators have worked hard to ensure our cybersecurity program meets the highest industry and government standards, and that our graduates are fully prepared to be productive workers in this vitally important field."

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15318
