Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Opening of Capitol Square Healthcare for State Employees
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: May 16, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced the opening of Capitol Square Healthcare for State Employees, a new health and wellness center in Richmond available for state employees throughout the Commonwealth.
Developed by the Department of Human Resource Management (DHRM) in cooperation with the VCU Health System, the pilot health center is located on the mezzanine of the James Monroe Building in downtown Richmond. It will be open during the workday from 7:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. and closed on state holidays.
"My administration is always looking for new, innovative ideas to make sure our employees have every opportunity to be healthy," Governor McAuliffe said. "Alongside the CommonHealth employee wellness program, we hope this new, convenient health center will help employees take better care of themselves."
"If someone is in downtown Richmond and sick at work, going to Capitol Square Healthcare may help prevent the spread of illness to other employees. It's also a way to help our employees focus on improving their health so that they can do an even better job for Virginia citizens," he said.
Employees and early retirees who are enrolled in a statewide health plan may be treated at Capitol Square Healthcare for such health concerns as:
Coughs
Cuts
Contusions
Ear or eye infections
Headaches
Sore throats
Other illnesses and injuries
The new center has a full-time medical director, and a five-person staff, including a physician assistant. A health coach is available daily to help employees make lifestyle changes to improve their health or manage chronic illness. The cost of services will depend on employees' health coverage.
"We are making a concerted effort to help our employees take better care of their health," said Sara Redding Wilson, DHRM Director. "This new health and wellness center is one more way to encourage lifestyle changes so that employees can be healthier and more productive during the workday."
"MCV Physicians and VCU Health are pleased to partner with The Department of Human Resource Management in providing world class health care here in the James Monroe Building," said Dr. John Ward, president of MCV Physicians. "MCVP and VCU Health believe in the principles of patient-centered care and know this partnership will provide better patient care, patient satisfaction and overall value to the Commonwealth and its employees."

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15288
