Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Administration Appointments
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: May 13, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced additional appointments to his Administration today. The appointees will join McAuliffe's Administration focused on finding common ground with members of both parties on issues that will build a new Virginia economy and create more jobs across the Commonwealth.
Secretary of Public Safety and Homeland Security
Curtis Brown, Deputy Secretary
Curtis Brown most recently served as the Chief Deputy State Coordinator at the Virginia Department of Emergency Management. He has homeland security and emergency management policy experience at the federal, state, and local levels. Previously, Curtis served as Regional Emergency Management Administrator for the Hampton Roads Planning District Commission, professional staff on the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Homeland Security, and Senior Special Assistant to the Governor in the Office of Commonwealth Preparedness. Curtis received a Bachelor of Science in Political Science from Radford University, Master of Public Administration from Virginia Tech, and Master of Arts in Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness from Virginia Commonwealth University. He is a graduate of the Virginia Executive Institute, Commonwealth Management Institute, and FEMA's Emergency Management Executive Academy.
Secretariat of the Commonwealth
Board Appointments
Board for Hearing Aid Specialists and Opticians
Melissa Gill of Lynchburg, Licensed Optician, Walmart Vision Center
Board of Commissioners of the Vint Hill Economic Development Authority
James W. Mills, Lt Col USAF (Ret.) of Warrenton, Program Manager, Department of Defense
Board of Visitors to Mount Vernon
Conover Hunt of Hampton, nationally known public historian and author
Andrew M. Smith of Alexandria, Vice President, McGuireWoods Consulting
Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority
Bill Sudow of McLean, Founding Partner, Sudow Kohlhagen LLP
The Honorable J. Walter Tejada of Arlington, Consultant, Tejada Consulting Services; former member, Arlington County Board of Supervisors
- See more at: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15242#sthash.gopyJAlG.dpuf

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15242
