Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 56 New Jobs in Orange County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: May 12, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Lohmann Specialty Coatings LLC, a subsidiary of Lohmann Corporation and Subsidiaries, will invest $6.7 million to expand its manufacturing operation in Orange County. The company, which manufactures adhesive bonding materials for custom coating of adhesives, slit rolls, double-sided tapes, and precision die-cutting, will increase capacity to include fabricating and specialty converting, creating 56 new jobs. Virginia successfully competed against Kentucky and West Virginia for the project.
Speaking at today's event, Governor McAuliffe said, "I am thrilled that Lohmann Specialty Coatings will expand manufacturing capacity and add new jobs to its workforce. Lohmann has been a worldwide pioneer in the adhesive industry since 1938, and we are proud that the company's operation in Orange County has thrived since 2004. Advanced manufacturing is clearly alive and well in the Commonwealth, and growing this sector is a vital part of our ongoing success in building a new Virginia economy."
"Lohmann's expansion in Orange County is a great testament to the outstanding talent, infrastructure, and business climate in the area," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "We congratulate the company and the region, and we look forward to the continued growth of this great corporate citizen."
Lohmann Corporation and Subsidiaries, a wholly-owned division of the 165-year-old Lohmann GmbH & Co. KG, was founded in 1990 to support the Lohmann global expansion into the Americas. Beginning in Kentucky with the converting of products imported from the parent company in Germany, to the construction of a state-of-the-art coating plant in Virginia, and the more recent acquisition of a die-cutting company in California, Lohmann Corporation offers its customers a vertical solution for all their adhesive bonding needs. Lohmann's products are used in electronic devices, construction, alternative energy, medical and automotive sectors. Lohmann's customer list includes clients such as Abbott, BMW and Bosch Siemens.
"As part of Lohmann's global 2020 Strategy initiative, it was decided to expand our global presence in the automotive market to support the growth of our European Tier 1 & 2 suppliers in the North American region," said Steven J. De Jong, President, Lohmann Corporation and Subsidiaries. "Lohmann understood that this initiative would require significant investments in both infrastructure and personnel to successfully accomplish. With a long-term vision regarding the successful return on our investment, Lohmann began an exhaustive search as to where to expand its operations. It was quickly decided that our existing Orange, Virginia, facility was the ideal location for our new investment. Together, Virginia and Lohmann have enjoyed a growing, successful relationship built on trust and transparency that we felt were the building blocks for a long future together."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Orange County and the Central Virginia Partnership for Economic Development to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved an $85,000 grant from the Commonwealth's Opportunity Fund to assist the county with the project.The company will be eligible to receive sales and use tax exemptions on manufacturing equipment. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will also be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"We're excited to share in the celebration of Lohmann's expansion at Orange County's Thomas E. Lee Industrial Park," said Lee Frame, Chairman of the Orange County Board of Supervisors. "The investment and creation of such high quality jobs is thrilling to hear for the community, and we look forward to supporting their future growth."
Winston Sides, Chairman of the Orange County Economic Development Authority, said, "Lohmann has been a loyal corporate citizen in Orange County since 2004, and with this announcement, we look forward to seeing their continued positive impact on our local economy for a long time."
"I am very excited that Lohmann Specialty Coatings has decided to continue their investment and expand their manufacturing operation right here in beautiful Orange County," said Senator Bryce Reeves. "I am proud of the steps we have taken to ensure that Virginia is welcoming to business so that our citizens can find good jobs in their own communities."
Since the beginning of the McAuliffe administration, 674 economic development deals have been closed in Virginia with more than $11.05 billion in capital investment, which is more than any previous governor in the first 27 months in office.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15234
