Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces $699,500 in Community Development Block Grants for Town of Coeburn and Wise County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: May 11, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today $699,500 in Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) for Wise County and the town of Coeburn. Wise County will receive $165,000 for the Guest River Sewer and Eisenhower Road Extension Project through the CDBG Construction Ready Water and Sewer Fund Program, and the town of Coeburn will receive $534,500 for the Coeburn Urgent Need Project through the CDBG Urgent Need Grant Program.
"As we work to build a new Virginia economy, it's vital that we be ready to assist communities with issues regarding aging infrastructure and damage from natural disasters," said Governor McAuliffe. "The CDBG program is a tool that we use to address community development issues and build vibrant communities throughout the Commonwealth."
The Wise County project will provide new public sewer service to the Eisenhower Road residents, alleviating the reliance on aging septic systems. The project includes the installation of 2,150 linear feet of sewer line and related appurtenances. The project is expected to benefit two commercial enterprises and 14 households, with 64 percent of the households being low- to moderate-income. The sewer service is funded under the CDBG Construction Ready Water and Sewer Fund, which provides assistance to projects providing public water or sewer service to communities made up of at least 60 percent low- to moderate-income households. Funds are distributed on a first-come, first-served basis from January 1 through the end of September.
The town of Coeburn Urgent Need Project is in response to the two large winter storm events that took place in January. Governor McAuliffe declared a state of emergency in preparation for the storms on Jan. 21, 2015. The project will focus on the rehabilitation of 10 homes and the substantial reconstruction of five homes that were significantly damaged and where insurance was not available to assist with the repairs. Eligible projects under this program are designed to alleviate existing conditions which pose a serious and immediate threat to the health and welfare of the community when the conditions developed or became urgent within 18 months of the date the proposal is submitted. Proposals are received on a rolling basis between January 1 and October 31.
"Through the CDBG program, we continue to help Virginia's localities make the necessary improvements to stay competitive and thrive in the 21st Century," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "By combining state and local funding, we are ensuring a better quality of life for the residents in our communities, particularly those in rural areas."
Since 1982, the federally funded CDBG program has been administered by the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development (DHCD), and Virginia receives approximately $17 million annually for this grant program. CDBG grants are awarded through a competitive process. Most projects benefit low- and moderate-income persons, and many projects are targeted for the prevention or elimination of slums and blighting conditions.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15206
