Public Statements
Secretary of Public Safety and Homeland Security Convenes Workgroup to Implement Historic Protective Order Legislation
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: May 3, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

A diverse group of stakeholders with representatives from law enforcement, community advocacy groups, direct service organizations, the legal community, the survivor community and national organizations has been convened by Secretary of Public Safety and Homeland Security Brian Moran to develop recommendations around the implementation of the protective order legislation that was signed into law by Governor McAuliffe on February 26, 2016 as part of the bipartisan firearms agreement.
The first meeting of the workgroup is scheduled for Wednesday, May 4, from 9-12 p.m. in Senate Room 3, at the Virginia State Capitol. The meeting will be chaired by Secretary of Public Safety and Homeland Security Brian Moran.
"For the first time in over two decades, Virginia took significant steps toward preventing gun violence by prohibiting individuals subject to permanent protective orders of family abuse from possessing firearms and requiring them to turn over their guns within 24 hours," said Governor McAuliffe. "With my signature, Virginia now has the toughest protective order law in the nation and I look forward to seeing the recommendations of the workgroup".
The workgroup will consider a number of issues relating to the relinquishment provision of the protective order law which requires individuals subject to permanent protective orders of family abuse to sell or transfer their firearms within 24 hours, or they will face a class 6 felony. The group will develop recommendations surrounding to who or what entities firearms should be relinquished, and how to safely and promptly transfer firearms.
"I want to thank Governor McAuliffe for his leadership on gun violence prevention," said Secretary of Public Safety and Homeland Security Brian Moran. "While we are celebrating this significant victory, we must also recognize that there is much work left to be done to ensure that a strong implementation plan is in place when this law takes effect on July 1 and I look forward to working with our stakeholders to develop recommendations to inform the process".

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15130
