Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Administration Appointments
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: April 29, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced additional appointments to his Administration today. The appointees will join McAuliffe's Administration focused on finding common ground with members of both parties on issues that will build a new Virginia economy and create more jobs across the Commonwealth.
Secretariat of Health and Human Resources
Pam Kestner, Deputy Secretary
Pam Kestner previously served as Special Advisor on Families, Children and Poverty within the Office of the Secretary of Health and Human Resources since April 2014. Prior to that she served as Homeless Outcomes Coordinator, a position she was appointed to in July 2012. Her work has focused on early childhood, nutrition and poverty issues with a specific focus on addressing homelessness in Virginia. Prior to joining state government, Pam served as President and CEO of the Council of Community Services in Roanoke, VA, where she worked for over 26 years. She has a BA degree in Sociology from Emory & Henry College and an MSW from Virginia Commonwealth University.
Department of Social Services
Daniela Lewy, Executive Director, Governor's Children's Cabinet
Daniela Lewy previously served as the Claude Moore Fellow with the Virginia Governor's Children's Cabinet since July 2015. Prior to this role, Daniela was on the faculty at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore, Maryland, working and teaching at the intersection of health, education, social services, and juvenile justice in the US and overseas. She holds a Bachelor's degree from Wesleyan University, a Masters of Public Health from Johns Hopkins University, and graduates this May 2016 with a Doctorate in Education Leadership from Harvard University.
Secretariat of Public Safety and Homeland Security
Asif Bhavnagri, Policy Assistant
Asif Bhavnagri previously served as Press Assistant in Governor McAuliffe's Communications Office since January 2014. Prior to working in the administration, he served on Governor McAuliffe's transition team. Asif is a native of Richmond, and a graduate of Virginia Commonwealth University where he studied Political Science and African American studies. He spent several years as an intern in the Virginia General Assembly, assisting members of the House of Delegates on a variety of issues from healthcare to education.
Secretariat of the Commonwealth
Board Appointments
Virginia Manufactured Housing Board
Ben Flores* of Wake Forest, General Manager, Clayton Oxford Home Building Facility
Keith Winslow Hicks of Richmond, Business Analyst
Cindy Ferreira Tomlin* of McGaheysville, General Manager, Clayton Homes of Harrisonburg
*denotes reappointment
- See more at: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15110#sthash.idYDV70h.dpuf

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=15110
