Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 200 New Jobs in the City of Norfolk
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: March 18, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Movement Mortgage, one of the nation's fastest growing, privately held mortgage companies, will invest $2 million to relocate its operations center from the City of Virginia Beach to the City of Norfolk. Virginia successfully competed against Arizona, North Carolina and South Carolina for the project, which will retain 550 jobs and create 200 new jobs.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "Movement Mortgage is an outstanding Virginia company, and we are thrilled that the City of Norfolk offers a facility that can accommodate the company's rapid growth. This company's continued success is a testament to the region's business climate that will help us attract new companies to locate and hire in Hampton Roads. I am thrilled to announce yet another important step forward in our efforts to diversify and build a new Virginia economy."
"Movement Mortgage has been an outstanding corporate citizen in Virginia for eight years," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "I am delighted we are going to keep the company in Virginia and look forward to their continued growth in the Commonwealth."
Founded in Virginia Beach in 2008, Movement Mortgage exists to love and value people by leading a Movement of Change in its industry, corporate culture and communities. Movement is known for its high standard of service and innovative loan processing model, which begins with upfront, six-hour underwriting and aims to finish the loan process in seven business days. The company employs over 3,000 and has more than 500 branches in the U.S. Movement has operations centers in Virginia Beach, Richmond, Charlotte, North Carolina and Phoenix, Arizona. Its non-profit organization, The Movement Foundation, has reinvested more than $16.5 million in community centers, schools and other outreach programs to date.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14626
