Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 1,800 New Jobs in the City of Norfolk
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: March 15, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that ADP (NASDAQ: ADP), a comprehensive global provider of cloud-based human capital management solutions and business process outsourcing services, analytics, and compliance expertise, will invest $32.25 million to establish a regional customer service center in the City of Norfolk. The project will create about 1,800 new jobs.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "This project is transformational for the Hampton Roads region, providing 1,800 job opportunities for members of the military transitioning to civilian life, as well as military spouses and Virginia citizens. The Commonwealth is a hub for the IT industry, and adding ADP to our roster is a tremendous testament to the technology infrastructure, assets and workforce that make Virginia a leader in this critical sector. Today is a major win for the City of Norfolk and for the Commonwealth, and will help further our efforts to diversify and build a new Virginia economy."
"This investment pairs an enterprise providing professional and business services to customers all over the world with a region with global assets such as Virginia's port, military and tourism attractions," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "Congratulations to both the company and the region. We look forward to the benefits that this partnership will produce for the Commonwealth and beyond for years to come."
"We chose to locate a new facility in Norfolk because of the thriving business climate in the city and Commonwealth. We have the opportunity to attract a diverse workforce that will make significant contributions to ADP and add value to the client experience," said Debbie Dyson, corporate vice president of client experience and continuous improvement at ADP. "We thank and acknowledge the efforts of our community partners, who provided critical support throughout the decision-making process. We look forward to building long-lasting relationships with the people of Norfolk and Virginia."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with the City of Norfolk and the Hampton Roads Economic Development Alliance to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $5 million grant from the Commonwealth's Opportunity Fund to assist the City of Norfolk with the project. The company will also be eligible to receive a Major Business Facility Job Tax Credit. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14599
