Public Statements
President Obama Approves Governor Mcauliffe's Request For Federal Disaster Assistance In The Wake Of The January 22-24, 2016, Snowstorm
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: March 8, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

President Barack Obama has approved federal disaster assistance for Virginia to help state agencies, 25 localities, and certain types of private non-profit organizations recover from the severe snowstorm that impacted the Commonwealth from January 22-24, 2016.
Governor Terry McAuliffe requested federal aid through the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Public Assistance program, which reimburses local and state governments on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of damaged facilities.
"This was one of the worst winter storms to hit Virginia in decades, producing historic snowfalls and blizzard-like conditions across much of the Commonwealth," said Governor McAuliffe. "This federal assistance will help agencies, communities and organizations recover from the damage of this storm and prepare for future severe weather events."
Under this approval, FEMA's Public Assistance program is available to the counties of Albemarle, Arlington, Caroline, Clarke, Culpeper, Fairfax, Fauquier, Frederick, Highland, King George, Loudoun, Louisa, Patrick, Prince William, Rappahannock, Spotsylvania and Stafford; as well as the independent cities of Alexandria, Falls Church, Manassas, Manassas Park and Winchester. The affected contiguous counties that are also eligible for FEMA's Public Assistance program are Madison, Page, and Warren.
Some costs that are eligible for reimbursement include: activation of emergency personnel to respond to the storm; snow and debris removal; repairs to publicly-owned property, such as roads, water, and sewer systems; and other related emergency services.
Governor McAuliffe declared a state of emergency on January 21st in anticipation of the severe winter storm and mobilized the Virginia National Guard to assist with the emergency response. The Virginia Department of Emergency Management (VDEM) coordinated the storm response with multiple state agencies and other partners. VDEM arranged for resource support and services to assist with assessing water main breaks, transporting critical patients in need of life-saving measures, assessing collapsed/damaged structures, and providing emergency generator power.
More than 2 feet of snow fell in parts of Virginia from January 22-24. The Virginia State Police responded to 13,994 calls for service, including 1,859 accidents and 3,153 disabled vehicles. The Virginia Office of the Chief Medical Examiner confirmed 11 storm-related deaths. A force of 9,500 Virginia Department of Transportation (VDOT) crews and contractors worked round-the-clock for several days to clear heavy snow, more than three feet in some areas, on nearly 57,000 miles of roadways across the state. VDOT's relentless snow fighting efforts resulted in major roadways cleared within 24 hours after the brunt of the storm pounded the Commonwealth.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14492
