Public Statements
Letter to Senator Emmett Hanger, Senator Thomas Norment, and Delegate Chris Jones - On the General Assembly Budget Proposals
Letter
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: March 3, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe has presented the below letter to General Assembly money committee chairmen and the budget conferees thanking them for supporting many of his top budgetary priorities and identifying areas where he hopes to work with the General Assembly to pass a budget that fully supports a healthy and resilient Virginia economy. The Governor also expressed the points below directly to conferees in a meeting earlier this week.
Dear Senator Hanger, Senator Norment, and Delegate Jones:
I want to express my sincere thanks to each of you for your efforts and dedication to the residents of the Commonwealth. I commend you for your hard work and commitment to prudent and sound fiscal planning, which is reflected in both the House and Senate versions of the proposed budget. I appreciate the priority that your amendments placed on keeping our fiscal house in order by maintaining a conservative revenue forecast and by ensuring structural balance.
Once again, I am proud that we continue to work together and find common ground on issues that are important to the citizens who elected us to solve problems and improve their lives. I am especially pleased to see that we agree on the need to support my highest priority - public education. While you have taken different approaches than I initially proposed, I applaud your commitment to the level of support I proposed for public education. Quality public education is the backbone of a growing economy, and this budget will strengthen our Commonwealth's support for students, teachers, and families while offering localities important flexibility in administering these funds.
There is one issue that I would like you to consider as you discuss public education in conference. The new investments I proposed were geared toward support for the classroom and instructional needs, and I ask that you maintain an emphasis on directing any new state spending toward the classroom. I also ask that you direct more of the flexible spending that you propose through a formula like the At-Risk Add-On rather than a simple per-pupil distribution because it provides funds to school divisions with higher concentrations of students at educational risk.
As I review the proposed budget amendments from each chamber, I also am pleased we have found common ground on other significant issues, including support for our veterans, public safety, and especially pay increases for our hard-working state employees, deputies, and teachers. While there continue to be needs in these areas, your respective budgets go a long way toward addressing the most critical issues we currently face. I applaud your support for my proposals and the additional resources you have committed to these areas.
On Tuesday, I met with you and the other budget conferees. At that time, I indicated that while there is much about which we agree, there are still a few areas where I believe we can work together to further align this budget with the need to grow and diversify our Commonwealth's economy. The attached appendix outlines these issues and offers guidance on the actions I would like you to consider.
My primary area of concern, which I hope we can address together, is the restoration of the economic development proposals contained in my introduced budget. One of the most significant contributions a governor can make to the Commonwealth is to grow the economy by attracting new industries and transforming our workforce to meet the demands of emerging business sectors. I am particularly concerned with the need to advance Virginia's position as a leader in the areas of bioscience research, cybersecurity, and renewable energy by restoring the smart investments my introduced budget made in programs that will grow these industries.
The budget I introduced contributes directly to the goal we share of building a new Virginia economy. I have focused the majority of my work on that task, and the tools I need were contained in my budget recommendations. I recognize that budgets are the product of collaboration and compromise. Consequently, I am limiting my requests to those areas that I think are the most crucial at this time; however, I will review the results of all of your decisions when the final enrolled budget is presented to me.
As we approach the end of the session, I am confident that we can continue to operate in the best interest of the citizens of the Commonwealth and reach agreement on these issues. I look forward to working with you as the process progresses.
Sincerely,
Terence R. McAuliffe

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14341
