Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 53 New Jobs in Augusta County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Feb. 26, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that AccuTec Blades, Inc., the world's leading manufacturer of high-quality specialty, medical and professional blades and tools, will invest $5.37 million to expand its manufacturing operation in Augusta County. Virginia successfully competed against several other states for the project, which will retain 138 jobs and create 53 new jobs.
Speaking at today's announcement in Verona, Governor McAuliffe said, "The advancement of the manufacturing sector in the Commonwealth is key to driving diversification and growth as we build a new Virginia economy. The retention and success of our existing businesses is also paramount. AccuTec Blades remains an important employer, and it was a priority to ensure that it continues to thrive in Augusta County. We celebrate the company's expansion and the resulting 53 new, good-paying manufacturing jobs."
"This expansion is a wonderful testament to the great talent, infrastructure and business environment in Augusta County," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "Business expansion is our most effective job-generating strategy, and we look forward to AccuTec's continued success in the Commonwealth."
AccuTec Blades is dedicated to creating the highest quality, most innovative product to satisfy the needs of customers. No matter what the industry or need, the company is dedicated to providing customers with quality products that improve productivity, reduce overall costs of manufacturing and processing, reduce waste and injuries, and improve outcomes. Driven by engineering, focused on blade performance, blades are of the highest quality and provide the best performance. AccuTec Blades' commitment to deliver innovative products began 140 years ago when the company introduced the first safety razor manufactured in the United States. Building on its rich legacy, AccuTec has continued to design and manufacture dependable products that make work simpler and more productive.
"The pro-business and pro-manufacturing support we received at both the local and state level convinced AccuTec's ownership to expand operations in Augusta County, Virginia, rather than go elsewhere," said Rick Gagliano, President of AccuTec Blades.
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Augusta County and the Shenandoah Valley Partnership to secure the project for Virginia.Governor McAuliffe approved a $125,000 grant from the Commonwealth's Opportunity Fund to assist Augusta County with the project. The company will be eligible to receive sales and use tax exemptions on manufacturing equipment. Funding and services to support employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14300
