Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 43 New Jobs in City of Staunton
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Feb. 26, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Graphic Packaging International, Inc., the wholly-owned subsidiary of Graphic Packaging Holding Company, will invest $20 million to expand its operation in the City of Staunton. The company is a leading provider of packaging solutions to food, beverage and other consumer products companies. The project will create 43 new jobs.
Speaking at today's announcement in Staunton, Governor McAuliffe said, "The advanced manufacturing sector continues to gain momentum in the Commonwealth, and we are proud that Graphic Packaging International is a leader in this key industry and investing in the future of its operation in the City of Staunton. The creation of good-paying manufacturing jobs is a key component of our administration's strategy to diversify and build a new Virginia economy."
"Manufacturing continues to be a great opportunity for job growth throughout the Commonwealth," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "I congratulate Graphic Packaging and Staunton on this expansion and look forward to continuing the partnership."
Graphic Packaging International, Inc., a subsidiary of Graphic Packaging Holding Company (NYSE: GPK), headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, is a leading provider of packaging solutions for a wide variety of products to food, beverage and other consumer products companies. The Company is one of the largest producers of folding cartons and holds a leading market position in coated-unbleached kraft and coated-recycled board. The Company's customers include some of the most widely recognized companies in the world.
"The Staunton folding carton plant is strategically important for Graphic Packaging to execute our business plan," said Michael Doss, President and CEO. "The expansion will significantly bolster our manufacturing capabilities to serve existing and new customers. We selected Staunton for our expansion after a thorough assessment, and we thank the leaders and citizens of Virginia and the City of Staunton for their continued partnership."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with the City of Staunton and the Shenandoah Valley Partnership to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $250,000 grant from the Commonwealth's Opportunity Fund to assist Staunton with the project. The company is eligible to receive state benefits from the Virginia Enterprise Zone Program, administered by the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
- See more at: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14298#sthash.y1aPVF5M.dpuf

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14298
