Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces New Virginia Tourism Growth Fund Project in St. Paul
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Feb. 25, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced that the first recipient of the Virginia Tourism Growth Fund (VTGF) will be the Western Front Hotel in St. Paul. The VTGF is a Virginia Tourism Corporation (VTC) program established to grow tourism development projects across the state.
The new boutique hotel's name honors the rich history of St. Paul and its legacy as a 19th century railroad town. The hotel is a result of a total capital investment of more than $7.2 million and is projected to create a tax benefit of more than $69,000 in its first full year of operation. The estimated number of jobs created is 10 full-time and 15 part-time jobs the first year, with an increase to 13 full-time and 20 part-time positions by the end of year two. The hotel is scheduled to open in spring 2017.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "Growing our tourism industry is an essential strategy for diversifying and building a new Virginia economy. It is critical that our destinations have the infrastructure in place to welcome travelers from around the world. The Western Front is a timely and attractive addition to the St. Paul community that will produce solid, good-paying jobs."
The Western Front project fills a significant lodging void in St. Paul and will feature 30 standard rooms and six efficiency apartments, guest lounges, a rooftop deck and bar, and a gift shop featuring locally made art and home goods. The hotel grounds will include ATV washing stations, parking and storage. The hotel's restaurant, featuring many Virginia-made products, will be named "Off the Rail," an homage to St. Paul's railroad history. Reuse of reclaimed wood, natural woods and a rustic roadhouse design will complement the historic Willis & Dye buildings.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14292
