Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Approximately 50 New Jobs in Henrico County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Feb. 10, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Polykon Manufacturing LLC, a joint venture between Seppic, Inc.and Schülke Inc., will invest more than $60 million to establish a manufacturing operation in Virginia in Henrico County. Seppic and schülke are entities of Air Liquide Healthcare. Virginia successfully competed against Ohio for the project, which will create approximately 50 new jobs. The Governor met with senior company officials at the Seppic headquarters in Paris during his European Marketing Mission in June 2015.
Polykon Manufacturing LLC will manufacture ingredients for the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industries in Henrico"s White Oak Technology Park. Air Liquide has maintained Virginia operations in Chesterfield County and Prince William County for over 10 years.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "It was a pleasure to meet with Seppic officials during my European marketing mission to convince the company that Henrico County, Virginia is the right location for its first North American manufacturing operation. Advanced manufacturing companies like Seppic play a key role in our efforts to grow, diversify and build a new Virginia economy. We are proud that Polykon Manufacturing LLC joins its parent company, Air Liquide, on our corporate roster."
"The region continues to grow its job opportunities by attracting global companies that recognize Virginia's superior workforce, strategic location and world-class business environment," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "We thank Polykon for its investment in Henrico County and the Commonwealth, and we look forward to seeing the company's future growth."
Seppic designs and supplies a wide range of specialty ingredients -- excipients and active ingredients -- for health and beauty care. Present in more than 100 countries, it employs over 600 people worldwide. Schülke designs and supplies antiseptics, disinfectants for medical environment and preservatives for personal care and industry. It employs over 900 people worldwide and is present in 80 countries. Air Liquide employs more than 5,000 people in the U.S. in over 200 locations. The company offers industrial and medical gases, technologies and related services to customers in energy, industrial, electronics and healthcare markets.
- See more at: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14094#sthash.JnNRNGJJ.dpuf

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14094
