Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 70 New Jobs in Arlington County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Feb. 9, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Opower (NYSE: OPWR), the global leader in cloud-based software for the utility industry, will invest $10.45 million to expand its headquarters operation in Arlington County. Virginia successfully competed against Washington, D.C. for the project, which will create 70 new jobs and retain 357 existing jobs paying above the average prevailing wage in the region.
Speaking at today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "Keeping Opower in Arlington County has been a high priority of my administration. This high-profile energy software company is growing rapidly and making a major impact on global challenges, and we are committed to further strengthening this important corporate partnership. The technology industry is booming in Virginia, and wins like this expansion help us continue to build on the momentum in this important sector as we grow, diversify and build a new Virginia economy."
"Opower is a great example of the type of new energy company we want to attract to and retain in the Commonwealth," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "It is important that we continue to catalyze growth in this strategic sector. We are thrilled to see Opower's expansion, and we look forward to seeing the company's future success in Virginia."
Opower is an enterprise software company that helps utilities elevate the customer experience. Energy providers use Opower's customer engagement platform to deliver proactive, digital communications that raise customer satisfaction, manage energy demand, and lower service costs. Opower's software is deployed to more than 95 utilities worldwide and reaches more than 50 million homes and businesses.
- See more at: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14086#sthash.iu2DfByr.dpuf

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14086
