Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces More Than $1.5 Million in Community Development Block Grants
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Feb. 5, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today more than $1.5 million in Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) for Scott County and the town of Brodnax. Scott County will receive $530,000 for the Scott County Riverside Offsite Utilities Project through the CDBG Community Economic Development Fund, and the town of Brodnax will receive $1 million for the Brodnax Water System Improvements Project through the CDBG Competitive Grant Program.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "The CDBG program has been an invaluable tool in Virginia's ongoing effort to kick start economic development in communities that are ready to grow. These grants will lay a foundation for future vitality and contribute to our work building a new Virginia economy in every corner of our state."
Since 1982, the federally-funded CDBG program has been administered by the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development, and Virginia receives up to $17 million annually for this grant program. Most CDBG grant funds are awarded through a competitive process.
"In order to create strong, resilient and sustainable communities, we need to help localities improve their infrastructure assets, especially in rural parts of Virginia," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "These community development projects are great examples of federal, state and local partners working together as a team to make the Commonwealth a great place to live, work and raise a family."
The Scott County project will provide infrastructure improvements to the Riverside Industrial Park. The improvements include the installation of water and sewer lines, storm water control facilities and 3,400 linear feet of broadband conduit. This grant is expected to create 300 jobs, with at least 51 being made available to low- to moderate-income persons. The Community Economic Development Program recognizes the need to be responsive to economic development opportunities in eligible localities. The funding is available for projects involving the location, expansion or retention of a basic industry and is distributed on a first-come, first-served basis from January 1 through the end of September.
The town of Brodnax water project will upgrade and replace aging waterlines that are providing water to residents. The project will install more than 12,000 linear feet of waterline and install 16 fire hydrants in the community. This project is expected to benefit 344 persons, with 53 percent of households being low- to moderate-income.
During this year's competitive cycle, 21 projects were submitted by localities throughout the Commonwealth. The initial allocation of this program included 12 localities, totaling more than $8.2 million in grants.
- See more at: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14071#sthash.toIxZytj.dpuf

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14071
