Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 58 New Jobs in Culpeper County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Feb. 3, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that EURO-COMPOSITES® Group will invest $10.5 million to expand its U.S. operation in Culpeper County. The company manufactures advanced honeycomb composite materials used in aviation, space, industrial, and defense technology applications, and will expand the facility by 51,000 square feet and add new equipment to increase production of composite-based parts associated with the aerospace industry. Virginia successfully competed against Echternach, Luxembourg for the project, which will create 58 new jobs.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "This significant project represents EURO-COMPOSITES® Group's second major investment in its only U.S. operation. An expanded facility and new equipment for increased production secures its viability as a major employer in Culpeper County for years to come. We appreciate the company's commitment to the Commonwealth, and celebrate 58 new, good-paying manufacturing jobs that provide workers with skills of the 21st century that are essential in our efforts to build a new Virginia economy."
"EURO-COMPOSITES® expansion in Culpeper is great news for the growing manufacturing industry in the region and across the Commonwealth," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "We are especially pleased when an existing business is growing and creating new jobs for Virginians, and this expansion is another testament to the world-class talent, outstanding infrastructure and great quality of life in Virginia."
EURO-COMPOSITES®, a privately held company, established its worldwide headquarters in Echternach, Luxembourg in 1984. Its United States Corporation was established in Culpeper County, Virginia in 1988. EURO-COMPOSITES® is a global player in the field of advanced composite products.
- See more at: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14053#sthash.2uCx1RZ3.dpuf

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14053
