Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 50 New Jobs in Botetourt County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Jan. 29, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today Arkay Packaging Corporation, one of the world's premiere folding carton manufacturing companies, will invest $11 million to upgrade equipment and expand its operation in Botetourt County. The project will create 50 new jobs.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "Arkay Packaging is a leading company that has continued to invest and expand in Virginia since it began operations in Botetourt County in 1996. Advanced manufacturing is an industry of the future, and growing this sector is vital to building a new Virginia economy. We thank Arkay for the vote of confidence in the Commonwealth, and we welcome 50 new jobs to the company's strong employee base."
"Arkay's expansion in Botetourt is great news for the manufacturing industry in the region and across the Commonwealth," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "We are especially pleased when an existing business is growing and creating new jobs for Virginians."
Arkay provides global cosmetic and pharmaceutical companies with highly creative, cost-effective and eco-friendly packaging solutions using cutting-edge technologies and a palette of special effects. Headquartered in New York with a 140,000-square-foot manufacturing facility in Roanoke, the company is a third generation family-owned business established in 1922.
Celebrating his company's milestone 20th anniversary in Roanoke this year, Arkay Chairman/CEO Mitchell Kaneff states, "When we first researched relocating the company to Virginia in 1996, we found it to be very appealing with its lower taxes, competitive business incentives, reduced energy costs, excellent schools, and the fact that it was a right-to-work state. Roanoke, in particular, attracted us with its vibrant community and the advantage of a strategically perfect location: directly accessible to the entire east coast."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Botetourt County to secure the project for Virginia. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"Botetourt and Arkay have enjoyed a strong and reliable partnership for 20 years," said Botetourt County Board of Supervisors Chairman L.W. "Jack" Leffel, Jr. "We welcome this expansion as an affirmation of Botetourt County as great place for business and a re-affirmation of our long-term mutual commitment to support one another's success."
"I'm pleased to see the continued growth of Arkay Packaging in Botetourt County," said Delegate Terry Austin. "Arkay's growth in investment and jobs speaks to the quality of the product and the workforce."
"Congratulations to Arkay Packaging on its expansion in Botetourt County, which has compelling natural resources and a talented workforce," said Senator Stephen Newman. "We wish them continued success. Virginia strives to maintain lower taxes and provide core services in a fiscally responsible way to ensure that we remain open for business and growth for all our citizens."
Since the beginning of the McAuliffe administration, 585 economic development deals have been closed in Virginia with more than $9.78 billion in capital investment, which is more than any previous governor in the first 24 months in office.

- See more at: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14011#sthash.Q0HixL1O.dpuf

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=14011
