Public Statements
MSNBC "Hardball with Chris Matthews" - Transcript: On Gun Control
Interview
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Nov. 2, 2015
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
MATTHEWS: Wow. Welcome back to HARDBALL. That was Virginia governor
Terry McAuliffe at a rally late last month. Today, he`s barnstorming the
Commonwealth of Virginia ahead of tomorrow`s elections for state senate.
Democrats are trying to take the senate back from Republicans, and the race
is expected to be close down there.
McAuliffe is pushing gun control as a major issue, gun safety, a tough
position to take in a state that`s home to the National Rifle Association`s
national headquarters.
And when it comes to 2016, Terry McAuliffe is a long-time supporter,
of course, of the Clintons. He headlined a Hillary Clinton rally last
month in Virginia after her marathon Benghazi testimony. He thinks she has
the right stuff.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MCAULIFFE: Inside and out, she knows the foreign policy, what needs
to be done for the country. And this woman should be president of the
United States of America. So you let the Republicans keep doing what
they`re doing, their debates. I mean, they`re entertaining to watch. I
mean, I get a kick out of watching them. I don`t learn anything about what
they`re going to do for America.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MATTHEWS: Wow. And today, the Trump campaign says they`ve submitted
more than enough signatures to qualify Trump for the Virginia presidential
primary ballot in March 1st of next year. Virginia will be pivotal in the
2016 White House race, of course.
And joining me now from Richmond is Virginia governor Terry McAuliffe.
Terry, it`s great to have you on. Governor, I`m sorry. I have to get used
to
MCAULIFFE: Thank you, Chris.
MATTHEWS:  your greatness! But it is important to get it right.
You know, I`m impressed by your guts going at it for gun safety in a
state that is Virginia. What`s changed? Why do people now open their ears
and hearts to the idea of keeping bad people from getting their fingers on
guns?
MCAULIFFE: Well, as you know, Chris, when I ran for governor, this
was a top topic for me. I talked about it every single day. It`s
important. Here in Virginia, we had one of the worst tragedies ever at
Virginia Tech, 32 individuals were killed, 17 injured. We just had a
tragedy, two journalists killed on live television.
Enough is enough. I`m tired of the politicians bought and paid for by
the NRA. It`s time to stand up. It`s time do something about it. It`s
time to shut the gun show loophole down. It`s time for background checks.
So I`m trying to do that through the legislature, and that`s why
everybody in Virginia who`s watching, please make sure you vote tomorrow.
I need one seat to get control of the Senate, and we can pass common sense
gun laws here in Virginia.
As you know, in Virginia, we`re considered a source state. We saw
last year thousands of guns that were purchased in Virginia went to other
states and were involved in a crime. We need to shut it down.
Gun show loopholes need to be stopped. Everybody should go through a
background check. And we need to make sure that we get people elected to
office who support these goals. Common sense.
MATTHEWS: How do you get the gun owner, the guy who -- or the woman
who believes in the 2nd Amendment fully who does do hunting, who does load
their own shells, who takes a real interest in it, reads all the magazines
-- how do you get that person to say, You know what? Nuts and criminals
shouldn`t have guns.
MCAULIFFE: Well, I think we`re there, Chris. Eighty-five percent of
Americans, according to the Pew Research, say that we should have
background checks. Listen, I`m a gun owner. I own three guns. I just
took my two boys hunting last weekend. But you know what? I went through
background checks.
All we`re trying to do is say that individuals -- issues with mental
illness, domestic abuse -- there are individuals who should not own
firearms. This is common sense. And that`s why I did an executive order.
I just banned all handguns, no open carry in any of our state office
buildings every single day. They need a safe environment.
So, I took action. Individuals in Virginia today, if you have a
protective order against you, you cannot purchase a firearm. But guess
what? You can still own one. So, I`m going to work with our attorney
general to work with our prosecutors and the judges to say, no, no, if you
have got a protective order, you can`t buy one. But guess what? If you
have got one, you need to hand it in.
This is common sense. This is why elections matter. That`s why I
need the Senate here. I need one vote. Common sense, I`m trying to push
the Medicaid expansion, Chris; $2.4 billion a year, we`re forfeiting in
Virginia.
MATTHEWS: I know. That`s a loss, yes.
MCAULIFFE: Common sense.
MATTHEWS: Well, good luck with that.
MCAULIFFE: K-12 investment, that is what people want.
Our economy is booming. When I became governor, I inherited a large
deficit. You know what? We just turned that into the largest surplus in
Virginia history. Our economy today, 4.3 percent unemployment, lowest in
the Southeast of the United States of America. We are creating jobs.
But part of my job as governor is to keep our community safe. So, I
have been a voice day in and day out for commonsense gun restrictions. I
ran on this issue. I brought it up last year.
But what happens here in the legislature is, 7:00 in the morning, with
no recorded vote, it dies in a committee. I need to have one chamber that
can work with me to pass it and then we can get some leverage and get some
commonsense things done. I`m trying to be a problem-solver to move
Virginia forward.
MATTHEWS: Let me ask you about your state and its power in our
country, not just economically, and it is a booming state.
MCAULIFFE: Yes.
MATTHEWS: But electoral power.
I was watching. You probably watched too that great documentary done
on Mitt Romney after he lost. He actually looked pretty good in that
documentary.
MCAULIFFE: Yes. He did.
MATTHEWS: And there he is watching on election night, and he goes,
God, I`m even in Virginia. That means I have lost Ohio.
I love it when -- I didn`t think he was that shrewd politically to see
the way the states calibrate. Your state is a bit to the right of Ohio.
It seems to me, if Republicans can`t get -- they need Ohio to win. They
never won without it. If they don`t get Virginia, they are not going to
get Ohio. Does that make sense to you? Your state is really one of those
key deciding states right now.
MCAULIFFE: I think we are one of the five or six key swing states.
Republicans cannot win the White House if they don`t win Virginia.
We are going to win Virginia. It is a true swing state. We win it
for Hillary, Hillary is going to be the next president of the United
States. We are working very hard here. Why. Common sense. But Virginia
has always been a strategic state.
But you got to remember, Chris, when I ran for governor, I broke a
three-decade trend, whoever wins the White House, the other party wins the
governor`s mansion. I carried in with me my lieutenant governor and my
attorney general. First time in 24 years Democrats swept. We control all
five statewides.
And President Obama has carried this state twice. The problem I`m
dealing with tomorrow is, this is an off, off, off year, no statewides, no
federal candidates. That`s why I have been barnstorming the state to say,
if you want common sense, pro-growth, move our economy forward, commonsense
gun restrictions, the Medicaid expansion, please come out and vote
tomorrow.
MATTHEWS: And congratulations on that beating that pattern of buyer`s
remorse. You`re right, every other year. It always seems that the year
after a presidential election Virginia goes the other way.
Terry McAuliffe, governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, good luck
tomorrow in the Senate races.
MCAULIFFE: Thanks, Chris.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.msnbc.com/transcripts/hardball/2015-11-02
