Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 66 New Jobs in City of Hampton
By: George Wallace Terry McAuliffe Mamie Locke
Date: Aug. 12, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that TE Connectivity Ltd. (NYSE: TEL), a global leader in connectivity, will invest $9 million to expand its sensor solutions operations (formerly known as Measurement Specialties, Inc.) in the City of Hampton. Virginia successfully competed against China and Mexico for the project, which will create 66 new jobs.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "Building the technology and advanced manufacturing sectors in the Commonwealth is critical to creating a new Virginia economy, and we are proud that corporate partners like TE Connectivity are an important part of our efforts. This expansion and the creation of 66 new jobs is tremendous for the City of Hampton and the surrounding region."
"Every time an existing Virginia business chooses the Commonwealth for additional investment, it is a further testament to our preeminent business environment, world-class workforce and superior infrastructure," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "I congratulate TE Connectivity on its success and continued growth in the City of Hampton,and I thank it for its continued confidence in the Commonwealth of Virginia."
TE purchased Measurement Specialties in 2014 to expand its leadership position in the sensors market. The company is a global technology leader that designs and manufactures connectivity and sensor solutions. TE's sensor products measure environmental conditions such as pressure/force, position, vibration and temperature, and are used in today's leading "Internet of Things" applications.
TE Connectivity is a $14 billion global technology leader. Its connectivity and sensor solutions are essential in today's increasingly connected world. The company collaborates with engineers to transform their concepts into creations -- redefining what's possible using intelligent, efficient and high-performing TE products and solutions proven in harsh environments. Its 80,000 people, including 7,500 design engineers, partner with customers in 150 countries across a wide range of industries.
"TE's leadership in the connectivity and sensor market provides our customers with the broadest range of solutions in the industry," said John Mitchell, senior vice president and general manager, TE Sensor Solutions. "By building on our existing presence in Virginia, we can bring a uniquely broad set of highly engineered sensor solutions to our customers in the transportation, industrial, medical, and consumer and home appliance markets. We thank the Governor and the Commonwealth of Virginia for their continued partnership and collaboration."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with the City of Hampton to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $200,000 grant from the Commonwealth's Opportunity Fund to assist Hampton with the project.The company is eligible to receive state benefits from the Virginia Enterprise Zone Program, administered by the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
Hampton Mayor George Wallace said, "The City of Hampton continues to focus its efforts on the retention and attraction of high-wage and high-skilled jobs. TE Connectivity's decision to add a new advanced manufacturing line in Hampton is a tremendous success for us. Hampton has the workforce, infrastructure, amenities, and favorable business climate that effectively position us to retain and attract more companies like TE Connectivity."
"The creation of 66 new jobs and a $9 million investment in the City of Hampton is phenomenal," said Senator Mamie Locke. "Kudos to Governor McAuliffe, Secretary Jones and TE Connectivity on a great partnership that is expanding technology and sensor solutions in the region."

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=12365
