Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Names Judge Jane Marum Roush as Next Justice of the Supreme Court of Virginia
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 27, 2015
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced his selection to fill the upcoming vacancy on the Supreme Court of Virginia, Judge Jane Marum Roush.
"As we began the search for the next Supreme Court Justice, my team and I were committed to identifying a candidate of the highest caliber, one who is highly respected within the judicial and legal communities as well as the legislature and across the Commonwealth," said Governor McAuliffe. "No one embodies those important qualities better than Judge Jane Roush. Over 22 years on the bench Judge Roush has developed a statewide reputation for fairness, thoughtfulness and a proven ability to handle complex and high-profile cases.
"The support she has earned from a bipartisan group of legislators, bar associations, public safety professionals, and many others is a clear sign that she is the right choice to carry on Justice Millette's sterling legacy as the next Justice of the Supreme Court of Virginia."
Governor McAuliffe made today's announcement at a press conference where he was joined by Judge Roush, Delegates Dave Albo, Ken Plum and Eileen Filler-Corn and Senator Donald McEachin, who attended to voice their support of her appointment.
Judge Roush will fill the vacancy left by retiring Justice LeRoy F. Millette Jr. when he steps down on July 31st, 2015. The Supreme Court of Virginia empowers the Governor to fill vacancies on state courts when the General Assembly is not in session. The General Assembly will consider her appointment when they convene next.
Judge Roush has served on the Circuit Court for the 19th Judicial District for Fairfax County and City since 1993.
Judge Roush was chosen for her circuit court post through a bipartisan General Assembly judicial selection process, and she has been re-elected with enthusiasm through the same process. She will be the first Supreme Court Justice from Fairfax County since 2010 when Justice Barbara Keenan left to accept a federal court appointment.
Previous to her service on the 19th District Court, Judge Roush served as an attorney in Fairfax County. She is a graduate of Wellesley College and the University of Virginia Law School.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=12141
