Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 56 New Jobs in Goochland County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 20, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Hardywood Park Craft Brewery will invest more than $28 million over the next five years to expand its operations in Goochland County. The company will open a new brewery complex to complement its current facility in Richmond, complete with a 60,000 square foot brewery, packaging and distribution hall, a taproom, an amphitheater, an extensive garden, and equipment to increase production capacity for its award-winning craft beer. Virginia successfully competed against North Carolina for the project, which will create 56 new jobs.
Speaking at today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "Today's announcement is a great win for Virginia's craft brewery industry and our ongoing efforts to build a new Virginia economy. Hardywood has built a strong reputation for its award-winning beers and the integrity of its ingredients and business practices. Investments like this create jobs, tourism activity, and new markets for Virginia's farmers as craft breweries source hops, fruit, herbs, and other agricultural products."
"The growing craft beer industry in Virginia is an important contributor to the economic vitality of our communities," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "We are working hard to promote tourism in Virginia and create jobs in the manufacturing sector, and Hardywood's expansion is contributing to the progress in these areas. I congratulate the company and Goochland County on this exciting news, and we look forward to continuing this partnership for years to come."
"Hardywood's expansion into Goochland County and its commitment to sourcing ingredients from Virginia's agricultural producers creates a huge opportunity to continue to expand the craft beer supply chain in Virginia," said Todd Haymore, Virginia Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry. "This is a great story of a local business growing its operations and connecting with area producers to create a unique product that showcases the terroir of Virginia. I am pleased to support a home-grown Virginia business in its continued success, as we continue our work with the Governor and private sector partners to build a new Virginia economy."
Hardywood is a part of Virginia's thriving craft beer industry. Founded in Richmond, Virginia by lifelong friends, Hardywood has been soulfully brewing beer since 2011. Sourcing 100% of its power from renewables, including solar, biomass and wind, Hardywood is committed to minimizing its impact on the environment. Hardywood's beers have earned international acclaim with medals at the World Beer Cup and Great American Beer Festival, a rare 100 rating by BeerAdvocate Magazine, was rated Virginia's Top Brewery by RateBeer.com users and was recognized as Virginia's Best Brewery by Thrillist.com. The company was awarded the Greater Richmond Chamber Business Council Business of the Year Award in 2013.
Hardywood currently distributes throughout Virginia, Washington, D.C. and eastern Pennsylvania. Its new production facility will allow the company to continue to meet the growing demand from its existing markets, as well as enter new ones. Hardywood will continue to operate and invest in its Richmond facility.
Patrick Murtaugh, brewmaster and co-founder of Hardywood Park Craft Brewery said,"Embarking on this next step is vital in achieving long term sustainability for Hardywood and reaching the goals Eric and I started setting for ourselves when we brewed our first five-gallon batch of beer nearly 15 years ago, and it never could have happened without the support of Goochland County and the Commonwealth."
"We're extremely proud of the jobs and ongoing tax revenue we'll be able to create through this project, and we're confident we found the right home for our new brewery in Goochland County, Virginia," added Eric McKay, Hardywood Park Craft Brewery president and co-founder.
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership and Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services (VDACS) worked with Goochland County and the company to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $500,000 grant from the Commonwealth's Opportunity Fund to assist Goochland with the project. The Governor also approved a $400,000 performance-based grant from the Virginia Investment Partnership program, an incentive available to existing companies. The company will also receive a $250,000 grant from the Governor's Agriculture and Forestry Industries Development (AFID) Fund, administered by VDACS. Additional funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program. Goochland County has committed up to $1 million in matching funds over a period of up to 10 years.
"We are thrilled about Hardywood's decision to choose Goochland County for its new brewing campus and distribution facility. West Creek's easy access, abundant infrastructure, and scenic beauty provide the ideal location," said Susan Lascolette, Chair of the Goochland County Board of Supervisors. "Hardywood's vision for its new brewing campus and distribution facility are perfectly aligned with Goochland's commitment to attract and retain the best people and businesses while preserving our rural character."
"I am glad to see Hardywood investing and growing in Goochland," said Delegate Peter Farrell (R -- Richmond). "I appreciate the administration's support and hard work on seeing this through and I look forward to the economic success this project will bring."
For more information about Hardywood's expansion, please visit: http://www.hardywood.com
Patrick and Eric cordially invite you to attend a media exclusive question and answer session regarding Hardywood's upcoming expansion. Please join them at the brewery on Tuesday, July 21 at 10am.
Hardywood Park Craft Brewery
2410 Ownby Lane
Richmond, VA.
Since the beginning of the McAuliffe administration, 435 economic development deals have been closed in Virginia with more than $7.62 billion in capital investment, which is more than twice the amount of capital investment brought to the Commonwealth by the previous two governors in the first 18 months in office.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=12038
