Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 80 New Jobs in Wise County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 17, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Dhiyo House Inc., a specialty supplier of belting for the conveyor and power transmission industries, will invest $6.1 million to establish its first Virginia manufacturing operation in Wise County. The company has been operating successfully in the United States since 2008, serving various clients with industrial conveyor belts manufactured by the family company in India. With this project, Dhiyo House will establish a 40,000-square-foot manufacturing facility in the Wise County Industrial Park to produce the belting in the U.S. and expand production with additional products. Virginia successfully competed against Georgia, Kentucky, West Virginia and Tennessee for the project, which will create 80 new jobs paying above the average prevailing wage in the region.
Speaking about today's announcement at an announcement in Wise County, Governor McAuliffe said, "This project is a great win for Wise County and the Commonwealth. These new, high-quality jobs will help diversify the industrial base in Southwest Virginia and contribute to our ongoing efforts to build a new Virginia economy.
"Growing manufacturing jobs is a key strategy for building a strong economy, and we are thrilled to have a company in this important sector choose to locate in Wise County," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "The County offers the strong workforce and exceptional business climate the company needs to increase production and expand its footprint in the U.S. and Canada. We look forward to a long, prosperous partnership."
Dhiyo House has provided a variety of conveyor and power transmission belts since 2005. The company's approach is to meet the ever increasing demands that today's technological advancements require. Through continuous research and development, Dhiyo House has emerged as a leader in the expansion of belting design and fabrication. The company serves rock quarries, hard rock and soft mineral mines, sugar mills, cement works, foundries, brick workers, smelters, paper and saw mills, power plants and many other types of industrial and mining operations.
"Dhiyo House chose Virginia because it is the most suitable location for our business, and the Wise County coal industry gave us tremendous love and support," said Deepa Luthra, Owner, Dhiyo House. "Southwest Virginia is coal country and provides close proximity to all neighboring coal states, including, but not limited to, Kentucky, West Virginia and Pennsylvania. Virginia is the most convenient location for business, allowing us to focus on Wise County and surrounding coal counties. We also chose Wise County because the local government endorsed and supported us."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership (VEDP) worked with Wise County, the Wise County Industrial Development Authority and the Virginia Coalfield Economic Development Authority to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $250,000 grant from the Commonwealth's Opportunity Fund to assist Wise County with the project. The Virginia Tobacco Region Revitalization Commission approved $645,000 in Tobacco Region Opportunity Funds. The company is eligible to receive state benefits from the Virginia Enterprise Zone Program, administered by the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program, administered by VEDP.
"On behalf of the Board of Supervisors, I express the joy of learning that Dhiyo House is locating in Wise County," said Bob Adkins, Chairman, Wise County Board of Supervisors. "Those in economic development work diligently to secure jobs for the youth of the county who have just completed their education, as well as those who have been displaced by the serious downturn in coal extraction. We are especially pleased to know that Dhiyo House will be able to provide jobs for both groups."
"On behalf of the Virginia Tobacco Commission, I want to congratulate Dhiyo House Inc. on their decision to locate in Wise, Virginia, bringing 80 new jobs to the county," said Senator Bill Carrico, member of the Virginia Tobacco Region Revitalization Commission. "In addition to the $645,000 from the Tobacco Region Opportunity Fund, this announcement is highlighted by Dhiyo House's capital investment of $6.1 million, which demonstrates their commitment to Wise County and the region."
"It is great news to see Dhiyo House investing in Southwest Virginia," said Senator A. Benton Chafin, Jr. "The addition of 80 new manufacturing jobs is a step in the right direction to rebuilding our economy in the Coalfields. Manufacturing must be increased in the region to provide new jobs and opportunities for our skilled workforce."
Since the beginning of the McAuliffe administration, 433 economic development deals have been closed in Virginia with more than $7.59 billion in capital investment, which is more than twice the amount of capital investment brought to the Commonwealth by the previous two governors in the first 18 months in office.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=12020
