Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces TURN: Washington's Spies Will Return to Virginia for Third Season
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 15, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that the AMC television series TURN: Washington's Spies will be returning to Virginia for a third season.
"I am proud to welcome TURN: Washington's Spies back to the Commonwealth for a third season of filming," said Governor McAuliffe. "The first two seasons were a gripping recreation of one of the most significant eras in American history, and Season 3 promises to be even more compelling. We are proud to be associated with such a high-quality endeavor that also provides jobs and financial benefits for Virginia workers and businesses. On behalf of the Commonwealth of Virginia, I want to thank AMC for telling such an important story and partnering in our efforts to build a new Virginia economy."
TURN: Washington's Spiesis an historical thriller based on Alexander Rose's book Washington's Spies that recounts the story of America's first spy ring during the Revolutionary War. The series features Jamie Bell as Abraham Woodhull, a farmer living in British-occupied Long Island who, along with his childhood friends, form a group of spies called the Culper Ring. This unlikely band of revolutionaries collaborated with George Washington during the Revolutionary War and, in the process, created espionage techniques still in use today. An iconic scene from Season 2 was Washington's famous crossing of the Delaware River on Christmas 1776. The season also featured Benedict Arnold, a celebrated military hero of the time who ultimately became America's most famous traitor.
"The state of Virginia has been a valued production partner on TURN: Washington's Spies, and we're pleased a third season will allow us to continue our work within their great state," said Stefan Reinhardt, Co-Head of AMC Studios. "Filming TURN in Virginia has given the show important historical authenticity, a great partner along the way and many aesthetically beautiful locations from which to choose. We look forward to another season of revolutionary television together."
"We were delighted that Season 2 of TURN featured scenes shot in Colonial Williamsburg and at the College of William and Mary, as well as in the City of Petersburg and numerous other locations throughout central Virginia" said Maurice Jones, Secretary of Commerce and Trade. "As one of the original colonies, Virginia was an important part of early American history, and we are glad to be able to highlight the state's important role in the creation of the new nation. Viewers of the show will want to visit many of the locations where the show was filmed."
"It is an extraordinary win for Virginia to have TURN return for Season 3," said Andy Edmunds, Director of the Virginia Film Office. "A television series is a gift that keeps on giving for the production industry in the Commonwealth. We also worked with AMC to create a broadcast commercial promoting Virginia that was shown during each episode of TURN, thus shining a spotlight on the state's exceptional tourism assets."
The Virginia Tourism Corporation has also established TURN: The Trail that features locations from the filming of TURN, as well as other Colonial-era sites across the state. Locations from the series include Colonial Williamsburg, several historic estates and homes and Old Towne Petersburg.
TURN Season 3will begin filming this fall in the Richmond area and is eligible to receive a Virginia film tax credit and grant. The exact amount is based on the number of Virginia workers hired, Virginia goods and services purchased and deliverables including Virginia tourism promotions. Seasons 1 and 2 of TURN had an economic impact of more than $100,000,000 for Virginia for which the production received approximately $13 million in tax credits and grants.
AMC also broadcast over 60 commercials promoting Virginia and popular tourist destinations as part of the arrangement with the Commonwealth.
In 2013 the economic impact of the film and television industry in Virginia totaled $382.5 million and $50.5 million in state and local tax revenue for Virginia.
For more information about TURN: Washington's Spies, please visit http://www.amc.com/shows/turn.
For information about Virginia tourism opportunities surrounding TURN, including the TURN Trail, please visit www.Virginia.org/turn.
For information about Virginia's film production industry, please visit the Virginia Film Office website at www.FilmVirginia.org.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=11984
