Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Appoints 27-Member Parole Commission
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 9, 2015
Location: Richmond, VA

Today Governor Terry McAuliffe announced the appointment of an experienced group of law enforcement professionals, legislators, community leaders and academics to serve on his Commission on Parole Review. On June 24th the Governor signed Executive Order No. 44 creating the Commission and charging it with reviewing Virginia's approach to parole and recommending any policy changes that may enhance public safety while protecting taxpayer dollars. The Commission will be chaired by former Virginia Attorney General Mark Earley, Secretary of Public Safety and Homeland Security Brian Moran and Secretary of the Commonwealth Levar Stoney.
"This bipartisan panel of Virginia leaders will bring an array of perspectives to this important discussion about how our Commonwealth can best keep our communities safe while spending every taxpayer dollar as wisely as possible," said Governor McAuliffe. "I applaud their willingness to put political dogma and preconceived notions aside and engage in a thoughtful process about how this policy has worked for Virginians over the past twenty years and whether there are any opportunities to improve it going forward. With the guidance of Co-Chairs Moran, Stoney and Earley, I am confident that their final report will represent the best interests of all citizens of the Commonwealth."
The first meeting of the Commission is scheduled for Monday, July 20, from 1-4 p.m. in House Room 3, Virginia State Capitol.
The Commission will address five significant priorities related to Parole Reform:
Conduct A Review of Previous Goals and Subsequent Outcomes.
Examine the Cost of Parole Reform/Abolition
Evaluate the Best Practices of Other States
Recommend Other Mediation Strategies
Provide Recommendations to Address Public Safety Challenges
A draft report is due to the Governor by Nov. 2, 2015, with a final report due Dec. 4, 2015.
Members are as follows:
The Honorable Mark L. Earley, Sr., of Leesburg, Former Attorney General of Virginia; Owner, Earley Legal Group, LLC. Will serve as Chair.
The Honorable Brian Moran of Richmond, Secretary of Public Safety and Homeland Security. Will serve as Co-Chair.
The Honorable Levar M. Stoney of Richmond, Secretary of the Commonwealth. Will serve as Co-Chair.
The Honorable Jill Vogel of Fauquier, Member, Senate of Virginia
The Honorable Dave Marsden of Burke, Member, Senate of Virginia
The Honorable Dave Albo of Fairfax, Member, Virginia House of Delegates; Chairman, Courts of Justice Committee
The Honorable Luke E. Torian of Prince William, Member, Virginia House of Delegates
The Honorable Kenneth W. Stolle of Virginia Beach, Sheriff, Virginia Beach Sheriff's Office
The Honorable La Bravia J. Jenkins of the City of Fredericksburg, Commonwealth's Attorney
Gail Arnall, Ph.D., of Washington, DC, Consultant for Outreach and Development, Offender Aid and Restoration
Camille Cooper of Louisa, Director of Government Affairs, The National Association to PROTECT Children & PROTECT.
Marcus M. Hodges of Spotsylvania, President, National Association of Probation Executives
Cynthia E. Hudson of Richmond, Chief Deputy Attorney General, Office of the Attorney General
Kimberly Lettner of Farmville, Retired Chief of Police, Division of Capitol Police
William R. Richardson, Jr. of Arlington, Member, Virginia CURE; Retired partner, Wilmer, Cutler, Pickering, Hale and Dorr LLP.
Cheryl Robinette of Buchanan, Director of Substance Abuse Services, Cumberland Mountain Community Services Board
Mira Signer of Richmond, Executive Director, National Alliance on Mental Illness of Virginia
Faye S. Taxman, Ph.D., of Gaithersburg, MD, Professor, George Mason University
David R. Lett of Richmond, Public Defender, Petersburg Public Defender's Office
Meredith Farrar-Owens of Henrico, Director, Virginia Criminal Sentencing Commission
Sandra M. Brandt of Norfolk, Executive Director, STEP-UP inc.
Alvin Edwards, Ph.D, of Charlottesville, Pastor, Mt. Zion First African Baptist Church
Jack Gravely, JD. of Richmond, Executive Director, Virginia State NAACP
Bobby N. Vassar of Richmond, Chief Counsel (Retired), U.S. House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime
Timothy J. Heaphy of Charlottesville, Partner, Hunton & Williams, former United States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia
Mindy M. Stell of Dinwiddie, President, Virginia Victim Assistance Network
Thomas M. Wolf of Richmond, Partner, LeClairRyan
Ex-Officio Members:
Tonya Chapman of Richmond, Deputy Secretary of Public Safety and Homeland Security
Karen Brown of Richmond, Chair, Virginia Parole Board
Harold Clarke of Richmond,Director, Virginia Department of Corrections
Francine Ecker of Richmond, Director, Virginia Department of Criminal Justice Services
Margaret Schultze of Richmond, Commissioner, Virginia Department of Social Services

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=11811
