Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Cuts Ribbon on New Richmond Wing at the Sitter & Barfoot Veterans Care Center
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 8, 2015
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe celebrated the opening of the new Richmond Wing at the Sitter & Barfoot Veterans Care Center (SBVCC) today during a ceremonial ribbon cutting in Richmond. The new wing adds 40 beds to SBVCC, bringing the total to 200 beds.
"This beautiful new wing will allow our Commonwealth to provide services to even more men and women who served and sacrificed to keep our country safe," said Governor McAuliffe. "Virginia has the honor of being home for hundreds of thousands of veterans and their families, but also the responsibility of offering them world-class care and resources when they leave the service. As we work to build new Virginia economy we must continue to strive to make our Commonwealth the best place on earth for veterans and their families to live, work and thrive."
With the addition of the Richmond Wing, SBVCC will be able to accommodate 200 veterans, all in private rooms, divided between three skilled nursing care wings and one secure Alzheimer's/dementia wing.
"Sitter & Barfoot is a state-of-the-art veterans care center that reflects the latest in health care facility design and research and provides not only exceptional long term care but also offers a rehabilitation department which affords physical, occupational and speech therapy, in addition to therapeutic recreation, social and spiritual activities" said Robyn Jennings, Interim SBVCC Administrator and Director of Nursing.
The McAuliffe administration proactively worked with the General Assembly during the 2015 session to pass legislation that allowed Virginia to proceed with the design and construction of two new veterans care centers in Northern Virginia and Hampton Roads.
SBVCC is one of two veterans care centers operated by the Virginia Department of Veterans Services. The Sitter & Barfoot Veterans Care Center compliments the 240-bed Virginia Veterans Care Center in Roanoke.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=11788
