Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Releases Report "Growing the Military Mission in the Commonwealth of Virginia"
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 7, 2015
Location: Unknown

After more than 12 months meeting with military and business leaders from around the Commonwealth, the Governor's Commission on Military Installations and Defense Activities today released a report, "Growing the Military Mission in the Commonwealth of Virginia," which outlines ways the Commonwealth can help protect and strengthen the military's national security role and economic activity in Virginia.
"I applaud the members of this Commission and its Chairman, retired Air Force Lt General Al Edmonds, for the work they have done over the past year in bringing subject matter experts, the military, and civic and business leaders in the surrounding communities together to address ways the Commonwealth can continue to support and grow the military missions in Virginia," said Governor McAuliffe. "This group has done a great job producing a set of recommendations to help guide future initiatives that will ensure Virginia's enduring relevance to the nation's defense. As we work to build a new Virginia economy, implementing these recommendations will help ensure that we continue and grow a mutually beneficial partnership with the Department of Defense, military families and veterans across the Commonwealth."
Governor McAuliffe formed the Commission on Military Installations and Defense Activities on April 1, 2014. Since it was formed, the Commission has conducted several meetings at military installations and with the surrounding communities to understand how to best position Virginia to capitalize on future defense budgets.
Based on a Department of Defense report[1], in 2013 Virginia was ranked first in the Nation with defense spending totaling $58.8 billion. The recommendations, developed by the Commission over the last year, aim to enhance the Commonwealth's defense and national security mission as well as the benefits to Virginia's economy and communities while leveraging changes in federal military strategy to position the Commonwealth to continue innovation and leadership in its military operations. The Commission focused of four key areas of opportunity:
Improving how our nation develops its military leaders;
Advancing research, testing, evaluation and development of emergent technologies;
Investing in infrastructure to facilitate new missions; and
Maximizing the value and use of existing facilities and resources across all branches of service and all sectors.
"We are fortunate that Virginia remains home to one of the largest concentrations of military and defense activities in the country," said Governor McAuliffe. "Given the significant economic impact that our military installations and defense activities have on the Commonwealth, and the continued view of the President for the need for a Base Realignment and Closure activity, it has never been more vital for us to work hand in hand with our defense and military partners to ensure the continued vitality of these assets."
[1] U.S. Department of Defense, Office of Economic Adjustment, Defense Spending by State Fiscal Year 2013.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=11776
