Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Submission Period Open for Technology Awards Nominations
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 1, 2015
Location: Unknown

Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe, Secretary of Technology Karen Jackson and Chief Information Officer of the Commonwealth Nelson Moe today officially invite nominations for the 2015 Governor's Technology Awards.
These awards recognize the success of public sector information technology (IT) projects that improve government service delivery and efficiency.
"Virginia is committed to innovation, stewardship of public dollars and giving taxpayers the best possible customer service," said Governor Terry McAuliffe. "These awards are an opportunity to highlight innovative technology projects that are making life better for citizens and helping us build a new Virginia economy."
Nine award categories highlight areas of innovation for state, local and educational entities. Submissions should focus on improvements in the business of government made possible by strategic use of IT. All nominations must be submitted by a Virginia public body and are due by midnight on Friday, July 24.
Nominations will be evaluated by a panel of judges that includes IT leaders from state agencies, localities, the legislature, the courts and education. Awards will be presented to honorees at a special ceremony during the Commonwealth of Virginia Innovative Technology Symposium (COVITS) on Wednesday, Sept. 9. Executive summaries of winning nominations will be posted online to provide best practice examples to peers and partners.
The 2015 Governor's Technology Awards categories are:
Cross-boundary collaboration on IT service delivery initiatives: Recognizes the innovative use of IT to share data easily across boundaries, create knowledge-sharing culture, support common business processes or promote innovative partnership programs. Nominations should be submitted jointly by at least two government entities.
IT as efficiency driver - government to citizen: Recognizes the innovative use of IT to improve citizen access to and service from governmental entities. Included are projects which improve citizens' electronic interaction with government, promote availability, usability and/or transparency of information and increase public awareness and adoption of services.
IT as efficiency driver - government to business: Recognizes the innovative use of IT to promote efficiency by improving business access to and service from governmental entities. Included are projects to improve business' electronic interaction with government, promote availability, usability and/or transparency of information and increase business awareness and adoption of available services.
IT as efficiency driver - government to government: Recognizes the innovative use of IT to promote efficiency in government. This category promotes projects that enable organizations to do more with less. Results realized may include a dollar return on investment, realignment of staff time and/or newly transparent processes/information.
Innovative use of technology in local government: Recognizes the innovative use of IT to solve a business problem at the local level. This category is open to any local government entity, including social services, first responders and GIS practitioners.
Innovative use of technology in education: Recognizes the innovative use of IT to support the unique missions of Virginia's schools, colleges and universities. Cooperative projects between educational institutions and other governmental entities, including research and development programs, fall into this category.
Innovative use of big data and analytics: Recognizes the innovative use of technology in collecting, storing, retrieving and analyzing a variety of structured and unstructured data sources.
Innovative use of open data: Recognizes the innovative use of technology and transparency in making data available to citizens, businesses or other government entities. Preference will be given to those projects that encourage and facilitate creative and low-cost utilization of information to expand and enhance citizen services and engagement.
Best citizen portal: Recognizes the innovative use of an online portal that demonstrates innovation, functionality, attractiveness, efficiency and ease of use. Open to any Virginia government organization, agency or jurisdiction that is citizen-facing.
The judging criteria, eligibility requirements and directions for online submission of nominations are posted online at on the COVITS website at www.covits.virginia.gov. News and updates can be followed @COVITS, @kareninva and #TechinVA on Twitter.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=11731
