Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 29 New Jobs in City of Harrisonburg
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: June 30, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that AXON Ghost Sentinel, Inc. (AGS), a portfolio company of AXON Connected, LLC that provides swarm-based cybersecurity products, will invest $1.5 million to expand its operation in the City of Harrisonburg. Virginia successfully competed against Michigan and New Jersey for the project, which will create 29 new jobs paying well above the average prevailing wage in the region.
"The cybersecurity industry is a cornerstone of my administration's efforts to grow and diversify Virginia's economy," said Governor McAuliffe. "The continued success of high-tech companies like AXON Ghost Sentinel illustrates how attractive our Commonwealth is for companies in this emerging sector, which is a foundation of sustainable, resilient growth for a new Virginia economy."
"This expansion in the City of Harrisonburg represents another vote of confidence in Virginia's preeminent business climate," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "It is particularly exciting coming from a business like AXON Ghost Sentinel, which is in an industry that is experiencing growth and pays good wages to the workers in the region."
AXON Ghost Sentinel, Inc. is a cybersecurity company that develops swarm-based, autonomously reasoning products to identify and classify abnormalities in real time, predict future behavior, and optimally adapt to threats. The company's products provide situational awareness and protection for mobile devices, government and corporate networks, and the Internet-of-Things.
"We want to thank Governor McAuliffe and the City of Harrisonburg for the opportunity to develop our innovative cybersecurity solutions in the heart of the Shenandoah Valley," said Michael Markulec, President & CEO of AXON Ghost Sentinel. "We are honored to work with this incredible team of professionals and look forward to partnering with the local business community and academic institutions as we expand our operations."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with the City of Harrisonburg to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $75,000 grant from the Governor's Opportunity Fund to assist Harrisonburg with the project.Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"The City of Harrisonburg is indeed excited to partner with AXON and the Commonwealth of Virginia to enable this expansion project to come to fruition," said Harrisonburg Mayor Christopher Jones. "Harrisonburg and James Madison University have been collaborating to target cybersecurity firms as an important business sector niche. Therefore, this AXON expansion project is very important to our community."
"I would like to thank AXON Ghost Sentinel, Inc. for choosing Virginia for this expansion and for their continued confidence in the City of Harrisonburg," said Delegate Tony Wilt. "I congratulate them on their success during what has been a trying economic time. I also commend the Commonwealth and the City of Harrisonburg for working together to make this expansion possible. The Shenandoah Valley and the Commonwealth remain committed to economic development in sectors that offer high-paying jobs for local residents, like cybersecurity. It is gratifying to see those efforts culminate in 29 new jobs for our community."
"Thanks to AXON working in partnership with the Commonwealth and City of Harrisonburg, we have another expanding business providing more job opportunities for our citizens," said Senator Mark Obenshain. "I am encouraged by this and other indicators of strong economic growth in the Shenandoah Valley, and commend AXON for their continued investment in the region."
Since the beginning of the McAuliffe administration, 422 economic development deals have been closed in Virginia with more than $7.53 billion in capital investment, which is more than twice the amount of capital investment brought to the Commonwealth by the previous two governors in the first 17 months in office.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=11715
