Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Statement on State Budget Rollouts
Statement
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Feb. 5, 2017
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe released the following statement after the Virginia House and Senate unveiled their budgets today:
"As my team and I continue our preliminary review of the budgets proposed by the House and the Senate today, I want to thank the legislators and staff who worked hard to put these spending plans together. Our two branches of government have worked together very well over the past three years to pass balanced budgets that invest in priorities that matter to Virginia families. I expect that trend to continue this year.
"My team and I are ready to work with the General Assembly as this process continues to pass a final budget that closes our shortfall and protects core priorities like education. As we consider new areas to invest, I am pleased that both chambers recognized the need to address glaring deficiencies in Virginia's mental health system and combat the deadly opioid crisis that is afflicting families and communities across the Commonwealth.
"I also share the General Assembly's desire to increase the compensation our hard-working state employees receive, particularly our Virginia State Police Troopers and Sheriff's Deputies. I will review their proposals for a salary increase carefully in the context of the entire budget. As this process moves forward, I hope both chambers will remember the critical role that teachers play in our economy -- particularly at a time when Virginia faces a shortage of qualified educators and the ones we have make $7,200 less than the national average. Retaining and recruiting the best teachers is essential to building a new Virginia economy.
"Finally, given the revenue shortfall we face and the enormous problems that demand our attention, my team and I will scrutinize this budget for any and every area where fat can be trimmed. For example -- both budgets seek to spend $10 million on a commemoration at Jamestown and Yorktown. Honoring our history is important, but I am confident that the board can accomplish that mission for the $5 million in the budget I proposed in December. And, I am certain that money could be better spent restoring the House's elimination of funding for mental health screenings in jails, or both chambers' elimination of worker safety inspector positions and funding to create clean energy jobs. A conservative approach is particularly important in light of the significant economic and budgetary damage that sequestration, the repeal of the Affordable Care Act or other federal actions could do to Virginia over the course of this budget.
"This is a first step in a process that will unfold over the rest of this legislative session. As my team finalizes its review of these budgets, I will present the General Assembly will a full statement on the priorities that I hope will be reflected in the bill they pass for my approval. I am fully confident that the final amendments we make to our spending plan will contribute to the great success we are having growing and diversifying Virginia's economy."

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=19252
