Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 20 New Jobs in Carroll County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: June 30, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that CWW Conveyor Systems, LLC (CWW) will invest $2 million to expand its operation in Carroll County. The company, which supplies conveyor systems for the mining industry, operated as part of Caterpillar Global Mining America, LLC until March 2015, when CWW was created as a new, independent entity to serve the United States, Mexico and Canada. Virginia successfully competed against Pennsylvania for the project, which will create 20 new jobs paying above the average prevailing wage in the region.
"Creating manufacturing jobs in communities that need them is a pillar of building a new Virginia economy," said Governor McAuliffe. "This great expansion will improve the lives of many Virginians and lay a foundation for future growth in Carroll County."
"Manufacturing continues to be a significant contributor to wealth and growth in the Commonwealth, and we welcome the additional jobs in this important sector," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "We look forward to CWW Conveyor Systems' continued growth in Virginia for years to come."
CWW Conveyor Systems, headquartered in Hillsville, Virginia, is a newly established, independent company providing a dedicated focus on sales and support for former Caterpillar conveyor systems products. The 80 employees of CWW bring a wealth of experience from their time at Bucyrus and Caterpillar and are committed to continuing to provide the products and support that customers expect.
"We are excited about our partnership with Virginia, and are proud to be part of the economic development activities in Carroll County," said Michael E. Stewart, General Manager of CWW. "The area offers a great workforce and many resources that will allow us to expand our Research and Development and manufacturing operations."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Carroll County, the Carroll County Industrial Development Authority (IDA), and Virginia's aCorridor to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $65,000 grant from the Governor's Opportunity Fund to assist Carroll County with the project. The Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission approved $85,000 in Tobacco Region Opportunity Funds. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"The expansion of CWW is just another piece of the puzzle associated with the growth of the Carroll County economy," said Carroll County Board of Supervisors Chair Phil McCraw. "We are exceptionally pleased with this opportunity to assist another local industry grow and prosper."
"The IDA is not only pleased for the expansion of CWW, but also for the work that has taken place that has allowed for the expansion," said Barry Hicks, Chair of the Carroll County IDA. "The IDA Natural Gas connection will assist in the expansion of CWW and provide a large savings in energy cost on an annual basis. Also, the combination of incentives associated with this expansion are $202,500 that CWW can use in various ways to grow their operation. We enjoy projects like the CWW expansion."
"On behalf of the Virginia Tobacco Commission, I want to congratulate CWW Conveyor Systems on their decision to bring 20 new jobs to Carroll County," said Senator Bill Carrico, member of the Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission. "In addition to the $85,000 from the Tobacco Region Opportunity Fund, this announcement is highlighted by CWW Conveyor Systems' capital investment of $2 million, which demonstrates their commitment to Carroll County and the region."
"Sustaining a hospitable environment for companies such as CWW to locate, grow and prosper in continues to be our number one priority in the Commonwealth, Carroll County and the Sixth District," said Delegate Jeff Campbell. "Creating new, good paying jobs is critical to the success of our communities and the welfare and quality of life of our residents."
Since the beginning of the McAuliffe administration, 423 economic development deals have been closed in Virginia with more than $7.54 billion in capital investment, which is more than twice the amount of capital investment brought to the Commonwealth by the previous two governors in the first 17 months in office.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=11722
