Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces High School Innovation Planning Grants
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: June 24, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor McAuliffe announced today that the Virginia Department of Education (VDOE) will award five $50,000 high school innovation planning grants to divisions that have proposed bold, innovative programs aimed at building the workforce of the 21st century.
The five divisions include Fairfax County, Newport News, Salem, Williamsburg-James City County and a Chesterfield-led consortium of 10 Richmond-area school divisions.
The grants, which were established by the 2015 General Assembly and signed by Governor McAuliffe as part of the budget, will allow local school divisions receiving the funds to enact their own specifically-designed program, free from the usual regulations imposed on school divisions.
The grants were the brainchild of the Standards of Learning Innovation Committee.
"Innovation is key to preparing our students to succeed in the new Virginia economy," Governor McAuliffe said. "My administration has building a 21st Century education and workforce development system a high priority since day one, and I am excited to see how well our students in these 5 divisions perform once we unleash the creativity of our world-class schools."
"These grants are a great first step towards preparing all of our students to succeed," Secretary of Education Anne Holton said. "By allowing five divisions to develop their own individualized approaches, we have empowered our local education leaders and students like never before."
Each of the approved grants include essential elements of high school innovation, including student-centered learning, "real-world" connections between learning and careers aligned with the needs of local employers, and alternative models for instruction and organization.
"Governor Terry McAuliffe and the General Assembly challenged school divisions to think outside the box and develop nontraditional approaches to instruction, measurement of content mastery and school governance," Superintendent of Public Instruction Steven R. Staples said. "These planning grants will allow the five most promising proposals to move from vision to reality."

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=11655
