Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 101 New Jobs in Henry County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: June 1, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Monogram Food Solutions, LLC, a Memphis-based manufacturer of value-added processed meats, will invest $7.244 million to establish a warehousing and logistics operation in Henry County. The company has operated a meat snacks production facility in the Henry County Patriot Centre Industrial Park since 2009. Virginia successfully competed against two other states for the project, which will create 101 new jobs.
Speaking about today's announcement at an event in Henry County, Governor McAuliffe said, "I am thrilled to be back in the region to announce Monogram Food Solutions' new operation, which brings the company's total job creation in Henry County to more than 300 in less than one year. Working with companies like Monogram to grow and create new jobs in regions that need them is a key part of my administration's efforts to build a new Virginia economy. I thank Monogram for continuing to invest in our great Commonwealth."
"Monogram's announcement is further proof that Virginia offers the assets companies seek to grow their businesses," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "The combination of great talent, strong infrastructure, pro-business climate and great incentives distinguish the Commonwealth as a great place for business. We look forward to continuing our partnership with Monogram for years to come."
Founded in 2004 when a group of Memphis investors bought the King Cotton and Circle B Brand Meats business from the Sara Lee Corporation, Monogram Food Solutions is dedicated to providing innovative and top-quality food products that consumers love to eat. Monogram Meat Snacks, a division of Monogram Food Solutions, is one of the nation's largest manufacturers of quality meat snacks, including jerky, meat and cheese snacks, kippered beef sticks and pickled sausages. These meat snacks are all made in the U.S.A. and include Wild Bill's, O'Brien's, Trail's Best, Hannah's, Bull's and licensed brands Bass Pro Shop's Uncle Buck's, Johnsonville and Butterball. Monogram Food Solutions also produces a wide variety of private label brand meat snacks, smoked meats, corn dogs and pre-cooked bacon for strategic partners across the country. Monogram operates facilities in Minnesota, Indiana, Texas and Iowa, as well as the Henry County, Virginia plant.
"We love the Martinsville workforce, as they are hard workers who are committed to producing great products while emphasizing people safety and excellent customer service. This will be our fourth expansion at the Martinsville facility, and we are excited to continue creating quality jobs in the state of Virginia," said Karl Schledwitz, Chairman and CEO of Monogram Food Solutions.
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with the Martinsville-Henry County Economic Development Corporation to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $200,000 grant from the Governor's Opportunity Fund to assist Henry County with the project. The Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission approved $370,000 in Tobacco Region Opportunity Funds. The company is eligible to receive state benefits from the Virginia Enterprise Zone Program, administered by the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"Our partnership with Monogram Food Solutions continues to flourish, and we are thrilled with today's announcement," said H.G. Vaughn, Chairman of the Henry County Board of Supervisors. "We look forward to working together to move the company and this community forward."
"Monogram's continued commitment to Henry County is further evidence of the steady return of business and industry to Southside, and demonstrates that we are growing the workforce needed by these companies in order for them to succeed in the global marketplace," said Senator Bill Stanley, a member of the Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission."The Tobacco Commission is proud to have made a significant contribution of financial resources that insured that the expansion of Monogram's operations occurred here in Virginia, and not in another state. The Commission and its members are dedicated to sustained economic growth in the region, and this is yet again one more critical piece in that endeavor."
"I applauded the decision of Monogram Food Solution to make additional investments in our economy," said Delegate Les Adams. "They recognize what we here in Southside Virginia know, that we have a strong and improving workforce that is ready to grow and succeed."
Since the beginning of the McAuliffe administration, 399 economic development deals have been closed in Virginia with more than $7.1 billion in capital investment, which is more than double the amount of capital investment brought to the Commonwealth by the previous two governors in their first 16 months in office.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=8516
