Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Recipients of the 2015 Governor's Volunteerism and Community Service Awards
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: May 1, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced recipients of the 2015 Governor's Volunteerism and Community Service Awards today during an awards ceremony held at the Governor's Mansion. These awards spotlight the outstanding efforts individual and organization volunteers make on behalf of citizens throughout the Commonwealth.
"Virginia volunteers embody the values of community, cooperation and service to one another that make this Commonwealth such great place to live," said Governor McAuliffe. "I am so proud to help celebrate these outstanding individuals, organizations and companies that are working every day to make life better for people in every corner of Virginia."
"I congratulate all of the award recipients for the selfless work they do on behalf of Virginia's citizens," said Virginia Department of Social Services Commissioner Margaret Schultze. "Individuals, who give unto others through service, deliver critical services to those in need, which measurably strengthens our entire Commonwealth."
Gail P. Harris, Director of the Virginia Department of Social Services' Office on Volunteerism and Community Service added, "These individuals and organizations are among the 1.95 million Virginians who made a difference in the lives of others by volunteering last year. Virginians on average contribute more than 250.4 million volunteer hours annually, equaling $5.6 billion of service to the Commonwealth."
The awards ceremony was organized by the Office on Volunteerism and Community Service at the Virginia Department of Social Services, in partnership with the Governor's Advisory Board on Service and Volunteerism. These organizations are charged by the Governor with saluting Virginians who have significantly contributed to the life and welfare of the Commonwealth and its citizens.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=8351
