Public Statements
Executive Mansion Hosts Special Garden Day Event
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: April 22, 2015
Location: Unknown

The Executive Mansion is pleased to be among the nearly 250 outstanding homes and gardens to be open across the Commonwealth during Historic Garden Week, from April 18 to 25, 2015. The walk-through tour on Wednesday, April 22, will include interior public spaces and the mansion's renowned Charles Gillette garden.
In addition to the unique floral arrangements designed by volunteers of the Garden Club of Virginia, garden day at the mansion will feature a sampling of Virginia's fine visual and performing artists: Music by the American Youth Harp Ensemble will be performed at selected times in the ballroom, and artwork by artists from the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts Studio School and Commission of the Arts grant winners will be showcased throughout the rooms.
"The Governor and I are excited to celebrate our Virginia art community in conjunction with Historic Garden Week," said First Lady Dorothy McAuliffe. "Garden Day is a perfect opportunity to promote the work of our visual and performing artists as we expect to welcome many hundreds of visitors from the Commonwealth and beyond to the Executive Mansion."
The Garden Club of Virginia has been a strong voice for conservation and beautification since its inception in 1920. Since 1929, public gardens at most of the Commonwealth's iconic landmarks have benefitted from the proceeds of Historic Garden Week, including the mansion's Gillette garden. A portion of the proceeds from Garden Week will be used to support Virginia's state parks.
"We are very excited about a partnership that has been formed between The Garden Club of Virginia and Virginia Association for Parks," said Governor Terry McAuliffe. "Together, these two private-public entities are working to raise $5 million in private funding for park improvements that will include visitor centers and educational exhibits for the benefit and enjoyment of all who visit our beautiful state parks."

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=8191
