Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 2015 Governor's Challenge Champions in Economics and Personal Finance
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: April 20, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced the winners of the 2015 Governor's Challenge in Economics and Personal Finance. Preliminary online rounds attracted a record number of participants, more than 3,200 high school students from across Virginia. 168 students qualified for the day-long championship competition on April 17 at Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU), where the following teams prevailed:
Adam Smith Division (advanced economics)
1st place: Chantilly High School, Fairfax County; teacher: Joseph Clement
Runner up: St. Stephen's & St. Agnes School, a private school in Alexandria; teacher: Emily Geiger
David Ricardo Division (economics)
1st Place: Freedom High School, Loudoun County; teacher: Michelle Plasari
Runner up: Buffalo Gap High School, Augusta County; teacher: Patrick Weller
Personal Finance Division
1st Place: Woodbridge Senior High School, Prince William County; teacher: Susan McNamara
Runner up: Rappahannock High School, Richmond County; teacher: Brent Brown
"Equipping Virginia students with real-world financial skills and an understanding of their role in a dynamic and global economy is crucial to their future success," said Governor McAuliffe. "The Governor's Challenge highlights the excellent job that teachers are doing relaying the scope and relevance of economic education to their students. These students will lead the way in strengthening Virginia's workforce, and they are prepared to make informed financial decisions that will lead to stronger communities and a stronger economy."
The Governor's Challenge is conducted in partnership with the Virginia Council on Economic Education (VCEE), a nonprofit public-private partnership focused on enhancing K-12 economics and financial education. This year's seniors will be the first class to graduate having earned a required credit in economics and personal finance. VCEE has been a key partner in providing professional development and creative classroom resources to assist teachers who are teaching this course. The Governor's Challenge is one of many programs that enhance classroom learning and help build on economic concepts to equip students with skills needed for more informed decision-making.
"The knowledge level and engagement of our students is quite impressive," said Virginia Secretary of Education Anne Holton. "It is clear these students will leave high school better prepared for the jobs of the 21st Century and be more effective consumers, savers, and investors."
"Congratulations go to all the teachers who prepared their students and made the extra effort to provide them the opportunity to participate in the online and "live' Governor's Challenge," said Superintendent of Public Instruction Dr. Steven R. Staples.
Thanks go to lead sponsor Capital One, and additional sponsors BCG Companies and Virginia Credit Union for providing financial support to make the Governor's Challenge possible.
Visit http://www.doe.virginia.gov/instruction/economics_personal_finance/index.shtml and www.vcee.org to learn more about the Governor's Challenge and other efforts to promote economic and financial education for Virginia's students

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=8211
