Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 110 New Jobs in Washington County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: April 14, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Bristol Compressors International, Inc., a leading global producer of compressors for use in air-conditioning, heat pump and refrigeration systems, will invest $1 million to expand its operation in Washington County. This two-phase ramp-up will immediately transition seasonal workers into full-time roles, and the company will add personnel in the machining, material, quality and assembly areas, creating a total of 110 new jobs.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "I am thrilled to announce this great news for the region and the Commonwealth. Job creation is a top priority as we work to build a new Virginia economy, and Bristol Compressors' continued growth in Washington County is a great testament to the assets in the region."
"Helping our existing businesses grow in the Commonwealth is vital for the health and progress of our communities," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "We thank Bristol Compressors for its continued corporate partnership, and we look forward to many more years of success."
Headquartered in Washington County, Virginia, Bristol Compressors designs and manufactures hermetic reciprocating compressors for residential and light commercial air conditioning, heat pump and refrigeration applications. The company supplies compressors to original equipment manufacturers and wholesale distributors on six continents and in more than 60 countries around the world. Spanning 750,000-square feet, the company's Bristol operations are fully integrated, with world-class machining capabilities that complement reconfigured, high-volume assembly lines. Operations are designed around lean manufacturing process techniques.
"The global air conditioning market is rapidly evolving, and it is critical that Bristol Compressors continues to invest in new products to support these changes," said Ed Gniewek, CEO of Bristol Compressors. "Our business in the United States also remains strong. Bristol Compressors' products are noted for their high quality and dependability, and we continue to enjoy great success, both here and abroad. We are excited to have this opportunity to grow and add 110 high-quality jobs to our Bristol location. Furthermore, we look forward to responding to global market demands by continuing to invest in the efficiencies of our company and our products."
Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program, administered by the Virginia Economic Development Partnership.
"It's wonderful to see this announcement for such a leading employer in our community. We hope this provides exciting opportunities for citizens of our county," said Phillip McCall, Chairman of the Washington County Board of Supervisors.
"The expansion of Bristol Compressors is great news for Washington County and Southwest Virginia," said Senator Bill Carrico. "The $1 million investment representing 110 new jobs will bring more economic development opportunities to the region. On behalf of the citizens of the 40th Senatorial district, I would like to congratulate Bristol Compressors and everyone who worked to make this a reality."
"It is great to see Bristol Compressors adding jobs here in Washington County. I look forward to continuing to work with them as well as County leaders through this period of growth and expansion," said Delegate Israel O'Quinn.
Since the beginning of the McAuliffe administration, 356 economic development deals have been closed in Virginia with more than $6.4 billion in capital investment, more than twice the amount of capital investment brought to the Commonwealth in any Governor's first 15 months in office.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=8186
