Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 55 New Jobs in Hanover County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: April 9, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Mavalério, a Brazilian manufacturer of candy and other confectionary products, will invest $5 million to establish its first U.S. production operation in Hanover County. Virginia successfully competed against Delaware and Florida for the project, which will create 55 new jobs.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "I am thrilled to announce that Mavalério has chosen the Commonwealth and Hanover County for its first U.S. operation. Winning this significant project is another testament to Virginia's global competitiveness, and creating high-tech jobs is another step forward in building a new Virginia economy."
"Virginia's ability to continually attract international businesses is demonstrated by this project," said Maurice Jones, Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade. "Some of Mavalério's largest customers are located right here in the Commonwealth, and the location of this new operation will help the company grow its footprint in the U.S. market. We welcome Mavalério to Hanover County and to Virginia."
Mavalério, founded in 1969 and based in Sao Paulo, Brazil, is the largest producer of decorative confectionary in Latin America, currently exporting to more than 20 countries. Over the years, the company has been growing and innovating, serving domestic and foreign markets the most diverse and tasty products, which helped Mavalério become the largest manufacturer of the decorative confectionery industry in Latin America.
"Mavalério is very excited about this new venture in the United States," said Fernando Bettin, Mavalério director of operations. "We have chosen the state of Virginia because we can reach 55 percent of the U.S. population within 750 miles, and we couldn't be more pleased with our location in Hanover County. As a manufacturer of sugar confectionery toppings, interstate, port and airport access are critical to maintain our supply chain. The Greater Richmond Partnership and Hanover County are providing excellent support to make it all happen."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Hanover County and the Greater Richmond Partnership to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $50,000 grant from the Governor's Opportunity Fund to assist Hanover with the project. The company will receive benefits from the Port of Virginia Economic and Infrastructure Development Zone Grant Program. Additional funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"Hanover County is pleased to welcome Mavalério into our corporate community, and we are impressed with this company's passion for producing quality products for the confections industry," said Wayne Hazzard, chairman of the Hanover County Board of Supervisors. "They have selected Northlake as the location in which to launch their first U.S. production facility, and the Lewistown corridor on I-95 is poised for dynamic growth. We are confident that Mavalério will grow and prosper in Hanover County."
"This is a thoughtful decision by Mavalerio to choose Virginia and the Port of Virginia," said John F. Reinhart, CEO and executive director of the Virginia Port Authority. "Virginia and Hanover County provide a strategic East Coast location within reach of our great port, which will serve as the company's gateway to world markets."
"I want to thank Mavalério for choosing Hanover County to place its new production operation," said Senator A. Donald McEachin. "Both the new jobs that will be created and the addition of a good corporate neighbor will be assets for the community and are an important stepping stone in the new Virginia economy."
Since the beginning of the McAuliffe administration, 353 economic development deals have been closed in Virginia with more than $6.4 billion in capital investment, more than twice the amount of capital investment brought to the Commonwealth in any Governor's first 14 months in office.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=8155
