Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Environmental Excellence Award Winners
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: March 31, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe has announced the winners of the 2015 Governor's Environmental Excellence Awards, which were presented today at the Environment Virginia Symposium at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington.
The awards recognize significant environmental contributions in three categories: sustainability, environmental projects and land conservation. They are given to businesses and industrial facilities, not-for-profit organizations, and government agencies.
"These awards highlight the excellent work done by Virginia organizations to protect our natural resources," Governor McAuliffe said. "Award winners demonstrate leadership with their innovative methods, and it is a pleasure to recognize these outstanding efforts."
The Gold Medal winners are:
Chesapeake Bay Foundation for its Brock Environmental Center, which was designed and built as a model of sustainable green building practices including the use of only recycled and reclaimed materials during construction, renewable energy installations, and a rainwater capture system for drinking water.
Virginia Conservation Legacy Fund, Inc. for its conservation of the Natural Bridge, which is being permanently protected for use as a regional education center and will become a state park.
Virginia Living Museum for its Living Green in the Bay Watershed program, which exemplifies the museum's mission of promoting stewardship and conservation practices through engaging exhibits to promote sustainable practices by Virginia residents.
Award winners were chosen based on criteria including environmental benefit, stakeholder involvement, public outreach, transferability and innovativeness. The awards are sponsored by the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality and the Virginia Department of Conservation and Recreation. Additional information on the Governor's Environmental Excellence Awards is available on the DEQ website at www.deq.virginia.gov.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=8091
