Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Unveils Spring Stewardship Virginia Campaign
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: March 20, 2015
Location: Unknown

Stewardship Virginia, a statewide campaign to encourage and recognize voluntary activities with a tangible impact on Virginia's natural resources, continues this year with events across the state. The campaign features activities in the spring and fall. The spring portion runs from April 1 through May 31.
"Stewardship Virginia gives us all an opportunity to make real contributions to our natural and historic resources. Virginia's landscapes and waterways are important for their ecological value, scenic beauty and recreational opportunities," said Governor Terry McAuliffe. "Stewardship Virginia projects give volunteers the tools, guidance and structure to continue to enhance these valuable resources. I encourage all Virginians to get involved."
Citizens and groups may get help from the state's natural resource agencies. Participants in Stewardship Virginia events will receive certificates of appreciation signed by Governor McAuliffe.
"Events will be held throughout Virginia with many opportunities for volunteerism in our parks and natural areas during Stewardship Virginia," said Clyde Cristman, director of the Virginia Department of Conservation and Recreation. "We appreciate the many Virginians who have participated to date and hope many others will join in. This year, we are emphasizing the restoration of habitat for pollinators such as bees, butterflies and birds. Habitat for pollinators has dramatically declined over the years. Support is needed to help provide nectar, pollen, water and leaves for the lifecycles of these valuable insects and birds."
DCR coordinates the campaign with help from other natural resource agencies. Last year, over 300 projects were registered and more than 5,000 volunteers were recognized with certificates of appreciation. Miles of waterways were cleaned and thousands of pounds of trash hauled away. Volunteers held recycling events and organized community cleanups. Invasive plant species were replaced with native plants, and many trails were cleared for citizens to enjoy.
Stewardship Virginia promotes waterway adoption, trail improvement, the planting of riparian buffers, invasive species control, habitat improvement and landscaping for conservation. The campaign encourages people to connect with land and water to better understand their value. Many businesses and groups across Virginia have already registered events and provided support to promote conservation initiatives.
Individuals, businesses and organizations are encouraged to register Stewardship Virginia projects with DCR's Office of Environmental Education, making details available for those wanting to join in. For more information, including a registration packet, call 1-877-42-WATER; in Richmond, call 786-5056.
Visit www.dcr.virginia.gov/stewardship/ for more information about volunteer projects and a registration form.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=8003
