Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces McAllister Mills Inc. Expansion in Grayson County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: March 18, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that McAllister Mills Inc., the leading manufacturer of safe, heat-resistant materials for the textile industry, will invest $1.05 million to expand and significantly increase its textile manufacturing operations in Grayson County. The company will purchase and renovate a vacant 33,000-square-foot facility that will house new automation and equipment. Virginia successfully competed against North Carolina for the project, which will retain 43 existing jobs and create 16 new jobs.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "Grayson County continues its economic transformation with the expansion of McAllister Mills' advanced textile manufacturing operation. The region has built a niche of businesses that are thriving in this sector, and this Virginia-grown company's continued growth and success is great evidence of the Commonwealth's top-rate business climate. New jobs in the manufacturing sector help us diversify and build the new Virginia economy, and we thank McAllister Mills for its investment."
"McAllister Mills' expansion furthers Grayson County's rich tradition in the textile industry," said Maurice Jones, Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade. "The success of Virginia's existing businesses is a key driver of economic growth, and Grayson County's superior workforce and great quality of life make it an attractive place for businesses to locate and expand. We are grateful to the County for its efforts."
Headquartered in Independence, Virginia, McAllister Mills utilizes the most advanced fibers from alumina, silica, basalt, glass, aramids and biosoluble fibers, manufacturing textile products for almost any application. Its thermal solutions cover a full service temperature range from 0°F to 2500°F. Insulation blankets, fabrics, tapes, ropes, and custom fabricated parts are engineered for the most demanding thermal environment.
"Thirty-five years in Grayson County, McAllister Mills has successfully grown to be a world leader in thermal insulating and fire protection technologies and systems. This growth has been enabled by the strong work ethic and commitment of the employees of McAllister Mills, and we are poised to bring new technologies to the market with our upcoming expansion," shared Alec McAllister, President and Owner, McAllister Mills, Inc. "We would like to thank the Grayson County EDA, Governor McAuliffe, the VSBFA, the Town of Independence, as well as the Tobacco Commission, Virginia's aCorridor and the Virginia Port Authority for their support."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Grayson County and Virginia's aCorridor to secure the project for the Commonwealth. The Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission approved $110,000 in Tobacco Region Opportunity Funds for the project. The Virginia Small Business Financing Authority also provided valuable assistance. The company is eligible to receive state benefits from the Virginia Enterprise Zone Program, administered by the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development. Additional funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"The county feels blessed to have our second new jobs announcement of 2015 and about what this expansion opportunity is going to mean for both the company and the county," stated David Sexton, Chairman of the Grayson County Board of Supervisors. "McAllister Mills is one of several thriving businesses that have called our county home for more than 30 years, and we are so pleased that they chose to stay and grow their operations here in our community."
"The Virginia Tobacco Commission is delighted to be a part of Grayson County's fifth qualified announcement in just nine months, and to work with one of the state's most resourceful economic development teams," said Senator Bill Carrico, member of the Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission. "McAllister Mills is an innovative company with an exciting growth opportunity, and we enthusiastically look forward to their continued contributions to Grayson County and the region."
"The Virginia Small Business Financing Authority (VSBFA) is proud to have been a key member of the Grayson County Economic Development team on this exciting project," stated Scott Parson, Executive Director of the Virginia Small Business Financing Authority. "Thanks to the creative, forward thinking of Grayson County and its County Administrator, Mr. Jonathan Sweet, the VSBFA was brought in to provide strategic debt financing to help McAllister Mills remain in Grayson, and preserve and create new jobs important to the continued vitality of this region."
"I'm very excited about the investment to be made by McAllister Mills in Grayson County," said Delegate Israel O'Quinn. "The company produces very innovative products, and it's great to have them bringing new jobs to our region. It is an honor to work with county and state leaders to make this project a reality."
Since the beginning of the McAuliffe administration, 337 economic development deals have been closed in Virginia with more than $6.19 billion in capital investment, more than twice the amount of capital investment brought to the Commonwealth in any Governor's first 14 months in office.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=7993
