Public Statements
Governor Announces Series of Cyber Security Town Hall Meetings
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Feb. 24, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that the Virginia Cyber Security Commission will host a series of five town hall meetings across the Commonwealth. The town halls are designed to both inform the public on the work of the Commission and also gather stakeholder input.
"The cyber security industry is a cornerstone of the new Virginia economy, and these town hall meetings are a great way for our commission members to hear concerns and suggestions from citizens, academia, and industry across the state," Governor McAuliffe said.
The initial meeting will be held today in Blacksburg, at the Inn at Virginia Tech and Skelton Conference Center from 1:30 -- 3:00 p.m. The town hall will feature keynote presentations by Randy Marchany, Virginia Tech's Chief Information Security Officer; J. C. Dodson, BAE Systems Global Chief Information Security Officer; and David Crisafi, Special Agent from the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Commission members Dodson, Jennifer Bisceglie and Commission Executive Director Rear Admiral Bob Day, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.) will conduct a panel to discuss Commission objectives and recent activities.
Additional meetings are as follows:
March 23, 2015 - New College, Martinsville
April 24, 2015 - James Madison University, Harrisonburg
May 19, 2015 - University of Virginia, Charlottesville
June 9, 2015 - Norfolk State University, Norfolk
Each meeting will feature keynote and panel presentations, as well as the opportunity for question-and-answer sessions with commission members. Town hall discussion will cover a variety of cyber security topics, including best practices, federal and state programs, cyber education, and cyber crime.
Additional details for the town hall events can be found at www.cyberva.virginia.gov.
The Commonwealth of Virginia Cyber Commission was created by Executive Order 8 in February 2014.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=7815
