Public Statements
Governor Urges Virginians to Sign Up for Health Insurance before the February 15 Deadline
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Feb. 6, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced Friday that 329,500 Virginians have signed up for health insurance or renewed their plans on the Federal Marketplace during the current enrollment, which ends February 15.
Governor McAuliffe visited the Hotchkiss Community Center in Richmond, which is hosting a two-day health event in which individuals can get free in-person application assistance to make sure they select the best insurance plan for themselves and their families.
"I'm here to remind Virginians who have not yet signed up that the deadline is nine days away," Governor McAuliffe said. "Eighty-three percent of Virginians who have purchased insurance on the Marketplace qualified for financial assistance. A key theme of my Healthy Virginia plan is this: We must reach Virginians who already qualify for low-cost health care, educate them about their choices and help them sign up."
Nationally, 7.5 million Americans have purchased insurance on the Marketplace, which was created by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
Virginia ranks sixth among states in the number of enrollees on the Marketplace.
"We know that 71 percent of uninsured Virginians live in households with one or more individuals working full- or part-time," said Dr. William Hazel, Secretary of Health and Human Resources. "Making sure our workers and families have access to quality health care is vital as Governor McAuliffe builds a new Virginia economy."
Governor McAuliffe secured a $9.3 million federal grant that helped put more than 100 additional application assisters in communities across the Commonwealth through partnerships with the Virginia Community Healthcare Association and Virginia Poverty Law Center. The Governor also obtained approval to use an existing $4.3 million federal grant to pay for a major media campaign that has included radio, TV, bus and digital ads.
Sign-up activity this year has exceeded the results during the initial enrollment period, when 216,000 Virginians participated.
The Richmond sign-up event is hosted by Celebrate Healthcare. The event offers application assistance, Spanish-language health counselors, flu shots and health screenings. It continues on Saturday from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m.
On February 14 and 15, the group has organized an enrollment event 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. at Hampton Roads Convention Center, 1610 Coliseum Dr. in Hampton.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=7666
