Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Virginia is First State in Nation to Become Employer of National Service
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Jan. 27, 2015
Location: Richmond, VA

Today Governor McAuliffe and First Lady Dorothy McAuliffe announced that the Commonwealth of Virginia is the first state in the nation to become an Employer of National Service, encouraging AmeriCorps and Peace Corps alumni to put their skills and experience to work for Virginia state government.
"To build the new Virginia economy and make this Commonwealth a world-class place to live, work, and raise a family, we need to attract the best and brightest people to work in state government," said Governor McAuliffe. "AmeriCorps and Peace Corps alumni have skills, dedication, a can-do attitude, and a commitment to the greater good -- and we want more of them to join our team."
"Pursuing a career in state government is a great way for alumni of national service programs to continue their work giving back to their communities and the nation," stated First Lady Dorothy McAuliffe. "I am proud that Virginia is a leader in encouraging these talented individuals to enter the state workforce pipeline."
Governor McAuliffe and the First Lady were joined for the announcement by Wendy Spencer, CEO of the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), the federal agency which administers AmeriCorps; top leaders from the Peace Corps; AmeriCorps and Peace Corps alumni, and a range of business, nonprofit, and community leaders from Virginia.
"I commend Governor McAuliffe for taking this impressive step to attract talented, experienced, and committed AmeriCorps and Peace Corps alumni to apply for jobs with the Commonwealth of Virginia," said Spencer. "As the first state in the nation to become an Employer of National Service, Virginia is making a smart move to attract motivated, flexible, innovative leaders who know how to get things done."
"The commitments made today by Governor McAuliffe and the Commonwealth of Virginia will bring driven, community-oriented employees to the state who have a passion for serving others," Peace Corps Director Carrie Hessler-Radelet said. "They join an honorable and growing group of employers across the country who recognize the immense value of having returned Peace Corps volunteers and AmeriCorps alumni on their team."
As part of the announcement, Governor McAuliffe encouraged state agencies to consider the benefit that AmeriCorps and Peace Corps alumni can bring to the state workforce. Chief of Staff Paul Reagan sent suggestions to state agency heads and human resource directors on ways to recruit AmeriCorps and Peace Corps alumni into state government, such as adding language to job postings and providing opportunities for job applicants to identify themselves as national service alumni.
In addition, the Virginia Department of Human Resource Management has updated the homepage of Virginia jobs website (jobs.virginia.gov) to include language encouraging AmeriCorps and Peace Corps alumni to continue their lifetime of service by exploring career opportunities with Virginia state government.
Employers of National Service was announced by President Obama at the White House in September 2014 as part of the 20th anniversary of AmeriCorps. The initiative builds a talent pipeline which connects AmeriCorps and Peace Corps alumni with leading employers from the private, public, and nonprofit sectors to create recruitment, hiring, and advancement opportunities. The Corporation for National and Community Service is leading this effort with Peace Corps, AmeriCorps Alums, and the Franklin Project.
Since its launch last fall, more than 150 companies, nonprofits, and public agencies have signed on as Employers of National Service including Disney, Comcast, CSX, Sodexho, Miami-Dade County Public Schools, and the cities of Philadelphia and Nashville, as well as several Virginia-based employers including United Way Worldwide, McChrystal Group, Homeward, and the National Science Foundation. In addition to being the first state and a charter member of Employers of National Service, Virginia is the largest public sector employer to have signed on to date.
In addition to announcing Virginia as the first state in the nation to become an Employer of National Service, Governor McAuliffe called on other Virginia employers to follow the state's lead and sign on. "All Virginia employers are looking for the best talent," said Governor McAuliffe. "I encourage Virginia companies and nonprofits to become Employers of National Service and tap the skills and experience of AmeriCorps and Peace Corps alumni."
Altogether, more than 1.1 million Americans have served in AmeriCorps and Peace Corps. Virginia is the eighth largest Peace Corps volunteer-producing state in the country with 260 residents currently serving in countries around the world. Since Peace Corps was created in 1961, 7,388 Virginia residents have served.
This year, more than 700 AmeriCorps members are serving in Virginia, providing intensive, results-driven service to meet education, environmental, health, economic, and other pressing needs. The Virginia Office on Volunteerism and Community Service, part of the Virginia Department of Social Services within the Health and Human Resources Secretariat, plays a key role in selecting and overseeing AmeriCorps programs in Virginia. Since 1994, more than 15,000 Virginia residents have served more than 23 million hours and have qualified for Segal AmeriCorps Education Awards totaling more than $47,760,000.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=7623
