Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe, Senator Ruff and Delegate Kilgore Introduce Tobacco Commission Enhancement Legislation
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Jan. 23, 2015
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced the introduction of legislation to enhance the efficiency and the effectiveness of the Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission (Commission). The legislation supports long-term financial sustainability of Commission resources and ensures Commission investments are dedicated to projects with the greatest capacity and likelihood to provide significant and impactful economic revitalization in the Tobacco Region.
The bipartisan legislation is sponsored by Commission Chairman Terry Kilgore (R-Gate City) and Commission Vice-Chairman Frank Ruff (R-Clarksville).
"The Commission has played a vital role in the economic recovery and redevelopment of the Tobacco Region and has proven to be an invaluable partner in our efforts to bring new jobs to this economically challenged part of the Commonwealth," said Governor McAuliffe. "To build the new Virginia economy and revitalize communities like those in the Tobacco Region, we must maximize all of our existing assets and ensure the greatest return on our investments. This bipartisan legislation enhances the capacity of the Commission to make strategic investments in pursuit of its revitalization goals. I want to thank the Commission's leadership -- Delegate Kilgore and Senator Ruff - for working closely with our Administration on this effort."
"The Commission is a critical economic driver in the Tobacco Region and Southwest Virginia, and I am committed to making certain it remains a positive force in the region for many years to come," said Delegate Kilgore. "This legislation will build on the Commission's successes and strengthen its ability to create jobs and provide economic opportunity for the people of Southwest Virginia today and in the future. I look forward to working with Governor McAuliffe, my fellow Commission members and colleagues in the General Assembly to enact this bipartisan legislation this session."
"The Tobacco Region as a whole, and especially Southern Virginia, faces more significant economic, educational, healthcare and workforce challenges than any other part of the Commonwealth," said Senator Ruff. "The Commission has made substantial positive investments to address these challenges, and this legislation will help us in our efforts to diversify the economy and position the region for economic growth. The additional financial and administrative tools included in this legislation are important next steps to revitalize the Tobacco Region and Southern Virginia. I appreciate Governor McAuliffe's support of these efforts and his commitment to economic development in all parts of Virginia."

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=7612
