Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Premiere of Point of Honor Pilot on Amazon.com
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Jan. 15, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced the premiere of the pilot episode of Point of Honor on Amazon.com. The series, filmed entirely in Virginia, follows a Virginia family and its courageous struggles during the Civil War, and is available today for streaming in the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany.
Point of Honor is a co-production between Amazon and ABC Signature Studios. If the series is picked up, future episodes would be streamed as part of the Amazon Prime service which provides original content to its members. The number of viewers and their comments about the pilot episode will be instrumental in determining whether Point of Honor will continue as a series. With enough interest, the production will continue filming in Virginia, contributing an estimated $50 million annually to the Commonwealth's economy.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "I would like to encourage all Virginians to support Point of Honor, an important film project that could contribute millions to the Commonwealth. By watching the pilot of this series, Virginians voice their support for a critical opportunity to provide good-paying jobs to our citizens, bringing more revenue to the Commonwealth and helping to build a new Virginia economy."
"With enough viewer support, Point of Honor will return production to Virginia," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones. "Virginia's film industry is $382.5 million strong, providing $19.4 million in state and local tax revenue for the Commonwealth and more than 2,000 full time jobs. We want to keep productions like this here in Virginia in order to keep the industry going strong."
Viewers can go to www.virginia.org/pointofhonor to view the pilot episode and find more information about the series filming in Virginia.
About Point of Honor
Point of Honor follows a fictional Virginia family who experiences divided loyalties and finds its strength, courage, and love tested as a result. It stars Nathan Parsons (True Blood) as a West Point graduate and Christopher O'Shea (Baby Daddy) as his best friend and brother-in-law. The show was co-written by Carlton Cuse, who is also Executive Producer. Cuse previously served as a writer for LOST, and has won an Emmy, a Golden Globe, a Producer's Guild Award and a Writer's Guild Award. Barry Jossen is also Executive Producer for Point of Honor and an Academy Award winner for his Live Action Short Dear Diary.
Director, Co-Writer and Executive Producer Randall Wallace is from Virginia. He graduated from E.C. Glass High School in Lynchburg and went on to direct the 2010 film Secretariat about Virginia's legendary triple-crown winning thoroughbred. Wallace is also noted for his screenplay work for Braveheart. He most recently wrote and directed the film Heaven is for Real.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=7577
