Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Selected to Head Chesapeake Bay Program Executive Council
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Dec. 11, 2014
Location: Annapolis, MD

Governor Terry McAuliffe will assume the chairmanship of the Chesapeake Executive Council beginning January 1, 2015. The council is the governing body for the multi-state and federal partnership known as the Chesapeake Bay Program and is responsible for leading the Chesapeake Bay restoration efforts, most recently detailed in the 2014 Chesapeake Bay Watershed Agreement. The council is comprised of the Governors of Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Delaware, New York, and West Virginia, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Chairman of the Chesapeake Bay Commission.
"I am humbled that my colleagues on the Chesapeake Executive Council have selected me to lead our collective efforts at this critical time in the restoration of the Chesapeake Bay," said Governor McAuliffe. Not only are we engaged in the implementation of the recently signed Chesapeake Bay Watershed Agreement, but we are continuing the difficult work of meeting our water quality goals under the framework of the Chesapeake Bay Total Maximum Daily Load. The Chesapeake Bay is a national treasure and an enormous economic asset for Virginia and our neighboring states. I look forward to working with my counterparts in this region to restore and protect the Bay for generations to come."
Governor McAuliffe succeeds Governor Martin O'Malley who is ending his second term as the Governor of Maryland.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor O'Malley said, "The Bay has been at the top of my agenda during my two terms as Governor and I have been honored to have served as chair three times during my tenure. I know Governor McAuliffe will provide the leadership necessary to meet our collective goals, and I wish him along with the other members of the Council well."

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=7464
