Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 25 New Jobs in Warren County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Dec. 3, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Canada-based Nature's Touch Frozen Foods will invest $1.8 million to establish its first Virginia operation in Warren County. The company, which established its first U.S. entity in Vermont in 2009, imports the highest quality of fruits and vegetables and assembles and distributes them across the U.S. The project will create 25 new jobs.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "Attracting new businesses to Virginia is essential to building a new Virginia economy, and we are thrilled to add Nature's Touch Frozen Foods to the roster of more than 750 internationally-based companies that call the Commonwealth home. With close proximity to the Virginia Inland Port, Warren County offers ideal logistics to this company expanding its footprint in the U.S. market and distributing its project across the nation. Global companies continue to choose Virginia for our world-class business environment, high-quality workforce and transportation infrastructure, and we will continue to leverage our outstanding assets."
"Today we welcome another international company to Virginia," said Maurice Jones, Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade. "Nature's Touch Frozen Foods is a well-established, growing company that will continue to expand in the U.S. in order to serve increasing demand for its high-quality product in the marketplace. We look forward to the company's success in Warren County."
Nature's Touch was founded in 2004 with a vision to change the way consumers looked at frozen fruit. The company packed its first order from a small rented room in a warehouse in 2005, and, in less than 10 years, has won the private label frozen fruit accounts of all major grocery chains in Canada. The goal of Nature's Touch is to provide the highest quality frozen fruit and vegetables at a competitive price and give consumers a consistent quality experience.
"The choice of Virginia was made easy for Nature's Touch Frozen Foods," said Theo Prokos, Director, Nature's Touch Frozen Foods. "The welcome and cooperation of the Virginia Economic Development Partnership to identify potential locations and promote the benefits of Virginia, coupled with the efforts of Front Royal and the Warren County Economic Development Authority, helped us find Interchange Port Services. The combination of close proximity to a sea port and easy access to major highways was tough to beat. In our case, the state authorities ensured that Virginia was the Best State for Business."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Warren County, the Warren County Economic Development Authority (EDA), and the Interchange of Front Royal to secure the project for Virginia. The company is eligible to participate in the Virginia Enterprise Zone Program, administered by the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"The EDA is pleased to have Nature's Touch become part of our business community," said Patricia S. Wines, Warren County EDA Chairman. "We value each business that chooses Warren County as their place of business as we know they have many options to choose from, and we look forward to their success in our community."
Since the beginning of the McAuliffe Administration, 229 economic development deals have been closed in Virginia with over $5.05 billion in capital investment, over twice the amount of capital investment brought to the Commonwealth in any Governor's first ten months in office.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=7381
