Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces New Cybersecurity Partnership with Government of Victoria, Australia
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Nov. 21, 2016
Location: Melbourne, Australia

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the Government of Victoria, Australia and the Virginia Economic Development Partnership (VEDP) for comprehensive collaboration on cybersecurity-oriented opportunities.
This MOU allows the Government of Victoria and Virginia to collaborate and promote sharing of best practices related to growing a skilled global workforce; promoting entrepreneurship; enabling innovation through research and development and the generation of a pipeline of future technologies; and enhancing cybersecurity policy. The MOU also facilitates the sharing of in-market investment and trade resources pertaining to the cybersecurity sector.
"Virginia is a recognized global leader in cybersecurity and offers top-notch educational programs that provide a pipeline of highly trained, industry-ready cyber workers," said Governor McAuliffe. "Victoria boasts similar cybersecurity assets and this MOU will allow us to share and promote cybersecurity practices that will generate new opportunities for future jobs and investment in Virginia. I commend the Government of Victoria and VEDP for their hard work in forming this excellent partnership, and we will continue to seek new, innovative international partnerships to build and diversify the new Virginia economy."
"We're getting behind Victoria's cybersecurity industry to put people first, put high skilled Victorians to work and boost our economy," added Premier of Victoria Daniel Andrews. "Our cyber security industry is growing at a phenomenal rate, with our companies outnumbering every other state -- and partnering with another world leader will be invaluable to the local industry."
Governor McAuliffe and Premier Andrews signed the MOU during a meeting in Melbourne. The Governor is leading a 10-day trade and marketing mission to the Pacific Rim, visiting Japan, South Korea, Singapore and Australia to encourage new investment in the Commonwealth and promote Virginia's exports.
"Building strong, collaborative relationships is paramount to building a vibrant cybersecurity ecosystem" added Secretary of Technology Karen Jackson. "This MOU offers both Victoria and the Commonwealth the opportunity to strengthen our existing cybersecurity portfolios and the ability to exploit our collective assets to create competitive advantages in emerging cybersecurity markets."
"Virginia is committed to building on its success in the cybersecurity industry, and this important collaboration with Victoria, Australia will further strengthen the Commonwealth's leading position," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Todd Haymore. "In an ever-changing sector, it is vital to promote entrepreneurship and stay on the forefront of new technologies. We are confident that this partnership will be mutually beneficial to Virginia and Victoria as we work to grow a global workforce with skills of the 21st century and beyond."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership, a marketing organization, was created by the Virginia General Assembly in 1995 to encourage, stimulate, and support the development and expansion of the economy of the Commonwealth. To accomplish its objectives of promoting economic expansion within the Commonwealth, the Partnership focuses its efforts on business recruitment, expansion and international trade. VEDP has offices in Virginia, China, Japan, India, South Korea and the United Kingdom, focused on promoting foreign direct investments into the Commonwealth. In addition, VEDP has trade consultants in 75 international markets, promoting the export of Virginia's goods and services worldwide.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=18349
