Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Creates Contingency Fund for Virginia Ebola Response
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Nov. 10, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that he has created a contingency fund of up to $2 million to help address specific public health and safety risks associated with the exposure to or threat of exposure to Ebola.
"There have been no confirmed cases of Ebola in Virginia, but my administration continues to prepare so that we can respond quickly to this public health threat if it reaches our state," said Governor McAuliffe. "This $2 million contingency fund will help state and local agencies cover costs in the event of a confirmed case, and allow responders to focus more on protecting Virginia families than on covering costs in the event of an emergency."
The Governor is using the authority given to him in the Appropriation Act to grant supplemental funding for state agencies where a delay in action will produce a threat to life, safety, health or property. (Section 4-3.01 a.2.c. of Chapter 2 of the 2014 Special Session 1).
These funds will be used to reimburse state agencies for extraordinary expenditures related to specific incidents and actions taken by agencies related to exposure to Ebola, and/or the threat of the spread of Ebola into the general population. This includes, but is not limited to, expenses associated with monitoring citizens exposed to Ebola, direct patient care, and transportation. This funding is not intended to reimburse agencies for routine or ongoing program expenses associated with the agency mission. These funds will not be used to supplant other eligible sources of fund including federal or private insurance funds.
Approval of requests for reimbursement of expenditures from this funding will undergo several levels of review by the responsible cabinet secretary and the Department of Planning and Budget to verify costs and justification. Final approval of disbursements will be made by the Governor on a case by case basis.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=7214
