Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Accepts 127 Acres of Hallowed Ground from Civil War Trust
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Oct. 31, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe presided over a ceremony at Sailor's Creek Battlefield, formally announcing and accepting the transfer of 127 acres of hallowed ground to the Commonwealth at Sailor's Creek Battlefield Historical State Park, located in Amelia and Prince Edward Counties, and High Bridge Trail State Park in Prince Edward County.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "Through concerted efforts to preserve the Commonwealth's battlefields and other historic treasures, this administration and its partners are creating a lasting legacy for present and future Virginians. We will continue to work with nonprofit groups like the Civil War Trust to proactively preserve these irreplaceable resources, as we have done at Sailor's Creek and High Bridge."
Molly Ward, Secretary of Natural Resources, and Mike Grainger, Chairman of the Board of the Civil War Trust joined McAuliffe at the new conference. According to Grainger, "The Civil War Trust and Virginia have a long history of cooperation to ensure the state's Civil War battlefields are protected, interpreted, and open for the public to enjoy. We are pleased to transfer these acres to the care of the state park system. It is our firm belief that Virginia is the best possible steward of these hallowed grounds."
In her remarks, Secretary Ward called the Commonwealth's participation in the project a fitting example of the Old Dominion's ongoing commitment to safeguarding her plentiful historic and natural resources. "Virginia is home to some of the most stirring places in America, including some of the nation's significant Civil War battlefields. The Virginia State Park System is honored to be entrusted with the care of these newly acquired properties at Sailor's Creek and High Bridge."
The Commonwealth of Virginia and the Civil War Trust have been working together to protect hallowed ground at Sailor's Creek Battlefield since 1996. Due to this collaborative effort, 885 acres at Sailor's Creek Historic Battlefield and 175 acres at High Bridge Trail have been protected.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=7070
