Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 51 New Jobs in Carroll County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Oct. 21, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Andrews Farming Inc. and its sister company, ANDCO Logistics, Inc., will invest more than $5.6 million to expand their agricultural production, warehousing and distribution operation in Carroll County. Virginia successfully competed against North Carolina for the project, which will create 51 new jobs paying above the average prevailing wage.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "Andrews Farming is a homegrown, family-operated company that was established in 1975 by Mr. Keith Andrews, who operated out of an old International pickup. From that point, the business has grown in Southwest Virginia for the past 40 years to serve a multi-state market. Carroll County offers Andrews Farming and ANDCO Logistics a strong grouping of agricultural entities that can work together to grow this important sector in the region. The available facility in the Carroll County Industrial Park and close proximity to the Southwest Virginia Farmers' Market, along with a deep-rooted history in agriculture, makes Carroll County an ideal location for the corporate move. Virginia's agriculture industry has a tremendous economic impact, and Andrews Farming is an important contributor. ANDCO Logistics will handle long-haul shipping of agricultural products, and we look forward to the far-reaching benefits of this expanded operation in Carroll County."
"It is always cause for celebration when a strong, established Virginia company chooses to expand within the Commonwealth," said Maurice Jones, Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade and member of the Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission. "Carroll County is a great fit for Andrews Farming and ANDCO Logistics, offering an agricultural industry cluster and the natural resources and infrastructure on which Andrews Farming has come to depend over the last decades. The new facility will also allow the company to meet increased production demand and provide fresh produce to its customers up and down the East Coast, simultaneously benefitting local farmers in Southwest Virginia."
Andrews Farming's team has been built around three principles--honesty, quality and dedication. Every member of management and employees strive to make sure the best product possible is shipped daily. These principles were the seeds planted by Keith Andrews' grandfather, Mr. Bob Branscome, who farmed and sold produce for a living since 1914. The principles instilled in Keith by his grandfather are still present in the ongoing growth of Andrews Farming, and will be the cornerstone of ANDCO Logistics.
"Andrews Farming and ANDCO Logistics appreciate what Carroll County has done to land our operation. The Tobacco Commission, Carroll County Industrial Development Authority, the aCorridor, Virginia Jobs Investment Program, and the Virginia Economic Development Partnership have stepped up to the plate and assisted in overcoming obstacles at every turn," said Mr. Keith Andrews, President/ CEO of both Andrews Farming Inc. and its sister company, ANDCO Logistics, Inc. "Carroll County is investing in the agricultural industry as a community, and we see this non-traditional philosophy as a major magnet for us and other food-related operations in the future. It is extremely impressive to know that Carroll County has the first STEM Lab dedicated to agriculture in the nation, and, in reality, this investment provided the tipping point for us to grow our business in Carroll County, along with access to I-77, the Southwest Virginia Farmers Market and proximity to the new Wildwood Commerce Park."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Carroll County, the Carroll County Industrial Development Authority, and Virginia's aCorridor to help secure the project for Virginia. The Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission approved $225,000 in Tobacco Region Opportunity Funds for the project. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
David Hutchins, Chairman of the Carroll County Board of Supervisors, said, "We are elated to have Andrews Farming and ANDCO join in a partnership with Carroll County to grow our economy. The new operation in Carroll County will add to our current agriculture sector focus and assist in many untold ways. This is also a day of celebration because the Carroll County Industrial Park and Exit 14 quadrant is now 100% full. Today is a monumental day in Carroll County as we move our full focus toward the Wildwood Commerce Park."
Barry Hicks, Chairman of the Carroll County Industrial Development Authority (IDA), said, "The announcement today is a wonderful example of Carroll County investing in the strong sector of agriculture and having an almost immediate return on the investment. The STEM Lab for Agriculture is assisting in gaining jobs today while preparing students for the workforce needs of the future. It is great to see the school system providing a direct connection to economic development and the attraction of business to Carroll County. We are certainly blessed today with these announcements as we see the economic skies opening up in Carroll because of the dedicated work of many individuals, groups and organizations."

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=6934
