Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 150 New Jobs in City of Virginia Beach
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Oct. 21, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that DOMA Technologies, LLC, a Virginia Beach-based company that specializes in cloud-based data and document management, plans to create 150 new jobs and lease an additional 15,000 square feet of office space. The expansion will support the company's recent $50 million four-year contract from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to help improve timeliness for the processing of claims for disability benefits. The additional office space will be adjacent to DOMA Technologies' corporate headquarters location at 2875 Sabre Street, where it currently occupies 21,200 square feet.
DOMA's Electronic Knowledge Data Management platform will serve as the Private Medical Record Portal, providing all workflow functionality and secure record storage necessary to request, receive, process and transmit medical records to the Veterans Benefits Administration. Claims support representatives in DOMA's Virginia Beach offices will work with 54 regional Veteran's Affairs Regional offices, healthcare providers and third-party organizations from across the country in processing up to 32,500 requests per month.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "The efficient benefits processing services that DOMA Technologies will provide to our veterans and their families is truly invaluable. Virginia has the highest number of veterans per capita in the entire United States, and it continues to grow. Each year thousands of veterans go without adequate mental and physical healthcare, and disability benefits are critical to their wellbeing. I applaud this Virginia-based, veteran-owned company on its proactive approach to be part of the solution. It is a priority for my Administration to secure employment for our veterans and ensure that healthcare is available. I am working to build a New Virginia Economy, and I am proud that DOMA Technologies' expansion and addition of 150 new jobs to service this important contract are part of this movement."
"I have the distinct honor of leading the Governor's New Virginia Economy Workforce Initiative, and one of our priorities is to position Virginia as the most veteran and military friendly state in the Union," said Maurice Jones, Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade. "Around one in ten Virginians is a veteran, and DOMA Technologies' new contract and subsequent expansion will allow Virginia's veterans to get the benefits they deserve in a timely manner. We are proud to boast this small, women- and minority-owned business on our corporate roster, and commend the company and Virginia Beach on this important win."
DOMA Technologies, LLC was founded in 2000 and is a certified small, women- and minority-owned (SWaM) business.
"As a veteran-owned company, we are keenly aware of how this program will positively impact the claims process and overall quality of life of this nation's veterans and their families," said Pat Feliciano, president and co-founder of DOMA Technologies. "The DOMA team is committed to serving our veterans and beneficiaries with the highest level of quality and customer care."
The VirginiaBeach Department of Economic Development worked with the Virginia Beach Development Authority to secure the project for Virginia. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Economic Development Partnership's Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"I'd like to congratulate Pat Feliciano and his team for their leadership and capabilities in securing this important contract with the Department of Veterans Affairs," said Virginia Beach Mayor William D. Sessoms, Jr. "We are confident that, with the quality workforce available in Virginia Beach, DOMA Technologies will be extremely successful as it seeks to fill these 150 new permanent positions and provide a valuable service to an important segment of our population."

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=6933
