Public Statements
Governor Terry McAuliffe, First Lady Dorothy McAuliffe And Fitness Icon Jake Steinfeld Team Up To Celebrate A Future of Fitness For Three Virginia Schools
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Oct. 17, 2014
Location: Unknown

Fitness took center stage today as Governor Terry McAuliffe, First Lady Dorothy McAuliffe, Jake Steinfeld, Chairman of the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils, and students from Hungtington Middle School cut the ribbon on their brand new state-of-the-art Live Positively Fitness Center. Huntington Middle, Chesterfield Academy, and Fairfield Middle School were three schools awarded new fitness centers for demonstrating innovative ways in promoting physical activity and wellness to their students.
"Building a new Virginia economy where all children have the opportunity to succeed starts with healthy and productive livelihoods, both at home and at school," said Governor McAuliffe. "I was proud that Virginia partnered with Jake Steinfeld to bring the National Champion Schools campaign to the Commonwealth and provide three schools with brand new fitness centers. I look forward to working with these schools and with schools across the state to promote health and wellness for all Virginia children."
"I'm fired up to be in Virginia today to cut the ribbon on their brand new Live Positively Fitness Center. Governor McAuliffe and the First Lady immediately jumped on board and embraced our vision of building a nation with the fittest kids in the world - one school at a time. They recognize how important healthy kids are to the future of this great state!" said Steinfeld. "Today's leaders -- whether in schools like Huntington Middle, Chesterfield Academy or Fairfield Middle or companies like Coca-Cola and AOL -- understand the value of bringing innovative fitness ideas to students. This new fitness center will provide generations of students with the necessary tools to make physical fitness activities part their daily routine."
The National Foundation's goal is to build a nation of the fittest, healthiest kids in the world. Physical activity and exercise are shown to help prevent and treat more than 40 chronic diseases, enhance individual health and quality of life and reduce health care costs. In schools, studies show that physical activity improves academic achievement, increases confidence and self-esteem, reduces discipline problems, cuts absenteeism and fosters better interpersonal relationships.
"I am so happy that Virginia was able to partner with The National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils to provide these schools with tools and resources to enable Virginia children to lead healthy, productive lives," said First Lady Dorothy McAuliffe. "A thriving economy starts with thriving students, and physical fitness and access to nutrition play a major role in that success. Through this partnership, Virginia is building a foundation for students to excel, both at school and in their future careers."
The National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils program plans to bring its challenge to all 50 states in the coming years. An attractive and unique feature of this campaign is that the Live Positively Fitness Centers are fully funded through public/private partnerships with companies like Coca-Cola and AOL and does not rely on taxpayer dollars or state funding. Live Positively is part of Coca-Cola's commitment to bring people together to make a positive difference, which includes supporting physical activity programs.
For more information about the National Foundation, visit www.natgovfit.org.
About the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils
The National Foundation seeks to encourage and reward innovation in the field of youth fitness by awarding fitness centers to schools that use new and unique methods to promote student physical activity and wellness. The National Foundation envisions a fitness center in every school in the U.S., helping to build a nation that--through innovation and a "Don't Quit" attitude--boasts the fittest kids in the world. Since 2012, we've delivered fitness centers in Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Washington, DC, Georgia, New Jersey, Delaware, and West Virginia. In 2014, NFGFC will deliver new fitness centers to California, New Mexico, Connecticut and Virginia.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=6886
