Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Formally Unveils 2014 Virginia Energy Plan
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Oct. 14, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe today formally unveiled the 2014 Virginia Energy Plan at an event co-sponsored by the Virginia Chamber of Commerce and the Virginia League of Conservation Voters. The Governor laid out his strategic vision for energy policy in Virginia in front of a mixture of members of the business and conservation communities.
The Governor's energy plan highlights his commitment to a true "all of the above" energy strategy that will promote the use and development of all available resources.
In his remarks, Governor McAuliffe said, "If we are going to build the economy Virginia families deserve, we must begin by giving them the energy plan our economy demands. The plan we are rolling out today is focused on growing our energy economy (particularly in the renewable sector), emphasizing energy conservation, strengthening our energy infrastructure and training the workforce we need for the future.
"By working together, I am confident that four years from now we will live in a stronger Commonwealth that is less dependent on external forces and is fueled by cleaner, cheaper and more abundant Virginia energy."
Barry DuVal, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Virginia Chamber of Commerce, and event co-host stated, "We commend Governor McAuliffe's commitment to an all-of-the above strategy for energy and look forward to working with his administration on strengthening Virginia's energy infrastructure and growing this important sector of our economy."
Michael Town, Executive Director of the Virginia League of Conservation Voters, and also a co-host, added, "Governor McAuliffe campaigned on clean energy job creation. The good news is that his Energy Plan recognizes that smart pollution cuts can mean a business opportunity to create clean energy jobs and save consumers and businesses money. Neighboring states have created 290,000 clean energy jobs in recent years while Virginia stood still. He has an opportunity to change that with his response to the Clean Power Plan standards."
Key highlights of the Energy Plan include:
-Strategically grow the energy sector by promoting increased development of renewable generation and supporting innovation in nuclear technology.
-Reduce energy consumption by aggressively pursuing energy efficiency measures in government, businesses and residences.
-Invest in reliable and resilient energy infrastructure to strengthen Virginia's already strong business climate.
-Prepare Virginia's workforce to drive the future energy economy.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=6839
