Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe and Steve Forbes Host Celebration of the Release of Virginia Section in 2014 Forbes 400 Magazine Issue
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Oct. 8, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced this week the release of a Virginia advertising section that appears in the 2014 Forbes 400 magazine issue. The Governor and Mr. Steve Forbes, Chairman and Editor-in-Chief of Forbes Media, hosted an event in New York City to celebrate the advertising section and Virginia's continued recognition by Forbes.com as a Best State for Business. More than 150 New York-area businessmen and women attended the reception at The Forbes Galleries in New York City.
Speaking about the announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "It was my distinct honor to co-host a reception with Steve Forbes to celebrate Virginia's continued recognition as a top state for business, and the release of a special Virginia section in Forbes magazine's annual Forbes 400 issue. The Commonwealth's relationship with Forbes Media is long-standing and valuable, and it is gratifying that Virginia's outstanding business climate is consistently recognized by an objective third party. We look forward to sharing Virginia's strong business story with an international audience in the special section, and, as we advance our plan for a new Virginia economy, we are confident that the Commonwealth will maintain a leadership position in the coming years."
"The Governor's reception with Steve Forbes was a tremendous occasion to really demonstrate to all of the businessmen and women in attendance why Virginia is a great place to do business," said Maurice Jones, Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade. "Forbes Mediareaches the world's most powerful people, and we look forward to the Virginia section targeting this audience to promote our business costs, labor supply, regulatory climate, economic climate, quality of life, and economic growth prospects."
Steve Forbes addressed the audience, touting Virginia's excellent business environment and assets, and the Governor's ability to aggressively promote economic development in the Commonwealth.
"Virginia has many attributes that make it attractive to business, and it is my pleasure to showcase this leading state within the pages of the Forbes 400 issue. Virginia's profit-friendly environmment and economic development program are models for success," said Forbes. He went on to add, "Governor Terry McAuliffe is the Derek Jeter of economic development."
Forbes Media is a media, branding and technology company that today reaches approximately 75 million people worldwide with its business message through print, digital, TV, conferences, research, social and mobile each month. Publications include Forbes magazine, a leading business magazine with a circulation of more than 900,000 in the U.S. Other publications include Forbes Asia, Forbes Europe, ForbesLife, a luxury lifestyle publication, and Forbes licensee editions published in over 30 countries. Forbes.com, launched in 1996, reaches almost 60 million unique visitors (according to Google Analytics). The company's growth has also been fueled by new brand extensions, including conferences, real estate, education, financial services and technology agreements.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=6797
