Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Declares October as TechTober
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Sept. 30, 2014
Location: Unknown

In an effort to highlight Virginia's technological innovation and raise awareness about high performing industries, Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe today declared October to be TechTober, a statewide celebration of Virginia's high-tech sector.
"The tech sectors will play a significant role in building a new Virginia economy centered on innovation and entrepreneurship," said Governor McAuliffe. "We need to do everything we can to retain, recruit and grow these industries to ensure that Virginia continues to be a leader in the global economy. This starts with equipping Virginia's students and workforce with the skills and resources they need to succeed in these rapidly expanding sectors."
TechTober activities will focus on new and emerging industries in the Commonwealth, including information science, biotechnology, cyber security, advanced materials, aerospace, advanced manufacturing, energy, health and environmental technologies.
Virginia has the highest concentration of high tech jobs per capita in the nation. With TechTober, Governor McAuliffe and his administration aim to leverage that strength by hosting informational, hands-on events, highlighting tech activities happening during TechTober, and launching a new mentor program for students.
The Governor also announced the launch of "Mentors for Momentum," a new program designed to connect businesses, organizations, educators and other professionals with students interested in studying and experiencing technology. These mentors will help inspire students by sharing job experiences, providing internships and supporting school, college and university activities.
To sign up for the Mentors for Momentum program or to view TechTober events, please visit Secretary of Technology Karen Jackson's homepage: www.technology.virginia.gov.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=6667
