Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces $756 Million Project to Expand Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Nov. 15, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that financing is complete to build an additional two-lane tunnel under the Thimble Shoal Channel, west of the existing Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel (CBBT). The Chesapeake Bay Bridge and Tunnel Commission will finance the $756 million project primarily through federal and state bonds.
"This new tunnel will expand capacity and improve safety for travelers who use the CBBT, as well as protect the economic competitiveness and quality of life of the Hampton Roads region," said Governor McAuliffe. "The CBBT is the only direct link between Hampton Roads and Virginia's Eastern Shore, making this facility a vital and convenient connection, supporting commerce in the region. I am proud to announce this expansion as part of our administration's ongoing commitment to reducing congestion and spurring economic growth through smart transportation planning."
The Parallel Thimble Shoal Tunnel Design-Build project was awarded in July by the Chesapeake Bay Bridge and Tunnel Commission to Chesapeake Tunnel Joint Venture, comprised of Dragados USA and Schiavone Construction, LLC. Construction is expected to begin October of next year.
The Chesapeake Bay Bridge and Tunnel Commission has financed the project through the following:
$338.5 million federal bond - Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) Program provides credit assistance for qualified projects of regional and national significance, such as the Parallel Thimble Shoal Tunnel Project.
$50 million state bond - The Virginia Transportation Infrastructure Bank offers low-interest loans and grants to localities, transportation authorities and private-sector partners for transportation projects and provides an alternative source of financing for transportation needs in the commonwealth.
$321.5 million Revenue Bond Issue
Remaining funds for the project come from the Chesapeake Bay Bridge and Tunnel District's General Fund.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=18324
