Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Awards $6 Million in School Security Equipment Grants
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Sept. 25, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe today awarded $6 million in School Security Equipment Grants to protect students and teachers in 100 school divisions and six regional educational programs. The grants will pay for video monitoring systems, metal detectors, classroom locks, electronic-access controls, visitor-identification systems, direct communications links between schools and law enforcement agencies, and other security upgrades in 373 schools and other buildings.
The criteria for making the awards -- developed by the Virginia Department of Education and the state Department of Criminal Justice Services -- gave priority to schools most in need of modern security equipment, schools with relatively high numbers of offenses, and schools with equipment needs identified by a school security audit.
"Investing in security improvement that will protect our children while they are in school is critical towards building a new Virginia economy where students can learn and succeed," said Governor McAuliffe. "These grants will result in safer environments for teaching and learning for thousands of students and educators."
The divisions and regional educational programs awarded grants, as well as the 373 schools and other buildings that will receive needed security upgrades are as follows:
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
"Schools today must plan for a wide range of scenarios, including armed intruders, natural disasters and the accidents that inevitably occur in even the safest schools," Superintendent of Public Instruction Steven R. Staples said. "The enhancements and systems supported by this grant program will help our schools meet this challenge and will result in safer environments for students and staff."
The School Security Equipment Grant program was established by the 2013 General Assembly in the aftermath of the December 14, 2012, mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary in Newtown, Connecticut.
The 2013 legislature directed the Virginia Public School Authority to issue bonds to fund $6 million in competitive grants statewide in both the 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 school years for the purchase and installation of school security equipment. The 2014 General Assembly subsequently authorized an additional $6 million grant competition in 2015-2016.
The first round of grants announced in September 2013 helped pay for new security systems and upgrades in 456 schools and other educational facilities.
School divisions and regional educational programs were invited in June to apply for the second round of grants. The largest grant a school division may receive under the program is $100,000 and a local match of 25 percent is required of most divisions.
To encourage the installation of equipment and systems during the summer months and to expedite the spend-down of the grant funds, school divisions and regional programs were allowed to apply for grants to reimburse eligible expenditures incurred on or after May 22, 2014.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=6592
