Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Commission to Ensure Integrity and Public Confidence in State Government
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Sept. 25, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today signed Executive Order 28 establishing the Commission to Ensure Integrity and Public Confidence in State Government. The executive order identifies the broad priorities of the Governor in his pursuit of a better state government, including meaningful rules for the ethical conduct of state officials, procedures for ensuring accountability to the electorate, and policies guiding the selection and service of high quality public servants.
The order asks the new 10-member commission to provide the Governor with recommendations in December 2014 on ethics laws and policies with the goal of pursuing legislation during the Virginia General Assembly's 2015 session. The commission will continue to meet in 2015 in order to study and make recommendations on other good government topics, including campaign finance, the selection and service of judges and other public officials, and gubernatorial terms.
"I am creating this commission because it is imperative that we foster a culture of professionalism in state government that attracts future leaders of the highest caliber," Governor McAuliffe said during his announcement at the state Capitol. "I want to guarantee superior service to the next generation of Virginians. And I want to establish an enduring culture of integrity on which this state can prosper. These are not merely my values. They are the essential covenant of democracy."
The appointees were selected based on their knowledge of government operations and the history of the issues they will examine.
"They are bipartisan and represent a cross section of political philosophies," Governor McAuliffe said. "They are pragmatists and problem-solvers. Most important, they are individuals with the highest credibility and integrity."
Former U.S. Representative Rick Boucher and former Lieutenant Governor Bill Bolling have agreed to serve as co-chairmen of the commission.
"I'm honored that the Governor has asked me to join with my friend, former Lt. Gov. Bill Bolling, and other members of the commission in recommending a set of reforms for Virginia's ethics laws," Boucher said. "I'm impressed with the quality of the other members of the commission, who are distinguished and widely respected on a bipartisan basis. Our goal will be to draft a set of legislative recommendations that will enjoy the bipartisan support of members of the commission and are broadly reflective of the public's view that strengthening of Virginia's laws governing official ethics is necessary. I very much look forward to the work we have before us."
"It is my great pleasure to serve with my esteemed co-chairman, former Congressman Boucher, and the other members of the commission," said Bolling. "I have long been a believer in meaningful laws regarding gifts to public officials and stronger enforcement of disclosure rules. We must take direct and immediate action to ensure public confidence, but we must also be orderly and deliberative in our pursuit of real, consequential reforms. I believe the goals established for this commission are shared by all mainstream Virginians. Working together, we will develop recommendations that I am convinced will attract bipartisan support."

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=6594
