Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Matching Tourism Grants
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Sept. 18, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that more than $852,000 in matching grant funds will be awarded to 46 local tourism initiatives as part of Virginia Tourism Corporation's (VTC) Marketing Leverage Program. The grants are designed to help local and regional tourism entities attract more visitors by leveraging local marketing dollars, and will ultimately impact at least 195 other statewide tourism entities. The local organizations match the state grant funds by a minimum of 2:1 in order to support marketing projects. This funding cycle, the local partners will match the VTC grant dollars with more than $2.1 million, providing more than $3 million in new marketing to increase visitation to Virginia.
"These grants equip local tourism businesses with the tools they need to stay competitive," said Governor McAuliffe. "The Marketing Leverage Program grants help support and grow a robust and diversified new Virginia economy and encourage strategic marketing of tourism products and businesses across the Commonwealth, generating revenue and jobs."
Tourism is an instant revenue generator for Virginia. In 2013, tourism generated $21.5 billion in revenue, supported 213,000 jobs and provided $1.42 billion in state and local taxes. Dollars invested in tourism are proven to provide a 5:1 return in tax revenue for Virginia, and the grant awards and matching funds provide a stimulus to localities seeking to increase tourism visitation and revenue.
VTC's Marketing Leverage Program is designed to increase visitor spending by leveraging limited marketing dollars, stimulating new tourism marketing through partnerships, and extending the "Virginia is for Lovers" brand. A minimum of three Virginia entities must partner financially to apply for a grant. Partners may consist of Virginia cities, towns, counties, convention and visitors bureaus, chambers of commerce, other local or regional destination marketing organizations, private businesses, museums, attractions, cultural events, and other not-for-profit entities. In total, VTC awards approximately $1.7 million annually - matched and leveraged on average 3:1 by partner dollars.
"The grants are supporting businesses across the Commonwealth, contributing to the overall economic health of our communities," said Maurice Jones, Secretary of Commerce and Trade. "The state's investment maximizes local marketing funds, allowing for localities to double and sometimes triple their marketing power to attract more visitors. This is a powerful tool for small businesses across the state."
Details on the grant awards are below. The next round of VTC Marketing Leverage Program grants will open September 29, 2014. Localities interested in applying may visit www.vatc.org for more information.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=6507
