Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 50,000th Birth Certificate Issued Through DMV/VDH Partnership
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Sept. 16, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced a major milestone in the vital records partnership of the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) and the Virginia Department of Health's (VDH) Division of Vital Records. As of this month, the number of birth certificates sold at DMV offices topped 50,000.
"Fifty thousand is a very impressive number, and we are barely six months into this exciting partnership," said Governor McAuliffe. "Clearly, Virginians are embracing this model of responsive service and convenience. As we build a new Virginia economy, Virginia needs a government that can respond to the needs of its citizens and businesses, and this is just one way we're getting it done."
The DMV/VDH partnership was recognized with a Governor's Technology Award presented at the annual Commonwealth of Virginia Innovative Technology Symposium (COVITS) in Richmond earlier this month.
The birth certificate service at DMV began on March 1, 2014. In April, Governor McAuliffe officially announced the launch of the service and touted the initial success of the partnership at a news conference at the Chesterfield DMV Customer Service Center in Chesterfield County.
DMV saw a surge in birth certificate transactions in August as parents sought the documents in order to enroll their children in schools.
"We share the Governor's excitement at this milestone and what it means for our customers," said DMV Commissioner Richard D. Holcomb. "Customers at our front counters have been pleasantly surprised that DMV offers this birth certificate service. The response has been tremendous, and the numbers speak for themselves."
"We are also pleased that the VDH/DMV collaboration has enhanced easy access to these important documents frequently needed by Virginians," said State Health Commissioner Dr. Marissa Levine. "Our partners at DMV understand and share our commitment to the security and accessibility of Virginia vital records, and we look forward to continuing that shared commitment."
As of September 13, 2014, DMV has served 48,696 customers requesting birth certificates and issued 52,648 certificates.
The process for obtaining vital records through DMV is the same as doing so directly through the Division of Vital Records. Customers complete an application, submit the required documentation, and pay a fee to the agency. The fee for a birth certificate at DMV is $14.
The DMV/VDH partnership was authorized by legislation (SB 1039, Newman) passed by the General Assembly in 2013. In addition to birth certificates, the legislation provides that DMV will begin issuing copies of death, marriage and divorce records. DMV and VDH expect to be ready to begin this phase in summer 2015. All original records will continue to be stored securely at the Vital Records office.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=6495
