Public Statements
Commonwealth of Virginia to Receive $39.9 Million in Federal TIGER Grants
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Sept. 9, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Today, U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx announced that two projects in the Commonwealth of Virginia will receive a total $39.9 million in funds from the highly competitive TIGER Grant program. More than $9.4 billion in applications were received and evaluated by the United State Department of Transportation, which will award $600 million in funding this year.
"These grants will help build a new Virginia economy by expanding access to the Port of Virginia, and allowing Richmond to build the Broad Street Bus Rapid Transit system, a project that will create new jobs and economic growth across the metro area," said Governor McAuliffe. "With these grants Virginia has secured one of the largest allocations of TIGER funds in the last four years. I am proud to have worked hard alongside Secretary Foxx, Senator Warner, Senator Kaine, Congressman Scott, Mayor Jones and all involved to bring these important grants back to Virginia."
The Virginia Department of Rail and Public Transportation, the Greater Richmond Transit Company, the City of Richmond and Henrico County have been awarded a $24.9 million TIGER grant to construct the Broad Street Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system. The 7.5 mile, $53.8 million Broad Street BRT system would improve reliability and travel times for transit riders, improve access to employment and health care, and support economic development throughout the Broad Street Corridor.
"The Richmond BRT project is an excellent example of how improving and expanding our transportation system connects people with businesses and jobs across the region," said Virginia Transportation Secretary Aubrey Layne. "The Commonwealth is proud to work in collaboration with the City of Richmond and Henrico County to not only provide a new transportation option, but also to stimulate economic growth along the Broad Street Corridor with the creation of new jobs to support the project."
The Virginia Port Authority was awarded a $15 million TIGER grant to create a new intermodal gate complex at Norfolk International Terminals. This new $29 million gate will tie-in to the planned I-564 Intermodal Connector and ease the commute for thousands of active duty Navy and civil service personnel, reduce the volume of truck traffic on local roads in the City of Norfolk and increase cargo velocity and efficiency at NIT.
"As proud Virginians, we recognize the critical role that our port plays in the economic vitality of the Commonwealth. We are thankful that USDOT granted us similar recognition at the federal level," said John F. Reinhart, executive director and CEO of the Virginia Port Authority.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=6419
