Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Tourism Revenues Exceeded $21.5 Billion in 2013
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Sept. 9, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Virginia generated $21.5 billion in revenue from tourists in 2013, a 1.4 percent increase over 2012. In 2013, tourism in Virginia supported 213,000 jobs, an increase of 1.4 percent in employment, and provided more than $1.42 billion in state and local taxes.
"Tourism is an important industry that will continue to fuel the New Virginia Economy," said Governor McAuliffe. "Virginia continues to offer a dynamic, rich experience for visitors, which helps to make the Commonwealth a better place to live, work and raise a family. Virginia's tourism economy is an enormous asset for this Commonwealth, and continuing to grow it is one of my top priorities."
"Virginia is a uniquely attractive destination for visitors, offering a wide array of travel choices. From hiking the Peaks of Otter, to strolling through historic cities and towns in Northern Virginia, to rafting across Class IV rapids in our Capitol city, the Commonwealth offers everything you love about vacation," said Maurice Jones, Secretary of Commerce and Trade. "While Virginia presents an exciting experience for visitors, the tourism industry offers solid, good-paying jobs for our citizens and contributes billions to our economy."
The Virginia Tourism Corporation is the state agency responsible for marketing Virginia to visitors and promoting the Virginia is for Lovers brand. Virginia is for Lovers is the longest-running state tourism slogan in the country. Virginia is for Lovers stands for love, pure and simple, and promotes the state as the ideal destination for loved ones to completely connect on a great vacation. Virginia is for Lovers was named one of the top 10 tourism marketing campaigns of all time by Forbes and was inducted into the National Advertising Walk of Fame in 2009.
Love is at the heart of every Virginia vacation. Go to http://www.virginia.org/ and start planning a trip or call 1-800-VISITVA to request a free, Virginia is for Lovers Travel Guide.
Autumn is a great time to "fall in love" in Virginia. Discover (or re-discover) what makes Virginia magical this fall. http://www.virginia.org/fall/

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=6380
