Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Second Round of Federal Action Contingency Trust (FACT) Fund Grants
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Sept. 3, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced the recipients of the second round of Federal Action Contingency Trust (FACT) Fund grants.
The FACT fund was officially established in the 2012 General Assembly Session, to help Virginia counter actions taken by the federal government that may adversely impact the citizens and economy of Virginia. A first round of FACT Fund grants were announced on December 2, 2013.
On July 21, 2014, Governor McAuliffe refined the application criteria by announcing that Virginia localities that have had or have pending identifiable or measurable negative impacts caused by encroachment upon military or security installations were eligible to apply for these grant funds. The amount available for this second round of grants from the FACT Fund totaled $4,361,600.
"Virginia's military bases and installations are a key asset to our economy, and we have a responsibility to protect them," said Governor McAuliffe. "I am pleased that we were able to keep this FACT Fund money in the budget, and award it to communities so that they can guard against encroachment and preserve our Commonwealth's strong relationship with the Department of Defense. As we work to build a new Virginia economy, we must continue to be the most military-friendly state in the nation. These grants will help us achieve that goal."
In 2012, the General Assembly created the FACT Fund Advisory Commission (the "Commission"), composed of General Assembly members, to assist in the review of the FACT Fund requests.
The current Advisory Commission is composed of five members from the Senate Finance Committee: Chairman Walter A. Stosch, Senators Janet D. Howell, L. Louise Lucas, Frank W. Wagner, and John C. Watkins. The Advisory Commission is also composed of five members of the House Appropriations Committee: Chairman S. Chris Jones, Delegates L. Scott Lingamfelter, Rosalyn R. Dance, Edward T. Scott and Barry D. Knight.
Secretary of Finance Ric Brown, Secretary of Veterans and Defense Affairs John Harvey, Secretary of Commerce and Trade Maurice Jones, and Secretary of Health and Human Resources Dr. Bill Hazel serve as FACT Fund advisors to the Governor. On August 15, 2014, FACT Fund applicants presented to the FACT Fund Commission in Richmond.
Funding for the FACT Fund was made possible by Governor McAuliffe's veto of language in the Fiscal Year 2015 Budget, which had the effect of restoring the General Assembly's elimination of the existing balance to the FACT Fund and making it available for this round of grants.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/news/newsarticle?articleId=5900
