Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 25 New Jobs in Grayson County - Hansen Turbine to Invest
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Aug. 18, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Hansen Turbine, a manufacturer of coating spray applications for the aircraft and turbine parts coating industry, will invest $2.5 million to expand operations in Grayson County. Sister company Falcon Turbine will relocate from North Carolina to the facility, providing specialized aluminized coatings. The project will create 25 new jobs.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "Hansen Turbine has been a valued employer in Grayson County for more than six years, and the addition of Falcon Turbine to the operation is tremendous for an economically distressed community. The combined facility will increase efficiency and enable completion of the final product, from manufacturing to finishing, in one location. This quality company is a great component of Virginia's thriving turbine components manufacturing sector, and as it expands will continue to help diversify the industrial base in the region. As my team and I work to build a new, stronger and more innovative Virginia economy, cutting edge aerospace companies like these will be at the center of our efforts. We welcome Falcon Turbine to Grayson County, and celebrate the addition of 25 new jobs paying above the average prevailing wage."
"Hansen Turbine is a strong corporate partner to Grayson County, and, combined with Falcon Turbine, we are confident that the expanded operation will be even stronger," said Maurice Jones, Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade. "This project is a great result of efforts to support existing businesses in Southwest Virginia, and we look forward to the company's future growth and success in the years to come."
Hansen Turbine is a privately owned company specializing in turbine component manufacturing and coating. The people who manage and do the work have a long history in the turbine industry. The company's mission is reliability. Hansen works hard to meet expectations in quality, service, delivery, cost and communication. They continuously refine their procedures, processes and tools.
Falcon Turbine provides specialized smooth cold and diffused aluminized coatings to the power generation and other industries. They also offer a near "chrome-free" alternative coating that significantly reduces environmental impact without sacrificing performance. The Falcon management, quality assurance and engineering team have in excess of 40 combined years in the aircraft and turbine parts coating industry.
"On behalf of the employees and customers of Falcon Turbine and Hansen Turbine, we thank Governor Terry McAuliffe and his staff, as well as County Administrator Jonathan Sweet and his staff, for the work that went into this project," said Helmar Nielsen, Owner and President, Hansen/Falcon Turbine, Inc. "Bringing Falcon and Hansen together in Virginia creates a level of efficiency both for our companies and for our customers. It will allow us to cross train and raise the level of competency of our employees in high-tech machining and equally high-tech coating. Virginia is a great state in which to do business, and we commend the Governor and our county leaders for their economic vision and a balanced approach to private and public enterprise."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Grayson County and Virginia's aCorridor to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $50,000 grant from the Governor's Opportunity Fund to assist Grayson County with the project. The Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission approved $105,000 in Tobacco Region Opportunity Funds for the project.Additional funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"We are excited to have effectively competed for and secured Falcon Turbines' relocation and expansion project to Grayson County, and the assistance we received from the Commonwealth was key to our success," said John K. Brewer, Chairman, Grayson County Board of Supervisors. "We feel the company's strategic decision to co-locate their finishing operations within Hansen Turbines' manufacturing facility will benefit both companies and provide them both greater stability and increased opportunity for future growth."
"On behalf of the Virginia Tobacco Commission, I am excited to welcome Falcon Turbine to Southwest Virginia and congratulate them on their relocation and expansion," said Senator Bill Carrico, a member of the Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission and Senate District Representative. "This project positions this company to become an instant force in our region by adding 25 net-new jobs for Grayson County with a capital investment of $2.5 million. This announcement is another positive sign for our local economy and a product of hard work by everyone involved in the project."
Since the beginning of the McAuliffe Administration, 155 economic development deals have been closed in Virginia that will create over 13,281 jobs and $4.25 billion in capital investment.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/news/newsarticle?articleId=5807
