Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 596 New Jobs at Fort Monroe in the City of Hampton
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 16, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Liberty-Source PBC, a flexible onshore business process outsourcing model that uniquely harnesses the talent of military spouses, will invest $1.56 million to establish an operation at Fort Monroe in the City of Hampton. The company will provide finance, accounting, human resources, customer care and additional support services for its clients, creating 596 new jobs.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "Liberty-Source PBC is a tremendous addition to the Hampton Roads region. The company's delivery model is centered on employing staff from the U.S. military community, and Fort Monroe and the City of Hampton have a long and storied military history. In addition to active duty men and women in Virginia, thousands exit the military each year in the Commonwealth, and Liberty-Source will make a great social and economic impact providing opportunities to valuable government assets."
"The addition of nearly 600 new jobs is significant news for Fort Monroe and the City of Hampton," said Maurice Jones, Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade. "An operation at a former U.S. Army post is a perfect fit for Liberty-Source PBC's business model. The company will add economic vitality to a location with a centuries-old military tradition while drawing on the prevalent talents of the strong workforce in the region."
Liberty-Source is a business process outsourcer (BPO) delivering finance and accounting, human resources, customer care and specialized industry solutions for clients seeking a flexible, onshore and cost-effective solution. The company offers large multinational companies the first viable onshore alternative to a traditional offshore BPO model. In addition, its compelling, socially conscious mission--providing career and training opportunities to the dedicated, under-employed pool of highly skilled military spouses--benefits both clients and, in this case, the broader Virginia community.
"Our unique operating model provides clients a solution unlike anything else on the market," said Deborah Kops, Chairman, Liberty-Source. "As an onshore BPO, Liberty-Source provides clients agile, tailored solutions which can deliver the spectrum of their business process needs."
By harnessing the power of military spouses and creating strong alliances with leaders in the education, consulting and technology sectors, Liberty-Source is able to rapidly implement powerful solutions that meet the changing needs of its clients. A Public Benefit Corporation (PBC), Liberty-Source is for-profit, yet designed as a responsible and sustainable enterprise, managed for the benefit of its clients, its shareholders and the broader public interest.
"Virginia is the ideal location to headquarter a BPO operation," said Steve Hosley, president and CEO of Liberty-Source. "With over 30,000 active military from all 5 branches in the greater Hampton Roads area, Fort Monroe provides us access to a highly skilled and dedicated workforce."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with the City of Hampton, the Fort Monroe Authority, and the Hampton Roads Economic Development Alliance to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $300,000 grant from the Governor's Opportunity Fund to assist Hampton with the project. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"In addition to its long and proud history, Hampton has a strong military tradition. Hampton is a perfect fit for Liberty-Source's mission to bring jobs back to the U.S. and employ hundreds of military spouses," said Hampton Mayor George Wallace. "With our supportive environment, friendly neighborhoods, excellent schools and quality of life, we believe that Liberty-Source is making a great investment in Hampton."
"We're thrilled to welcome Liberty-Source to Fort Monroe," said Glenn Oder, Executive Director of the Fort Monroe Authority. "The company's hiring of military veterans and family members of our active duty service men and women is admirable. That makes it even more meaningful that they can call Fort Monroe home."

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/news/newsarticle?articleId=5537
