Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 69 New Jobs for Town of Pulaski
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 15, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that James Hardie Building Products Inc., an international manufacturer of fiber-cement siding for the construction industry, will invest $25 million to expand manufacturing capacity at its operation in the Town of Pulaski. Virginia successfully competed against Florida and Illinois for the project, which will create 69 new jobs.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "James Hardie Building Products is an important employer and corporate partner to the Town of Pulaski and has thrived since the establishment of its manufacturing facility nearly 10 years ago. The company again chose Virginia due to our low cost of operations, robust workforce and strategic location with close proximity to suppliers and markets, and this project is a great testament to the Commonwealth's competitiveness in the marketplace. This significant investment and expansion will enable James Hardie to add a new product line, increasing overall production and ensuring the operation's future longevity in Pulaski."
"Today we celebrate the continued growth and success of James Hardie Building Products' manufacturing operation in the Town of Pulaski," said Maurice Jones, Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade. "A quality, stable employer like James Hardie is a valuable asset in any community, and the addition of 69 new jobs is significant news for the region."
James Hardie is the global leader in fiber cement technology. It invented fiber cement siding products in the early 1980s as a durable, lower-maintenance alternative to wood and vinyl. James Hardie products combine innovation and versatility to offer a variety of design possibilities, matched with specific performance attributes relative to the climate where the product is being used. Currently installed on more than 5.5 million homes in North America, James Hardie products have earned a favorable reputation within the industry and have been specified in some of the country's most prestigious projects. For more information about James Hardie visit http://www.jameshardie.com.
"James Hardie is excited to grow its Pulaski manufacturing capacity to not only bring jobs to the area, but also increase U.S. production," said Bob Grove, Human Resources Manager for James Hardie. "This expansion is an example of James Hardie's commitment to serving the communities in which it is located, and meeting the ever-growing demand for innovative fiber cement products."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with the Town of Pulaski, Pulaski County, and the New River Valley Economic Development Alliance to help secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $250,000 grant from the Governor's Opportunity Fund to assist Pulaski with the project. The Governor also approved a $200,000 performance-based grant from the Virginia Investment Partnership program, an incentive available to existing Virginia companies. The company is also eligible to participate in the Virginia Enterprise Zone Program, administered by the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development. Funding and services to support the company's employee training activities will be provided through the Virginia Jobs Investment Program.
"This announcement is wonderful news for our community," noted Mayor Jeff Worrell. "We are very proud of the Pulaski facility, and it's a tribute to its excellence that this significant investment is being made."
"It is great to see the expansion of James Hardie, and we are pleased with the continued partnership with the Town of Pulaski in the initial location and the continued expansion of this plant," said Joe Sheffey, Chair of the Pulaski County Board of Supervisors. "James Hardie has been a great corporate citizen, serving both the County and the Town with assistance on various projects, including substantial Hardie Board donation on community projects, and in rebuilding following the tornados. We commend James Hardie for their success in the market place and thank them for their decision to invest in their Pulaski, Virginia plant."

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/news/newsarticle?articleId=5478
