Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 25 New Jobs for Franklin County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: July 3, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Trinity Packaging Corporation will invest $9.5 million to expand capacity at its operation in the Town of Rocky Mount in Franklin County. The project will create 25 new jobs. Virginia successfully competed against New York, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee for the project.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "Trinity Packaging Corporation continues to grow in Franklin County, as this project is the company's second major investment in its Rocky Mount operation in less than four years. Trinity's history spans nearly 100 years, and we are proud that this valuable Virginia employer is on the roster of companies that continue to bolster the thriving advanced manufacturing industry in the Commonwealth. It is my goal to increase jobs of the 21st Century, and this expansion and the addition of 25 new jobs in this important sector is significant."
"Trinity Packaging Corporation's expansion is a great testament to the region's skilled workforce in advanced manufacturing and in the plastics industry," said Maurice Jones, Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade. "The company's continued growth in Franklin County is evidence of its commitment to Virginia and the benefits of our business-friendly environment. We look forward to a long corporate partnership with Trinity Packaging for years to come."
Headquartered in Armonk, New York, Trinity Packaging is a privately held family business founded in 1917 as a paper bag converter. In 1979, Trinity entered into the plastics market and throughout the past several decades has expanded its plastics product offerings. Today, Trinity has multiple plant locations and its products are sold globally and include flexible films for a variety of industries. The market segments Trinity currently services include lawn & garden, consumer & home goods, dry food & snacks, pet care and all other industrially packaged products in both small and large formats.
"We are pleased that our future growth and expansion will remain in the town of Rocky Mount and Franklin County," said Peter Freund, President of Trinity. "We have a long history of success with the state of Virginia as a tremendous business partner and we look forward to continuing to prosper here."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership (VEDP) worked with Franklin County, the Town of Rocky Mount and the Roanoke Regional Partnership to help secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $65,000 grant from the Governor's Opportunity Fund to assist Franklin County and the Town of Rocky Mount with the project. The Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission approved $75,000 in Tobacco Region Opportunity Funds for the project. The company is also eligible to receive manufacturers' Sales and Use tax exemptions. Through its Virginia Jobs Investment Program, the Virginia Department of Small Business and Supplier Diversity will provide funding and services to support the company's training activities.
David Cundiff, Chairman of the Franklin County Board of Supervisors and member of the Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission, stated, "Trinity Packaging has long been one the County's most respected major employers and their stability and growth continues to fuel the community's strong local economy. We are proud to be a part of the team assisting Trinity Packaging to prosper here in Franklin County."
"The Town of Rocky Mount is pleased to support the expansion of jobs and production at Trinity Packaging," said Mayor Steve Angle. "We value highly Trinity's part in employing our citizens, their strong corporate citizenship, and their continued dedication to growing, expanding and staying in Rocky Mount. As we work to make Rocky Mount a destination, we value the security represented by strong industries and major employers like Trinity, and we are grateful to Dan Mills and his local staff for their efforts on our behalf."

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/news/newsarticle?articleId=5356
