Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 732 New Jobs and $8 Million Investment in the City of Richmond
Statement
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Oct. 24, 2016
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced that CoStar Group, the leading provider of commercial real estate information, analytics and online marketplaces, will invest $8.17 million in a new research and software development center in Richmond. Virginia successfully competed against states in the Southeast and Midwest for this project, which will create 732 new jobs and have a total economic impact of $250 million via direct local salaries, lease on the property, and capital improvements at the facility, among other factors.
"We are thrilled to welcome CoStar Group to Virginia and to our capital city," said Governor McAuliffe, speaking at the event. "This will be a transformational project for the City of Richmond and the greater metropolitan area, bringing a new, high-profile corporate partner and more than 700 high-paying jobs. With our outstanding technology infrastructure and our unparalleled higher education system, the Commonwealth is a hub for the IT sector and the perfect home for CoStar's research operation. Today is a huge milestone for Richmond and for our efforts to diversify and build a new Virginia economy."
"CoStar Group is one of the fastest-growing businesses in the country, and it is an honor that this company chose Virginia to house its research center," said Secretary of Commerce and Trade Todd Haymore. "This project will broaden Richmond's economy and capitalize on one of the Commonwealth's greatest strengths--our highly ranked technology workforce, which accounts for more than 172,000 jobs. We look forward to watching CoStar Group's success and welcome them to Virginia's corporate roster."
Founded in 1987, CoStar Group is the leading provider of commercial real estate information and marketplaces combining research, technology and powerful marketing to connect commercial real estate professionals with the data, insights, networking and leads they need to succeed. The company's suite of brands includes CoStar, Apartments.com, LoopNet, LandsofAmerica and BizBuySell to name a few, and together it serves as the primary source of business intelligence and communities that fuel the real estate industry. Headquartered in Washington, D.C., CoStar maintains offices throughout the U.S. and in Europe and Canada with a staff of approximately 3,000 worldwide, including the industry's largest professional research organization.

Source: http://governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/newsarticle?articleId=18162
