Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces 30 New Jobs in Lunenburg County
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: June 25, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe announced today that Global Refining Group, Inc., a sister company of ABC Recycling, will invest $4.2 million to establish a catalytic convertor recycling operation in Lunenburg County. Virginia successfully competed against Connecticut and New York for the project, which will create 30 new jobs. ABC Recycling, one of the fastest growing companies in South Central Virginia, recycles vehicles, scrap metals and catalytic converters.
Speaking about today's announcement, Governor McAuliffe said, "This project is a great example of a spinoff company resulting from business success that will bring new jobs and investment to Lunenburg County. The rapid growth of ABC Recycling created the demand for the establishment of Global Refining Group, which will take the recycling process to the next step and become the premier East Coast location for catalytic convertor recycling. We welcome our newest corporate partner to Virginia, and celebrate 30 new jobs in a region that continues to recover economically."
"Lunenburg County is a great fit for Global Refining Group's new catalytic convertor recycling operation," said Maurice Jones, Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade. "In addition to its close proximity to sister company ABC Recycling, the county also offered an industrial building that has been recently retrofitted, allowing Global Refining Group to make some modifications and become operational in a shorter timeframe. We look forward to the company's future success in Virginia."
ABC Recycling in Kenbridge, VA opened its doors for business in 2006 with three employees, growing quickly to become North America's largest processor of catalytic converters. With such rapidly expanding business the company was in dire need of opening a facility that would take converter recycling to the next level. Global Refining Group will revolutionize the way converters are processed. The goals for the new company will include a fast expansion plan, with the hopes that yet another company will develop as rapidly as ABC Recycling.
"Global Refining Group has chosen Kenbridge VA as its new home," said Robert Szafranski, Chief Executive Officer, Global Refining Group. "Though other locations were considered, it was the hard work and diligence of Lunenburg County, the Town of Kenbridge, the Tobacco Commission, the Virginia Economic Development Partnership, the Virginia Department of Business Assistance, and the Governor that made this decision possible. The support that these offices have offered our company shows their interest lies not only in the growth of our company but the community as a whole. For this we thank them and look forward to a successful start in Lunenburg County."
The Virginia Economic Development Partnership worked with Lunenburg County, the Town of Kenbridge, and Virginia's Growth Alliance to secure the project for Virginia. Governor McAuliffe approved a $100,000 grant from the Governor's Opportunity Fund to assist Lunenburg County with the project. The Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission approved $145,000 in Tobacco Region Opportunity Funds for the project. The company may be eligible to receive benefits from the Virginia Enterprise Zone Program, administered by the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development. Through its Virginia Jobs Investment Program, the Virginia Department of Small Business and Supplier Diversity will provide funding and services to support the company's employee training activities.
"The Town of Kenbridge is proud," said Emory Hodges, Mayor, "that Global Refining Group, Inc. has chosen our town as the location of its facility. In joining with Lunenburg County, the Town Council feels that we have worked together to bring another business to our area that will benefit all of our community and its citizens. We have watched ABC Recycling, sister company to Global, grow and become a vibrant part of our business community and we look forward to the same success for this new company."
"Our Board of Supervisors has enjoyed working with ABC Recycling since they opened in Kenbridge in 2006," said Edward Pennington, Chairman of the Lunenburg County Board of Supervisors. "As successful businessmen, we are delighted that Mr. Szafranski and his partners have chosen our community to continue their expanding operations. We foresee the addition of other associated companies and more job creation as a result of Global Refining Group, Inc. locating in Lunenburg. Our community appreciates the efforts of the state agencies, the VGA, the Tobacco Commission and the Governor's office to make this announcement possible."
"I am very pleased that the Tobacco Commission was able to provide a performance incentive to help Global Refining Group, Inc. make the decision to locate in Lunenburg County", said Delegate Tommy Wright, member of the Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission. "Their investment of $4.2 million and the creation of 30 good-paying jobs is a very important boost to this rural community's economy. I wish them great success."
"I commend ABC Recycling and now Global Refining Group, Inc. for seeing an opportunity to not only create jobs, but also to reclaim from our waste stream valuable metals that in the past have been lost into landfills," said Senator Frank Ruff, member of the Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/news/newsarticle?articleId=5230
