Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Statement on General Assembly Actions on His Vetoes
Statement
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: June 23, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Terry McAuliffe released the following statement this evening after the General Assembly failed to override any of his line item vetoes to the 2015-2016 biennial budget:
"I am pleased that the General Assembly upheld six of the eight vetoes that I applied to the budget without controversy.
"With respect to the Speaker's ruling on my veto of the Stanley floor amendment, I am continually surprised and disappointed by the lengths to which Republicans in the House of Delegates will go to prevent their own constituents from getting access to health care. Instead of putting all of my vetoes through the process prescribed by the Constitution of Virginia, House Republicans robbed the voters of their voice by using a procedural gimmick to obstruct the normal legislative process where this veto was concerned. If my veto was as objectionable as House leadership claimed, they should not have had any difficulty overriding it in both chambers. Instead, the Speaker elected to exercise powers that the Constitution of Virginia reserves solely for members of the Judicial Branch.
"As my team and I evaluate the House's failure to override my veto, I remain focused on expanding access to health care for Virginia residents, and I intend to move forward on that goal as I have promised. Virginians elect their leaders to act in their best interests, not to bog good public policy down in parliamentary gimmicks.
"With respect to the his ruling on the judges veto, Speaker Howell once again resorted to procedural tricks in order to prevent the representatives of the people of Virginia from voting on the vetoes that I lawfully submitted to the General Assembly. I have no objection to the General Assembly's authority to appoint these judges while in session; my veto was aimed at defending the powers of the Governor against an unconstitutional overreach by the legislature. It is unfortunate that the Speaker elected to cast these judicial slots into unnecessary uncertainty, particularly after I proposed a straightforward legislative remedy this afternoon. My team and I will evaluate the Speaker's ruling on this veto and I will take the actions I deem best for the people who elected me to serve."

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/news/newsarticle?articleId=5242
