Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Awards Agriculture and Forestry Industries Development Fund Planning Grants to Communities in Central and Southern Virginia
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: May 14, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced that three projects - two to make locally grown produce available year round and one seeking to bring a major poultry producer to Southside Virginia - were awarded $60,000 in planning grants from the Governor's Agriculture & Forestry Industries Development Fund (AFID). The AFID planning grant program encourages local governments to work with the agricultural community to identify projects and opportunities that can bring important benefits to local producers, and the community as a whole.
"Supporting Virginia's diverse agricultural and forestry sectors is a great way to expand and diversify our economy," said Governor McAuliffe. "Assisting localities in identifying potential new projects and implementing programs that strengthen agriculture and forestry in their communities and will contribute to building a 21st Century Virginia economy. Laying the foundation for possibly larger future projects in these communities, the relatively small, but important, amount of state support provided today allows localities to plan strategically and creatively about how to incorporate two of the state's largest industries into their economic development efforts."
The AFID planning grant program, funded annually at $250,000, was developed in 2012 to encourage local and regional governments to think strategically about how they can better support and integrate agriculture and forestry-based industries into their community's overall economic development efforts. The planning grants are part of the larger Governor's AFID program, an economic development tool specifically for agriculture and forestry value-added or processing projects. AFID economic development grants are available for political subdivisions of the Commonwealth interested in growing their agriculture and forestry industries by strategically targeting businesses that add value to Virginia grown agriculture and forestal products.
"Partnering with local governments to leverage their resources and innovative ideas on growing and supporting Virginia's agriculture and forestry industries, like we do with our AFID program, is good policy;" said Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry Todd P. Haymore. "From innovative facilities that preserve locally grown produce for sale throughout the year to recruiting a major new industry to Southside, the projects funded today highlight the innovation and diversity of Virginia agriculture. Benefits from allowing localities to explore and capitalize on these kinds of opportunities have the potential to be felt throughout the business chain, from the individual producer level to the value-adding enterprise."
Applications for AFID planning grants are accepted on a rolling basis throughout the fiscal year. Successful funding requests must show a clear need to be addressed, a solution to be undertaken, demonstrate strong support from local government and the agriculture and forestry community, and be able to match each dollar requested with a dollar of local government funds, or allowable in-kind contributions. Localities interested in applying may visit http://vdacs.virginia.gov/agribusiness/planning.shtml or contact Stephen Versen at stephen.versen@vdacs.virginia.gov or 804.786.6911 for more information.
According to a 2013 economic impact study conducted by the University of Virginia's Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service, agriculture and forestry are two of Virginia's largest industries, with a combined economic impact of $70 billion annually. Agriculture generates more than $52 billion per annum, while forestry induces over $17 billion. The industries also provide more than 400,000 jobs in the Commonwealth.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/news/newsarticle?articleId=4810
