Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Announces Successful Launch of DMV/VDH Vital Records Partnership
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: April 10, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced the successful launch of the partnership of the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) and the Virginia Department of Health (VDH) Division of Vital Records to provide increased access to Virginia birth certificates. As of March 1, 2014, copies of Virginia birth certificates are available statewide at all 75 DMV customer service centers and five mobile offices.
Already, approximately 5,000 Virginians have requested birth certificates at DMV locations. Most of these customers are able to leave DMV with copies of their birth certificates printed and in hand.
"By increasing access to these vital records, the DMV and VDH are making life a little easier for Virginians," said Governor McAuliffe. "That is an example of what government should do for its citizens. Efficiency, innovation and good service are and will continue to be cornerstones of my administration."
The process for obtaining vital records through DMV is the same as doing so directly through the Division of Vital Records. Customers complete an application, submit the required documentation, and pay a fee to the agency. The fee for a birth certificate at DMV is $14.
"We are excited to partner with VDH to offer this option to Virginians," said DMV Commissioner Richard D. Holcomb. "DMV is dedicated to providing security, integrity and convenience in delivering this important service."
"The Division of Vital Records has long been a trusted steward of Virginia records," said State Health Commissioner Dr. Marissa Levine. "Together with our partners at DMV, we look forward to continuing that tradition while offering new avenues to access important documents."
The DMV/VDH partnership was authorized by legislation (SB 1039, Newman) passed by the General Assembly in 2013. In addition to birth certificates, the legislation provides that DMV will begin issuing copies of death, marriage and divorce records on January 1, 2015. All original records will continue to be stored securely at the Vital Records office.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/news/newsarticle?articleId=3848
