Public Statements
Virginia Releases Comprehensive Plan for Outdoor Recreation, Land Conservation
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: April 4, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Today Governor McAuliffe and First Lady Dorothy McAuliffe announced that the Virginia Outdoors Plan, Virginia's official guide for the planning of public outdoor recreation and land conservation has been revised and is now available online. The plan, which is updated every five years, is a product of the Virginia Department of Conservation and Recreation and highlights the beautiful natural resources and historical attractions Virginia has to offer.
"Virginia's parks, natural areas, historic sites and scenic views help define the Commonwealth as a great place to live, work and raise a family, and they play a critical role in supporting Virginia's second largest industry: tourism." Gov. Terry McAuliffe said. "The Virginia Outdoors Plan is our five-year guide for protecting and enhancing our natural resources and outdoor recreational assets and this updated plan will help keep our economy growing and our communities thriving."
This is the 10th plan to be produced since the 1965 publication of "Virginia's Common Wealth," the first comprehensive study of Virginia's outdoor recreation facilities and resources. It is the first to be completely paperless, and its publication marks the debut of VOP Mapper, a user-friendly online tool for mapping outdoor recreation resources and conserved lands. The plan can be viewed at www.dcr.virginia.gov/vop.
Speaking about the launch of the plan, First Lady Dorothy McAuliffe said, "The online plan as well as our new map tool will enable more Virginians and visitors from across the globe to identify recreational sites in Virginia. These innovative and user-friendly resources will raise awareness of the assets our great state has."
This plan's theme is "Virginia is for Outdoor Lovers," and recommendations focus heavily on expanding tourism opportunities and the economy through outdoor recreation and land conservation.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/news/newsarticle?articleId=3819
