Public Statements
Governor McAuliffe Unveils Spring Stewardship Virginia Campaign
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: March 28, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced that Stewardship Virginia, a statewide campaign to encourage and recognize voluntary activities with a tangible impact on Virginia's natural resources, begins its twelfth spring campaign April 1. With events across the state, the spring campaign runs through May 31. There is also a fall component starting in September.
"Stewardship Virginia gives us all an opportunity to make real contributions to our natural and historic resources. Virginia's landscapes and waterways are important for their ecological value, scenic beauty and recreational opportunities," said Governor McAuliffe. "Stewardship Virginia projects give volunteers the tools, guidance and structure to continue to enhance these valuable resources. I encourage all Virginians to get involved."
Citizens and groups may get help from the state's natural resource agencies. Participants in Stewardship Virginia events will receive certificates of appreciation signed by Gov. McAuliffe.
"Events will be held throughout Virginia with many opportunities for volunteerism in our parks and natural areas during Stewardship Virginia," said Joe Elton, interim director of the Virginia Department of Conservation and Recreation. "We appreciate the many Virginians who have participated to date and hope many others will join in." DCR coordinates the campaign with help from other natural resource agencies.
Last year, over 300 projects were registered and more than 5,000 volunteers were recognized with certificates of appreciation. Miles of waterways were cleaned and thousands of pounds of trash hauled away. Volunteers held recycling events and organized community cleanups. Invasive species were replaced with native plants and many trails were cleared for citizens to enjoy.
Stewardship Virginia promotes waterway adoption, trail improvement, the planting of riparian buffers, invasive species control, habitat improvement and landscaping for conservation. The campaign encourages people to connect with land and water to better understand their value. Many businesses and groups across Virginia have already registered Stewardship events and provided support to promote conservation initiatives. From the friends of the Occoquan along the Potomac River, the volunteers with the Mariners' Museum and Park in Newport News, the Future Farmers of America students with the Southern Virginia Botanical Gardens and the state parks friends groups like those of Smith Mountain Lake and the Southwest Virginia Museum Historical State Park. Citizens across Virginia are making a huge difference in their communities.
Individuals, businesses and organizations are encouraged to register their projects with Stewardship Virginia, making details available for those wanting to join in. For more information, including a registration packet, call 1-877-42-WATER (429-2837); in Richmond call (804) 786-5056. Visit www.dcr.virginia.gov/stewardship/ for more information about volunteer projects and a registration form.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/news/newsarticle?articleId=3694
