Public Statements
Virginia Receives Increased Homeland Security Grant Funds
Press Release
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: March 19, 2014
Location: Richmond, VA

Governor Terry McAuliffe today announced that Virginia has received $7.4 million in Homeland Security Grant Program (HSGP) funds for fiscal year 2014 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), a 15 percent increase from the previous fiscal year. These grants are provided to strengthen the commonwealth's ability to prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover from terrorist attacks, major disasters and other emergencies.
In addition, both the Hampton Roads and National Capital regions will receive increased funding for fiscal year 2014 as part of the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI). The Hampton Roads region was identified as a high-threat, high-density urban area and will receive $1 million in renewed funding. The National Capital region will receive $53 million in UASI funding, a 2.2 percent increase from the previous fiscal year. UASI grants are provided for law enforcement and terrorism prevention and typically include training and exercises, updates to current planning and procedures, and lifecycle replacement of equipment.
"This significant increase in federal homeland security grant funding will greatly improve Virginia's ability to keep our families, communities and economic assets safe," said Governor McAuliffe. "As home to some of the world's largest military installations and critical government infrastructure, Virginia is a strategic partner in national defense and homeland security. These funds are vital to us as we plan and prepare for known and unknown threats. We especially appreciate that the Hampton Roads region was added back in to the UASI program. I salute the hard work of those with Hampton Roads governments and organizations as well as state agencies that made the case and developed the documentation to gain this crucial funding for sustaining regional preparedness initiatives."
Virginia's proposal for the federal grants is developed with input from local and state governments, nonprofit organizations and others from throughout the commonwealth. The proposal identifies statewide and regional projects that will improve Virginia's capabilities to plan for and respond to manmade and natural emergencies. Funds will be distributed to localities on a regional basis.

Source: https://governor.virginia.gov/news/newsarticle?articleId=3622
