Public Statements
The Virginia Pilot - McAuliffe: Extend light rail to naval base, Oceanfront
News Article
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: Sept. 23, 2013
Location: Unknown

By Bill Sizemore
Terry McAuliffe, the Democratic candidate for governor, pledged today to push for expansion of light rail to Norfolk Naval Station and the Virginia Beach Oceanfront.
McAuliffe touted the idea as part of a wide-ranging package of proposals under the umbrella "Investing in Virginia's Urban Centers."
"As governor, one of my top priorities will be to strengthen our urban centers, so they can continue to grow and prosper," the Democrat said in a statement.
One way to do that, he said, is "creating a seamless Hampton Roads transit system from the naval base to the waterfront."
Norfolk's existing light-rail line, The Tide, runs from Eastern Virginia Medical School to the Virginia Beach city line at Newtown Road.
An estimate from Hampton Roads Transit last week pegged the total cost of an eastward expansion to the Oceanfront at more than $1 billion.
The standard funding model for light-rail projects includes a 25 percent state share in addition to 50 percent from the federal government and 25 percent from the locality.
Among other proposals in McAuliffe's package:
-- Enactment of a Virginia version of the federal Voting Rights Act, which was partially struck down this year by the U.S. Supreme Court. McAuliffe's proposal includes a requirement for pre-clearance of voting law changes by the State Board of Elections to ensure they are not discriminatory.
-- Allowing early and no-excuse absentee voting.
-- Establishing a nonpartisan system for redrawing Virginia's legislative districts to conform with population changes.
-- Automatic restoration of voting rights to nonviolent felons who have completed their sentences.
-- Universal background checks for gun purchases, limits on the size of ammunition magazines and reinstatement of Virginia's one-handgun-a-month limit, repealed in 2012.
-- Stronger regulation of payday and other short-term loan operations.
McAuliffe faces Republican Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli in the Nov. 5 election.

Source: http://terrymcauliffe.com/mcauliffe-extend-light-rail-to-naval-base-oceanfront/
