Public Statements
A Swing Through Salem, Roanoke and Lynchburg
Statement
By: Terry McAuliffe
Date: April 7, 2009
Location: Unknown


A Swing Through Salem, Roanoke and Lynchburg
We spent the past few days talking to folks in Salem, Roanoke and Lynchburg… Places where the unemployment rate is growing by the day. Folks down there are hurting. In all of my stops, I ask how many people have recently lost jobs—I see way too many raised hands. That's why I'm running for Governor. We've got to get Virginia's economy back on track by creating jobs. I'm tired of seeing the cuts—deep budget cuts that are hitting the bone. And we can't raise taxes in a down economy. We can secure Virginia's future by becoming a leader in Green Energy jobs. Virginia can't afford to let these jobs continue to go to other states. We need a mandatory renewable energy standard. We need to be serious about Green jobs.
Last week I announced a COMPLETE BAN ON PAY DAY LENDING. Predatory loan practices are destroying Virginia families in the most at-risk communities. In Roanoke, I met several families who had lost cars and gotten deep into debt because of these loans that charge over 200% interest a year. I drove down Azalea Avenue in Richmond last week and saw 4 pay day lending shops on one block. It's got to stop. I want these businesses gone - out of Virginia.
Everywhere I go, I'm so excited to see so many people engaged, asking questions about my plans. In Lynchburg, young people I talked to at Starlight Café had lots of questions about education. That's another topic I'm passionate about. I want Virginia to have the most educated workforce in the country, and I want college to be affordable and within reach for all Virginia families. That's why I've announced a student loan forgiveness plan for anyone in who'll give service to the Commonwealth's most high risk communities. I'm talking about big ideas. You want a governor waking up every day thinking about you and the Commonwealth, and that's the kind of governor I'll be.

Source: http://www.terrymcauliffe.com/blog/?author=Terry
