Public Statements
Issue Position: Transportation
Issue Position
By: Terry McAuliffe
Location: Unknown


Issue Position: Transportation
Terry McAuliffe understands that we need to start thinking long term on transportation. He knows there must be an honest discussion about transportation funding. But Terry also believes we need to figure out where we want to be ten, twenty, or thirty years down the line and start to lay the groundwork for that, even if we can't do it all today. Governor Kaine has made record investments in rail and public transit and he has better connected land use and transportation planning - in twenty years, we're going to look back at the changes he's made and truly understand their importance.
We need to continue down this path, focusing on high-efficiency methods for moving people and goods. We need a high-speed rail line that would connect the major urban areas of Virginia with one another. And we need to start talking about it now. We can team up with Virginia corporations through public-private partnerships to get this done. It's a smart investment for them, would create jobs, and get more people off the roads.
We need to see the Dulles rail project through - and then we need to think about what other communities we can connect to Metro. We need to improve transit in Hampton Roads, including transit that moves people across the water. We need passenger rail that connects more parts of Virginia together, and we need to get more freight off the highways and onto the rail system.
Terry knows that this can't be done in four years, but as long as we have leadership that thinks big and doesn't let the size of the challenge put the solution out of reach, we don't have to wait to set goals and take the first steps toward these solutions.
There are also some things we can do right now to help our transportation problems. These are things we can fix right now, that don't require a lot of money, to make everyone's lives just a little bit easier.
For example, those warning signs all along I-95 and I-64 would be far more useful if the lights weren't out half the time. Terry wants to get those fixed. Or, if you've ever driven on I-81, you've probably found yourself stuck behind two trucks driving side-by-side, backing up traffic for miles. Terry wants to make all trucks drive in the right hand lane so people can actually get around them. These are some ways to help ease the pain in the short-term, while we plan for a longer-term solution to our transportation problem.

Source: http://www.terrymcauliffe.com/issues#transportation
