Public Statements
Governor Asa Hutchinson Announces Intent to Grant Executive Clemency
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Feb. 3, 2016
Location: Little Rock, AR

Governor Asa Hutchinson today announced his intent to grant six pardons. An additional 47 clemency requests were denied and three had no action taken upon them. These include requests from both inmates and non-inmates.
The applicants intended for pardons have completed all jail time, fulfilled all parole and probationary requirements and paid all fines related to their sentences. There is a 30-day waiting period to receive public feedback on the notices before final action is taken.
Governor Hutchinson intends to grant pardons to the following people:
Kenneth Brannon (Ward): Violation of the Hot Check Law, two counts (C Felony).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1993 -- White County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Wendy D. Founds (Ward): Possession of a Controlled Substance, Methamphetamine (C Felony), Possession of Drug Paraphernalia, two counts (C Felony), Possession of a Controlled Substance, Methamphetamine, with Intent to Deliver (Y Felony), Manufacturing Controlled Substance, Methamphetamine (Y Felony), Possession of Drug Paraphernalia with Intent to Manufacture (B Felony), Manufacturing Methamphetamine in the Presence of a Minor (Felony), Possession of a Controlled Substance, Methamphetamine (Probation Revocation) (C Felony) and Possession of Drug Paraphernalia (Probation Revocation) (C Felony).
This notice is issued based on the dates of conviction (2002 -- Pulaski County, 2005 -- Lonoke and Pulaski County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Richard May (North Little Rock): Domestic Battering, Third Degree (A Misdemeanor).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (2007 -- Saline County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Michael Schamp (Hot Springs): Criminal Mischief, two counts (A Misdemeanor) and Theft of Property (A Misdemeanor).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (2008 -- Hot Springs District Court), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Larry D. Sublett (North Little Rock): Drug Paraphernalia (C Felony) and Hindering Apprehension or Prosecution (A Misdemeanor).
This notice is issued based on the dates of conviction (1996 -- Pulaski County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Christopher B. Tate (Omaha): Attempted Theft of Property (D Felony) and Possessing Instrument of Crime (A Misdemeanor).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (2001 -- Faulkner County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. The Prosecuting Attorney has raised objections to the application.

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/governor-asa-hutchinson-announces-intent-to-grant-executive-clemency-160203
