Public Statements
Governor Asa Hutchinson Announces Intent to Grant Executive Clemency
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Jan. 4, 2016
Location: Little Rock, AR

Governor Asa Hutchinson today announced his intent to grant five pardons. An additional 48 clemency requests were denied and six had no action taken upon them. These include requests from both inmates and non-inmates.
The applicants intended for pardons have completed all jail time, fulfilled all parole and probationary requirements and paid all fines related to their sentences. There is a 30-day waiting period to receive public feedback on the notices before final action is taken.
Governor Hutchinson intends to grant pardons to the following people:
Andrew C. Finley (Easley, SC): Theft (B Felony).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1995 -- Columbia County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. The Sheriff has raised objections to the application.
Ray Lee (Conway): Controlled Substance Act (C Felony).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1989 -- Faulkner County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. The Prosecuting Attorney has raised objections to the application.
Ben M. Maturino (Maumelle): Theft of Property (B Felony).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (2002 -- Sevier County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Randall Pack (Hector): Possession of a Controlled Substance with Intent to Deliver (Y Felony), Possession of Drug Paraphernalia (C Felony) and Theft by Receiving (A Misdemeanor).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1994 -- Pope County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Curt Wilson (Jacksonville): Theft of Property (C Felony).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1997 -- Pulaski County) the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/governor-asa-hutchinson-announces-intent-to-grant-executive-clemency-160104
