Public Statements
We're Not Done Yet
Statement
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Dec. 31, 2015
Location: Unknown

It's hard to believe we've reached the end of 2015, but what a year it has been. At my inauguration back in January, I promised a new day in Arkansas -- an era focused on job creation, tax cuts and computer science education.
One year later, there are approximately 33,000 more Arkansans employed than before I took office. In 2015 alone, we announced new jobs and company expansions in every region of the state -- with investments totaling nearly $2 billion.
We took the story of Arkansas to the world, touting the state's defense industry and steel manufacturing capabilities to Europe; showcasing our agriculture community to Cuba; and pitching the incredible economic potential of South Arkansas to China and Japan. The seeds are being planted, and we're not done yet.
What we do here in Arkansas matters to people all over the globe, and 2015 underscored that message.
With unanimous support from the legislature, we passed the most comprehensive computer science education law in the country. And earlier this month, we announced the first-of-its-kind K-8 standards in computer science. As noted by Code.org and WIRED magazine, the state of Arkansas is now the national leader in computer science education.
And starting in 2016, Arkansans will benefit from the largest income tax cut in our state's history -- more than $100 million.
Through the support of our citizens and members of the legislature, we're making great strides in our state's foster care system, workforce training and prison reform by giving non-violent offenders a second chance.
But for all we've accomplished in 2015, there is plenty left to do. In fact, the work is just beginning. As we head into 2016, topics such as health care, highway funding and criminal justice reform will take center stage. These are critical issues, but nothing is too big for our state.
After all, Arkansans can do anything, because -- well -- we have done everything, and in 2016, we'll prove that to be true once again. Thank you for allowing me to serve as your governor. It's the greatest public honor I will ever have. From my family to yours, Happy New Year.

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/radio/detail/were-not-done-yet
