Public Statements
Governor Asa Hutchinson Announces Intent to Grant Executive Clemency
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Nov. 4, 2015
Location: Little Rock, AR

Governor Asa Hutchinson today announced his intent to grant 12 pardons and one restoration of firearms rights only. An additional 48 clemency requests were denied. These include requests from both inmates and non-inmates.
The 12 applicants intended for pardons and the applicant intended for restoration of firearms rights only have completed all jail time, fulfilled all parole and probationary requirements and paid all fines related to their sentences. There is a 30-day waiting period to receive public feedback on the notices before final action is taken.
Governor Hutchinson intends to grant pardons to the following people:
Reginald S. Arnold, Sr. (Little Rock): Delivery of a Controlled Substance, two counts (Y Felony). 
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1993 -- Pulaski County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Ryan D. Conyers (Oklahoma City, OK): Possession of a Controlled Substance, Schedule VI (A Misdemeanor), Possession Instrument of Crime (A Misdemeanor), Theft by Receiving (B Felony) and Theft of Property (C Felony). 
This notice is issued based on the dates of conviction (2002 -- Sebastian County and 2002 -- Crawford County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. The Sebastian County Prosecutor, the Crawford County Sheriff and Judge have raised objections to the application.
Travis L. Davis (Batesville): Breaking and Entering, seven counts (D Felony), Theft of Property, four counts (C Felony) Breaking and Entering, seven counts (Revocation) (D Felony), Theft of Property, four counts (Revocation) (C Felony) and Hot Check Violation (C Felony). 
This notice is issued based on the dates of conviction (1983 and 1986 -- Baxter County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
John E. Hart (Winslow): Hot Check Violation, two counts (C Felony) and Non-Support (D Felony). 
This notice is issued based on the dates of conviction (1997 and 2003 -- Washington County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application. 
Rufus Pighee (Little Rock): Kidnapping Second Degree (B Felony). 
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1975 -- Monroe County) the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Jeri Sheppard Spoo (Nashville): Possession of a Controlled Substance with Intent to Deliver, Methamphetamine (Y Felony). 
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1998 -- Howard County) the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Calvin D. Spradlin (England): Negligent Homicide/Intoxication (D Felony). 
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1988 -- Lonoke County) the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. The Judge has raised objections to the application.
Crystal Pierce Taylor (Horatio): Forgery Second Degree (C Felony). 
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (2005 -- Howard County) the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Scotty L. Taylor (Vilonia): Manufacture, Deliver and Possession of a Controlled Substance (Y Felony) and Manufacture, Etc. of a Controlled Substance, Schedule IV (C Felony). 
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1997 -- Pulaski County) the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Matthew W. Wells (Pine Bluff): Terroristic Threatening (A Misdemeanor) and Domestic Battery Third Degree (A Misdemeanor). 
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (2003 -- Jefferson County) the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Clifton Wisinger (Camden): Breaking or Entering (D Felony). 
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (2006 -- Ouachita County) the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Daniel Wright (Springdale): Terroristic Threatening (D Felony).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1995 -- Washington County) the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Governor Hutchinson intends to grant restoration of firearms rights only to the following person:
Johnny W. Otwell (Taylor): Conspiracy to Deliver Crystal Methamphetamine, three counts (A Felony), Maintaining a Drug Premises, three counts (D Felony) and Illegal Use of a Communication Device (C Felony).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1995 -- Columbia County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/governor-asa-hutchinson-announces-intent-to-grant-executive-clemency6
