Public Statements
Gov. Hutchinson Tours Flood Damage in NEA with U.S. Sec. of Ag and AR Congressional Delegation
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: May 7, 2017
Location: Little Rock, AR

Governor Asa Hutchinson toured flood-ravaged parts of Northeast Arkansas Sunday afternoon with U.S. Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue, Senator John Boozman, Congressman Rick Crawford and Congressman French Hill. The group, including staff from Senator Tom Cotton's office and Congressman Bruce Westerman's office, participated in a flyover tour of Randolph and Lawrence Counties--some of the hardest hit areas in the state--to survey damage to crops and farmland. The tour included parts of White and Pulaski Counties, as well.
This marks Governor Hutchinson's second trip to Northeast Arkansas in the last week. On Tuesday, he surveyed damage in Sharp and Randolph Counties from the air and toured parts of Ash Flat and Pocahontas from the ground. In addition, Governor Hutchinson has surveyed damage in parts of Benton, Washington, Madison and Carroll Counties in Northwest Arkansas.
A news conference was held after Sunday's flyover tour at the State Police Hangar at TAC Air in Little Rock. Governor Hutchinson issued the following statement upon his return:
"Northeast Arkansas crops and farmland have been impacted tremendously by the heavy rains and flooding in the region over the last week, and today's tour with Secretary Perdue and Arkansas' federal delegation provided a close look at the damage.
"Secretary Perdue knows the value of agriculture to our state, and he has committed to expediting the federal government's response to the damage assessment in Arkansas, and I'm pleased to announce that starting Wednesday, FEMA will be in Arkansas working with our regional teams to assess that damage."
MEDIA NOTE: You can view the entire news conference HERE. Photos from the tour can be found HERE and may be used by media in their reports.

Source: https://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/gov.-hutchinson-tours-flood-damage-in-nea-with-u.s.-sec.-of-ag-and-ar-congr
