Public Statements
Department of Defense Contract to Manufacture the JLTV Awarded to Oshkosh
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Aug. 25, 2015
Location: Little Rock, AR

The U.S. Department of Defense today announced that the military's new Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV) will be manufactured by Oshkosh Defense in Wisconsin. Camden, Arkansas was one of three locations being considered as Lockheed Martin committed to manufacturing the vehicle at the Camden facility if they won the project.
"While Lockheed Martin was not selected as a contractor by the Department of Defense, the state of Arkansas did the right thing by supporting Lockheed Martin to make sure they were competitive," said Governor Asa Hutchinson. "There is no doubt that we were competitive in terms of price, our workforce is second to none, and I remain very grateful for Lockheed Martin's investment and confidence in our Camden facility. That investment will pay off in the long term."
"While the JLTV will not be manufactured in Arkansas, our participation in this project will ultimately benefit southern Arkansas," said Arkansas Economic Development Commission Executive Director Mike Preston. "Lockheed Martin has added some of the most advanced technology in manufacturing at their Camden facility and I have no doubt this combined with the area's workforce will bring growth opportunities to the company in the near future."
"I am disappointed in this decision but will continue to work with federal, state and local leaders to create future job opportunities for Arkansas," U.S. Senator John Boozman said. "I am optimistic that Lockheed Martin's facility in southern Arkansas will continue to play an important role in support of our nation's defense."
"I am disappointed the Army did not select Lockheed Martin to build the JLTV," said U.S. Senator Tom Cotton. "Camden is a first-rate facility and the people who work there are some of the best in the world. I know they would have put their hearts and souls into this project. It is reassuring to know that JLTV will protect our service members--including the many who call Arkansas home--no matter where it is produced."

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/department-of-defense-contract-to-manufacture-the-jltv-awarded-to-oshkosh
