Public Statements
Schools Honored For Implementing Outstanding Physical Fitness and Wellness Programs in Arkansas
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: July 31, 2015
Location: Little Rock, AR

Today, Gov. Asa Hutchinson and Jake Steinfeld, Chairman of the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils, announced the three winning schools that will each receive a state-of-the-art Live PositivelyTM Fitness Center. This multi-million dollar physical fitness campaign has named ML King Magnet Elementary in Little Rock, Lincoln Middle in Lincoln and SC Tucker Elementary in Danville as Arkansas's most outstanding schools for demonstrating new and innovative ways for promoting student physical activity and wellness.
"Congratulations to the three winning schools for implementing healthy living curriculums into their classrooms," said Governor Asa Hutchinson. "I am proud of all the students, staff and community members involved in this effort and thank Jake Steinfeld for bringing this opportunity to Arkansas schools. Because of your dedication and support of active, healthy students, we are creating a healthier Arkansas!"
One of the greatest features of this program is that the Live Positively Fitness Centers are fully funded through public/private partnerships with companies like Coca-Cola, Anthem Foundation and Nike; and even better, there is absolutely no government funding or any costs to taxpayers.
"I've declared war on childhood obesity and I'm thrilled that Governor Hutchinson has joined our efforts to help put a stop to this disease in Arkansas," said Jake "Body by Jake" Steinfeld. "The National Foundation is really excited to award three Arkansas schools with new fitness centers that will have a lasting impact on kids well into their future. I've witnessed first hand the powerful impact a new fitness center has on kidsnot only do they become more active and fit but they also have increased confidence, improved self-esteem and will achieve greater academic success!"
The National Foundation's goal is to build a nation of the fittest, healthiest kids in the world. Physical activity and exercise are shown to help prevent and treat more than 40 chronic diseases, enhance individual health and quality of life and reduce health care costs. In schools, studies show that physical activity improves academic achievement, increases confidence and self-esteem, reduces discipline problems, cuts absenteeism and fosters better interpersonal relationships.
The new fitness centers will be dedicated at ribbon cuttings ceremonies this fall. The National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils plans to bring its program to all 50 states in the coming years.

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/governor-asa-hutchinson-and-jake-steinfeld-honor-three-schools-for-implemen
