Public Statements
Governor Asa Hutchinson Issues Statement in Response to Legislature
Statement
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: July 2, 2015
Location: Little Rock, AR

Governor Asa Hutchinson issued the following response to statements released by the Arkansas House and Senate earlier today involving the recent ruling from the Supreme Court on same-sex marriage and how it applies to Arkansans:
"In response to the statements issued today by the House and Senate Republican Caucuses, I am grateful for their continued efforts to assure the religious freedom protection of pastors, churches and religious institutions as a result of last week's Supreme Court ruling on same sex marriage. I share their concern and frustration with the Supreme Court's decision which is contrary to the expressed will of the Arkansas voter. It is important to note that it affects government action only. It has no bearing on private individuals or institutions. The ability of pastors, churches, and private individuals to follow their own convictions on marriage is protected under the First Amendment and has not been affected by the Supreme Court's ruling. In terms of further legislative action, I am not aware of any legislation that would protect county clerks from the requirements of the ruling.
"I am committed to ensuring the rights of pastors, religious institutions, and private individuals to exercise their freedom of conscience. It is my view that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act passed earlier this year accomplishes this purpose. Regardless, it is very important that our church leaders who have convictions on the definition of marriage understand that I will work every day to protect their right of conscience and freedoms under the 1st Amendment. There will be many future challenges as a result of the Supreme Court decision. I will continue to determine what legislative action is needed to address the myriad of legal issues that will result from the ruling and also what legislation is needed to protect the churches, pastors and religious institutions who cannot follow the dictates of the Court."

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/governor-asa-hutchinson-issues-statement-in-response-to-legislature
