Public Statements
Governor Asa Hutchinson Applauds Disaster Declaration for Arkansas
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: June 26, 2015
Location: Little Rock, AR

As a result of severe weather and flooding during May and early June, the President has approved a major disaster declaration for the State of Arkansas. The declaration, based upon the request from Governor Asa Hutchinson, will allow residents and governmental bodies in the affected areas, who meet certain criteria, to apply for assistance.
Governor Hutchinson released the following statement:
"I applaud the Federal Emergency Management Agency's decision to issue a major disaster declaration for Arkansas. This will provide residents and local communities with financial assistance as they continue their recovery efforts. Much remains to be done, but Arkansans have proven again and again that they can overcome any obstacle.
Individual assistance for individuals and households will be available for residents of Crawford, Garland, Howard, Jefferson, Little River, Miller, Perry, Sebastian, and Sevier counties.
Public assistance for emergency work and repair/replacement of disaster-damaged facilities will be available for Clark, Crawford, Dallas, Franklin, Garland, Hempstead, Howard, Independence, Izard, Jefferson, Johnson, Lafayette, Little River, Logan, Madison, Marion, Miller, Montgomery, Nevada, Newton, Ouachita, Perry, Pike, Polk, Scott, Searcy, Sevier and Yell counties.
Through the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, funds will be available for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property from natural hazards for all areas of the state.
Additional designations may be added to the declaration if requested by the state and warranted by results of further damage assessments.
Arkansas Department of Emergency Management and Federal Emergency Management Agency officials will soon announce plans to open offices throughout the affected areas to accept assistance applications.

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/governor-asa-hutchinson-applauds-disaster-declaration-for-arkansas
