Public Statements
President Grants Gov. Hutchinson's Request for Federal Disaster Declaration
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: June 15, 2017
Location: Little Rock, AR

President Trump today granted Governor Asa Hutchinson's request for a major disaster declaration for the state of Arkansas as a result of damages due to severe storms, tornadoes and flooding during the period of April 26 to May 19, 2017. The declaration will allow residents and governmental bodies in the affected areas0who meet certain criteria to apply for assistance.
Individual Assistance (IA) for individuals and households will be available in Benton, Boone, Carroll, Clay, Faulkner, Fulton, Jackson, Lawrence, Pulaski, Randolph, Saline, Washington and Yell counties. Additional designations may be added to the declaration if requested by the state and warranted by results of further damage assessments. ADEM encourages citizens affected in these counties to apply for assistance by calling 1-800-621-3362 (FEMA) or at www.disasterassistance.gov.
"This morning my office received notification from the Trump administration that it has granted my request for a federal disaster declaration for the Arkansas counties ravaged by the severe storms, tornadoes and flooding in April and May," Governor Hutchinson said.
"This is welcome news for the Arkansas families and businesses who have been waiting patiently for relief from these disasters. These emergency funds will provide much needed relief that will help those coping with the aftermath of these storms to recover, rebuild and get back on their feet. I am especially appreciative of our federal delegation and their support and assistance during this process."
A.J. Gary, Director of the Arkansas Department of Emergency Management, said Thursday: "I received the call from FEMA Region 6 this morning that President Trump approved the declaration. The approved disaster declaration is a direct result of the dedicated and hard work of the ADEM team, FEMA, county judges and emergency managers, and the leadership of Governor Hutchinson."
Public Assistance (PA) for emergency work and repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities will be available in Baxter, Benton, Boone, Carroll, Clay, Cleburne, Conway, Craighead, Cross, Faulkner, Independence, Izard, Jackson, Lawrence, Madison, Marion, Mississippi, Montgomery, Newton, Ouachita, Perry, Poinsett, Prairie, Randolph, Saline, Washington, White and Woodruff counties.
Through the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, funds will be available for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property from natural hazards for all areas of the state.
Arkansas Department of Emergency Management and Federal Emergency Management Agency officials will soon announce plans to open offices throughout the affected areas to accept assistance applications.

Source: https://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/president-grants-gov.-hutchinsons-request-for-federal-disaster-declaration
