Public Statements
Governor Asa Hutchinson Launches New Website; Highlights Entire State
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: April 22, 2015
Location: Little Rock, AR

Governor Asa Hutchinson has launched a new website for governor.arkansas.gov. This new site design is intended to reach beyond the Little Rock bubble and into the homes and offices of all Arkansans. It features all areas of our great state and highlights Governor Hutchinson's focus on job creation, economic development, computer science, and a whole lot more.
Governor Hutchinson released the following statement:
"Welcome to our new website. That is, welcome to your website. Our ultimate goal in launching this new site is to create an accessible, functional and fun way for all Arkansans to keep track of what we're doing, where we're going and how we're getting there. By being "place-based,' you'll know when I'm coming your way, and our growing database of Natural State photographs -- many submitted by Arkansans -- highlight cities and towns from every region. Thank you for stopping by, and I hope to see you again and again."
WEBSITE HIGHLIGHTS:
GEOLOCATION -- When you log on, this new site will establish your location and, in turn, provide a local feel, including the name and photo of that location. To change the location, click on the city and start typing.

PHOTOS -- Nearly every photo you see on this website was provided by an Arkansan who lives in that specified area.

METRICS -- The four blue circles at the top of the homepage keep track of Governor Hutchinson's "Promises Kept." These metrics will update on a regular basis and switch in and out from time to time. At this time, the four metrics are: "Taxes Cut," "Jobs Created," "Businesses Created or Expanded," and "Promises Kept." Each metric is clickable and takes viewers to a specific page.

"PROMISES KEPT" -- This page measures the promises made by the Governor. They are broken down into: GREEN ("Completed"); YELLOW ("Completed, Ongoing"); or BLUE ("In Process"). Most promises lead to a specific page.

LIVE TILES -- In the middle of the homepage you will find the "live tiles" section where specific content will be highlighted. Use the arrows to the left and right of the tiles to navigate through the highlighted content.

MENU -- Click the menu icon (some know it as the "hamburger") in the top right corner for all other content, including: "Our Office" (Boards & Commissions, Proclamations, Executive Orders), "Online Services" (Scheduling Requests, Proclamations Requests, State Seal Use Form, Internship Application, Citizen Alerts, Flag Status, etc.), "Contact Us" and Social Media links.

"ASA ON THE ROAD" -- When activated, this interactive map at the bottom of the homepage shows you where Governor Hutchinson is going to be (GREEN), where he's been (RED) and your location (BLUE).

COMPUTER SCIENCE INITITIVE -- This portion of the site is a one-of-a-kind, fully interactive page focusing on the Governor's computer science initiative. There's information, videos, computer coding games, resources, etc.

"ASA & SUSAN" -- This is a unique -- yet simple -- take on the typical "About" section. Considering that the Governor and First Lady have been married for 41 years, it's fitting that this tile takes you to a page featuring the two of them. This page will develop over time. In the meantime, feel free to click on the "More About Asa" or "More About Susan" link to get to their full, individual bio pages.

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/governor-asa-hutchinson-launches-new-website-highlights-entire-state
