Public Statements
Governor Asa Hutchinson Announces Members of the Computer Science Task Force
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: April 3, 2015
Location: Little Rock, AR

Governor Asa Hutchinson has announced the members of the Computer Science Task Force. The purpose of the Task Force will be: to research and recommend computer science and technology courses and standards; study the computer science and technology needs of the state; recommend strategies to meet the anticipated computer science and technology workforce needs of the state.
Governor Hutchinson issued the following statement:
"This is critical in making sure the computer-science initiative we've started in Arkansas continues to advance and lead the nation. Members of this task force will guide the initiative and provide a plan to motivate and assist teachers and schools across the state."
Members are as follows:
Johnny Key, Department of Education, Commissioner of Education
Tom Chilton, Arkansas Economic Development Commission, Director of Technology Development
Dr. Charisse Childers, Department of Career Education, Director.
Brett Powell, Department of Higher Education, Director.
Daryl Bassett, Department of Workforce Services, Director.
Tim Atkinson, Arkansas Science & Technology Authority, President.
Carl Frank, Arkansas's Computer Science Teachers Association, President.
Gary Dowdy, Arkansas Academy of Computing, President.
Andy Mayes, Bentonville. IT Solutions teacher, Bentonville High School. President of Arkansas Society for Technology in Education. A High School Computer Science Teacher.
Suzanne Mitchell, Little Rock. Executive Director, Arkansas STEM Coalition. Representative of the Arkansas STEM Coalition.
Rasesh Patel, Little Rock. Director of Product Development, Acxiom. Representative in the field of computer programming.
Dave Wengel, Little Rock. Founder and CEO, iDatafy. At-large member.
John James, Fayetteville. CEO, Acumen Brands. At-large member.
James Hendren, Technology Startup Consultant, Self Employed. Little Rock. At-large member.
David Hopkins, Clarksville. Superintendent, Clarksville School District. At-large member.

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/governor-asa-hutchinson-announces-members-of-the-computer-science-task-forc
