Public Statements
Gov. Asa Hutchinson Announces His Submission for Arkansas Development Finance Authority President
Statement
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: March 9, 2015
Location: Little Rock, AK

Governor Asa Hutchinson has submitted the name of Aaron Burkes to the Board of Directors of the Arkansas Development Finance Authority to serve as its new President.
Aaron Burkes was recently selected for the position of associate vice chancellor for business affairs at the University of Arkansas but, before beginning in that post, was invited to serve the State in this important role with ADFA. Burkes is coming back to Arkansas after several years in economic development and college administration roles in northeast Iowa and Madison, Wisconsin.
Governor Hutchinson issued the following statement on Aaron Burkes:
"I am pleased to submit the name of Aaron Burkes to serve as the next president of the Arkansas Development Finance Authority. Aaron's varied experience and educational background make him an ideal fit to lead this department. He understands banking, real estate and the law and, as a former state representative, Aaron knows the legislative process. In addition, his recent experience in economic and workforce development and administration should serve him well in this important post."
Burkes, a former member of the Arkansas House of Representatives, spent 15 years in banking and real estate development in Northwest Arkansas before becoming the executive director of a regional council of governments focused on the economic development and housing needs of five Iowa counties. For the last three years, Burkes has served as an administrator at Madison College in roles that include assistant vice president for economic and workforce development and interim vice president for administration.
Burkes, an Arkansas native and graduate of Southside High in Ft. Smith, received a bachelor's degree from the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville, a master's degree in economics from Clemson University and a juris doctor degree from Baylor University. He is a licensed attorney.

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/gov-asa-hutchinson-announces-his-submission-for-arkansas-development-finan
