Public Statements
Gov. Hutchinson Announces Governor's Council on Common Core Review; Lt. Governor Griffin to Chair
Statement
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Feb. 11, 2015
Location: Little Rock, AK

In a news conference Wednesday morning, Governor Asa Hutchinson followed through on another campaign promise by announcing the formation -- through executive order -- of the Governor's Council on Common Core Review. The Council will be chaired by Lt. Governor Tim Griffin, who joined Governor Hutchinson at the news conference.
The 16-member Council will be comprised of educators, parents, business leaders, and students from all over the state -- all of whom will be appointed by the governor. The Governor's Office will be accepting online applications through February 20 from those who would like to serve on the Council. Please visit www.governor.arkansas.gov to fill out an application. Council members will be announced in early March. The Council will be asked to provide initial recommendations in the early summer and later recommendations in the fall.
Governor Hutchinson issued the following statement:
"We are looking for Arkansans who are committed to high standards in education and who have experience with the Common Core, including educators, parents, business leaders and students.
"I've asked the Lieutenant Governor to head the Council as I know he believes in high academic standards and has a vested interest in the success of Arkansas's students. I recognized early on that I wanted to utilize the talents of Lieutenant Governor Griffin. He has been a partner with me as we proceeded with the tax initiative and other legislation. This was a natural follow-up."
Lt. Governor Griffin issued the following statement:
"I am honored that Governor Hutchinson has chosen me to lead his Council on Common Core Review and that he has given me the opportunity to serve. I have a deep and abiding passion for education, not only as an elected official, but as an Arkansan and the father of two young children in the Little Rock public school system. As Chair of the Governor's Council, my first priority is to listen: I look forward to hearing from my fellow Arkansans, and I am ready to get to work."

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/gov-hutchinson-announces-governors-council-on-common-core-review
