Public Statements
Governor ASA Hutchinson Announces Directors of ADEQ Veterans Affairs & Securities Commissioner
Statement
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Feb. 10, 2015
Location: Little Rock, AK

Governor Asa Hutchinson has announced Becky Keogh as Director of the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality (ADEQ), Lt. Colonel Matt Snead as Director of the Arkansas Department of Veterans Affairs and Edmond Waters as Commissioner of the Arkansas Securities Department.
Governor Hutchinson issued the following statement on Becky Keogh:
"As Arkansans, we are blessed to live in such a beautiful state with abundant natural resources. With it comes the responsibility of preserving and protecting them for the next generation. Becky Keogh understands that we are the Natural State for good reason, and she has a wealth of knowledge and experience from both the regulatory and business perspective. That's why I am pleased to announce her as the new Director of ADEQ. Her background, knowledge of the issues, and love of this state make her an ideal choice, who will bring balance and common-sense leadership to ADEQ."
Becky Keogh is a former Deputy Director at Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality. She currently serves as Regulatory and Environment Manager for BHP Billiton, a global resources company. Prior to that, she was a Vice President and Senior Project Manager for CH2M HILL, an international environmental and engineering consulting firm. She served as a commissioner of the Arkansas Geological Commission from 2006-2009 and, under the former Governor Mike Huckabee, served as Deputy Director of the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality from 1996 to 2006. Becky is a graduate of the University of Arkansas in Chemical Engineering. She will relocate to Little Rock from Houston, Texas.
Governor Hutchinson issued the following statement on Lt. Colonel Matt Snead:
"I am pleased to announce Lt. Colonel Matt Snead as the new Director of the Arkansas Department of Veterans Affairs. Lt. Colonel Snead's understanding of the issues facing veterans, in addition to his experience in state government, has prepared him well to lead this critical department."
Lt. Colonel Matt Snead is a 16-year veteran of the Arkansas National Guard, and plans to continue his service as a traditional Guardsman. He currently serves as the state public affairs officer for the nearly 10,000 soldiers and airmen of the Arkansas National Guard. Prior to that, he served for five years as the first legislative liaison for the Guard. He has held a number of command and staff positions, which includes a deployment to Iraq as a plans officer in 2007. Matt is a graduate of Henderson State University. He lives in Little Rock.
Governor Hutchinson issued the following statement on Edmond Waters:
"It pleases me to name Edmond Waters as Commissioner of the Arkansas Securities Department. Edmond brings vast experience and knowledge to the job, and his understanding of the issues and background in finance will serve him well in this key post in my administration."

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/governor-asa-hutchinson-announces-directors-of-adeq-veterans-affairs-securi
