Public Statements
Transcript of Governor Asa Hutchinson's Healthcare Speech
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Jan. 22, 2015
Location: Little Rock, AR

Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Rahn for your introduction and especially for your leadership at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences and for this forum and this venue to talk about healthcare and its future in Arkansas.
I am delighted that there are a few people interested in this topic. The fact that you're here reflects the importance of this issue for our state, and I'm grateful for your presence here today. I'm particularly glad to see so many legislators that are in the room. I want to recognize Senator Jonathan Dismang for his leadership on the Senate side. He's been a great partner and leader in this effort as well as Speaker Jeremy Gillam. He's done likewise on the House side. He's been a major player in the development of this issue and will be in the future. I also wanted to recognize Senator Cecile Bledsoe, who is the chairman of the Senate Health Committee, as well as Representative Kelley Linck, chairman of the House Health Committee. They have played key roles as we look to this issue and the future. Thank you for your guidance on this issue.
I'm delighted today to introduce the new surgeon general of Arkansas, Dr. Greg Bledsoe. I'm a newly minted governor. He's a newly minted surgeon general. He just got sworn in about 30 minutes ago. Thank you for being here Dr. Bledsoe. You'll be a key advisor on healthcare.
I want to start by thanking the physicians, the nurses and healthcare providers who have labored in the trenches of healthcare in Arkansas, improving our quality of life, working with those who need care. You have been on the front lines. You are committed. You are passionate. And I am grateful for you. And that's important to say at the outset because you came out of your training with a heart for patients, and all of a sudden you find yourself inundated with government regulations and having to spend hours and hours each day and week on matters that do not deal with patient care. And so I am grateful for you. I'm thankful for you and your work, and your sacrifice needs to be recognized.
A college professor that I had always gleefully began each lecture with the phrase, "A moment of review, and then on we go." And that's important in history and it's important today. So I want to spend a moment in review and then we will talk about the future.


Source:
