Public Statements
Asa Hutchinson Releases New Radio Ad Featuring Pine Bluff Native & MLB All-Star Torii Hunter
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Oct. 28, 2014
Location: Little Rock, AR

Republican gubernatorial nominee Asa Hutchinson released a new radio adTuesday featuring Pine Bluff native and Major League Baseball All-Star, Torii Hunter. In the new radio ad, Hunter asks voters to "make real change in our community by casting party labels aside and voting our convictions." Hunter highlights Asa's fight for more majority African American districts in the state's legislature, Asa's principles including his "strong faith God, equal justice for all, and keeping marriage between one man and one woman."
Asa Hutchinson issued the following statement:
"I am honored and grateful to have Torii support me in my campaign for Governor. Torii recognizes the importance of job creation and economic growth to our state, as well as the potential computer science and coding could have in our high schools and beyond.
"My message to Arkansans has been clear and consistent over the course of these many months: My plan is real and it will work for all Arkansans.
"I want to thank Torii for helping me get that message out in these last -- but crucial -- days of our campaign."
Torii Hunter Script:
Torii Hunter: "This is Pine Bluff native and Major League Baseball player Torii Hunter. I'm asking you to vote for my friend, Asa Hutchinson, for Governor.
"Dr. King said that men should be judged by the content of their character. Today, we too often pre-judge political candidates by their party label. I'm asking you to consider Asa for his actions.
"As a lawyer, Asa fought for more majority African American districts in the state's legislature.
"Asa is committed to the principles we hold dear, like a strong faith in God, equal justice for all, and keeping marriage between one man and one woman.
"Asa wants all children to have access to computer science, to expand charter schools, and bring more jobs and small businesses into our communities.
"Asa won't take your vote for granted. Let's make real change in our community by casting party labels aside and voting our convictions.
"Vote Asa Hutchinson for Governor. He's someone we can count on."
PAID FOR BY ASA FOR GOVERNOR

Source: http://www.asaforgovernor.com/asa_hutchinson_releases_new_radio_ad_featuring_pine_bluff_native_mlb_all_star_torii_hunter
