Public Statements
Asa Endorsed by Former NRA President; Ross Flip-Flops on 2nd Amendment
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Oct. 21, 2014
Location: Little Rock, AR

Republican gubernatorial nominee Asa Hutchinson was officially endorsed Tuesday by the immediate past president of the NRA, David Keene, at a news conference in Little Rock.
As Mr. Keene points out in his statement below, there's only one candidate in the race for Governor that has consistently supported our Second Amendment rights, and that's Asa.
David Keene, former President of the National Rifle Association (NRA):
"Asa Hutchinson's passion for our Second Amendment rights goes much further than his votes in Congress. Asa has continued to fight for our constitutional rights -- even in the private sector. When the Second Amendment was under its greatest attack, following the tragedy in Connecticut, Asa stood firm and never wavered. He spent months heading the NRA's National School Shield initiative to find ways to better protect our schools and our children. Asa has always met difficult problems head on. That's what a true leader does.
"On the other hand, Congressman Ross buckled under pressure. While he voted to support the Second Amendment when he was looking for votes in Arkansas, he showed his true colors on his way out of Congress, calling for gun control. He chose to deal with a difficult circumstance by choosing the easy way out.
"There's only one candidate in the race of Governor of Arkansas that has remained consistent in his backing of our Second Amendment, and that is Asa Hutchinson."
Asa Hutchinson, Republican Nominee for Governor:
"I am proud of my unwavering support for the Second Amendment. It is a constitutional right for self-defense and an important part of our sporting heritage. Governors have to make tough decisions, and our state needs someone who will stand up when our freedoms are under attack. I was honored to stand with the NRA and defend the Second Amendment. In contrast, my opponent, Congressman Ross, buckled under pressure and sided with President Obama for more gun control. I pledge to all Arkansans that I will defend, uphold and protect our Constitution and that includes standing firm on the Second Amendment."
After Sandy Hook, the NRA asked Asa to help lead a national effort to protect the Second Amendment and provide recommendations on school safety. This was an initiative he worked on for months, touring a number of schools, interviewing many law enforcement experts and visiting with school officials from all across the country.
For more information on Asa's work with the National School Shield: http://www.nraschoolshield.com/index.html
MIKE ROSS BUCKLES:
Democratic gubernatorial candidate Mike Ross claims to be pro-gun. However, on his way out of Congress, he called for more gun control:
"I think past notions that any change at all in gun laws is a foot in the door -- I think it is time we get beyond that," he said. "America has changed. Unfortunately, it is a different place than when we were children. And we need some commonsense reforms."
"This is not the same America that I grew up in, and I think it is time to address whether there really is a legitimate need for high-capacity weapons that can shoot you know a lot of rounds of ammunition," said Ross, co-chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Sportsmen's Caucus. -- Mike Ross
("Pro-Gun Rep. Mike Ross Supports Ban on High Capacity Assault Weapons," Times Record, http://m.swtimes.com/sections/news/politics/pro-gun-rep-mike-ross-supports-ban-high-capacity-assault-weapons.html, 12/19/12)

Source: http://www.asaforgovernor.com/asa_endorsed_by_former_nra_president_ross_flip_flops_on_2nd_amendment
