Public Statements
The National Federation of Independent Business Endorses Asa Hutchinson for Governor
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Oct. 7, 2014
Location: Little Rock, AR

Republican gubernatorial nominee Asa Hutchinson has received the official endorsement of the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), America's leading small business association.
Sylvester Smith, NFIB State Director, released the following statement:
"The NFIB is a member driven organization. We chose our candidate for governor by polling our 4,300 members.
"A resounding majority of our members told us that Asa Hutchinson was the candidate that small business needs to get behind, because he understands how Main Street Works, and he has been a strong and consistent voice on the issues our members care about."
Scott McClain, owner of the McClain Group in Fort Smith and member of NFIB released the following statement:
"We are proud to announce our endorsement of Asa Hutchinson as the next governor of Arkansas.
"As a small business owner himself, Asa understands what it means to own, operate and grow a business from the ground up. He recognizes both the struggles and successes of small business and more than understands the importance small businesses play in Arkansas. He will be the kind of leader our state needs, and we are certain his plan for Arkansas's future is the correct path forward."
Asa Hutchinson issued the following statement:
"Small businesses are the backbone of our economy, accounting for about 97 percent of all employers in Arkansas, which is why, running to be the Jobs Governor, I am thrilled to receive this endorsement from the NFIB.
"Arkansas needs jobs, and I have an effective and concrete plan that will actually work for all Arkansans. My plan will not only help attract and keep business here in the Natural State, but it will also encourage entrepreneurship and provide the critical economic growth necessary to sustain that growth for generations to come. Together, we can reach this goal."

Source: http://www.asaforgovernor.com/the_national_federation_of_independent_business_endorses_asa_hutchinson_for_governor
