Public Statements
Asa Hutchinson Releases New Ad: "Something Different" - Highlights his Plan for Arkansas
Statement
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Sept. 29, 2014
Location: Little Rock, AR

Republican gubernatorial nominee Asa Hutchinson released a new television ad Monday titled "Something Different". The new TV ad highlights Asa's six-point plan for Arkansas's future, including lower taxes, training workers to compete for jobs and computer science in every high school. This new ad cuts through all the negativity on the airwaves and provides a clear cut plan that will actually work for all Arkansans.
Learn more about Asa's plan at www.AsaPlan.com
Asa Hutchinson issued the following statement:
"As you've probably noticed, there's so much negativity in political ads lately that it's difficult for voters to get a clear understanding of any candidate. That's why I thought you could use something different. This ad cuts through the clutter and lays out my plan for the future of our great state. It's a plan that will work for every Arkansan -- from Jonesboro to El Dorado, and everywhere in between.
"I want to be the Jobs Governor, and I believe that starts by lowering taxes, which will make our state more competitive. That also means giving our workers the training they need to compete in the modern workplace.
"One of the most important aspects of my plan for job creation and economic growth starts in Arkansas high schools. Computer programming jobs are growing at twice the national average, but only one out of every ten high schools, nationally, offer computer science as a graduation credit. This is an opportunity for our state to lead in technology. I promise to make computer science classes available in every Arkansas high school within the first four years of my administration. We must provide our students new avenues for success here at home."
Script:
Asa: There's a lot of negativity in politics these days, so I thought you'd be ready for something a little different, like what I'll do as governor.
Arkansans pay the highest income taxes in the region. Let's lower them; Put computer science in every high school and demand high expectations and choice; Give our workers the training they need to compete; And stand up every day to Washington's overreaching regulations.
I'm Asa Hutchinson. As governor, we'll hit the ground running and never look back.

Source: http://www.asaforgovernor.com/asa_hutchinson_releases_new_ad_something_different_highlights_his_plan_for_arkansas
