Public Statements
National Right to Life and Arkansas Right to Life Endorse Asa Hutchinson for Governor
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Sept. 12, 2014
Location: Little Rock, AR

Republican nominee for Governor, Asa Hutchinson, has received the official endorsement of National Right to Life and the state chapter, Arkansas Right to Life, a non-profit public service organization whose primary purpose is to protect the sanctity of human life while educating the public on alternatives to abortion.
Asa is receiving both endorsements over Democratic opponent Congressman Mike Ross who has flip-flopped in his stance on abortion to a pro-choice position by stating that he believes abortion should be legal. Furthermore, Ross opposed the 12 week and 20 week abortion bans passed by the Arkansas General Assembly and referred to the supporters of these bills as "misguided politicians" who were attacking "women and families".
National Right to Life released the following statement:
"This endorsement reflects your commitment to strengthening a culture of life. We look forward to working with you to protect the most vulnerable members of the human family -- unborn children and medically disabled or dependent persons, whose lives are threatened by abortion or euthanasia.
"All voters who are concerned with the right to life and with the protection of the most vulnerable members of the human family should vote for you as governor, so that you can work to advance vital pro-life public policies."
Arkansas Right to Life released the following statement:
"We appreciate the values by which you live, the inspiration you provide those in your community, and the courage with which you stand up for principles in which you believe.
"This endorsement also reflects our appreciation of your solid pro-life position during your many years of public service.
"The countless Arkansans who respect the sanctity of innocent human life appreciate the deep commitment you have for this important issue."
Asa released the following statement upon receiving the endorsements:
"I am honored to have received this endorsement from National and Arkansas Right to Life. This is a matter of moral conviction for me and should not change based upon politics. I do not understand Mike Ross being pro-choice in the State Senate; and then voting pro-life in Congress; and then changing again to pro-choice when he decided to run for Governor. To me, this is a matter of conviction, and I have been consistently pro-life. I would have signed both the 12 week and 20 week abortion bans passed by the Arkansas General Assembly, which he opposed."

Source: http://www.asaforgovernor.com/national_right_to_life_and_arkansas_right_to_life_endorse_asa_hutchinson_for_governor
