Public Statements
Asa Hutchinson Announces "Teachers for Asa" Coalition; Committed to Finding Solution to Teacher Insurance
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Aug. 23, 2014
Location: Little Rock, AR

Republican gubernatorial nominee Asa Hutchinson is proud to announce the "Teachers for Asa" coalition. Teachers from all across the state gathered on the steps of the state Capitol Saturday to endorse Asa's plan for education and his commitment to support our teachers in finding a long-term fix to the teacher insurance problem.
"As a product of Arkansas public schools, I understand firsthand the critical role education plays in developing our young people. In fact, all four of my children finished their high school education in the Fort Smith public school system, and Susan, my wife of 41 years, has spent a good deal of time in Arkansas public schools as a substitute teacher.
"Arkansas teachers are key to our state's future success. It has long been my belief that tax reduction coupled with an improved education system will lead to job creation and economic growth, my number one priority as the next governor. Arkansas has a chance to lead in areas many thought we never could, including technology education, which is why I am committed to making computer science courses available in every Arkansas high school within four years. Nationally, less than 1 in 10 schools offer the curriculum even though programming jobs are growing at twice the national average.
"Our teachers will help us reach these goals. We are competing for jobs in the global marketplace and these jobs will flow to states best equipped with the skilled workforce and educational system that matches the critical technological training of the modern workplace. Arkansas has the opportunity to be one of these states."
Teachers for Asa is a coalition of teachers, administrators and others who are invested in the education of our children and who believe that Asa Hutchinson is the best choice, not just for Arkansas, but also for Arkansas's teachers. The coalition will advise Asa and the campaign on issues that are important to teachers and will work to elect Asa as governor of Arkansas.
Teachers for Asa will be part of the grassroots organization that will inform and mobilize support for Asa across the state. The input from the coalition will help the campaign reach teachers and other education professionals by:
-Voicing the issues important to teachers;
-Providing input on specific policy concerns;
-Sharing Asa's plans for education with other teachers and administrators;
-Working to register teachers to vote;
-Mobilizing supporters to vote;
Asa understands the importance teachers' roles are to the future of the state, and he recognizes the burden they currently face with teachers insurance and is committed to help find a substantive solution to the ongoing problem.
"I am proud to have the support of these teachers standing with me today, and as governor, I promise to stand with them to find a long-term solution to the teacher insurance problem currently facing our state. Our teachers have the incredible responsibility of preparing the next generation of Arkansans, and I believe they should not be forced to wonder where their next paycheck is going or if they can afford reliable health care."
Teachers Kayla Davidson of Jonesboro and Cindy Allen of Fort Smith have been appointed honorary co-chairs for "Teachers for Asa".
"As a teacher, I know the struggles and opportunities facing educators in this state," said Davidson. "Arkansas teachers need a leader who will work with us to ensure that teachers health insurance is protected and that we have a voice at the State Capitol."
"The number of hours and the amount of work many teachers put into their students often goes unnoticed, but the challenges they face every day are very real," added Allen. "Asa Hutchinson is exactly the kind of leader teachers need in Little Rock. He will fight for us and fight for the future of our health care. I am certain his vision for education, especially his plan to put computer science in every Arkansas high school, and the state as a whole is what we need to grow our economy and create jobs."

Source: http://www.asaforgovernor.com/asa_hutchinson_announces_teachers_for_asa_coalition_committed_to_finding_solution_to_teacher_insurance
