Public Statements
Mitt Romney Officially Endorses Asa Hutchinson For Governor
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Aug. 20, 2014
Location: Jonesboro, AR

Republican gubernatorial nominee Asa Hutchinson received the official endorsement of former Governor and Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney Wednesday afternoon during a press conference on the campus of Arkansas State University in Jonesboro.
Governor Romney released the statement below following the press conference:
"Governors make a difference in the lives of the people they serve, and I have read, with some care, Asa Hutchinson's plan for the people of Arkansas. He has a plan that actually works. It will create better jobs, better pay, and better educated young people. That's what the people of Arkansas, and frankly, the people of many states, would like to see. The governor-to-be has proposed lower tax rates for middle income families, computer science education in all Arkansas high schools, better job training, and a higher minimum wage. This is a series of policies which don't sound Republican or Democrat. They just make common sense. The people of Arkansas are common sense voters, and you're seeing that in their support for Asa.
"These proposals, along with others in his plan, will provide a better future for all Arkansans, which is why I am pleased to endorse Asa Hutchinson for governor of the great state of Arkansas."
Asa Hutchinson issued the following statement:
"It's an honor to welcome Governor Romney back to our wonderful state and to share with him my plan for job creation and economic growth.
"We have an incredible opportunity to lead in areas many never thought were possible, which will create thousands of jobs and spur economic growth for all Arkansans. My plan shows us how to get there, and my commitment to education -- including computer science education -- will provide those avenues for growth. Nationally, only one out of every ten schools offer computer coding to their students, however, computer programming jobs are growing at twice the national average. The need is there and so is the opportunity. The next Bill Gates or Mark Zuckerberg could very well come from Forrest City or Fort Smith, Arkansas. Computer science will no longer be neglected in our state."

Source: http://www.asaforgovernor.com/mitt_romney_officially_endorses_asa_hutchinson_for_governor
