Public Statements
Asa Hutchinson Announces Action to Protect Arkansas Utility Ratepayers from New Burdensome EPA Regulations
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Aug. 4, 2014
Location: Little Rock, AR

Asa Hutchinson announced today that as governor he will fight for Arkansas ratepayers and have Arkansas join the twelve states that are currently challenging the proposed Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) rules which place new mandates on Arkansas's electric generating plants, threaten our ability to create new jobs and hurt our residential ratepayers.
As governor, Asa Hutchinson will seek legislative support and will ask the Arkansas Attorney General to join the other states in challenging this overreach by the federal government.
Asa Hutchinson issued the following statement:
"As Governor, I expect the General Assembly and Attorney General to be supportive of this effort to protect Arkansas jobs and ratepayers. This is essential to keeping our electric rates affordable and to attract manufacturers to Arkansas. I want to be the "Jobs Governor" and keeping competitive energy rates is essential for Arkansas to compete and win the battle for jobs. I fully expect this case to reach the U.S. Supreme Court and Arkansas's voice needs to be heard."
Background
One new rule, proposed by the EPA on June 2, 2014, will impose new limits on emissions for existing electric generating plants, reducing certain emissions by 30% by 2030. Currently, there are twelve states that have joined in a federal legal challenge against the EPA[i]. The states involved in the suit are Alabama, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Nebraska, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, West Virginia and Wyoming, and include both Democrat and Republican governors.
The states contend that the proposed EPA regulation is contrary to law and Congressional intent as stated in the Clean Air Act. Furthermore, the states argue that the EPA exceeded its authority in acting contrary to the express language of the Clean Air Act and subsequent court rulings because the new rule is proposed under Section 111 of the Clean Air Act although existing power plants are covered under Section 112.
Another new EPA rule is expected to be proposed near the end of the year and major U.S. electricity users are already analyzing the expected costs. The National Association of Manufacturers has released a study that estimates the cost to Arkansas to be more than 10,000 lost jobs, $240 million dollars in compliance costs and $19 million dollars in costs directly to consumers.[ii]
Reducing the availability of coal as a source of electric power will raise costs both to residential and manufacturing consumers in Arkansas while at the same time reducing reliability of energy production. Raising power costs will have a negative impact on employment in Arkansas, particularly as Arkansas is highly dependent on coal, generating approximately 50 percent of our electricity from coal burning plants.[iii] Because compliance costs and higher rates will be borne by the ratepayers of Arkansas, the new EPA rule will greatly harm our state's ability to attract jobs and grow our economy.

Source: http://www.asaforgovernor.com/asa_announces_action_against_burdensome_epa_regulations
