Public Statements
On Job Creation, Congressman Ross Has Zero Credibility Under His Watch: Wasteful Spending, More Debt, Higher Unemployment
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: June 12, 2014
Location: Little Rock, AR

Longtime Democratic Congressman Mike Ross has zero credibility in terms of job creation.
He has zero credibility in job creation in the congressional district he represented for more than a decade in congress. While Arkansas's 4th Congressional District struggled with job loss overall, Mike Ross's own home county saw unemployment increase by nearly 50% during the time Ross was in Washington, D.C. Furthermore, when Mike Ross took office, national unemployment was 4.2%. After twelve years in Washington, D.C., Ross left office with unemployment at 7.9%.
Mike Ross has zero credibility on job creation when he helped lay the groundwork for Obamacare.
He has zero credibility in reducing the burden of government regulations when almost 40,000 new federal rules were published during Ross's years in Washington, D.C.
He has zero credibility on reducing wasteful government spending when he voted for the "cash for clunkers" program and the stimulus package. All of this spending helped to add more than $10 trillion dollars to the federal debt while Ross was in Washington D.C.
Asa Hutchinson issued the following statement:
"When it comes to job creation, there are fundamental differences between myself and my Democratic opponent, Mike Ross. I released The Asa Plan - Making Arkansas Competitive: A New Jobs Plan for 2015 & Beyond in April of this year. Job creation is so vitally important that, as governor, I will lead our economic development and not delegate it to another office. Mike Ross wants his running mate, John Burkhalter, to lead his effort. I have said from the beginning that my top priority is job creation and economic growth. I will be the jobs governor; Mike Ross is not sure what his priority will be. Last month he claimed that he would be the education governor and that was his top priority. This month he says "jobs first". What will his top priority be next month?"

Source: http://www.asaforgovernor.com/on_job_creation_congressman_ross_has_zero_credibility
