Public Statements
Asa Hutchinson Says Crime is a Challenge Arkansas Must Face; Crime Impacts Personal Safety and Hurts Job Creation, Pledges More Resources And Greater Accountability
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: May 27, 2014
Location: Little Rock, AR

Asa Hutchinson, former federal prosecutor and Republican nominee for Governor, announced today that he would take action to make Arkansas families safer and to reduce the problem of violent crime and drugs as part of his focus on job creation and economic development.
Hutchinson described the problem in terms of both public safety and as a challenge to economic growth.
"We know crime is more than a news story when a person worries about a home invasion; or a neighborhood bank robbery. You also have the frustration of business owners and economic developers unable to hire new employees because of illegal drug use. This reality makes it doubly difficult for Arkansas to accomplish its goals in terms of economic growth and job creation. Too often, when a violent crime occurs, we see early release from prison as a factor or drugs and many time it is both."
To illustrate the challenge for Arkansas, Hutchinson cited statistics from local news sources, including the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette. By the end of April, Little Rock has already had twenty-two killings, with eleven taking place that month alone. According to the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, only two months since 1993 have matched this level of violence.
There are five areas that Hutchinson asserts we must address in order to reduce the negative impact of crime and drugs on our streets. The emphasis of a Hutchinson administration will range from increased enforcement efforts to improved drug education and treatment efforts. They include:
Improved accountability and supervision for parolees who are released from prison.
More resources for state law enforcement and drug task forces to go after violent criminals and those who threaten society. These new resources range from increased personnel in drug enforcement to funding of necessary additional prison space.
Support for proven and effective reentry programs for those who have paid their penalties and desire to get a job, support their families and meet their obligations to their communities.
Offer technical and expert assistance to local schools in the area of school security and safety for the protection of our children.
Increased funding for drug treatment courts that have proven to be successful in changing lives from drug addiction and crime to responsibility.

Source: http://www.asaforgovernor.com/asa-hutchinson-says-crime-is-a-challenge-arkansas-must-face
