Public Statements
Issue Position: The Asa Plan for a Safer Arkansas
Issue Position
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Public safety is a primary responsibility of government. Arkansans expect to be able to go to the grocery store without worrying about being robbed or fear of other violence. This is why we must ensure that Arkansas's criminal justice system works. A safe Arkansas is also a job creating Arkansas. Reducing illegal drug use increases the number of people available for the work force and a safer Arkansas is the right environment to recruit industry and create jobs.
From arrest to parole and everything in between, we need to have confidence that necessary action is being taken to protect our citizens and to enforce the law. As a former prosecutor, Asa Hutchinson knows firsthand the importance of putting violent offenders in prison and keeping dangerous criminals off our streets. As governor, Asa will work to protect Arkansans and to reduce the violence associated with parole absconders and drug crimes. Asa's plan to increase public safety and to reduce the threat of crime includes:
Improved Accountability and Supervision for Parolees Released From Prison
More Resources for State Law Enforcement and Drug Task Forces
Support for Proven and Effective Reentry Programs
Offer Technical and Expert Assistance in School Security and Safety
Increased Funding for Drug Treatment Courts
1. Improved Accountability and Supervision for Parolees Released from Prison
In a six month period from September 2012 through March 2013, at least four schools across Arkansas went on lock-down because of incidents that involved a parolee[i]. In addition, parole absconders have been involved in serious crimes within the last few years and even recent weeks as a result of a parole system that did not provide the needed supervision and consequences for violators[ii]. This is unacceptable and shows the need for serious parole reform. Asa's plan to reform our parole system includes:
Require experience in criminal justice for the Parole Board -- We need to have more accountability in our parole system. Too often, parolees reject a chance to build a new life after prison, and instead put everyday Arkansans in danger and fear by reengaging in the drug trade and acts of violence. The experience of the Parole Board in the criminal justice system is important in building an accountable and effective system of parole. As Governor, Asa's appointees to the Parole Board will have experience in putting violent offenders away, not merely setting them free.
Extending the period of time parole can be revoked -- Right now, when parole is revoked, it can be revoked for 1-12 months, with an average revocation of 6 months[iii]. This is not a sufficient deterrent for risky and dangerous conduct. Parole officers need more authority to hold parole violators accountable. While working to return to a productive role in society, parolees need to know that a revocation of their parole is a serious matter.
Reevaluating the portion of sentence that must be completed before being eligible for parole -- Currently, prisoners convicted of serious crimes can be paroled after serving only a portion of their sentence. It is important for offenders to take their sentences seriously; parole that is too early undermines the gravity of the offense and the victim's confidence in our justice system.
2. More Resources for State Law Enforcement and Drug Task Forces
Asa will work with the legislature to provide more resources to state law enforcement and drug task forces to go after violent criminals and those who threaten society. These new resources range from increased personnel in drug enforcement to the funding of necessary additional prison space. In addition, local police departments and sheriff offices will receive more cooperation and coordination from the Arkansas State Police to assist in preventing drug trafficking. Asa recognizes the need to make adjustments to Act 570 in order to give prosecutors more flexibility in prosecuting property and drug crimes.
3. Support for Proven and Effective Reentry Programs
Support for proven and effective reentry programs for those who have paid their penalties and desire to get a job, support their families and meet their obligations to their communities. For those who have completed their sentences or are deemed ready for parole, we need to invest in reentry programs that have proven to provide realistic and helpful options. This kind of investment creates opportunities for ex-offenders to gain employment and meet their responsibilities to their families and communities. As governor, Asa pledges to invest $300,000 in additional money for successful reentry programs.
4. Technical and Professional School Safety Assistance
Offer technical and expert assistance to local schools in the area of school safety for the protection of our children. School safety is close to Asa's heart. After the tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary School, Asa led the National School Shield in exploring the best practices in school safety. As governor, Asa will designate a position within the Department of Education to serve as a resource to local school districts in the area of safety and security.
5. Increased Funding for Drug Treatment Courts
Increased funding for drug treatment courts that have proven to be successful in changing lives from drug addiction and crime to responsibility. Asa has long been an advocate of drug treatment courts and understands that treatment is an essential ingredient in helping addicts end their dependence on crime and harmful substances. Asa will call for increasing the number of drug treatment courts. For example, Franklin County does not currently have a drug court and the closest available court is in Johnson County.
Conclusion
Public safety is a primary responsibility of government and Asa is committed to keeping our streets and our communities safe for our children and families. Arkansas will be hampered in job creation as long as illegal drugs drain vitality from our work force. Working together Arkansas can unite law enforcement, treatment and education together to successfully discourage illegal drug use and to reduce violent crime and property crimes in Arkansas.
[i] http://pbcommercial.com/sections/news/police-and-fire/bond-set-alleged-burglar-who-ran-through-school.html http://www.katv.com/story/20617004/traffic-stop-ends-in-chase-through-searcys-southwest-middle-school http://www.katv.com/story/20757595/morrilton-man-murdered-during-day-near-schools http://5newsonline.com/2013/03/14/armed-man-prompts-lockdown-at-lavaca-schools/
[ii] http://www.arkansasmatters.com/story/d/story/second-suspect-arrested-in-garland-country-triple/40488/fO0twXmsJEy8vZwu7P4DKw
[iii] http://paroleboard.arkansas.gov/FAQs/Pages/default.aspx

Source: http://www.asaforgovernor.com/the-asa-plan-for-a-safer-arkansas
