Public Statements
Issue Position: Education
Issue Position
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

"As a graduate of the public schools in Arkansas, I recognize the critical role that education plays in developing our young people. All four of my children finished their high school education in the public school system in Fort Smith and my wife, Susan, worked as a substitute teacher for a number of years within the Fort Smith public schools." - Asa Hutchinson
Public Schools - Under the Arkansas Constitution, the State has a constitutional responsibility to provide a quality public education. Asa fully supports this principle knowing how important our local schools are to our families, our communities and the future of Arkansas.
Choice - Parents have to make decisions about their children's education and particularly what school each should attend. Many times the decision will be different for each child depending upon the child's unique needs and interests. Asa's family is an example of choice in education. Susan and Asa sent their children to public schools, private schools, parochial schools and they home schooled for a time as well. That is choice in education at work and the choices Asa and Susan made reflect the needs and interests of each child.
"We have to recognize that parents may make different choices in education for their children. Some parents will choose home school, private school or public charter schools as an alternative to the traditional public school setting. It is important that these options are available even though our tax-payer resources go to the public school system including public charter schools." - Asa Hutchinson
Charter Schools - Asa supports public charter schools because of their ability to innovate and provide unique choices in education for parents. A charter school is designed to have fewer regulations for day to day management of the school and provides an education environment that is accountable for the result.
Common Core - Asa will oppose any effort to have Arkansas's curriculum dictated by the federal government. Asa is concerned about the implementation of the Common Core standards and the impact they have had on local decisions such as the flexibility to teach cursive writing. High standards in education are essential and Asa fully supports efforts to increase our student performance in the core subjects as well as science, technology, engineering and mathematics. But the curriculum and assessments to meet these high standards in education should be determined in Arkansas, not Washington, DC.
Computer Science - Asa pledges to have computer science offered in every high school in Arkansas within 4 years. Right now, only one in ten high schools across the country teach computer science courses that include coding. This means Arkansas has an opportunity to lead the nation and to provide students with the skills needed to earn high paying jobs and to bring hi-tech industry to Arkansas. Asa will work with the legislature to change the law to give a math or science credit (core graduation credit) for a computer science class.
Workforce Education - A skilled workforce is a necessary ingredient of economic growth. Plumbers, electricians, welders and mechanics are examples of skilled workers needed across Arkansas. Using the resources we already have more efficiently, we can make sure that Arkansas workers have the skills they need to succeed.
Teacher Insurance - Arkansas teachers are entrusted with our most precious assets - our children. We need to attract bright and talented teachers and part of that is offering affordable options for health insurance. As governor, Asa will work with the legislature to ensure that our teachers have secure and affordable health insurance.
K-12 - Asa pledges to adequately and fairly fund K-12 education since it is the right thing to do for our children and it is required by the Arkansas Supreme Court.
Higher Education - Asa wants to partner with our institutions of higher learning to maintain an efficient and affordable system of higher education in Arkansas. We must increase the number of our college graduates and we need to reduce the number of students requiring remedial education in college. Higher education has changed Asa's life and Asa recognizes how important our 4 year and 2 year colleges are to our state.
Pre-K Education - Asa supports increasing the funding for our existing pre-K education program that focuses on children being ready to learn when they start grade school. Right now under the program known as Arkansas Best Chance the state pays the costs of pre-K education for families under 200% of the poverty level. This program has not been fully funded and Asa pledges to work for increased funding and for greater accountability and efficiency in the delivery of our early childhood education programs.

Source: http://www.asaforgovernor.com/issues
