Public Statements
Issue Position: The Hutchinson Plan For Skills and Jobs Training
Issue Position
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Arkansas has many advantages in economic development, including natural resources, a strategic geographic location and people who are willing to work. However, when businesses choose where to locate, other states provide a better-trained workforce with greater technical skills.[i] According to the 2011 U.S. Skills Gap Report by the Manufacturing Institute, 83% of businesses that rely on skilled production had a serious or moderate shortage of qualified workers. This needs to change. Arkansas can lower taxes, offer incentives and provide infrastructure, but unless Arkansas develops its human capital by investing in the training required for the skilled jobs of today, we will not be successful in winning the "jobs war". We will continue to be passed over and other states will continue to grow faster in economic development unless we seize the opportunity to bring manufacturing jobs back to Arkansas.[ii] The Hutchinson plan to PREPARE creates a smarter and more efficient way of skilled jobs training in Arkansas.
I.
Arkansas has made an effort to address the need for greater skills training that reflects the needs of industry and business but there is more that can be done and it can be done more efficiently. Currently, Arkansas has several agencies responsible for providing training for today's workforce. There are also many different programs, some using federal dollars and some using state dollars, that work toward providing these skills.
The Arkansas Economic Development Commission (AEDC) works with six[iii] other agencies to provide a Career Readiness Certificate to demonstrate that an individual possesses the skills demanded by today's jobs.[iv] In addition, the Existing Workforce Training Program and the Business & Industry Training Program both provide training to Arkansas workers. Arkansas Works and the Workforce Training Consortia both coordinate training of employees to match the needs of employers. The Department of Workforce Services and the Department of Career Education each have programs that they administer jointly or separately. Some apply to current high school students, although most do not.




Source:
