Public Statements
Press Release - Asa, GOP Candidates: Vote Values Over Partisanship
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Nov. 3, 2006
Location: Fayetteville, AR


Asa, GOP Candidates: Vote Values Over Partisanship
Hutchinson warns against return to machine politics, corruption, inherent in one-party rule; Questions potentially illegal financial dealings in Beebe campaign
Fayetteville - Asa Hutchinson, the 2006 Republican nominee for Arkansas Governor, joined today with Republican candidates and elected officials to remind voters about the values at stake in this year's election, and to warn against a return to machine politics and one-party rule in Arkansas.
In a Fayetteville news conference, Hutchinson and other elected officials gathered four days before Election Day to remind voters how clear the contrasts between the two parties have become on such defining issues in Arkansas as defending life, cutting taxes, defending traditional marriage, defending local schools from closure and cracking down on illegal immigration.
Hutchinson also pointed to the recent revelation that his Democratic opponent, Mike Beebe, had contributed $230,000 from his campaign to the Democratic Party of Arkansas in an apparent violation of state campaign finance laws.
Hutchinson noted that Beebe's contribution of the funds suggests that, even before he is elected, Beebe is setting the course for what Arkansas would look like under his leadership - a state where powerful insiders need not follow the rules and make special arrangements to secure and hold political power.
"We saw what happens when one party dominates and there are not checks and balances," Hutchinson said. "During the early 1990s one party dominated every branch of government, resulting in notorious scandals on a regular basis as supposed public servants ripped off and abused the public on a regular basis."
"When Gov. Huckabee finally took office, we finally had a leader who wasn't party of the Good Ole Boys network and was willing to stand up to the corruption taking place in the Arkansas Legislature," Hutchinson said. "Let's not go back to those bad old days."
Hutchinson was joined by Republican statewide, legislative, and county officials and candidates who emphasized what is at stake for Arkansas this election and urged supporters to reach out to independents and conservative Democrats to go to the polls and vote values over partisanship.
"This election is about more than any one candidate, and it's about more than a political party," Hutchinson said. "It's about leadership and the future direction of our state.
"It's about values, and who best represents the values of Arkansans. I am pro-life; my opponent pro-choice. I want to train state police to crack down on illegal immigration in Arkansas; my opponent opposes this," Hutchinson said. "I want to eliminate the grocery tax immediately; my opponent says we can't afford this. The contrasts between us are clear. Arkansas is at a crossroads - to either move forward based on the values we as Arkansans hold dear, or to go back to government by a few powerful insiders."
Gov. Mike Huckabee offered a statement of support for the Republican team, urging Arkansas to consider how far the state has come in developing a more open and accountable system of government from the days when the state was gripped by corruption and high taxes under single-party rule.
"Fairer taxes, conservative values, efficient government - the participants of today's rally all share these ideals and have all been instrumental teammates in the realized goal to better Arkansas during the past decade," said Huckabee, who was traveling and unable to attend. "With their continued service, we will be able to provide a level of efficiency and fairness that has become the unwavering standard of the Republican Party."
Hutchinson and other speakers emphasized key themes of building upon the record of Republican leadership in Arkansas over the last ten years under Huckabee:
Tax Reform - Hutchinson emphasized that under Huckabee, Arkansas has seen the state's first broad-based tax reform in history, and pledged to continue working to lower the tax burden to put more money in working families' pockets and to drive jobs growth in the state. He cited the massive state budget surplus - news reports just today indicate that state revenue growth continues to be strong - as evidence that the state can afford to eliminate the grocery tax and enact other growth-oriented tax reforms. He credited Huckabee's leadership for the growth in state revenues.
"Under Republican leadership, Arkansas taxpayers can expect to see lower taxes and more jobs growth," Hutchinson said. "With a projected budget surplus of more than $700 million, we have a historic opportunity to reduce the tax burden in Arkansas while still meeting our critical needs for education, jails and more. Under a Mike Beebe administration, you'll never see that tax relief, but I've made a firm commitment to cut taxes now."
Defending Traditional Family Values - Hutchinson noted that while Democratic candidates have been evasive on key questions surrounding the defense of life and traditional marriage, he and other Republicans have been clear in their support of the pro-life cause and their commitment to defending traditional marriage and family arrangements.
Cracking Down On Illegal Immigration - While Democratic candidates have failed to advance an agenda to confront the problem of illegal immigration in Arkansas, Hutchinson pointed out that he and other candidates for statewide office and for the Legislature have led the debate in explaining how they would work to secure Arkansas communities against illegal immigration.
Accountability in Government - In the 1990s, Arkansas experienced a series of corruption scandals that forced numerous elected officials into resignation and even prison, including Gov. Jim Guy Tucker (convicted of mail fraud) and disgraced Sen. Nick Wilson, who defrauded Arkansas taxpayers of millions of dollars in a corrupt legislative scheme. Hutchinson noted that a return to one-party rule under the Democrats would lay the groundwork for a revived system of "machine politics" and corruption in the state capitol, and he encourage Arkansas to revisit the historical record for a reminder of the scandals of the past.
In addition, Secretary of State candidate Jim Lagrone emphasized the need to clean up the state's election processes and systems by ensuring that Arkansas has reliable voting technology and ensuring that every vote counts.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/CampaignNews/default.aspx?NewsID=120
