Public Statements
Press Release - 9/11 Commission: Beebe Attacks On Asa Homeland Security Experience "Petty Politics"
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Oct. 19, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR


Press Release - 9/11 Commission: Beebe Attacks On Asa Homeland Security Experience "Petty Politics"
Hutchinson: Beebe Lacks Will To Tackle Illegal Immigration in Arkansas
Little Rock, Ark. - Asa Hutchinson, the 2006 Republican nominee for Arkansas Governor, chastised his opponent today for using "politically opportunistic" distortions to attack the men and women working to keep the United States safe from another terrorist attack.
In a Little Rock news conference, Hutchinson said Beebe is flagrantly misrepresenting the conclusions of the bipartisan National Commission On Terrorist Attacks Upon The United States (the "9/11 Commission") in an effort to politicize Homeland Security. Hutchinson produced a letter from Gov. Tom Kean, who chaired the 9/11 Commission, praising Hutchinson's leadership at the Department of Homeland Security and dismissing Beebe's distortions as "petty politics."
"You would think the Attorney General would have a higher regard for, or at least a better understanding of, the difficult work facing our first responders and law enforcement agencies working night and day to protect our country from another terrorist attack," Hutchinson said. "It's disappointing that he would smear the reputation of a good agency and the men and women who work for that agency in a politically opportunistic effort to get at me."
Hutchinson said Beebe's increasingly shrill attacks are evidence that the race is too close for his comfort and is an attempt to deflect criticism away from Beebe's opposition to cracking down on illegal immigration in Arkansas.
"Mr. Beebe's attacks display both a gross lack of understanding about law enforcement and a failure of leadership to tackle the tough challenges facing Arkansas," said Hutchinson. "His opposition to letting state police arrest illegal aliens they encounter in the regular course of their work shows he is out of step with the views of the majority of voters in Arkansas, and he is desperate to change the subject."
Hutchinson noted that he has laid out a clear and specific plan as Governor to address the problem of illegal immigration in Arkansas, while the Attorney General has opposed taking action.
During Tuesday's debate, Beebe even mocked the concept of allowing state police to arrest illegal aliens, misunderstanding such partnerships as requiring state police to drive illegal aliens back to the Laredo.
"I was surprised, frankly, to see the Attorney General, somebody who is supposed to know a little something about law enforcement, so badly misunderstands what other states are already successfully doing to combat illegal immigration," Hutchinson said. "The Attorney General seems to think that allowing state police to arrest illegal aliens would require them to also drive them down to the border. Seriously, he said this. That's one of the most bizarre and uninformed things I've heard in quite some time."
Hutchinson pointed out that while he was Undersecretary of Homeland Security he successfully promoted just these kinds of partnerships between federal and state law enforcement. One example he cited was his work with Governor Bob Riley and the state police of Alabama.
In a statement issued today, Governor Riley praised Hutchinson's leadership in helping to set up innovative solutions to the challenges states across the country are facing in dealing with illegal immigration.
"Asa Hutchinson is a leader who, throughout his career in public service, has volunteered for tough challenges," Gov. Riley said "In Alabama, we've benefited from his leadership. During his service at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Asa made it possible for Alabama to have a role in combating the flow of illegal aliens into our state.
"Since 2003, when Alabama State Troopers were granted the authority to receive federal training and enforce federal immigration law, more than 200 illegal aliens in Alabama have been apprehended by 60 State Troopers who completed the training," Riley continued. "Asa realizes it will take a partnership approach between the federal government and states to combat illegal immigration. He's made it possible for us to do that here in Alabama."
Hutchinson pointed to the Alabama experience as a model for what could be accomplished in Arkansas.
"I would suggest that Mr. Beebe study what's happening in other states before he starts lobbing criticism from the sidelines at others who are offering real solutions," Hutchinson said.
Hutchinson also addressed Beebe's relentless negative attacks on his record at the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and the Department of Homeland Security, which started early in the campaign and have escalated as Hutchinson's polling numbers have improved.
"Mr. Beebe's latest round of distortions are as silly as his claim that state police would have to drive to Mexico to enforce immigration law," Hutchinson said. "In my two years at Homeland Security, job number one was to prevent another terrorist attacks on American soil. It is sobering that, five years later, no attack has taken place. I am grateful to have had a small role in that achievement, but I also recognize that much more work remains. Indeed, this is the same conclusion of the 9/11 Commission, which Mr. Beebe so often mischaracterizes."
Hutchinson released a letter written on his behalf by former New Jersey Gov. Tom Kean, who chaired the 9/11 Commission, praising Hutchinson's leadership at Homeland Security and dismissing attacks as politically motivated smears.
"It has come to my attention that the work of the bipartisan (9/11 Commission) has been manipulated for political attacks upon you in your candidacy for Arkansas Governor," Kean wrote. "As Chairman of the Commission, I deplore any use of our findings for political purposes. You made a decision to place service to your nation above personal gain and political opportunity - a decision I believe to be the mark of a true leader," Kean stated.
"I urge those who have never shouldered the burden of protecting our homeland to resist the temptation to malign the integrity and service of those who have," Kean said. "This work is too important. The security of our nation should rise above such petty politics."
Kean noted that the nation was in a state of crisis after the "murderous attacks" on our country when the decision was made to set up a new Department in record time. Kean praised Hutchinson's willingness to take on such a daunting challenge, despite the "tremendous risk" it could pose to his career, as the mark of a "true leader."
"It was very clear, in the months following the attacks, that to address our nation's vulnerabilities would require a major government reorganization. We knew going in that this would not be an easy task - government agencies and bureaucratic organizations are often fiercely resistant to change.
"Which is what makes your willingness to take on the tough job of setting up the Department of Homeland Security that much more commendable. In so doing, you made a decision to place service to your nation above personal gain and political opportunity - a decision I believe to be the mark of a true leader," Kean said.
Kean also praised Hutchinson for his openness and willingness to cooperate with the many different groups have many different ideas about how to continually improve the security of the United States.
He noted that Hutchinson not only listened to advice but showed the leadership to implement new ideas - particularly in the areas of increasing Border Patrol Agents, adopting new technologies on the border, expanding document security operations, creating a biometric entry-exit system and improving intelligence-sharing and operational partnerships between federal and state and local law enforcement agencies.
"Indeed, your willingness to listen to the input of others is one of the reasons I believe you were as successful as you were during your tenure at Homeland Security. You were among the most helpful to us in our work to make our country safer," Kean concluded.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/CampaignNews/default.aspx?NewsID=103
