Public Statements
Press Release - Hutchinson Emphasizes Leadership, Experience in Fayetteville Debate
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Oct. 4, 2006
Location: Fayetteville, AR


Press Release - Hutchinson Emphasizes Leadership, Experience in Fayetteville Debate
Fayetteville - Asa Hutchinson, the 2006 Republican nominee for Arkansas Governor, emphasized his leadership and experience tonight in a debate with his Democratic opponent Mike Beebe in Fayetteville, saying that Beebe lacks clear and specific plans to move Arkansas forward.
Hutchinson noted that Beebe has offered little in the way of specific plans for what he would do as Governor on key issues such as fighting illegal immigration, improving highways or fighting methamphetamine.
In the second of three scheduled gubernatorial debates, Hutchinson and Beebe squared off in Fayetteville at the University of Arkansas Continuing Education Center. A media panel offered questions on a wide range of issues, from immigration to taxes to education.
The debate will be re-broadcast on C-SPAN Wednesday evening at 10 p.m. Central Time.
In his opening statement, Hutchinson emphasized his roots in Arkansas and how his values of faith, responsibility and hard work would shape his service as Governor.
"I've taken on risky and tough challenges, from fighting drugs to pursuing terrorists, but I've not forgotten my roots and my values," Hutchinson said. "Those values shape my vision for Arkansas."
"If you have faith you believe that all things lead to a next opportunity," Hutchinson said later. "I want to invest my energy and my experience for the benefit of my four grandchildren. It's really not about me. It's about the next generation.
The two candidates addressed a number of issues during the debate, including the following:
On illegal immigration, Hutchinson discussed his four-point plan to give the state a stronger role in fighting the flow of illegal workers into Arkansas communities. Drawing on his experience as undersecretary of Homeland Security, Hutchinson said that the state can take a "partnership" approach to fighting illegal immigration by training state police to enforce immigration laws and stepping up state efforts to screen workers for residency and proper documentation.
Beebe, who has said he opposes Hutchinson's plan to train state police to enforce immigration laws, offered no specific plan or solution to address the problem, but Hutchinson said it would be an effective strategy to combat illegal immigration and could be done in a way consistent with current State Police enforcement duties.
Hutchinson and Beebe also parted ways on K-12 education policy. Hutchinson noted that putting students on buses for three hour rides is not consistent with a quality education, and emphasized that Arkansas could maintain high standards for curriculum while helping good local schools to continue serving their communities. Beebe's course would lead to more closures of local schools in rural and Delta communities, Hutchinson said, as schools are sacrificed to rigid bureaucratic standards.
Hutchinson renewed his criticism of Beebe's position on the grocery tax, saying that while Beebe claims that he will "eliminate the grocery tax" in his ad, his loopholes and escape clauses suggest that his position is just an "empty promise."
"I want to eliminate an unfair tax," Hutchinson said of the grocery tax. "I want to do it now -- my opponent says that would be a huge mistake. I believe it would be a huge mistake to continue taxing the food in the mouths of the poor."
He suggested that Beebe's unclear commitment to eliminating the grocery tax constitutes a "bait and switch" with Arkansas voters, since Beebe is making a campaign pledge he does not intend to keep.
Afterward, Hutchinson said he was pleased with the spirit of the debate and that he looks forward to his and Beebe's next debate on October 17 in Little Rock.
"I think the voters are seeing clear distinctions on key issues, including education, illegal immigration, taxes and more," Hutchinson said. "With just over one month to go in the campaign, I'm pleased with our momentum and pleased that we have another opportunity to debate to continue driving those distinctions and contrasts."
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/CampaignNews/default.aspx?NewsID=95
