Public Statements
Asa to Beebe: Give Back Payday Lender Money
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Sept. 21, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR

Asa Hutchinson, the 2006 Republican nominee for Arkansas Governor, said today that his opponent, Democratic Attorney General Mike Beebe, should return money given to his campaign by a payday lending company in Hot Springs.
"If Mike Beebe really wants to stand up for the 'little guy,' as he says in his TV ads, he could start by not accepting money from those who exploit the vulnerable, our senior citizens and our military personnel," said Hutchinson.
Hutchinson noted that the Attorney General, who is responsible for taking legal action against predatory payday lending, falsely claimed last week that he has taken no campaign money from payday lenders.
On September 14, Hutchinson questioned Beebe's acceptance of campaign contributions from payday lending interests, saying that the money given to Beebe constituted a clear conflict of interest given the Attorney General's duty to enforce the law against abusive lenders.
Beebe denied accepting funds from payday lending companies in a September 15 news story in the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette: "Beebe said he may have accepted a donation from a relative of a payday lender but took no direct contributions from those businesses." (Emphasis added)
At the time this statement was made, Beebe had already accepted a direct campaign contribution of $200 from Cash Advance of Hot Springs, a payday lending firm, according to a finance report filed on September 15.
This direct contribution does not even take into account the thousands of dollars that Beebe has taken from payday lender lobbying interests, nor the tens of thousands of dollars poured into the campaign coffers of the Democratic Party of Arkansas by payday lenders and their lobbyists.
"This is an issue of credibility, of being straightforward with voters," said Hutchinson. "Mike Beebe flatly claims that he takes no contributions from payday lenders, yet his finance reports prove otherwise."
Last week, Arkansas Business, a weekly newspaper in Little Rock, reported on contribution patterns from payday lenders in the 2006 election cycle. ("Democrats Favored With Most Payday Lender Contributions," James Gordon, Arkansas Business, Sept. 11, 2006).
According to the report, of the at least $60,000 donated to political parties and candidates in 2006 by payday lending companies, virtually all of the funding went to the Democratic Party of Arkansas and Democratic candidates, including Beebe.
Hutchinson also noted that, in the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette report, a Beebe spokesman admitted that Beebe had only launched nine lawsuits against predatory lenders - all in the last year since he began running for Governor. In addition, Beebe did not push for any legislative reform of the industry as part of his Attorney General's legislative package.
"As Attorney General, Mike Beebe has shown no leadership over the years to reform state law which has opened the way for predatory lending practices, or to use his office to protect vulnerable consumers from abuse," Hutchinson said. "He's been Attorney General for years, and yet only gets around to filing a few lawsuits in the middle of a campaign season? Mr. Beebe has a clear conflict of interest and should move to return the money immediately."
Hutchinson has been clear and firm in his position to reform the system. He first denounced the practice of predatory lending in December 2005. And in an April speech to the West Little Rock AARP seniors' organization, Hutchinson announced that, if elected, he would lead the charge to revoke a 1999 Check Cashers Law, which has allowed payday lending companies to exploit the poorest and most vulnerable Arkansans. He also called for a penalty fine provision to put teeth into the state's usury law.
Hutchinson noted that these two actions would serve to protect low- and middle-income Arkansans from the spiral of debt and exorbitant interest that accrue in predatory lending transactions. Among the victims of these exploitative lending practices are African-American families, senior citizens, low-income and rural families, military personnel and college students.

Source: http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/CampaignNews/Default.aspx?NewsID=89
