Public Statements
Asa Lays Out Plan for Affordable Health Care Access
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Sept. 13, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR

September 13, 2006
Asa Lays Out Plan for Affordable Health Care Access
Focus on Cutting Costs of Care, Improving Medical Technology, Emphasizing Healthy Lifestyles
Little Rock, Ark. - Asa Hutchinson, the 2006 Republican nominee for Arkansas Governor, has laid out his plan for improving access to health care in the state by focusing on improving delivery of health service in rural areas, reducing costs, emphasizing healthy lifestyles and improving medical technology.
In a Little Rock news conference, Hutchinson outlined his proposals, aimed at helping to make health care more affordable and accessible throughout Arkansas. Hutchinson noted that an estimated 455,000 Arkansans lack health insurance coverage, according to the Arkansas Center for Health Improvement, which drives up health care and hospital costs as well as the cost of insurance for other policyholders.
"The rising cost of health care has made it more and more difficult for families, businesses and workers in Arkansas to afford the care that they need," Hutchinson said. "We have an opportunity and a responsibility to do better for Arkansas workers and their families."
"To help with the cost of health care, we need to focus on increasing the sense of personal responsibility that consumers have for their own and their families' care," Hutchinson said. "You can't do that solely through government programs. You also need strong incentives, innovative thinking and a focus on healthy living and wellness to help control costs."
Hutchinson laid out three key approaches to addressing health care needs in Arkansas: Reducing costs, improving accessibility and delivery and driving innovation through technology and reform.
Reducing Health Care Costs
A) Promote personal responsibility in health care.
Hutchinson proposed a pilot voluntary Medicaid program aimed at encouraging enrollees to take personal responsibility for their health in exchange for enhanced benefits. Enrollees in the pilot program will take a more active role in their health care by agreeing to participate in health awareness classes, receive regular screenings, have healthier living habits and meet certain requirements set out by their physicians.
B) Focusing on a reduction in the use of and improvement in the treatment of the state's methamphetamine problem.
Methamphetamine is not just a drug problem in Arkansas - it also poses a health care problem by affecting the health and well-being of drug abusers. Hutchinson has called for an aggressive effort to fight meth and other dangerous drugs through a balanced approach of prevention, education, treatment and enforcement, with the goal of cutting illegal drug use in Arkansas by 50 percent over the next four years. Reducing drug use and helping addicts to beat their addictions will result in significant health care savings for Arkansas, Hutchinson said.
C) Create an office of Arkansas Surgeon General
Hutchinson said he would create a separate office of the Surgeon General within the Arkansas Department of Health and Human Services to focus on promoting public health, wellness and disease prevention. Elevating the role of Surgeon General will allow Arkansas to more effectively and fully promote programs like Healthy Arkansas and would help to train health care providers in school health clinics to focus on preventative care as well as diagnosis. (In 2003, Michigan became the first state to establish an office of Surgeon General and has seen positive results by establishing programs for individuals, the uninsured, and businesses).
D) Create a "Governor's Council on Affordable Health Care"
A crucial first step in solving the rising cost of health insurance is the creation of the Governor's Council on Affordable Health Care, Hutchinson said. This council of representatives from various health fields will evaluate health care costs in Arkansas and recommend avenues for reform and improvement. Representatives from diverse groups will include academia, employers, government agencies, the insurance industry, health care providers, seniors and consumers advocates groups and others. The council would be charged with developing a strategic plan to lower health care costs in Arkansas, Hutchinson said.

Improving Accessibility and Delivery
Expanding Access for Small Business
A) Promoting awareness of small business health insurance purchasing groups.
The "Health Insurance Purchasing Group Act of 2001" established the guidelines for Health Insurance Purchasing Groups in Arkansas. As Governor, Hutchinson said he would expand access to these plans and work with business groups in Arkansas to raise awareness of these plans and encourage greater participation.
B) Monitoring and evaluating the outcomes of the Arkansas Safety Net Benefit Program.
Arkansas is currently implementing the Arkansas Safety Net Benefit Program, a state-federal partnership that will allow hundreds of small businesses in the state to offer health care coverage to their employees. This program is currently enrolling members to participate in the pilot program. Hutchinson has stated that Arkansas should monitor the program's progress during this pilot phase to ensure its effectiveness and determine how it might be improved.
Expanding Access for Rural Communities
C) Pursue collaborative efforts between the state and private not-for-profit organizations.
Hutchinson pledged to offer gubernatorial leadership to provide non-profit health care organizations the necessary waivers to create pilot health care coverage programs, including authorizing the Arkansas River Valley Rural Health Cooperative's expansion of its pilot program into more rural counties. In addition, Hutchinson said he would support charitable health care clinics by providing them with the tools and resources to continue this valuable service.
D) Increase the Use of Mobile Health Clinics.
Mobile health care units offer health care to areas without access. Many non-profits have utilized mobile units; for example, the Arkansas Prostate Cancer Foundation has a state-wide mobile prostate cancer screening program. Mobile units provide health care access to underserved populations and will serve as a valuable resource if a small or large scale disaster strikes Arkansas. Hutchinson proposed expanding the use of non-profit mobile health care units and exploring the use of mobile units by the DHHS.
Driving Innovation Through Technology, Reform, and New Thinking
A) Health Information Technology Task Force.
Hutchinson renewed his call to establish a "Health Information Technology Task Force," which would include experts in the health care field to evaluate means of using medical technology to enhance the availability of health care information, improve disease management, and improve the delivery of health care in Arkansas. The task force would also study ways to increase the use of "telemedicine" technology and networked databases between health care providers.
B) Expand Health Care Savings Accounts.
Throughout his campaign, Hutchinson has championed Health Care Savings (HSA) accounts, which allow individuals to set aside pre-tax dollars in an account for use on expected health care and medical costs. Hutchinson praised HSA's as an innovative tool for increasing the sense of personal responsibility and consumer choice in health care, and said that he would work to expand the availability of the accounts and encourage their use in Arkansas to help reduce costs.
C) Increase Arkansas' Medical Trauma Capability.

Arkansas is the only state without a certified trauma center (Georgia, for instance, has15 certified trauma centers). Arkansas must be more equipped to deal with potential large-scale trauma disasters. The state must assist hospitals in the state to increase their medical capabilities so that Arkansas can have certified trauma centers. Arkansas must develop and implement a statewide trauma system that will allow the state to be more prepared to handle public health crises including epidemics, natural disasters and even acts of terrorism. A comprehensive system will also allow victims suffering trauma better access to the health care they need and deserve.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/CampaignNews/default.aspx?NewsID=86
