Public Statements
Asa Goal: Cut Arkansas Drug Abuse in Half
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Sept. 7, 2006
Location: Springdale, AR

September 07, 2006
Asa Goal: Cut Arkansas Drug Abuse in Half
GOP Candidate Cites Education, Prevention, Treatment as Key to Reducing Substance Abuse
Springdale, Ark. - Asa Hutchinson, the 2006 Republican candidate for Arkansas Governor, said today that Arkansas should set a goal of cutting drug abuse in Arkansas by 50 percent over the next four years through a combination of tough enforcement and effective education, prevention and treatment efforts.
Hutchinson proposed cutting drug use in Arkansas in half while visiting the Decision Point Inc. substance abuse treatment center and talking with center administrators about the challenges they face in getting help to those in need.
"Arkansans of all walks of life have seen the devastating effect that drugs have had in their communities, in their schools, or in their own families," Hutchinson said. "With the right leadership, we can have a positive effect on substance abuse. But you can't do it strictly from government action. You need the help of parents, schools, churches and local communities to force drug abusers to take responsibility for their actions and beat their addictions."
In July, Hutchinson, who led the national fight against illegal drugs as head of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), laid out a six-point plan for fighting meth and dangerous drugs in Arkansas, emphasizing the need to give state law enforcement the tools necessary to fight illegal drug traffic in the state, as well as the need for helping non-violent addicts get off drugs and return to the workforce.
Hutchinson proposed creating a Bureau of Drug Enforcement in the Arkansas State Police, increasing information-sharing between law enforcement agencies and strengthening partnerships between state, local and federal law enforcement. As part of that plan, Hutchinson also proposed beefing up support for drug treatment courts and developing a privately funded statewide meth awareness plan. (Read the full plan at www.asaforgovernor.org)
In Springdale today, Hutchinson said that the state should set the goal of reducing drug abuse by 50 percent over the next four years through a combination of tougher enforcement, effective prevention and treatment programs, and privately-funded drug education programs.
"For non-violent drug offenders, education and treatment play a key role in helping them to get off drugs and return to the workforce," Hutchinson said. "With the right investment in these kind of programs, we can not only reduce drug abuse - we can save lives. But to do that, we have to create a sense of responsibility on the part of drug abusers, as they're doing right here at Decision Point with outstanding results."
Hutchinson's plan for fighting illegal drugs adopts the balanced approach similar to the one he implemented at DEA and for which he received broad and bipartisan praise. On the education, prevention and treatment front, he has emphasized the following:
Expand Drug Treatment Courts in Arkansas
Hutchinson proposed additional state investment of $5 million in drug courts to make the programs more widely available and more effective.
Drug Treatment Courts have proven to be one of the most effective methods of combating drug abuse and providing treatment to non-violent drug addicts. Unlike less effective treatment programs, the drug treatment courts balance the road to recovery with personal responsibility. Program participants who fail to follow the rules of the courts find themselves back in jail.
In Congress and as head of the DEA, Hutchinson worked aggressively to expand the availability of drug treatment courts as an alternative to detention for non-violent drug offenders.
Arkansas currently has 37 drug treatment courts. There is a great need to expand the ability of these courts to handle more defendants and to enable them to get treatment, as well as to add additional drug courts across the state.
Drug courts, and the associated treatment programs, have proven to be much more cost-effective than incarcerating nonviolent offenders in prisons and have a much lower recidivism rate. Additional funding is needed to hire personnel for existing drug courts so the caseload can be increased; to add additional drug treatment courts; and for residential treatment.
Increase Drug Education Programs Through Private Sector Funding
Hutchinson has pledged to use the office of the governor to lead the effort to develop private sources of funding to raise public awareness of the danger of drugs, curb demand and reduce the prevalence of first-time drug abusers in Arkansas.
Hutchinson pointed to the Montana Meth Project as a model of how a privately-funded community prevention effort can increase public awareness and potentially reduce drug use and abuse. (For more information on the project, visit online at http://www.montanameth.org).
"I've seen the damaging effects of drug abuse here in Arkansas as a prosecutor and as Congressman, and I fought the drug problem from the highest levels as head of the DEA," Hutchinson said. "This is a critical issue for Arkansans, and I'm committed to making it one of our state's top priorities. I'm looking forward to bringing my experience in fighting drugs to bear in Arkansas as Governor."
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/CampaignNews/default.aspx?NewsID=84
