Public Statements
Hutchinson To Push Revised "Rural Schools Support Act" As Governor
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Aug. 25, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR

Back to Campaign News
August 25, 2006
Hutchinson To Push Revised "Rural Schools Support Act" As Governor
Cannot Leave Children of Rural Communities Out of Education Progress; Local Schools Critical
Little Rock, Ark. - Asa Hutchinson, the 2006 Republican candidate for Arkansas Governor, said today that the closure of Paron High School, an academically successful and financially stable school in rural Saline County, this week proves that the state needs to take a stronger stance to protect local schools.
"Study after study shows that kids living in rural communities and minority communities are best served by local schools," Hutchinson said. "And common sense tells us that closing these schools and forcing kids on buses for up to four hours every day cannot possibly help anyone."
During a news conference at his campaign headquarters, Hutchinson vowed to take action to protect local schools as Governor by strengthening and pushing the "Rural Schools Support Act" in the 2007 legislative session.
A previous version of the Rural Schools Support Act, legislation designed to provide some flexibility in how local schools meet state curriculum standards, passed the House of Representatives with overwhelming bipartisan support during this year's Special Session. However, the bill was killed in a Senate committee.
"What happened in Paron this week is a perfect example of the risk that many communities face. Paron High School served its community well for years and is now being shuttered for arbitrary reasons," Hutchinson said. "As we look to strengthen our education system, we should not discriminate against, or leave behind, children of rural Arkansas. I don't think that was ever the intention, but I do think that is becoming the reality if we don't take action."
Hutchinson noted that more than 50 schools have been shut down over the last couple of years, and that a recent study showed that the majority of them were local schools serving rural and minority communities. Another 63 were recently placed on probation, which is the first step towards shutting a school.
"Some of these schools may very well need to be closed if they are not performing well academically, but we know that some of them are being closed because of bureaucratic zealousness and, increasingly, a desire for centralization at the expense of local influence," Hutchinson said. "Once you take local communities and parents out of the education equation, you take away the most important factor in any child's success. The success of any school is directly tied to the commitment and active involvement of parents, teachers and local communities, and I've made that the foundation of all of my education proposals."
Hutchinson said he met with education experts across the spectrum in an effort to craft a bill that will maintain the highest academic standards, continue the path of progress and reform, while also providing for common-sense flexibility for local school to meet state standards.
"The state's Legislature's own education consultants have asserted that Arkansas stands alone in its unwillingness to give local schools some flexibility in how to meet standards. Other states have tried what we are trying and have learned valuable lessons, lessons we should emulate," Hutchinson said. "That is what I have tried to do with the Rural Schools Support Act.
"My guiding principle as we look to the future of Arkansas," Hutchinson continued, "is to remember that Arkansas is a rural state. We cannot adapt the rural nature of our state to fit an education system. We must adapt our education system to fit the rural nature of our state. I believe that the Rural Schools Support Act accomplishes this goal."
Read PDF version of policy backgrounder:
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/CampaignNews/default.aspx?NewsID=79
