Public Statements
Two Competing for Governor Woo State Bank Group
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Aug. 12, 2006
Location: Rogers, AR


Two Competing for Governor Woo State Bank Group
By Tracie Dungan, Arkansas Democrat-Gazette
ROGERS — Former Homeland Security official Asa Hutchinson said this week's foiled terrorist plot to blow up U. S. airliners shows the importance of focused, "operational" intelligence instead of "chatter."
In his two years as undersecretary for border and transportation security, he said Friday, the terrorist threat level never reached the scale's pinnacle, known as Code Red, as it did Thursday when British authorities said that they thwarted the alleged plot.
"Our thought was if we ever got to red, it would shut down commerce," Hutchinson, Arkansas' Republican gubernatorial nominee, said after he and his Democratic opponent, Attorney General Mike Beebe, spoke to the Arkansas Bankers Association in Rogers.
But going to the red level didn't halt commerce because the terrorist plot pertained only to flights from Britain, Hutchinson said. Authorities said the suspects planned to assemble and use liquid explosives on up to 10 flights headed to the United States.
Hutchinson said he couldn't credit his past work for the thwarting of this plot.
"It reflects success on what we are all striving for: better intelligence, appropriate intelligence and better response," he said.
Gov. Mike Huckabee on Friday responded to a question of whether he was asking National Guard troops to secure airports in Little Rock or elsewhere in the state. After discussions with the Transportation Safety Administration, he said, "it was determined there was no reason to post National Guard troops at Arkansas airports at this time in light of there being no international flights coming to or from Little Rock."
In their Friday morning remarks to about 225 bankers attending an annual management seminar, Hutchinson and Beebe outlined their positions on biofuels, economic development and how to grant tax relief.
One man asked Beebe whether he favored eliminating the capital gains tax in light of a state revenue surplus, already a record and continuing to grow.
He said Arkansas should consider what the federal government does with its capital gains tax. Beebe said he wants to use the surplus for such things as phasing out the state's grocery tax and manufacturers' utilities sales tax, a "rainy day fund" he would establish for unforeseen downturns in the economy, and another plan that he will announce later.
Hutchinson, who spoke last, lobbed barbs at Beebe's tax positions.
"I'm not a new convert to tax relief," he said. "If I had a chance to grow Arkansas or grow government, I'd grow Arkansas every time."
Beebe's spokesman, Zac Wright, later said Beebe "has been consistent. He was the first person to propose a complete phase-out of the grocery tax."
Hutchinson said he would work with interest groups to develop a new highway program, noting that voters last year rejected one because it gave too much authority to highway commissioners. He said he would favor a Bella Vista bypass and a route between Fayetteville and Jonesboro that did not require traveling through Conway in central Arkansas.
Beebe said that because Arkansas has a lot of farming, it is in a position to be a national leader in the development of biofuels, but also because of research resources such as the Arkansas Biosciences Center that he said he helped establish while serving in the Arkansas Senate. This would divert U. S. money from Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries into the pockets of Arkansas farmers, he said.
Hutchinson said that while the state has a couple of biodiesel plants, it has not diversified since it does not have an ethanol producer. He said he favors building an ethanol plant in Arkansas that could process Arkansas products and byproducts, such as rice hulls. But, he said, there's a problem: The technology to do that needs to be developed.
Fielding a question concerning the state's role in producing biofuels, Beebe mentioned his plan to invest $40 million to $50 million in state General Improvement Fund money into a "quick action fund" he has said he would use for "unforeseen economic obstacles and opportunities." He has proposed such a fund for use by the governor to assist major job prospects.
Hutchinson attacked Beebe's plan. "Instead of having a kitty for the governor, I would put that $50 million into education," he said, adding that half that money would specifically go toward research and technology programs at four-year public universities and the other half into workforce training programs at twoyear public colleges.
Both reminded the bankers group of their support on past issues, with Beebe touting his role in enacting a state "predatory lending law" and Hutchinson recalling his help for Arkansas banks against out-of-state competition when he served in Congress.
Hutchinson said a little known private-sector venture in which he once ran a radio station familiarized him with what it's like to deal with federal regulations. He would work to ensure that an executive order by Huckabee last year is made permanent by helping enact it into law. The order requires state agencies to perform a cost and analysis impact study on how any new law or regulation affects business — especially small businesses. By giving statutory force to the order, future governors could not reverse it, he said.
Hutchinson, noting his detractors often criticize him for his work in Washington at Homeland Security and the U. S. Drug Enforcement Administration, said it will make him a better governor.
His work in Washington often required "executive decisions" based on instinct and problem solving skills that law school never prepared him for, he said, adding that is different than the kinds of decisions legislators are asked to make.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/HeadlineNews/Default.aspx?NewsID=83
