Public Statements
Asa: Jobs Growth, Small Business Expansion Require Regulatory Reform
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Aug. 11, 2006
Location: Rogers, AR


Rogers, Ark. - Asa Hutchinson, the 2006 Republican candidate for Arkansas Governor, called today for easing the regulatory burden on small business in Arkansas, to allow the sector to thrive, build investment capital in the state and create jobs.
Speaking to the Arkansas Bankers Association's Bank Management Seminar in Rogers, Hutchinson said that the burden of regulations and paperwork is stifling business growth and making it difficult for small business owners to expand and succeed.
Hutchinson said that as Governor, he would push for legislation that would require state agencies to consider the impact of new regulations and rules on small business before those regulations and rules are enacted.
"The men and women who work in the financial services industry know better than anyone how the complex web of federal and state regulations can tie up time, personnel and resources and make it difficult for a business to survive," Hutchinson said. "As Governor, I'll work to reduce and slow the growth of regulations in the state that are strangling small businesses in Arkansas."
Hutchinson praised Gov. Mike Huckabee for his decision last year to implement an executive order requiring state agencies to consider the red-tape impact on small businesses before new rules and regulations are implemented. Hutchinson said he would expand on Gov. Huckabee's reform by pushing for legislation to give statutory force to the executive order - ensuring that a future Governor could not come into office and reverse this needed reform.
Huckabee's executive order requires that state agencies submit an economic impact statement that includes a description of any adverse effect or costs on small businesses and the cost to small businesses.
Legislation is required to ensure that small business owners are protected by law regardless of who serves as governor, Hutchinson said.
In June, Hutchinson laid out a five-point plan to boost jobs and spur growth in the small business sector by focusing on tax relief, reducing red tape and regulatory burdens, increasing access to affordable health care, ensuring Arkansas businesses have equal access to state contracts and strengthening private property rights.
"As a business owner myself, I understand the challenges that entrepreneurs face, from high taxes to burdensome regulations to the high cost of providing health care to employees," Hutchinson said. "As Governor, I'll lead the charge to make it easier for entrepreneurs and small business owners in Arkansas to expand their companies and create jobs."
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/CampaignNews/default.aspx?NewsID=74
