Public Statements
Asa: Arkansas Needs More Charter Schools
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Aug. 3, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR


Little Rock, Ark. - Asa Hutchinson, Arkansas' 2006 Republican candidate for Governor, said today that the number of open-enrollment public charter school applications submitted for the 2007-2008 school year shows that it's time to increase the number of public charter schools in Arkansas.
A record 19 schools have been proposed for the 2007-2008 academic year in letters of intent submitted to the Arkansas Department of Education, according to the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette. Full applications are due to the department by Sept. 30.
Hutchinson noted that eight of the 19 newly proposed public charter schools are in high-need areas in Arkansas Delta counties, including Mississippi County, Jefferson County, Phillips County, Arkansas County, Crittenden County and Woodruff County - indicating that there is strong demand for new and innovative education solutions in some of the most poverty-stricken areas of the state.
Hutchinson has made championing educational support for rural and high-poverty communities a key component of his campaign. He has called for easing restrictions on public charters schools as one way to provide more tools and educational opportunities for high-need communities.
"Because Arkansas has one of the most restrictive charter school laws in the nation, children in these communities will be denied an opportunity for a better education that they deserve," Hutchinson said. "The state should recognize that the growth in charter school applications reflects a real need for new thinking and innovation in our educational system."
Open-enrollment charter schools are public schools, but are allowed to operate free of some of the burdensome state regulations, creating the opportunity for greater innovation and reform in education. Public charter schools are frequently established to focus on particular emphases, such as focused instruction in sciences, music and arts, or business.
Under current state policy, the number of open-enrollment public charter schools in the state is capped at 24, with the schools apportioned out equally between the states' four Congressional districts. Currently, only eight such schools are operating in Arkansas.
Hutchinson pointed to one of the best-known public charters schools in Arkansas - the KIPP (Knowledge Is Power Program) school in Helena - as an example of how an open-enrollment charter school is seeing real results in student achievement, parental involvement and innovative teaching methods.
"For years, the focus in Arkansas has been almost exclusive on spending more money, when we should also be focusing on reform and innovative approaches to education to get better results for students," Hutchinson said. "Public charter schools are a promising avenue for driving innovation in our public school system and helping students to learn more effectively."
Hutchinson noted that he was the only candidate in the Governor's race calling for a greater emphasis on charter schools.
"Does the Attorney General believe that these schools are a promising avenue for educational innovation?" Hutchinson asked. "If so, he should embrace removing the arbitrary cap on these schools. If not, he should explain why."
Hutchinson also emphasized the important role that parents, teachers and local communities play in the success of public charter schools.
"In almost every case, public charter schools draw strength from their local communities - school boards, superintendents, teachers, parents and families - playing a key role in the educational process," Hutchinson said. "We should be encouraging that level of involvement, because it almost always results in higher levels of student achievement."
In 2005, the Arkansas General Assembly took a small step to strengthen Arkansas' law pertaining to public charter schools by expanding the number of charters allowed in the state from 12 to 25. Nonetheless, Arkansas still has one of the weakest public charter school laws in the nation.
On April 27, Hutchinson unveiled a seven-point education package highlighting education reforms ranging from recruiting and rewarding the best teachers available, promoting classroom innovation, and highlighting the critical element of parental and local community involvement in education. Hutchinson unveiled the package at his high school alma mater, Springdale High School.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/CampaignNews/default.aspx?NewsID=73
