Public Statements
Asa Lays Out Plan For Small Business, Jobs Growth
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: June 29, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR


June 29, 2006
Asa Lays Out Plan For Small Business, Jobs Growth
Little Rock - Asa Hutchinson, the Republican nominee for Arkansas Governor, today laid out a set of proposals to boost jobs and spur growth in the small business sector by reducing red tape, regulations and tax burdens under which small businesses in Arkansas struggle.
In a news conference held in the offices of his own business in Little Rock, Hutchinson also received the formal endorsement of the Arkansas chapter of the National Federation of Independent Business, the nation's top small business advocacy organization.
"As a business owner myself, I've experienced first-hand the challenges that entrepreneurs face, such as high taxes, cumbersome red tape, and the high cost of providing health care to employees," Hutchinson said. "Small businesses - mom-and-pop stores, as some call them - create the majority of jobs in Arkansas, and we need to foster a friendlier climate in which they can thrive."
In Arkansas, there were an estimated 222,542 small businesses in Arkansas in 2004, according to the U.S. Small Business Administration.
"Whether it's a local factory, a family-owned restaurant or farm, a new shop downtown, or any other small enterprise, state government should help these business grow and create jobs, not get in their way," Hutchinson said. "Unfortunately, government is too often getting in the way - whether by passing more taxes and regulations or making it easier to seize the property of business owners."
To encourage growth in the small business sector, Hutchinson laid out a five-point agenda focused on tax relief, reducing red tape and regulatory burdens, increasing access to affordable health care, ensuring Arkansas small businesses have equal access to procuring state contracts and strengthening private property rights in the state (see full policy backgrounder below).
"The latest threat to small businesses is the trend around the country of local governments seizing smaller, more vulnerable business properties and handing them over to larger developers," Hutchinson said. "My opponent, Attorney General Mike Beebe, issued an opinion saying we don't need to worry about property rights abuse in Arkansas and that we don't need stronger property rights. I disagree - strongly. This doesn't just go against our core values -- it stifles our economy, because it places small business owners at risk. We need to be a friend, not an enemy, to entrepreneurs and small business owners in Arkansas, and assure them that we will protect their rights."
Hutchinson also pointed to Arkansas's high level of taxation, one of the highest in the nation, as another example of how small businesses are facing undue burdens, and how this makes Arkansas less competitive with surrounding states.
"The high cost of high taxes is one thing standing in the way of an unprecedented era of growth and better jobs in Arkansas," Hutchinson said. "My opponent has voted for virtually every tax hike that has come down the pike during his 20 years in the Senate, which is one reason why Arkansas has one of the least friendly business climates in the country. My administration will tackle this problem directly."
Hutchinson's small business proposals introduced today were the latest in his GROW ARKANSAS campaign, launched in January to encourage jobs growth in Arkansas. Support for small business and entrepreneurship in Arkansas was a key component of Hutchinson's eight-point plan under the GROW ARKANSAS banner.
Asa Hutchinson Proposals To Support
Arkansas Small Business
Backgrounder
1) Providing Tax Relief to Small Businesses Around the State
Hutchinson has championed tax reform throughout his campaign, arguing that Arkansas is an "island of high taxes" in the region and that the state should focus on reducing the tax burden on business and families in order to become more competitive with neighboring states and to spur job growth.
Key to Hutchinson's small business tax relief proposal is a reform he has already rolled out - requiring a supermajority before the state Legislature can raise the sales tax again. Hutchinson's opponent, Mike Beebe, opposes this reform.
Hutchinson has also committed to eliminating the sales tax on energy for manufacturers and eliminating the grocery tax, both of which will put money back into the Arkansas economy and spur growth.
To those proposals, Hutchinson has now added:
A) Increase small business expensing limits
B) Expand the number of small businesses eligible for expensing
2) Reduce the Red-Tape Burden and Regulatory Costs on Arkansas Small Businesses
Hutchinson praised Gov. Mike Huckabee for his decision last year to implement an executive order requiring state agencies to consider the red-tape impact on small businesses before new rules and regulations are implemented. Hutchinson said he would expand on Gov. Huckabee's reform by pushing for legislation to give statutory force to the executive order - ensuring that a future Governor could not come into office and reverse this needed reform.
Huckabee's executive order requires that state agencies submit an economic impact statement that includes a description of any adverse effect or costs on small businesses and the cost to small businesses.
Legislation is required to ensure that small business owners are protected by law regardless of who serves as governor, Hutchinson said.
3) Enhance the Ability of Small Businesses to Provide Health Insurance Coverage to Workers
Finding and affording quality health insurance is a top concern for small-business owners, Hutchinson said. Only 26 percent of small businesses in Arkansas (defined as having 50 or fewer employees) are able to provide health insurance -- substantially lower than the national average of 43 percent.
Hutchinson laid out three steps he would take as Governor to expand the availability of health insurance coverage:
A) Promote awareness of small business health insurance purchasing groups
The Health Insurance Purchasing Group Act of 2001 established the guidelines for Health Insurance Purchasing Groups in Arkansas. This was a good start to providing an avenue for small businesses to band together to purchase health coverage for their families and employees.
Many small business owners are missing out on the opportunity to purchase group health insurance under health insurance purchasing plans because they are not aware of them. Hutchinson pledged to work with Chambers of Commerce in Arkansas to raise awareness of these plans and encourage greater participation.
B) Monitor and Evaluate the Outcomes of the Arkansas Safety Net Benefit Program
Arkansas is currently implementing the Arkansas Safety Net Benefit Program, a state-federal partnership that will allow hundreds of small businesses in the state to offer health care coverage to their employees.
The Arkansas Safety Net Benefit Program was approved by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services as a demonstration waiver under the Health Insurance Flexibility and Accountability (HIFA) initiative in March 2006. The waiver will allow the state to establish a new state-employer "safety net" benefit program to make health care coverage available to uninsured low-wage employees of small businesses in Arkansas.
The program is targeted at businesses with fewer than 500 employees that have not offered health care coverage for at least one year (12 months) prior to enrollment in the new program. Funding for the program is provided by fees collected from participating employers, state tobacco settlement funds, and federal matching funds.
C) Facilitate the expansion of Health Savings Accounts in Arkansas
Health Savings Accounts (HSA's) are available in Arkansas, but they are limited and haven't been as successful as they could be. Reforms are necessary.
* Increasing the number of HSA enrollees requires improvement on multiple fronts. Employers need to be advised of the benefits of HSA's in hopes they will contribute to HSA's on behalf of their employees. This will allow employers to provide assistance on health insurance without facing escalating premiums and downgraded benefits every year; and this will allow lower income individuals to accrue tax-free savings when they might not have the spare cash to contribute on their own.
* In addition, we must increase transparency in the health insurance industry. The high-deductible plans have to allow consumers to negotiate directly with doctors and pharmacists about their health care needs and costs.
* Finally, the health insurance plans must not be loaded with so many clauses that people can't maintain them as their long-term plans.
4) Ensure a Level-Playing field for Arkansas Small Business Owners' Access to State Government Contracts
According to the Arkansas Department of Economic Development's Small and Minority Business Team, small businesses in Arkansas are increasingly losing business to out-of-state companies who are receiving state government contracts. Arkansas must find a compromise solution that will allow the State to cut costs while also protecting our small businesses.
Hutchinson pledged to work with the Arkansas Department of Economic Development to host a series of "Governor's Small Business Forums" across Arkansas focusing on discussion and education on the key challenges faced by entrepreneurs and how state government can better serve small business. In addition, host a series of "State Government Procurement Fairs" to allow small business owners to talk one-on-one with state agency procurement officers, better understand the competitive bidding process, and learn more about opportunities for state contracts.
5) Strengthen Private Property Rights in Arkansas
Hutchinson renewed his call for strengthening private property rights in Arkansas, calling for a stronger law that defines "public use" so that eminent domain proceedings aren't abused by large developers and governments against small business and property owners.
Property rights is a matter of priority to small business owners because many of the properties being seized around the country after the Kelo ruling are shops and other small businesses. As a spokesman for NFIB put it: "Small-business owners are already struggling under the weight of onerous government regulations and swimming in paperwork. To have to worry about large businesses using the power of eminent domain to force them off of their properties is simply outrageous."
Hutchinson will therefore continue to lead the charge for stronger private property rights in Arkansas and, as Governor, will work with the Legislature to pass legislation defining "public use" in a way that protects the rights of individual home owners, small business owners, family farms and others from abuse.
Click below to read a detailed policy backgrounder in PDF format
