Public Statements
Political Party Nominees In Ark. Governor's Race Trade Criticism
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: June 23, 2006
Location: Hot Springs, AR


June 23, 4:54 PM EDT
Political Party Nominees In Ark. Governor's Race Trade Criticism
By ANDREW DEMILLO
Associated Press Writer
HOT SPRINGS, Ark. (AP) -- Republican gubernatorial candidate Asa Hutchinson on Friday said Democratic rival Mike Beebe wants to turn a fund that legislators use for local projects into a "kitty" to reward political favors.
Beebe accused his opponent of waffling in his support of eliminating the state sales tax on groceries.
The candidates took shots at each other as they addressed the Arkansas Press Association's annual convention in Hot Springs.
Hutchinson criticized Beebe's proposal to allow the governor to use the General Improvement Fund, commonly known as GIF money, as a "quick action closing fund" to attract businesses to the state. Hutchinson said such a fund would give too much power to the governor and could be used to grant favors to political supporters.
Hutchinson said the GIF money should be used for workforce training and technology research at the state's colleges and universities. Hutchinson said Beebe's proposal would turn that money into a "personal kitty."
"We don't need to give that money to the governor so he can give out at will this as political favors rather than for economic development. What he have to protect ourselves against is abuse because we've had discretion that has been abused in the past," said Hutchinson, a former congressman.
Beebe said the money would help the state lure new companies and expand existing businesses and would include oversight from the Legislature. He pledged to keep any meetings regarding the fund open.
"I don't know how they did it in Washington, but I can promise you there will be checks and balances and it won't be a governor's fund to do whatever he wants to," Beebe said.
Beebe said he supports eliminating the sales tax on food gradually over time and accused Hutchinson of initially not supporting that proposal and now endorsing it. Beebe cited comments Hutchinson made in January where he said the elimination of the sales tax on groceries was not part of his agenda.
"I appreciate his joining me in that endeavor," Beebe said.
Hutchinson said his comments in January indicated he had not announced eliminating the sales tax on food as part of his proposals but said he's supported this for a long time. He questioned why Beebe was unable to get the sales tax elimination passed in the Legislature.
"Mr. Beebe had 20 years in the Arkansas Senate and he did not get it done," Hutchinson said. "Today he offers it with conditions."
Beebe countered that the Senate passed a bill to eliminate the sales tax on food when he was in the Senate, and said he pushed for its passage in the House, where the proposal ultimately died.
Both candidates said they would oppose any efforts to weaken the state Freedom of Information Act, and Hutchinson said he would host a summit to study potential changes to the law next year.
Beebe said he thinks the "working papers" exemption of the FOI law should be strictly read to apply only to the papers of an executive or his staff that directly relate to his ability to get the job done. Beebe said in an interview after Friday's forum that his comments weren't directed at Gov. Mike Huckabee, who Beebe's office will represent in an expected appeal of a ruling requiring the governor to hand over documents related to the resignation of a state Parole Board member.
"I don't think it should be a shield for other agencies," Beebe said. "I don't think you should park things that are not subject to the FOI in the governor's office in order to get around the letter of the law."
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/A/AR_GOVERNORS_RACE_AROL-?SITE=ARMOU&SECTION=STATE&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT&CTIME=2006-06-23-16-54-15
