Public Statements
Asa: State Must Play Role In Fighting Illegal Immigration
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: June 22, 2006
Location: Springdale, AR


Asa: State Must Play Role In Fighting Illegal Immigration
GOP Candidate Lays Out Plan To Combat Illegal Immigration, Ensure Accountability
- Asa Hutchinson, the 2006 Republican candidate for Arkansas Governor, today laid out a four-point plan he would implement as Governor to fight illegal immigration in the state.
In a news conference at the Springdale Police Department, Hutchinson said state and local government can - and should - play a vital role in combating illegal immigration.
"There are still too many who say that immigration is a federal matter only, and that states have no role in enforcing our laws. That's an old way of thinking, and one that simply isn't acceptable anymore," Hutchinson said. "In a post-9/11 world, we must acknowledge that border security does not stop in El Paso or New York City. Illegal immigration impacts states like Arkansas by straining state resources and undermining the rule of law."
Hutchinson emphasized the importance of immigrants to the history, culture and success of America and insisted that the United States must remain an open and welcoming nation even as we step up efforts to secure our borders.
"Those who come to the United States and Arkansas legally, who have respected our laws and have worked to achieve the American dream, they represent many of the very success stories that have made our country great," Hutchinson said. "But we need to send a clear message to those who do not respect our laws, who have cheated others who have followed the rules, that they will not be rewarded for their behavior. We must also send a message that those who facilitate illegal activity will also be held accountable."
Noting the explosive growth of illegal immigrants in Arkansas in recent years, Hutchinson said that Arkansas taxpayers were the ones shouldering the costs of such illegal activity. "When Arkansas taxpayers are footing the bill, when our state's law-abiding employers are left uncertain of the status of their workers - clearly, this is a state problem," he said. "As Governor, I'll work with our law enforcement agencies to give them the tools they need to partner with federal immigration authorities and to fight illegal immigration here in Arkansas."
Hutchinson laid out four specific proposals for how Arkansas state government could work in partnership with federal and local governments to more effectively combat illegal immigration in the state:
1) Strengthen the partnership between the State of Arkansas and federal immigration enforcement authorities
Implement a formal agreement between the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and state and local law enforcement agencies that will provide federal training, and subsequent authorization, to state and local law enforcement to identify, process, and when appropriate, detain immigration offenders they encounter during their routine, daily law enforcement activity. As required by federal law, such training would place an emphasis on civil liberties and racial profiling training for local law enforcement officials.
2) End "Catch and Release" in Arkansas for those arrested by state and local authorities
1. Enact legislation that mandates state and local jail authorities make every reasonable effort to verify the lawful status of prisoners, and alert immigration authorities of potential release of illegal aliens back into the community. Such legislation would provide for appropriate training of jail authorities.
2. Develop a training program for local law enforcement to use during their routine daily law enforcement activities to identify illegal aliens through the federal Law Enforcement Support Center and to share information with federal immigration authorities.
3) Reduce employment opportunities for illegal aliens
Enact legislation mandating that the Arkansas government participate in the federal work authorization program (the Department of Homeland Security's Basic Pilot Program) to verify the legal status of all new employees. In addition, this legislation would stipulate that no public employer shall enter into a contract for state services unless the contractor registers and participates in the work authorization program.
4) Reduce document fraud by creating more secure state identity documents
Enact legislation that creates a full-time investigator position in the Arkansas State Police for investigating the counterfeiting of identification documents for the purpose of unlawfully establishing legal status
"Our nation's illegal immigration problem has been decades in the making -- it didn't arise overnight and it won't be solved overnight," Hutchinson said. "But we can take positive, aggressive steps now to more effectively enforce the law, ensure public confidence, and help to restore integrity and credibility to the nation's system of legal immigration. As Governor, I pledge to lead that charge."
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/campaignnews/default.aspx?NewsID=63
