Public Statements
The Associated Press - Asa Discusses Tax Relief, Rural Schools
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: June 14, 2006
Location: Hot Springs, AR


June 14, 2006
Asa Discusses Tax Relief, Rural Schools
Hutchinson eyes surplus, Beebe praises non-partisan spirit
By ANDREW DeMILLO, Associated Press Writer
HOT SPRINGS (AP) -- Republican gubernatorial candidate Asa Hutchinson said Wednesday that using the states surplus for tax relief could help local governments, and Democratic rival Mike Beebe said Arkansas has avoided partisanship that has clouded Washington politics.
Hutchinson and Beebe addressed leaders from the state's cities at the Arkansas Municipal Leagues convention in Hot Springs.
Hutchinson, a former congressman and federal Homeland Security official, said he would work with local leaders from around the state and would fight for rural communities, especially schools at risk of consolidation.
"Youll find me an advocate for our rural schools because I dont believe that you can merge all schools into one unified school district," Hutchinson said. "We have to strengthen Arkansas communities and strengthen Arkansas schools."
Beebe, the states attorney general, called for expanding pre-school programs for at-risk children and also said that three of the top issues in the state - education, economic development and health care - are all intertwined.
"You can't talk about one without talking about the other," Beebe said.
Hutchinson continued his push for tax reform, and said he would propose requiring a "super-majority" vote of the Legislature before any sales tax increase could be enacted. Hutchinson also said the state needs to look at using its surplus to provide tax relief.
"We need broad-based tax relief, but we also need targeted tax relief for the citizens of this state," Hutchinson said.
Beebe, who was a veteran legislator before he was elected as the states top legal official, said the states Legislature has provided a model for the nation in the way members from both parties work together.
"When it comes to partisanship ... the rest of the country could learn a lot by looking at Arkansas," Beebe said. "Arkansas has historically averted overt and nasty counterproductive partisanship of the kind were used to seeing in Washington."
Beebe and Hutchinson headlined a two-hour forum of candidates who spoke to the league at its convention at the Hot Springs Convention Center.
Jim Lagrone, the Republican candidate for secretary of state, criticized Secretary of State Charlie Daniels for errors and delays that plagued the May 23 primary and left results unknown for days after polls closed.
Lagrone said he planned to unveil a set of proposals to prevent similar problems in the future.
"We need to clean up the election system in this state," Lagrone said.
Daniels, a Democrat, said the state has seen some changes since the primary and said he planned to announce Thursday the members of a bipartisan committee to review a report on the May 23 primary.
"We were shortchanged, and Im very frustrated with what occurred," Daniels said.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/headlinenews/default.aspx?NewsID=67
