Public Statements
The Arkansas News Bureau - Asa Unveils Plan To Serve Senior Citizens
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: June 6, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR


June 06, 2006
Asa Unveils Plan To Serve Senior Citizens
By Rob Moritz, Arkansas News Bureau
LITTLE ROCK - Republican gubernatorial candidate Asa Hutchinson said Monday that he would work to expand services for senior citizens in the state if elected governor.
The former congressman and undersecretary of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security unveiled his plan during a community forum at the Van Matre Senior Center in Mountain Home.
"We need to engage in long-term planning for our state because it's anticipated that the elderly population will double between now and the year 2050, and as one of the state's with the highest percent of elderly population, it has a tremendous impact on Arkansas," Hutchinson said after the forum.
"We want to make sure senior citizens have options in terms of independent living," he said.
The Republican faces Democrat Mike Beebe in the Nov. 7 general election. Beebe, a former state senator, is the state's attorney general.
Under his plan, Hutchinson said he would appoint an advisor on seniors' issues to work solely on policy issues facing senior citizens of this state.
He said he would also host a summit on aging issues, and would work to allow seniors more options and flexibility to receive home and community-based care.
Hutchinson said key to giving seniors more options would be expanding services under the state's Medicaid home and community-based waiver program, ElderChoices, and providing additional funding for area agencies on aging.
"Quality of life plus cost effectiveness is an effective way," he said. "We want to continue to provide options for home health care, rather than institutional care."
A spokesman for Beebe said the Democrat "has a track record of fighting for seniors."
"As AG, (Beebe) worked hard to protect those who reside in our state's nursing homes and has recovered more than $10 million in civil settlements and criminal restitution," said Beebe campaign spokesman Zac Wright.
"As governor, he'll look to innovative solutions to give our seniors choices about their long-term care," Wright said.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/headlinenews/default.aspx?NewsID=66
