Public Statements
The Arkansas News Bureau - Asa Proposes Statewide Foundation To Support Public Schools
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: May 31, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR


Asa Proposes Statewide Foundation To Support Public Schools
Republican gubernatorial candidate Asa Hutchinson said Tuesday that, if elected governor, he would create a private foundation to help parents and local communities support public schools.
"The goal of this foundation would be to raise public awareness of the values and importance of education, but also to encourage greater investment in education by parents ... their teachers, by the community, and yes, the private sector," Hutchinson told about 400 elementary school students and their teachers at Baker Elementary School in west Little Rock.
The Republican nominee faces Democrat Mike Beebe, the state attorney general, in the Nov. 7 general election.
Hutchinson, a former congressman who later served as an undersecretary in the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, said 37 of Arkansas' 251 school districts have such foundations.
The statewide organization would be modeled after education foundations in North Little Rock, Fayetteville and El Dorado, he said.
"The Murphy Education Program provides academic excellence in the El Dorado public school system," he said, adding that the foundation has established academic chairs in math, science and foreign languages.
"If we can have a foundation to support hunting and fishing and outdoor recreation, surely we can do as much for the children of this state and supporting them in education," Hutchinson said. "I believe the individual and business community in this state will be ready to support such a foundation for equal opportunities for education across Arkansas."
He said his proposed First Teachers Foundation would be funded by private contributions and would work with the 37 foundations already involved in school districts in the state. He said the foundation would be independent and not affiliated with state government.
"Just as we have parental involvement at Baker Elementary School, we can bring that type of community and parental support to more of our schools across this state," he said. "Businesses, I believe, understand how important it is because they need to have a better educated work force."
Hutchinson said he would take the lead role in recruiting members to the foundation's board and making certain that it is sufficiently funded.
Beebe spokesman Zac Wright said Hutchinson needs to be more specific about where the private contributions would come from and how the money would be used. He said some of the concepts in Hutchinson's plan are already being implemented.
Wright said the National Governor's Association and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation have selected Arkansas and at least 11 other states to receive funds to implement the American Diploma Project, which is aimed at beefing up high school course work so students will be better prepared in the global marketplace. The program encourages parents, students and educators to be more involved.
Also, the Legislature approved legislation three years ago that requires all public schools to develop and implement plans with input from parents. The goal of Act 603 of 2003 is to build strong partnerships between parents and the schools, Wright said.
Beebe "believes in quality pre-school and after-school programs to help prepare our children for the global marketplace of the 21st Century," Wright said.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/headlinenews/default.aspx?NewsID=64
