Public Statements
Asa: Time For Serious Discussion About State's Future
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: May 26, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR


Asa: Time For Serious Discussion About State's Future
Asa Hutchinson, the 2006 Republican candidate for Arkansas Governor, said today that the ongoing negative attacks by Mike Beebe and the Democratic Party serve to underscore the lack of substance and vision in Beebe's agenda.
In recent weeks, Democratic Chairman Jason Willett and Attorney General Mike Beebe have launched repeated negative attacks on Hutchinson's record and character, while offering very few specific policy proposals showing where they want to take the state.
"With the kind of substance-free agenda their campaign has displayed so far, I am not surprised that they are resorting to these absurd distortions as a way to divert attention from some very serious policies we are proposing," Hutchinson said.
Over the last several months, Hutchinson has laid out detailed, concrete and substantive proposals to move Arkansas forward. Such proposals include: A seven-point package to reform K-12 education; reform of the tax system to support job-creating businesses; reform of the tax system to prevent continued increases in the states sales tax; investing in higher education and technology research; investing in workforce training at two-year colleges; strengthening private property rights; protecting seniors from predatory payday lenders; protecting children from sexual predators, and more.
Hutchinson pointed to education as one key area where Beebe has offered no solutions or proposals for the future.
"I've called for lifting the state cap limiting the number of charter schools in Arkansas. Is Mike Beebe willing to take that step?" Hutchinson asked. "If not, what steps is he willing to take, if any, to spur educational innovation in Arkansas schools? Is he willing to look at the problem of long bus rides for students in rural areas, and help work toward some solution? What does Mike Beebe stand for?"
"I hope we'll be able to hear something substantive from Mr. Beebe in the near future - that is, something other than the tiresome and negative attacks from either his campaign or his surrogate Jason Willet," Hutchinson said. "Voters have a serious responsibility to choose who will lead this great state forward, and they deserve a serious discussion between the candidates. I hope we can get on with a real discussion about how to move Arkansas forward."

Source: http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/campaignnews/default.aspx?NewsID=58
