Public Statements
The Associated Press - Hutchinson Calls For Bus Ride Standards
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: May 11, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR


May 11, 2006
Hutchinson Calls For Bus Ride Standards
By Jill Zeman, Associated Press
LITTLE ROCK (AP) -- Republican gubernatorial candidate Asa Hutchinson on Thursday called for "reasonable standards" for the time spent riding school buses by students living in rural and poor communities.
Hutchinson made a pitch for bus-ride standards three days after the state ordered Paron High School to close, a move that could mean bus rides of more than two hours for students traveling to school at Bryant. The time spent traveling the 60-mile round trip includes stops to pick up or let off students.
In an interview Thursday, Hutchinson said the state Board of Education needs to factor in travel time when deciding whether to close or consolidate a school. He also said the state needs to have standards regarding the lengths of bus rides.
Hutchinson said it was "a little premature" for him to say what constitutes a reasonable length for a bus ride, only that he supports standards based on "common sense."
"Any parent would know ... three hours on a bus is not helpful to the education and learning environment," he said. "It's going to hamper the child to be able to learn in school."
Hutchinson also called for the state to complete a study on isolated schools and the impact of transportation times. The study was authorized by the Legislature last year.
"To date, we've had a number of school closings, but we don't have the benefit of that study to assess the potential negative effect of those closings on the children," Hutchinson said in prepared remarks for a speech to the Civitan Club in El Dorado.
Hutchinson faces no Republican opponent in the May 23 primary; Attorney General Mike Beebe also is unopposed for the Democratic nomination. A spokesman for Beebe's campaign did not immediately return calls seeking comment Thursday.
"It's unconscionable that we're making decisions affecting rural communities without having collected all the necessary facts or setting reasonable standards for school transportation," Hutchinson said.
Gov. Mike Huckabee said in a telephone interview that he hadn't heard specifics on Hutchinson's busing request, but that it's pricey to provide the same education to every student.
"We have to provide an equitable education to every student regardless of geographic area," Huckabee said.
"Unless we're willing to raise taxes a lot, we have to do it with some limitation on the amount of money there's going to be to spend."
Isolated schools are costlier to the state than urban districts, Huckabee said.
Julie Thompson, a spokeswoman for the Arkansas Department of Education, said the state currently has no standards in place regarding the length of bus rides. Thompson also said that the study on isolated schools and transportation times will begin soon, and will be completed by the 2007 legislative session that begins in January.
"We understand that (bus ride lengths) will probably be an issue in the 2007 session and that it is something that probably does need to be looked at," Thompson said.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/headlinenews/default.aspx?NewsID=60
