Public Statements
Asa: State Should Set Standards For School Bus Rides
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: May 11, 2006
Location: El Dorado, AR


May 11, 2006
Asa: State Should Set Standards For School Bus Rides
El Dorado, Ark. - Asa Hutchinson, Arkansas' 2006 Republican candidate for Governor, said today that, as Governor, he will require the state Department of Education to set reasonable standards for bus rides for students living in rural and Delta communities.
Speaking to the El Dorado Civitan Club, Hutchinson also urged the Dept. of Education to move forward on a study of isolated schools and the impact of excessive transportation times, which was mandated by the Arkansas Legislature over a year ago but has yet to be undertaken.
Hutchinson said he was disappointed that the state was closing down rural schools despite the fact that the study had yet to be completed.
"The legislature mandated a study of isolated schools to ensure equal education for students without excessive bussing and transportation burdens," Hutchinson said. "To date, we've had a number of school closings, but we don't have the benefit of that study to assess the potential negative effect of those closings on the children."
Hutchinson noted that a number of independent studies conclude that while school district consolidation may improve efficiency, closing rural schools and schools in African-American communities can be harmful to student performance.
"Independent studies indicate that we may be putting additional hardships on some of our most vulnerable kids, the very ones who need our support most," Hutchinson said during his speech. "By shutting down well-performing schools in isolated areas, what new obstacles are we creating? How much more difficult do we make it for a parent to be involved? How much more difficult do we make it for a child to get extra tutoring? These are questions that should be answered before we shut down more schools."
Hutchinson's remarks came in the wake of Monday's vote by the Arkansas Board of Education to close Paron High School, a small school in Saline Co., despite vigorous protests from students and parents from the community.
According to the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette ("Board Gives Bryant OK To Shut Paron," Cynthia Howell, May 9, 2006), an attorney representing the Paron High School noted that bus rides for Paron students, who will now be forced to attend Bryant schools, will take up to 95 minutes one way.
"It's unconscionable that we're making decisions affecting rural communities without having collected all the necessary facts or setting reasonable standards for school transportation," Hutchinson said.
Hutchinson's call for state standards on bussing was part of his larger package of education reform rolled out as part of his GROW ARKANSAS campaign. Hutchinson unveiled his education package April 27 at his high school alma mater, Springdale High School.
Other initiatives included in Hutchinson's education package include: recruiting quality teachers and rewarding excellence by tying financial incentives to performance measures; spurring greater innovation in the classroom by expanding public charter schools; keeping the best teachers in the classroom by offering multiple career advancement paths; establishing a First Teachers Foundation to promote greater parental and local community involvement in education; and preserving educational opportunities in Arkansas' rural and Delta communities.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/campaignnews/default.aspx?NewsID=56
