Public Statements
The Associated Press - Hutchinson Rolls Out Education Proposals
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: April 27, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR


April 27, 2006
Hutchinson Rolls Out Education Proposals
By ANDREW DeMILLO, Associated Press Writer
LITTLE ROCK (AP) -- Arkansas should increase the number of charter schools and expand programs to reward teachers based on student performance and other factors, Republican gubernatorial candidate Asa Hutchinson said Thursday.
The former congressman and federal Homeland Security official detailed proposals he said would help improve education in the state. Hutchinson indicated that his proposals were an effort to avoid the school-funding battles that sent legislators back to the Capitol for a special session earlier this month.
"We've got to get the courts out of our classrooms, and the state must be committed to meeting the funding requirements of public education," Hutchinson said. "At the same time, we must also recognize that the old way of doing things - of simply raising taxes and increasing spending - will not suffice."
Hutchinson proposed creating a teachers advisory council that would guide the development of programs to reward teachers who excel in the classroom. Hutchinson said he wants to expand programs that offer financial incentives to teachers for teaching highly needed skills and working in underserved areas such as the Delta and rural communities.
Hutchinson said any sort of reward program shouldn't be based only on student performance and test scores, and the council would help him find other criteria to use.
"The best way to accomplish and find the right thing to do is bring the teachers in and to come up with some different models that we can pilot," Hutchinson said.
Hutchinson also said the state needs to remove the cap, currently set at 24, on the number of charter schools and he called for easing restrictions on establishing charter schools.
Hutchinson, who in the U.S. House was one of the managers who prosecuted the impeachment case against then-President Clinton, cited comments made by the former president in 1997 calling for expansion of charter schools nationwide.
"President Clinton said the options and new thinking offered by charter schools would foster competition and innovation that would make ... all of public schools better, and I agree," Hutchinson said.
Other proposals made by Hutchinson include the creation of a private education foundation to help schools and parents.
Hutchinson's proposals also called for more flexibility for rural schools to avoid consolidation, including expanded distance learning. The state should also allow communities to apply to convert a school slated for closure into a charter school, Hutchinson said.
Currently, only a school superintendent can apply to convert an existing public school into a charter school.
The proposals come as Arkansas has directed nearly $200 million in additional money to its 251 school districts in an effort to end a decades old school-funding fight. The state Supreme Court ruled last year that the state had again failed to properly fund education for its 450,000 students.
Hutchinson is the only Republican running for governor. Attorney General Mike Beebe is the only Democrat seeking the post.
Beebe spokesman Zac Wright cited the attorney general's work in the Legislature creating the KIPP charter school in Helena that Hutchinson cited as an example of a successful charter school.
"Mr. Hutchinson must have been looking over Mike Beebe's shoulder in class and copying down some of his solutions," Wright said.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/headlinenews/default.aspx?NewsID=56
