Public Statements
The Associated Press - Asa: Taxes Make Arkansas Uncompetitive
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: April 12, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR


April 12, 2006
Asa: Taxes Make Arkansas Uncompetitive
By ANDREW DeMILLO, Associated Press
LITTLE ROCK (AP) -- Arkansas' high taxes put the state in a "shockingly not competitive" position with other states in the region when it comes to economic development, Republican gubernatorial candidate Asa Hutchinson told The Associated Press on Wednesday.
The former congressman and federal Homeland Security official said in an interview that he wants to focus on jobs and economic development in his campaign for Arkansas' top office.
Hutchinson said Arkansas must find ways to meet its needs other than raising taxes and said high taxes have put Arkansas at a disadvantage in the region.
"Now we're at the point where we're shockingly not competitive with our 7 percent income tax rate, our 6 percent sales tax rate," Hutchinson said. "These are non-competitive rates with our region. So we cannot tax ourselves into prosperity and we cannot spend ourselves into prosperity."
Hutchinson said the state should reform its tax system as it tries to grow its economy. He noted that a surplus legislators tapped last week for education improvements was not created by higher taxes.
"The surplus was created not by tax increases, but by economic growth and that's the pattern for the future," Hutchinson said in the interview, held at the AP's office in Little Rock. "I think that, as we continue to build our economy, then you start looking at a more competitive tax structure, one that's fair for our low-income citizens and everyone across the board."
Hutchinson is the only Republican running for governor. Attorney General Mike Beebe is the only Democrat running for the post and the AP is scheduled to interview Beebe at a later date.
Current Gov. Mike Huckabee, a Republican, is term-limited and leaves office in January 2007.
In the AP interview, Hutchinson said Arkansas' future does not necessarily depend on the growth of the manufacturing sector or solely on landing an auto plant in the impoverished Delta region, which the state has been pursuing for years.
"We have put our eggs in the manufacturing basket in previous decades," Hutchinson said. "While we want to continue to be competitive in manufacturing, we've got to reach beyond that into the technology sphere and into the new economy where really we're going to keep the best and brightest here and create the jobs that will be better paying."
Hutchinson said he believed there could be a wave of technology companies looking to the South for expansion in the same way automobile companies have looked toward the region in recent years.
To take advantage of that wave, Hutchinson repeated his call to use $25 million from the state's General Improvement Fund - which has traditionally been used for legislators' local projects - for technology research at the state's universities.
"If you have a state portion of that, you'll go off the charts," Hutchinson said. "There's a lot of being done, but we need to accelerate and increase our investment."
Hutchinson served nearly three terms in Congress before he was appointed by President Bush as the head of the Drug Enforcement Administration. He also served as an undersecretary of the Department of Homeland Security.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/headlinenews/default.aspx?NewsID=53
