Public Statements
Asa Hutchinson Lauds "Jessica's Law" Bills In House
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: April 4, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR


April 04, 2006
Asa Hutchinson Lauds "Jessica's Law" Bills In House
Gubernatorial candidate praises action by Legislature to protect children
Little Rock - Asa Hutchinson, 2006 Republican candidate for Governor, praised Arkansas legislators today for passing legislation to allow more stringent tracking and monitoring of child sex offenders.
Hutchinson, who has made passage of a comprehensive "Jessica's Law"-styled legislation part of his campaign platform, praised members of the Arkansas House for passing the "Child Protection Act," which would allow electronic monitoring of child predators.
"I'm pleased that the House has acted to protect children from sexual predators, but it's too early to declare victory now," Hutchinson said. "I urge quick action by the full Legislature so that we can give peace of mind to parents now, and so they won't have to wait until 2007 to know that these new protections are in place against child predators."
The Child Protection Act is one of two bills introduced in the legislative special session modeled on "Jessica's Law," which was originally passed in Florida to subject child sex offenders to tougher penalties and more stringent monitoring. A second bill, passed by the House Judiciary Committee today, would require tougher sentences for sex offenders.
On March 24, Hutchinson said that as Governor he would lead the charge to pass a law modeled on Jessica's Law in Arkansas.
While serving in the Department of Homeland Security, Hutchinson oversaw one of the nation's most intensive crackdowns on child predators, Internet child pornographers, and human trafficking of children for purposes of sexual slavery. "Operation Predator," as the crackdown was dubbed, was hailed nationwide, including by national child protection activist and "America's Most Wanted" host John Walsh.
"Jessica's Law" commemorates Jessica Lunsford of Florida, who was abducted, sexually assaulted and murdered in March 2005. Initially enacted in Florida in May 2005, Arizona and Louisiana have since passed similar legislation.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/campaignnews/default.aspx?NewsID=50
