Public Statements
Arkansas Has ‘Clear Choice' In Governor's Race
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: March 29, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR


March 29, 2006
Arkansas Has ‘Clear Choice' In Governor's Race
Asa Emphasizes Need For Experience, Reform Vision In Governor's Office; Declares Jobs Top Priority

Little Rock - Asa Hutchinson, 2006 Republican candidate for Governor, said today that Arkansas needs a Governor with broad and tested leadership experience as well as a clear reform-minded vision to continue the state's progress of recent years.

Hutchinson spoke today at the Arkansas State Capitol in Little Rock after filing papers to make his candidacy for Governor official.

"Arkansas has a clear choice this year in the Governor's race, and I would like to make this campaign a contest of ideas and vision for the future of Arkansas," Hutchinson said. "Now that the campaign season officially begins, we are beginning already to see clear differences between the two candidates on a wide range of issues, from tax reform to private property rights."
Hutchinson noted also that his own experience as a legislator, as an administrator in the public sector and as an executive in the private sector have provided him with the experience to lead the state forward and to bring new thinking to state government.

"Over the last ten years, Arkansas has made tremendous progress under Gov. Mike Huckabee, who brought fresh leadership and vision to the office and delivered results for our state," Hutchinson said. "We don't want to go back to days when one party and a few powerful insiders made all of the decisions in government. Now is not the time to waver from the path of reform. Now is the time to embrace bold new ideas to continue the path of progress in our state."

Hutchinson has identified bringing more and better-paying jobs as the top priority for his campaign and the top agenda of his Administration as Governor. On Jan. 18, Hutchinson announced his GROW ARKANSAS jobs plan, with an outline of eight clear principals to achieve his goals of jobs growth in Arkansas.

Since that time, he has proposed a variety of specific policy planks - from requiring a supermajority to raise sales taxes to investing the GIF fund in education and jobs training to strengthening private property rights and openness of government operations. Hutchinson said that, in the coming weeks, he will roll out even more specifics.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/campaignnews/default.aspx?NewsID=49
