Public Statements
The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette - Open Government Hutchinson's Vow
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: March 21, 2006
Location: Springdale, AR


Open Government Hutchinson's Vow
— Asa Hutchinson pledged Monday that if he is elected governor, any legislative attempts to weaken the Arkansas Freedom of Information Act would stop at him.
The Republican candidate also said he would ensure that state government employees are trained in complying with the law.
And he would convene a summit next year, the 40th anniversary of passage of the current law, to strengthen the law and "examine a more streamlined enforcement means to make it effective."
The 1967 law made meetings and records of public bodies open to inspection by Arkansas residents, though supporters have contended that dozens of legislative amendments over the years have eroded its power. The law's original backers sought to strengthen and clarify a 1950s-era freedom of information law, according to newspaper archives.
"There was a 1953 law that was passed in Arkansas that required our agencies to have open meetings — unless they decided they should be closed," Hutchinson told about 150 people at a Springdale Rotary Club luncheon Monday.
"Now, you can imagine what the result of that was. They were not open meetings."
Hutchinson has been an undersecretary in the Department of Homeland Security, head of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and U.S. attorney for the Western District of Arkansas.
While serving as congressman for Arkansas' 3rd District, he recalled, Congress worked constantly to update the federal open-government law so it could keep pace with changing technology.
Hutchinson noted that Arkansas has done this also and will need to consider further updates as new technologies change the way public business is conducted.
He predicted a debate between the law's supporters and other interests, such as privacy advocates, would always exist but that open government should not be compromised.
"I would pledge to veto any bills that would weaken the Freedom of Information laws in this state," he said Monday. "It is something that must be maintained with constant vigilance."
Hutchinson's promise elaborated on one of the eight key principles of his "Grow Arkansas" plan, which he announced Jan. 18.
In point seven of the plan, he had pledged to bring "greater transparency, accountability and efficiency" to state government through a "thorough executive review" of operations. Until now, he had offered no specifics other than ensuring that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely and that government become more open and accountable to the public.
"I believe whenever you look at growing Arkansas, it is about technology, it's about tax reform, it's about workforce education, it's about investment in research and development, and it is also about efficiency and openness in government if we're going to have a wise use of our tax dollars," he said.
After the luncheon, Hutchinson said that Gov. Mike Huckabee has had public employees undergo training in the Freedom of Information law.
Hutchinson said he would continue this, ensuring that existing employees are kept abreast of any updates to the law and that new employees are trained.
"I think it's important that we not take openness in government for granted in this state," he said.
Responding to a question from the audience on his stance regarding political mudslinging, Hutchinson said he seeks to balance his advocacy for running a "positive campaign" with the need for candidates to clearly define their differences.
"I don't believe in attacking people's character," said Hutchinson, whose handling of a job offer as he neared the end of his federal government service has been questioned by state Democrats. State Republicans have likewise leveled ethics questions at the Democratic gubernatorial candidate, Mike Beebe.
Hutchinson told Monday's audience that third parties add another dimension to seeking office.
"In today's politics, it's like the candidates are spectators at their own wedding — or their own divorce," he said.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/headlinenews/default.aspx?NewsID=50
