Public Statements
The Jonesboro Sun - Asa Vows To Support Research, Education
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Feb. 23, 2006
Location: Jonesboro, AR


February 23, 2006
Jonesboro Sun: Asa Vows To Support Research, Education
By Grover Welch, Jonesboro Sun
JONESBORO -- Asa Hutchinson announced Wednesday that as governor he would shuttle general improvement funds to help university entrepreneurial research and job education.
The Republican candidate for the post visited Jonesboro as part of a campaign swing through Northeast Arkansas. He toured Arkansas State University's Biosciences Institute and spoke to a group of students involved in the College Republicans organization.
"I want to take the $50 million in general improvement funds and divide it between two initiatives," Hutchinson said. "We can divide that money in half and give $25 million to workforce training and another $25 million toward supporting research, technology initiatives and funding initiatives that will create entrepreneurial jobs in Arkansas."
Hutchinson announced his plan during a session to discuss his "Grow Arkansas" initiative.
"The state is in a position where we are going to have to make serious commitments to educate our workforce," he said. "I believe that this is not just a matter of spending money on a short-term basis, but investing in a better future for all Arkansans."
The plan would face hurdles, Hutchinson admitted.
"That money is currently controlled by the Legislature and used for projects in individual districts," he said. "My proposal would take that money out of the hands of the Legislature and put it toward the long-term investment in programs such as the Arkansas Biosciences Institute at ASU."
Hutchinson commended ABI personnel for developing technological research that will have a "significant impact on the economic future of Arkansas."
"We are seeing a world economy where our manufacturers and industry are exporting technical jobs out of Arkansas. We have a shortage of educated workforce candidates," he said. "We have to make a commitment to raising that education base and attracting the technology-based industry that will be the future of our economy."
Hutchinson also told attendees that he will use the newly created Arkansas Department of Agriculture to help farmers.
"There is great excitement in the realm of biotechnology," he said. "I would use the new department to push forward three key initiatives to help farmers. I want to market our agricultural products abroad to increase the share of the global market coming out of Arkansas. I believe we need to improve investment in biotechnology and ensure that it grows and becomes rooted here.
"I also believe I can be an advocate within the Republican-led congressional bodies and administration that we do not have," Hutchinson added. "Our current congressional delegation is great and has worked very hard for Arkansas farmers, but they are Democrats and are limited in the access and advocacy in the current administration. Adding myself, as a Republican part of that delegation, I feel we can help the Arkansas farmers."
ASU President Les Wyatt commended the candidate on his visit to the university.
"We are a very non-discriminating campus," he said. "We invite all candidates to come to our campus and share with our students their viewpoints and ideas. It allows students exposure to the political mechanism, and encourages them to think about the ideas and views of others."
ASU student Hunter Shumard, district coordinator for College Republicans, agrees the visit is encouraging.
"I believe it gives students a chance to get involved in politics and participate on a personal level," he said. "Hutchinson gave several straightforward responses to questions and shared many new ideas he has developed about where Arkansas needs to go."
Hutchinson has been a U.S. attorney, Arkansas' 3rd District representative, the head of the Drug Enforcement Administration and undersecretary of Homeland Security.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/headlinenews/default.aspx?NewsID=44
