Public Statements
Asa Draws Contrast In Jobs Plans
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Feb. 17, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR


Asa Draws Contrast In Jobs Plans
- Asa Hutchinson, Republican candidate for Arkansas governor, said the state must focus more on long-term investment and less on short-term spending. Hutchinson criticized as "backwards looking" a plan by opponent Mike Beebe to create a special fund controlled exclusively by the Governor that would allow the Governor to dispense state funds to select businesses and corporations.
Hutchinson, speaking to the winter meeting of the Arkansas Association of County Judges, said that Arkansas must focus its limited budget on the state's top long-term priorities, which he said was jobs and education.
On Monday, Beebe proposed using approximately $50 of the state's General Improvement Fund (GIF) to create what he dubbed a "Governor's Quick Action Fund" to be handed out as enticements to bring industry to the state.
"Mr. Beebe wants to take all of that GIF money and put it into some kind of fund that he would control as Governor," Hutchinson said in his prepared remarks. "He'd be able to dole that money out to this company or that company as he sees fit. That kind of arrangement makes me a little nervous. There is not a clear process of accountability and transparency. It seems to put a little too much power in the hands of one man. There is no clear direction, guidance or priorities for how that money is spent."
Hutchinson noted that in 1997 the state legislature wrested control of the GIF from the Governor, even going so far as to override Gov. Mike Huckabee's veto to move the funds under their control. Beebe was a leading member of the Arkansas Senate at the time.
Last week, Hutchinson had proposed using GIF money to invest in education, specifically worker training programs at two-year colleges and research and technology programs at state universities.
Hutchinson said that such investment, along with tax reform, would create conditions for long-term growth in Arkansas.
"It's important to offer incentives to business to lure them to our state, but that shouldn't be our first priority," Hutchinson said. "We've tried it that way for a long time, and while we have had some successes, we need a bolder vision. It is even more important to create a long-term economic environment that will prompt industries to want to come to Arkansas and stay in Arkansas.
Last summer, Hutchinson argued that the state should not fragment limited state dollars into dozens of local projects but should focus that money on Arkansas' highest statewide priorities. He said that Arkansas has three options on how to go forward with GIF money.
"We can go back to the old way of doing things, back before 1997, and create a Governor's kitty that the Governor alone controls and dispenses at his personal discretion," Hutchinson said. "Or, we can leave things as they are now, divvying up the GIF in a fragmented fashion to pay for local projects.
"Or the third option is to target the limited budget we have toward the top priorities we face as a state - jobs and education," Hutchinson said. "I believe we should go with the third option."
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/campaignnews/default.aspx?NewsID=43
