Public Statements
Asa Calls For Investment In Workforce Education, Research, Technology
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Feb. 11, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR


February 11, 2006
Asa Calls For Investment In Workforce Education, Research, Technology
Little Rock, Ark. - Asa Hutchinson, Republican candidate for Governor, announced today that he would lead the effort to use excess state funds in the General Improvement Fund to enhance workforce training at Arkansas' two-year colleges and to help the state's four-year colleges to fund technology research initiatives.
Hutchinson, the Republican candidate for Governor, made his announcement during stops in Conway and Russellville as part of his GROW ARKANSAS jobs tour.
He noted that the General Improvement Fund (GIF), excess state funds currently divvied up among state legislators for local projects, provided tens of millions of dollars in discretionary spending during any given budgeting year that could be better used by investing in the state's greatest, long-term needs.
"We have a limited budget in this state, which means that we have to prioritize carefully and wisely," Hutchinson said. "I've made the creation of more and better-paying jobs the number one priority of my administration, and building a statewide educated workforce is key to the success of that plan."
Hutchinson argued that the current process of divvying up the excess GIF money among local projects for state legislators diluted the state's already limited budget, diverting critical funding from priority statewide needs. Last year, for example, about $50 million went to a fractured array of local projects throughout the state.
By investing the money in education and jobs, he argued, we would lay the foundation for long-term, sustained growth in the state.
"We need to quit thinking in terms of simply spending, and think more in terms of investing," Hutchinson said. "All of us in Arkansas need to think long-term and lay the foundation for a thriving economy that will mean more jobs and better-paying jobs, not simply for this generation but for the next generation as well."
As early as August 2005, Hutchinson had suggested that the use of GIF money for local projects was shortsighted, and he had noted that the funds should be targeted toward more urgent priorities that would benefit the state as a whole.
No matter how well intended, diverting critical state money to a patchwork of local projects results in missed opportunities to invest in statewide jobs creation and economic development that will benefit the entire state for years to come, Hutchinson said.
"Whether it's traditional industries, such as trucking and manufacturing, or emerging fields in technology and bioproducts, we can support the growth of the best jobs right here in Arkansas," Hutchinson said. "That benefits not just one part of the state but the entire state."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/campaignnews/default.aspx?NewsID=41
