Public Statements
The Jonesboro Sun - Asa Hutchinson Talks Jobs In Wynne
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Jan. 22, 2006
Location: Jonesboro, AR


Asa Hutchinson Talks Jobs In Wynne
Arkansas needs the tools to attract jobs and prevent its best and brightest from leaving the state, Republican gubernatorial candidate Asa Hutchinson said on Saturday at a luncheon in Wynne.
The Cross County visit was one of three stops the candidate made Saturday promoting his "G.R.O.W. Arkansas" plan for statewide economic growth.
"The state needs to be committed to initiatives that will help attract industry and manufacturing while keeping our qualified, and intelligent natives from going out of state to find work," Hutchinson said. "That is why I am committing myself to economic development if I am elected. Growth, reform, opportunity and world-class education for Arkansans is the path to a better state."
In his plan Hutchinson outlined eight steps he plans to use as ingredients to promote more and better-paying jobs, including:
* develop an educated workforce;
* reform the state's tax system;
* reform the state's education system;
* embrace new emerging economies;
* enhance the state's roads and infrastructures;
* support small business and entrepreneurship;
* bring greater transparency and accountability to state government; and
* dedicate himself to serve as the state's chief ambassador for economic development.
Economic growth can help the state in every area, Hutchinson said, just as it has helped Northeast Arkansas.
"I believe the state has to do whatever it can to help and encourage economic growth," he said.
Guests at the luncheon participated in a question-and-answer session during which Hutchinson outlined his support for a reform of the state's tax system. He pointed to tax exemptions given companies recruited to the state and suggested the same benefits should be available to companies already in the state.
"Arkansas needs new thinking when it comes to taxes," he said. "Those companies are employing people here in the state. We need to give them incentives to encourage keeping that business in our state. Exempting sales taxes on utilities for manufacturers will encourage growth. Arkansas is surrounded by states that are more attractive because of tax breaks, and we need to take advantage of tax as a tool."
Problems with the existing sales tax structure need to be fixed as well, he said.
"In the past it has been the philosophy of the state to increase the sales tax because it has not required a majority vote and was the easiest solution," Hutchinson said. "This has led to Arkansas having one of the nation's highest tax structures. I propose requiring a super-majority vote to raise sales tax."
Economic growth in Arkansas is going to require forward thinking, he said.
"We have to embrace the new economy -- the information and technology economy -- by supporting universities and research institutions," he said. "Committing to connecting our schools to the eCorridor is one step. The eCorridor will enable students and businesses in Arkansas to participate in the global economy unlike ever before. ...
"Arkansas can take advantage of so many things because barriers are coming down," Hutchinson said. "Geography which has kept Arkansas from competing and growing in the past is bypassed by the new electronic markets. Arkansas is benefited by infrastructure and technology improvements that will allow it to become a competitor on the world economic market."
Hutchinson said his plan was something different.
"I have been in government for many years," he said. "Let's take some risk; let's do something different to make Arkansas better. We have been through a time when the state has tried the same trick over and over. Now we need to do something that works."
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/headlinenews/default.aspx?NewsID=37
