Public Statements
Asa Lauds Legislative Study Of Sales Tax Exemption
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Jan. 19, 2006
Location: Little Rock, AR


Asa Lauds Legislative Study Of Sales Tax Exemption
- Asa Hutchinson, Republican candidate for Arkansas governor, today praised Arkansas legislators for taking steps to determine the economic impact of a sales tax exemption on utilities for manufacturers in the state.
In October, Hutchinson called for the sales tax exemption on manufacturers' utilities as one way the state could become more competitive with surrounding states in attracting job-creating businesses. Hutchinson argued then that the exemption would reduce the cost of doing business in Arkansas, helping to spur economic expansion and jobs creation.
"I'm pleased the Legislature recognizes that exempting sales taxes on utilities is a promising avenue for creating jobs in Arkansas," Hutchinson said. "By removing impediments to doing business in Arkansas, we can bring more and better-paying jobs to the state. Job growth is the top priority of my campaign and will top my agenda as Governor."
In a hearing at the Capitol today, the Joint Committee on Revenue and Taxation voted unanimously to undertake an interim study proposal to determine the impact of a sales and use tax exemption for the purchase of utilities by manufacturers.
Arkansas' tax on utilities ranks among the highest in the region at a rate of 5.125 percent. Oklahoma, Missouri and Texas all fully exempt sales tax from utilities used by
manufacturers. Georgia is also considering such an exemption.
The study was requested by Sen. Barbara Horn, who has also introduced legislation to exempt manufacturers from the sales tax on utilities.
"I applaud Senator Horn's leadership on this issue. Clearly there is bipartisan support for this proposal, as well as broad support from the business community, because if we don't change our tax structure in Arkansas we are going to lose job opportunities to surrounding states," Hutchinson said. "I look forward to working with our legislators to move this proposal forward."
At the hearing, a number of industry groups and experts in economic development testified in favor of the exemption, including representatives from the Arkansas Poultry Federation, the Arkansas State Chamber of Commerce/Associated Industries of Arkansas, the Arkansas Forest and Paper Council, the Metro Little Rock Alliance and Larry Walther, director of the Arkansas Department of Economic Development.
According to Morrill Harriman, former state senator and executive vice president of the Poultry Federation, if all of the poultry processing plants in the state moved to Oklahoma, where utilities are exempt, the industry could save $8 to $12 million per year in taxes. Representatives from the paper industry estimated that one facility alone paid $500,000 per month in sales taxes on utilities.
On Wednesday, Hutchinson launched his GROW ARKANSAS campaign, a statewide tour to focus on jobs growth and economic development, the key themes of his campaign. He outlined a set of eight principles to guide jobs growth in Arkansas, including reform of the state's tax structure, a component of which is Hutchinson's call to exempt the sales tax on utilities for manufacturers.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/campaignnews/default.aspx?NewsID=39
