Public Statements
The Southwest Times Record - Asa Addresses Child Advocate Program Volunteers
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Nov. 16, 2005
Location: Fort Smith, AR


Asa Addresses Child Advocate Program Volunteers
An appreciation banquet was held Tuesday night for the Court Appointed Special Advocates to honor volunteers, and Republican gubernatorial candidate Asa Hutchinson was on hand to express his appreciation for the child-advocates program.
CASA is designed for children in the Department of Human Services program that have been abused or neglected, said Denise Bashum, co-coordinator for the Crawford County CASA program.
"CASA volunteers provide a constant person in the child's life. Someone who will be with them wherever they go," said Bashum.
CASA is made up of volunteers who are court-appointed to work with children who have gone through the Department of Human Services. There are 30 volunteers in Sebastian County and 11 in Crawford County. Every volunteer goes through a 30-hour training session.
"We serve as the eyes and ears for the judge," Bashum said.
CASA services are provided by Comprehensive Juvenile Services Inc. Tuesday night's appreciation banquet was designed to give recognition to the volunteers who work for CASA.
"CASA provides a special voice for children," said Jerry Robertson, executive director of Comprehensive Juvenile Services.
Hutchinson was at the banquet to express his appreciation for the CASA volunteers.
Hutchinson served as a former U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas, a member of Congress, head of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and the first-ever Undersecretary of Homeland Security.
He is now a Republican candidate for the 2006 Arkansas governor's race.
Hutchinson said that anyone who stands with children has a high calling. He expressed his gratitude and appreciation for CASA volunteers and Comprehensive Juvenile Services.
"The heart of any community should be judged by the way it cares and protects children, and I'm interested in the state of Arkansas as a large community. We've been held accountable as a state for what we are doing in juvenile services," said Hutchinson.
He also talked about the needs of children he saw during his experience in the DEA and in the Department of Homeland Security.
"You cannot deal with methamphetamine without coming across children," Hutchinson said.
He talked about how meth use drives parents and children away from each other
"Meth use is a growing area of abuse and neglect. We have to tackle the problem of meth," he said.
Hutchinson also talked about the challenges that immigration adds to child abuse and neglect.
"You cannot enforce our immigration laws without coming across children. There is a potential for child abuse and neglect in that environment," he said.
He praised the 21 programs that serve 58 counties in Arkansas, and said that more still needs to be done. The state currently supports volunteer programs like CASA with its budget, and Hutchinson wants to make sure that funding stays available.
"We've got to make sure that commitment by the state of Arkansas remains strong for this type of voluntary program," said Hutchinson
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/HeadlineNews/default.aspx?NewsID=31
