Public Statements
The Arkansas News Bureau - Asa: Don't Withhold Student Aid For Past Drug Offenses
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Oct. 22, 2005
Location: Fayetteville, AR


Asa: Don't Withhold Student Aid For Past Drug Offenses
Don't withhold student loans for past drug offenses, former DEA director says
College students who have had a drug problem need a college education to keep that problem behind them, and should not be ineligible for student loans because of prior drug convictions, the former director of the Drug Enforcement Administration said Friday.
"Past drug offenses should not automatically disqualify someone for student aid," Hutchinson, a candidate for governor, told the Arkansas Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators. The group met in a fall conference at the Radisson Hotel in downtown Fayetteville.
Applicants for student loans are asked if they have used drugs in the past and, if so, are ineligible for loans, Hutchinson said. That's a mistake, he said.
"However, if someone commits a drug offense while receiving a student loan, he should lose it," Hutchinson continued. "Chances are that if he has a drug problem while going to school, he will drop out and not repay the loan."
Hutchinson has a history of supporting drug courts and other programs that rehabilitate drug users. He said in an interview after the speech that denying reformed drug users a student loan could easily be counter-productive.
"It's a mistake to put people right on the same track that lead to drug use in the first place by considering them unredeemable," he said. "If you deny people access to jobs by denying them the education they need, they will have little recourse in their mind other than going back to drugs."
Hutchinson also supports the governor's proposed bond issue for highways and higher education, he said. A special election on the $250 million bond issue is set for Dec. 13.
Hutchinson, a Republican, is also a former Arkansas congressman and undersecretary in the Department of Homeland Security.
He is the only Republican seeking the nomination for the governor's seat, being vacated by term-limited Gov. Mike Huckabee next year.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/HeadlineNews/default.aspx?NewsID=26
