Public Statements
Asa Calls For "New Way of Thinking": Urges Tax Reform, Economic Stimulus
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Oct. 14, 2005
Location: Little Rock, AR


Asa Calls For "New Way of Thinking": Urges Tax Reform, Economic Stimulus
Asa Calls For Lower Taxes In Arkansas
Hutchinson Says More Competitive Tax Structure Will Drive Job, Income Growth

- Arkansas should "think anew" about reforming the state's tax structure in order to drive job growth, stimulate the economy and increase state revenues, Republican gubernatorial candidate Asa Hutchinson said today in a speech in Little Rock.

Hutchinson noted that years of tax increases and "old ways of thinking" had failed to bring significant improvements in educational performance and personal income growth.

He called for a debate focused on how to reform the state's tax structure to make it more competitive with surrounding states in the region.

"Our focus should be on encouraging economic growth to drive revenues, not new revenues driven by tax increases," Hutchinson said. "The debate should center on how our tax structure can be more competitive and fairer and used as a tool to stimulate growth in this state."

Hutchinson noted that Arkansas is in the top 10 states in the nation in terms of high income tax and sales tax rates, and that the state's tax structure is not competitive with surrounding states with lower tax rates.

The result, Hutchinson argued, is that it is more difficult to attract new industries or retain those already on the state.

"Capital is fleeing the state, and it's taking job opportunities with it," Hutchinson said.

Hutchinson pointed to the example of New Mexico, where Democratic Gov. Bill Richardson recently worked with the Democratic-controlled legislature to cut the top marginal tax rate from 8.2 percent to 4.9 percent over a five-year period and reduced taxes on capital gains. The reductions resulted in economic growth that led to $216 million in new revenues in 2005.

"That is a new approach to state taxes," Hutchinson said. "New Mexico reduced taxes in order to produce jobs and boost income, with the net result that there are more revenues for the state to meet the needs for education, highways and other needs. That is thinking anew."

Hutchinson's spoke at a lunch meeting of the Pulaski County Bar Association in Little Rock.

Today's speech follows Hutchinson's earlier suggestion that the Legislature should require a super-majority of votes to raise sales taxes, to ensure that raising sales taxes is more difficult.

Hutchinson, a native of Gravette, is a former U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas, Member of Congress representing Arkansas' Third District, head of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and the first-ever Undersecretary of Homeland Security. Hutchinson is CEO of Hutchinson Security Strategies, a Little Rock consulting firm, and oversees the homeland security division of Venable Law Firm.

http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/campaignnews/default.aspx?NewsID=25
