Public Statements
Asa Endorses Gov. Huckabee's Bond Proposal
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Sept. 22, 2005
Location: Little Rock, AR


Asa Endorses Gov. Huckabee's Bond Proposal
- Asa Hutchinson endorsed Gov. Mike Huckabee's proposed bond issue for Arkansas highways and higher education today, deeming the proposal "a worthy investment" in Arkansas' future.

Hutchinson said that he would work with Gov. Huckabee to help Arkansans more fully understand the need for the new bond issue and how it would benefit the state, in order to ensure successful passage of the bond initiative in the Dec. 13 statewide special election.

"We know that higher education, highways and telecommunication infrastructure help to drive our economy and grow jobs, and this investment will allow Arkansas to continue making progress on each of these fronts," Hutchinson said. "I applaud the Governor for his leadership, and I look forward to working with him to continue the progress that we've made in recent years in these critical areas.

On Monday, Gov. Huckabee announced the Dec. 13 special election to authorize the special bond issue to fund improvements in higher education and the continued rehabilitation of the state's interstate highways. Gov. Huckabee's proposal would allow the state to issue up to $250 million in new college savings bonds, and would authorize additional bonds under the state interstate highway program as older debt is retired.

Hutchinson noted that, in addition to the improvements to highways and campus facilities, the bonds would provide $10 million to connect four-year schools in Arkansas to the national e-corridor, which would allow for greater communication and research cooperation between institutions.

"I encourage Arkansans to take a closer look at the Governor's proposal before they head to the polls later this year," Hutchinson added. "I think the voters will find that this initiative is a worthy investment in the future of Arkansas that will not place new burdens on our hard-working taxpayers."
Hutchinson, a native of Gravette, is a former U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas, Member of Congress representing Arkansas' Third District, head of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and the first-ever Undersecretary of Homeland Security. Hutchinson is CEO of Hutchinson Security Strategies, a Little Rock consulting firm, and oversees the homeland security division of Venable Law Firm. He is a 2006 candidate for Arkansas governor.
http://www.asaforgovernor.org/get-informed/CampaignNews/default.aspx?NewsID=21
