Public Statements
Gov. Hutchinson Signs ArFuture Grant into Law
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: March 2, 2017
Location: Little Rock, AR

Governor Asa Hutchinson today signed the "Arkansas Future Grant" (ArFuture) into law, which provides up to two years of tuition and fees at a publicly funded Arkansas community or technical college to any student who enrolls in a high-demand field of study or STEM field, such as computer science or welding. This state-funded grant does not require new general revenue funds and will be available on a first-come, first-serve basis to traditional, home school and non-traditional students in Arkansas.
To view the photo album of today's bill signing, go HERE. To view video of the signing, go HERE.
Media outlets are welcome to use photos and video. Please attribute credit to the Governor's Office.
Governor Hutchinson issued the following statement:
"The ArFuture Grant is changing the culture of post-secondary education in Arkansas by increasing accessibility and removing the financial hurdles that can keep students from taking the next step in their education. ArFuture makes higher education more affordable and attainable for Arkansas students at no additional cost to taxpayers. This bill will help us meet the needs of our state's rapidly growing workforce, while also indicating to employers that Arkansas is committed to fostering an environment that supports economic growth and creates high-quality jobs. I am pleased to sign ArFuture into law today."
Under this grant, key reforms will be implemented to ensure student accountability and success. All grant recipients are required to participate in a mentor program and a community service program. Additionally, upon graduation, the student must work full-time in Arkansas for a minimum of three years. If a student does not complete his or her commitment, the grant will be converted to a loan for repayment to the State of Arkansas. The ArFuture grant will be available for the 2017-2018 school year.

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/gov-hutchinson-signs-arfuture-grant-into-law
