Public Statements
Gov. Hutchinson Announces $10 Million in Additional Funding for Higher Education
Statement
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Oct. 31, 2016
Location: Little Rock, AR

Today Governor Asa Hutchinson was joined by the Director of the Arkansas Department of Higher Education, Dr. Maria Markham, and several Arkansas university presidents, to announce his support for the Higher Education Productivity Funding Model. This funding model places the priority on accountability, student success and program completion as opposed to the previous formula, which places priority on student enrollment. Additionally, the Governor demonstrated his support for the new funding method by announcing an additional $10 million increase to higher education funding conditioned on the reform's passage. If the new funding model is adopted, Arkansas will become only the fifth state to make significant progress toward funding higher education based on similar productivity models -- joining Tennessee, Indiana, Ohio, and Oregon.
Governor Hutchinson issued the following statement:
"I am pleased to demonstrate my support for the Higher Education Productivity Funding Model by announcing a $10 million increase to higher education funding conditioned on passage of this reform. I have no higher priority for the upcoming session than to see funding for our universities geared more towards the success of our students. The purpose of this additional funding is to incentivize efficiency and outcomes for our institutions of higher learning, and I appreciate the support this proposal has received from college and university presidents across the state.
"My goal continues to be increasing the percentage of Arkansans that are career-ready and equipped with degrees and industry-recognized certificates. This new revolutionary funding model will help us achieve those goals, and I look forward to working with the legislature to make it a reality."

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/gov.-hutchinson-announces-10-million-in-additional-funding-for-higher-educa
