Public Statements
Gov. Hutchinson Announces Public Private Partnership to Expand AR High Tech Accelerator Initiative
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: Aug. 3, 2016
Location: Little Rock, AR

Governor Asa Hutchinson today announced the first phase of a high tech accelerator initiative for the State of Arkansas. FIS, a global leader in financial services technology and a Fortune 500 company, will partner with the State to extend the VC FinTech Accelerator program through 2018.
The VC FinTech Accelerator is designed to boost the speed and development of startups focused on financial technology. The FinTech Accelerator was operated in conjunction with The Venture Center, based in Little Rock. The Venture Center provides resources, guidance, and critical connections to guide startups to viability.
The announcement was made at the VC FinTech Accelerator's Global Investor Demo Day at the Clinton Presidential Library in Little Rock. The partnership will see the State of Arkansas and FIS each cover a portion of the funding for program costs over the next two years.
Governor Hutchinson released the following statement:
"I am thrilled that we were able to partner with FIS to keep Arkansas's FinTech Accelerator going until 2018. This program has brought some of the world's most exciting financial services startups and promising tech talent to Arkansas and we are excited to see that relationship continue. It is great to see companies like FIS investing in innovation in Arkansas and we are excited to partner with them to increase the tech footprint in our state."
"Arkansas is developing a national reputation for technology both as a result of the major technology companies in Arkansas and because of Arkansas leading the nation in computer science education. Our new high tech accelerator initiative is an innovative way for the state to attract new technology companies and to support our existing industry. I was elated to hear that several of the startups that participated in the program are interested in exploring Arkansas as a home for their operations. We are optimistic that some of the startups will take advantage of the tremendous benefits of locating their companies in this state."

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/gov.-hutchinson-announces-public-private-partnership-to-expand-arkansas-hig
