Public Statements
Gov. Hutchinson, ADHE Launch ArFuture Grant for 2017-2018 School Year
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: May 30, 2017
Location: Little Rock, AR

Governor Asa Hutchinson and the Arkansas Department of Higher Education have announced the official launch of the Arkansas Future (ArFuture) scholarship program.
Starting today, prospective college students, including any graduate of an Arkansas high school, Arkansas homeschool, GED program, or anyone with a high school diploma who has lived in Arkansas for the past three years, may fill out an application for the ArFuture Grant online at https://www.ark.org/adhe_financialaid/login.aspx.
Students must enroll in a high-demand or STEM program and cannot have earned a bachelor's degree. Students must also complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and apply through ADHE's online YOUniversal scholarship portal.
"I am pleased that the ArFuture grant application process is now officially open," Governor Hutchinson said. "Through the ArFuture Grant, we are ensuring that all Arkansans have access to affordable higher education. This will increase our degree and certificate attainment rates by removing the financial hurdles that keep many from enrolling. Increasing access to education and creating a more skilled workforce is the best way to strengthen economic development and increase opportunities for all Arkansans."
Governor Hutchinson introduced the idea of the ArFuture grant in December 2016, and in the 2017 general session, it was among his priorities that legislators approved. This program was created to promote higher education, increase the skills and education of Arkansas' workforce, and attract students to high-demand, high-wage occupations. This scholarship will cover tuition and fees for eligible students in qualifying Associate's and Certificate programs at public institutions of higher education.
The scholarship program includes requirements for mentoring and community service. Students who are engaged in their professional fields and communities have a greater chance of success, research shows.
ArFuture will be awarded on a first-come, first-served basis. The application period has been extended until July 1. Deadlines for other programs, such as the Arkansas Challenge Scholarship, have been extended until June 15.

Source: https://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/gov.-hutchinson-adhe-launch-arfuture-grant-for-2017-2018-school-year
