Public Statements
Governor Asa Hutchinson Announces Ann Clemmer as Interim Director of ADHE
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: July 8, 2016
Location: Little Rock, AR

Governor Asa Hutchinson today named Ann Clemmer interim Director of the Arkansas Department of Higher Education (ADHE) effective upon the departure of Dr. Brett Powell, the current Director of ADHE. Dr. Powell will resign his post effective July 29 to accept the position as Vice President for Finance and Administration at Henderson State University. The Arkansas Higher Education Coordinating Board is currently conducting a nation-wide search to fill the director position at the ADHE. Clemmer will assume the responsibilities of the director until a new director is named.
Governor Hutchinson released the following statement:
"I am pleased to have Ann Clemmer step up to serve as Interim Director of the Arkansas Department of Higher Education while we continue the search for a Director. With her 30 years of experience in higher education, I am confident that Ann is well equipped to lead the department forward during this time of transition. I look forward to working with Ann and the future director to ensure that our state higher education institutions have the leadership and expertise they need to effectively fill the needs of the state."
Ann Clemmer released the following statement:
"It's been exciting to be a part of the statewide efforts to improve student success in Arkansas. ADHE is leading important initiatives in our state and I am happy to provide leadership continuity during this transition time."
Ann Clemmer has served as the Senior Associate Director for Academic Affairs at ADHE since 2015. She came to the department with three decades of experience in higher education including time as a faculty member at UALR and as a program director at Arkansas Northeastern College. Clemmer is also a former Arkansas State Representative. During her time in legislature, Clemmer served as Vice-Chair of the House Education Committee and Chair of the Arkansas Legislative Council Education Committee.

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/governor-asa-hutchinson-announces-ann-clemmer-as-interim-director-of-adhe
