Public Statements
Governor Asa Hutchinson Announces Intent to Grant Executive Clemency
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: July 6, 2016
Location: Little Rock, AR

Governor Asa Hutchinson today announced his intent to grant eight pardons and one commutation. An additional 38 clemency requests were denied and 11 had no action taken upon them. These include requests from both inmates and non-inmates.
The applicants intended for pardons have completed all jail time, fulfilled all parole and probationary requirements and paid all fines related to their sentences. There is a 30-day waiting period to receive public feedback on the notices before final action is taken.
Governor Hutchinson intends to grant pardons to the following people:
Timothy P. Caldwell (Greers Ferry): Possession of Crystal Methamphetamine (C Felony) and Possession of Crystal Methamphetamine (Probation Revocation) (C Felony).
This notice is issued based on the dates of conviction (1996 and 1997 -- Faulkner County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
James C. Chism (Paragould): Possession of a Controlled Substance with Intent to Deliver, Methamphetamine (Y Felony).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1995 -- Clark County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further felony violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Michael D. Decker (Heber Springs): Attempted Theft of Property (D Felony).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1993 -- Cleburne County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Edward L. McCollum (Paragould): Possession of a Controlled Substance (C Felony) and Theft of Property (C Felony).
This notice is issued based on the dates of conviction (1994 -- Faulkner County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
DeAnna Montgomery (Tuckerman): Residential Burglary (B Felony).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (2006 -- Craighead County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. The Craighead County Prosecuting Attorney has raised objections to the application.
Raymond Powell (Paris): Possession with Intent to Deliver (U Felony).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1987 -- Logan County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Wesley Siegman (Jacksonville): Possession of Drug Paraphernalia (C Felony).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (2002 -- Pulaski County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Curtis W. Ward (Hot Springs): Delivery of a Controlled Substance, two counts (C Felony).
This notice is issued based on the date of conviction (1993 -- Garland County), the fact that all terms of the applicant's sentence have been completed and there have been no further criminal-law violations. There are no law enforcement objections to the application.
Governor Hutchinson intends to grant commutation to the following person:
Max C. Eastin (ADC #134018): Manufacturing Methamphetamine (C Felony), Simultaneous Possession of Drugs/Firearms (Y Felony), Possession of Methamphetamine (Y Felony) and Use of Paraphernalia to Manufacture Methamphetamine (B Felony).
The governor has given notice of his intent to commute the sentence of Max C. Eastin, who was convicted in Clark County in 2005 for the above offenses, from a term of 480 months in the Arkansas Department of Correction to a term of to 240 months. The Prosecuting Attorney has raised objections to the application.

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/governor-asa-hutchinson-announces-intent-to-grant-executive-clemency-160706
