Public Statements
Governor Asa Hutchinson Names Alison Williams as New Chief of Staff
Press Release
By: Asa Hutchinson
Date: May 20, 2016
Location: Little Rock, AR

Governor Asa Hutchinson today announced Alison Williams, Director of State-Federal Relations for Governor Hutchinson, as his new Chief of Staff. Williams will replace current Chief of Staff, Michael Lamoureux, starting on June 1, 2016.
Governor Hutchinson issued the following statement:
"Alison and I have worked together for many years. She is a problem-solver, loves Arkansas and goes above and beyond in her work. Alison will be an exceptional asset to my office serving as our new Chief of Staff, bringing experience and expertise from her time in both the legislative and executive branches of government. I look forward to having Alison back in Arkansas to work with an already talented team."
Alison Williams issued the following statement:
"I am humbled and excited by this incredible opportunity. Governor Hutchinson and I have a long history of working together and share a commitment to government service. I am ready to return to the Natural State and lead Governor Hutchinson's outstanding team."
Alison Williams is an Arkansas native and a graduate of Cabot High School, the University of Arkansas and holds a Masters of Business Administration from the University of Virginia's Darden Graduate School of Business. She is married to Bob Kucheravy.
Williams currently serves as Governor Hutchinson's Director of State-Federal Relations and is responsible for overseeing federal fiscal and legislative issues to help accomplish the Governor's strategic goals. Williams develops and recommends policies to maximize federal resources that will support Governor Hutchinson's objectives for the State.
She worked in the D.C. area for more than a decade in the public and private sectors. Williams has served in the U.S. Departments of Justice, Homeland Security and Defense, cultivating an in-depth understanding of developing strong relationships and partnerships. She has led the Interagency Board that dealt with security challenges affecting the African continent, managed external affairs portfolios while at the Department of Homeland Security and consulted with both start-ups and Fortune 100 companies to better understand the intersection between business and government. Additionally, Williams worked with former Congressmen Asa Hutchinson and John Boozman early in her career.

Source: http://governor.arkansas.gov/press-releases/detail/governor-asa-hutchinson-names-alison-williams-as-new-chief-of-staff
