Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Applauds Recognition of Connecticut as Fifth Most Energy Efficient State in the Nation
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 6, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today celebrated Connecticut's moving into the top five in a ranking among the 50 states for its commitment to energy efficiency and said we are poised to move up to an even higher rating next year as a result of steps now being put in place. Earlier today, the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy (ACEEE) released a report that cited Connecticut's recently adopted energy strategy, which Governor Malloy signed into law this summer.

"Our state's ranking this year recognizes our focus on capturing the benefits of energy efficiency to lower monthly electric and natural gas bills for families and businesses," said Governor Malloy. "Energy efficiency is at the heart of my Comprehensive Energy Strategy because the cheapest energy is the energy that we don't use through efficiency measures we all can undertake -- with every dollar spent on efficiency returning nearly $2.40 in savings on energy bills."

In the new ACEEE scorecard, Connecticut is joined by Massachusetts, California, New York, and Oregon at the top of the list. ACEE Executive Director Steven Nadel said, "Energy efficiency is the cleanest, cheapest, most reliable energy resource available. Over the past year, Connecticut has made major strides in creating a sustainable framework that will help its citizens reap all of the benefits of energy efficiency."

The ACEEE scorecard noted that Connecticut and the four other top states "comprise the group of truly leading states that have made broad, long-term commitments to developing energy efficiency as a state resource." Ranked fifth, this is the first time Connecticut has been in the top five states since 2009. Last year, Connecticut tied with two other states for sixth place.

ACEEE also said Connecticut is a state "on the move" as a result of Public Act 13-298 that authorized a virtual doubling of energy efficiency program opportunities for residents and businesses to reduce their monthly energy bills.

Governor Malloy said Connecticut's Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) has now given final approval to a new plan that provides a stepped up investment in efficiency programs that will allow for greater efficiency gains in the future.

"The expansion of our popular efficiency programs is the perfect complement to a new array of innovative and affordable options we have put in place for financing additional energy efficiency investments, such as Commercial Property Assessed Clean Energy (C-PACE) and performance contracting," Governor Malloy said. "With all of the resources now available to us -- including the Clean Energy Finance and Investment Authority, Connecticut's "green bank" -- we will move quickly to capture more of the economic and environmental benefits associated with energy efficiency and become the national leader in this area."

The Governor said the strengthened focus on efficiency will further reduce energy costs in Connecticut by building on other initiatives that already contributed to a 12 percent decline in the cost of electricity since 2010.

Source:
