Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Resiliency Fund to Help Shoreline Residents Prepare for Future Severe Weather and Flooding
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 29, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

overnor Dannel P. Malloy today announced the creation of the Connecticut Shoreline Resiliency Fund, a low-interest loan program for state residents who are subject to coastal flooding and would like to elevate their homes and flood-proof their businesses.

"Generations of Connecticut residents have made their homes along our shoreline -- in unique communities that are part of what make Connecticut so special," said Governor Malloy. "Unfortunately, these areas increasingly bear the brunt of severe weather and storm surges. On the one-year anniversary of Super Storm Sandy, this new Shoreline Resiliency Fund will provide real, direct help to residents as they prepare for whatever Mother Nature has in store for the years ahead. It will allow homeowners and business owners to better protect their property without worrying about the restrictions and limitations they might face with similar federal programs."

The Shoreline Resiliency Fund may only be used for elevating homes and flood-proofing businesses, or elevating businesses as feasible and required by the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). To be eligible for the loan, Connecticut homeowners and business owners' structures must be subject to coastal flooding and located in either Zone VE or Coastal Zone AE as defined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and NFIP. The Shoreline Resiliency Fund can be used to elevate or flood-proof secondary and primary single family homes, 1-4 unit owner-occupied rentals and businesses, and there is no income cap for applicants.

"Sandy taught us all that we need to step up our preparation for the next inevitable super storm, and state government must be a partner in that effort," said Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman. "This fund will provide critical aid for shoreline homeowners to be ready and I encourage all who may qualify to consider taking advantage of it."

If a nonresidential building is required to be elevated, it must meet the same standards as for elevations of residential buildings. In cases where elevation of a nonresidential building is either not feasible or not required, flood-proofing measures may be permitted.

"This new program is an important addition to the set of tools we have to help Connecticut residents strengthen and protect their homes and businesses against future storm damage," said state Department of Housing Commissioner Evonne Klein. "By directing funds to these flood-prone properties we are improving our overall preparedness, and improving the quality of life for those living along the shoreline."

Flood-proofing is any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents. Flood-proofing includes, but is not limited to, ensuring:

Walls are watertight (substantially impermeable to the passage of water)
Structural components can resist hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy





Source:
