Public Statements
DeLauro, Gov. Malloy: State to Receive Additional $65 Million for Superstorm Sandy Recovery Efforts
Statement
By: Shaun Donovan Chris Murphy Dan Malloy Jim Himes Elizabeth Esty Richard Blumenthal Rosa DeLauro
Date: Oct. 28, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) and Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced the state will be receiving an additional $65 million from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to bolster Connecticut's Superstorm Sandy recovery efforts. With this funding, Connecticut has now received over the last year an unprecedented $500 million in aid from the federal government to support recovery and relief efforts in order to support residents, local education systems, small businesses, non-profits, and municipalities.

HUD had previously provided $71.82 million to help residents, businesses and communities recover and rebuild after the storm. As described by HUD, the first allocation of funding was made based on unmet needs and applications for individual assistance from FEMA; this new funding allocation was distributed based on a formula driven by federal data and statistics detailing unmet need and public assistance, including damage to transportation infrastructure, in the Sandy-affected states.

"This additional $65 million will provide a tremendous boost to the efforts currently underway to help residents and communities that are still feeling the effects from this historic storm," said Governor Malloy. "Once again I want to thank President Obama, Secretary Donovan and the entire congressional delegation for their continued support."

The state Department of Housing (DOH) will develop an action plan to disburse the new funding, which will require approval from both the state legislature and HUD.

"One year later, it's clear these communities continue to be challenged by the sheer scale of this devastating storm, requiring further investment to make certain these needs are met," HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan said. "These resources are making a difference helping individuals, families, and businesses to get back on their feet and come back stronger and more resilient than ever."

Projects in Fairfield, New London, New Haven, and Middlesex counties and the Mashantucket Pequot tribal area are eligible for assistance. Eligible expenses are those not covered by insurance, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, or any other sources of funding. Specific work that is eligible includes:
Structural repair or replacement of damaged property;
Mitigation assistance to elevate homes and/or reduce the damage from future disasters; and
Rehabilitation, modification and/or improvements to infrastructure and public facilities to address damage from the storm and to reduce the damage from future disasters.

"We continue to plan--and meet--aggressive timetables in order get these funds out to homeowners and businesses as fast as possible," said Evonne Klein, commissioner of DOH. "We continue to accept applications and encourage those impacted by the storm to visit one of our intake centers or visit the Web site to learn about the many ways we can help."

"I am pleased Connecticut is receiving $65 million from HUD for infrastructure and long-term resilience projects," Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro said. "Money is still needed to repair and rebuild homes, businesses, and critical infrastructure projects. There is a lot of work to do and resources required to do it. I will continue to fight to ensure that Connecticut gets the federal support we need."

"I commend the efforts over the past year to restore and repair our shoreline communities, but much work remains to ensure homeowners, businesses and municipalities have the resources they need to fully recover from the devastation of Superstorm Sandy," U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal said. "These new federal dollars are critical to that effort, and I will continue to fight not only for additional funds, but also against the bureaucratic log jams and red tape that have prevented too many from receiving timely aid. As storms like Sandy become the new normal, it is vital that we continue to invest in mitigation efforts to reduce future damages, emergency costs, injuries and hardships. Further, we must work to improve our systems and processes so that those in need receive the assistance they need when they need it most."

"Families across the state are still coping with the devastation caused by Superstorm Sandy last year," U.S. Senator Chris Murphy said. "With the winter months again approaching, we need to ensure these families have the tools they need to fully recover and prepare for future severe weather, and we're grateful to the Administration for this critical funding."

Congressman Joe Courtney said, "This funding will provide a boost to rebuilding efforts in eastern Connecticut and across the state after the damage caused by Hurricane Sandy. I thank Secretary Donovan for his commitment to helping our state's families and businesses recover, and I will continue to work to secure federal aid to help Connecticut's shoreline thrive again."

"This additional support is critical for families, businesses, and communities across our state who were devastated by Hurricane Sandy -- many of whom are still affected one year later," Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty said. "I'm grateful to President Obama, Secretary Donovan, Governor Malloy, and my colleagues in our Congressional delegation for their continuing work to help our communities rebuild and recover from last year's storm and make the investments needed to reduce the risks of future of disasters."

"This is very welcome news as Southwest Connecticut continues to rebuild one year after being hit by the worst storm in state history," Congressman Jim Himes said. "The funding HUD announced today will help families repair and elevate their homes and towns pay for the extensive clean-up necessitated by the storm. I look forward to working with Governor Malloy to ensure that my district continues getting the assistance it still needs."

The state recently opened four intake centers in East Haven, Fairfield, Milford, and Norwalk to provide one-on-one assistance to homeowners. The state's official CT Recovers website (ctrecovers.ct.gov) provides information on assistance available to homeowners and businesses impacted by Superstorm Sandy from all state agencies.

Source: http://delauro.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1444:delauro-gov-malloy-state-to-receive-additional-65-million-for-superstorm-sandy-recovery-efforts&catid=2&Itemid=21
