Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Named Vice Chair of the National Governors Association Natural Resources Committee
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 23, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he has been named vice chair of the National Governors Association's (NGA) Natural Resources Committee by NGA Chair Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin and NGA Vice Chair Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper during the 2013-2014 cycle.

The Natural Resources Committee has jurisdiction over issues related to agriculture, energy, the environment and natural resources. The leaders of the committee ensure that the governors' views are represented as policy makers craft federal policy, whether in statute or by regulation.

"The State of Connecticut has put renewable energy at the forefront of our Comprehensive Energy Strategy, which has led to cheaper, cleaner, more reliable energy for families and businesses," Governor Malloy said. "I'm honored to once again serve as a leader of the NGA Natural Resources Committee. I look forward to working with my fellow governors to unleash the economic potential of cleaner energy while continuing to serve as good stewards of our nation's natural resources."

North Dakota Governor Jack Dalrymple will serve as chair of the committee. NGA committee chairs and vice chairs alternate annually based on political party.

Founded in 1908, NGA is the collective voice of the nation's governors and one of Washington, D.C.'s most respected public policy organizations. Its members are the governors of the 55 states, territories and commonwealths. NGA provides governors and their senior staff members with services that range from representing states on Capitol Hill and before the Administration on key federal issues to developing and implementing innovative solutions to public policy challenges through the NGA Center for Best Practices. For more information, visit www.nga.org.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=533848
