Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Lateset Republican Tactics to Undermine Affordable Care Act 'Unconscionable'
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 29, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today released the following statement after House Republicans voted on a Continuing Resolution that again attacks the Affordable Care Act (ACA). House Republicans have voted 44 times to undermine the ACA. Their latest quest is making their votes for maintaining government operations contingent upon other changes to the ACA.

"Early this morning, House Republicans took the United States to the brink of a federal government shutdown. In a futile exercise of rank partisanship, the House Majority voted for the 44th time to undermine the Affordable Care Act. Only this time they are using a federal government shutdown and default on the nation's credit as leverage to achieve their ideological ends.

"Threatening the US economy to, in essence, deny affordable and secure health care coverage to millions of American citizens is unconscionable. The Affordable Care Act is the law of the land. It was duly enacted after Congress passed it. It survived constitutional challenge when it was affirmed by the United States Supreme Court. It survived legitimate political challenge when Americans reelected President Obama and every Senator on the ballot who voted for the bill. But rather than recognize the clear intent of the voters, House Republicans have pursued a reckless fringe agenda that is holding our economy hostage. For the good of the country, this must stop.

"There are serious matters confronting this nation, matters of the US budget, deficit reduction, immigration reform, gun violence prevention, among many others. These issues should be debated vigorously, but in an appropriate manner that resolves in compromise.

"The citizens of the United States deserve better. I call on House Republicans to set aside partisanship and rigid ideology, pass a clean continuing resolution and a clean increase in the statutory debt limit. Only then can Congress address the important issues of our day in a manner that reflect the ideals of our Founding Fathers."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=532562
