Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Orders Licensing and Higher Education to Be Simplified for U.S. Veterans
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 23, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he has signed an executive order that will streamline the process for veterans of the United States military when seeking to obtain occupational certifications and licenses, and simplifies the process for awarding college credit to veterans for military education.

"Connecticut has nearly a quarter of a million military veterans residing in our state and another 9,000 residents currently serving in the U.S. Armed Forces. These are people with special training, skills, and education who, upon returning to civilian life, are ready, willing and more than qualified to enter our workforce," Governor Malloy said. "We must make it as easy as possible for these accomplished men and women to apply their skills to the goals they seek to accomplish after having served in our military so admirably."

Under Governor Malloy's Executive Order No. 36, all state departments, boards, and commissions will review and revise their procedures when issuing occupational certifications and licenses to take into account relevant military education, skills and training when determining equivalency.

In addition, the Connecticut Board of Regents for Higher Education, which governs four state universities, 12 community colleges, and Charter Oak State College, and the University of Connecticut will be responsible for conducting a thorough review of their current policies and identify recommendations to simplify the process for U.S. veterans when seeking to apply their military education towards college credit. The Governor has asked that they establish a system-wide policy for the institutions under their jurisdiction that will guide the evaluation of military transcripts and standardize the award of credit based upon accepted external standards.

"I deeply believe that our military men and women deserve our full support both when they are in uniform and when they return as veterans," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "This is a very concrete way that we can begin to repay them and their families for their service and their sacrifice by helping them find employment and earn an education as they transition back to civilian life."

Today's order builds upon a directive Governor Malloy issued last year, instructing the heads of executive branch state agencies to consider hiring and recruiting veterans who have recently returned from military service or will be returning in the near future and are looking for employment. Also last year, Governor Malloy created Connecticut's first Veterans Cabinet that is composed of relevant state agency commissioners and other executive branch representatives and is responsible for creating strategies that improve the delivery of services to veterans and their families.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=532238
