Public Statements
Blumenthal, Murphy, DeLauro Announce $10 Million For New Haven State Street Station
Press Release
By: Chris Murphy Dan Malloy Richard Blumenthal Rosa DeLauro
Date: Sept. 3, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn), U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-3) announced today the award of a $10 million federal Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant to the Connecticut Department of Transportation to construct a second platform at New Haven's State Street Station, a key expansion to facilitate trains for the planned New Haven-Hartford-Springfield rail line.
Under current limited track configurations at State Street Station, new trains for the planned New Haven-Hartford-Springfield rail line would have to cross over two to three main Northeast Corridor tracks to reach the existing platform. Adding a second platform will eliminate those cross-over movements, minimizing delays and congestion for existing Northeast Corridor travel.
The U.S. Department of Transportation awarded approximately $474 million in TIGER grants to projects nationwide this year, the fifth round of grants since the program's inception in 2009. Since 2009, Connecticut has received four major TIGER awards, including $11.2 million for Bridgeport's Steel Point roadway improvements, $16 million for New Haven's Downtown Crossing project, $10.5 million for improvements to the Stamford Transit Center, and $10 million to improve connectivity between Hartford's Main Street and Union Station.
Blumenthal said: "This substantial investment means safer, more convenient high speed rail service--vital to jobs and economic growth. But we cannot rest. I will continue to fight for even more federal resources to support Connecticut transportation. Jobs and economic growth will result from this latest TIGER investment, just as they have from previous grants. Connecticut should continue to receive its fair share of these vital funds."
Murphy said: "The New-Haven-Hartford-Springfield line holds massive potential for our state's economy by helping more people and goods to move throughout Connecticut more quickly. But if travel on the new line is plagued by delays, we'll lose out on many of those economic benefits. The addition of a new platform at Union Station will reduce congestion and make the line more efficient and useful for travelers. I'm thrilled that the Department of Transportation has dedicated significant funding to this project, and I'll continue to support similar projects that will improve rail service in our state."

Source:
