Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Connecticut's Annual Sales Tax-Free Week Runs August 18-24
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 16, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today reminded Connecticut residents about the state's upcoming sales tax-free week -- an annual holiday that allows shoppers to purchase most individual items of clothing and footwear priced under $300 without having to pay the usual sales and use tax. This year's tax-free week runs from Sunday, August 18 through Saturday August 24.

"This week-long sales tax holiday makes back-to-school shopping a little bit easier for working families, while also helping retailers boost their bottom line," said Governor Malloy, who held an event at a clothing retailer in Bristol to kick off the week. "Many stores also plan sales and discounts to coincide with this week, which allows consumers to stretch their hard-earned money a little further."

"Getting students ready to return to school can often be a stressful time on a family's budget," said Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman. "This week is designed to give our families some relief at a time when it is truly needed, and I encourage them to take advantage of it."

Department of Revenue Services Commissioner Kevin Sullivan said the state expects to forego between $7 million and $8 million during the week. "Sales tax-free week is the right time to shop for back to school or back to college but also for seasonal items like winter coats and boots," he said. "Best of all, merchant promotions will bring the sale price of more expensive items down below the $300 tax-free level."

Connecticut Retail Merchants Association (CRMA) President Tim Phelan said a national survey indicates clothing purchases will represent the largest portion of parents' back-to-school budgets this year and the tax-free week will allow merchants to help shoppers get the most for their money.

"CRMA views the sales tax-free week as a win-win for all parties," said Phelan. "It's a win for consumers because they get to see real savings on their purchases, a win for the state because these purchases and others will stay in the state, and a win for retailers who will see increased sales. We are also pleased the Governor has chosen a great Connecticut retailer, Insane Irving's in Bristol, to kick off the week."

Additional information about sales tax-free week, including examples of clothing and footwear that meet the exemption criteria, can be found on the Department of Revenue Services website at www.ct.gov/DRS.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=530124
