Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Investments in Microgrids, Energy Efficiency, and Hardening Infrastructure Critical to Mitigate the Impact of Climate Change
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 14, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, White House Council on Environmental Quality Chair Nancy Sutley, U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal, and other state and local officials gathered today in Hartford to highlight the state's progress to mitigate the impact of climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Connecticut's work to harden energy infrastructure and modernize its electric grid, as well as the state's progress in reducing harmful carbon emissions through investments in transportation, renewable energy projects, and energy efficiency initiatives position the state as a leader in the clean energy economy.

"We know from first-hand experience that we must make our energy grid stronger, smarter, and more secure," said Governor Malloy. "As we see increasingly severe weather and other impacts of climate change, it becomes even more important to harden our infrastructure as we make investments to reduce global warming emissions. This Parkville microgrid project will help Hartford provide services the community urgently needs during widespread power outages."

The event took place at the future site of the Parkville Neighborhood Microgrid, one of nine microgrid projects in the state awarded a total of $18 million in funding primarily through the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection's (DEEP) Microgrid Pilot Program. The program, designed to find innovative ways to keep facilities such as such as police, fire, emergency response, medical centers, gas stations, and other critical services powered during electric grid outages, will increase safety and quality of life for Connecticut residents during extreme weather events.

"As climate change increases the frequency of extreme weather and its public health risks, it is more important than ever we take common-sense steps to modernize our infrastructure to reduce the frequency of power outages and ensure reliable energy for American households and businesses," said Chair Sutley. "President Obama has laid out his comprehensive plan to reduce carbon pollution, move our economy towards American-made clean energy sources, and prepare communities like Hartford for the impacts of climate change, and I am proud to see the State of Connecticut is also leading the way to a cleaner, more reliable energy future."

"This event with the White House spotlights Connecticut's model for cheaper, cleaner, and more reliable energy," DEEP Commissioner Dan Esty said. "The Governor's microgrids initiative is one of the many steps that we are taking as a state to deliver an energy future that is on the cutting edge of the national energy agenda."

Funding for the Microgrid Pilot Program was authorized in Governor Malloy's storm bill -- Public Act 12-148. The Governor has also recommended an additional $30 million in funding to continue the microgrid work in more Connecticut communities.

Source:
