Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Launch of Disaster Recovery Website
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 29, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State of Connecticut has launched a new website -- CTrecovers.ct.gov -- that will serve as a permanent, one-stop portal for residents, businesses and municipalities to gain information about services available in the aftermath of natural disasters and other emergencies, such as available federal and state grants.

"In the past couple of years, we've been in the unfortunate path of a number of storms and we've seen the devastation Mother Nature can cause. We've been grateful to have recovery resources available among federal, state and local officials, and this new website will help ensure that all residents know the options that are out there," Governor Malloy said. "I've asked all of the involved state agencies to collaborate on this website so that this information can be placed in one convenient location and can be found easily whenever it is needed."

The website, which currently is hosting information on resources available to rebuild from Storm Sandy, will become a permanent fixture on the state's official website and will be updated with new information as necessary. Among the grants the state has received to date for Storm Sandy relief includes $72 million to help residents and businesses recover from the storm, which Governor Malloy announced earlier this month.

As plans have been approved by the federal government, state agencies are working closely to deploy the resources necessary to develop the programs, applications and an aggressive outreach strategy in order to make these funds available to all residents, businesses, and municipalities still in need of relief from Storm Sandy as quickly as possible. This site will be the home for all funding and grant applications as soon as the funding can be distributed.

"When disaster strikes, it impacts all aspects of our lives -- our roads, our businesses, our farms, our schools and our homes," Governor Malloy added. "Streamlining the process for providing assistance will help us get our residents' lives back to normal as quickly as possible."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=529058
