Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Nation's First Statewide Microgrid Pilot
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 24, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, joined by Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) Commissioner Daniel C. Esty, and state and local officials, today announced that nine microgrid projects in Bridgeport, Fairfield, Groton, Hartford, Middletown, Storrs, Windham, and Woodbridge have been awarded a total of $18 million in funding primarily through the DEEP Microgrid Pilot Program. The program is designed to develop innovative ways to keep critical buildings powered during electric grid outages.

"Microgrids play a major role in our efforts to modernize and harden our infrastructure to withstand severe weather," said Governor Malloy. "These projects will help protect residents and vital public services even when the power goes out, and in doing so allow us to provide critical services during times of emergency. Over the next two years, I've recommended an additional $30 million in funding for the state's microgrid program to strengthen more Connecticut communities."

Passed under Governor Malloy's storm bill (Public Act 12-148), the Microgrid Pilot Program will increase safety and quality of life for Connecticut residents during power outages. Microgrids will provide electricity to critical facilities and town centers on a 24/7 basis and will include an isolation system so the microgrid can provide power despite any large-scale outages.

"Under Governor Malloy, Connecticut has become a national leader on energy policy -- and our microgrid program is another example of that," said Commissioner Esty. "By employing microgrids, we will improve public safety and reduce the inconvenience for our residents when any future power outages occur. As we move forward with future rounds of funding, we will continue to shape the program to best fit the needs of Connecticut communities."

The projects will provide power for government services and businesses that are critical during extreme weather events such as police, fire, and emergency response teams, hospitals and health care facilities, state and town emergency response centers, grocery stores, and gas stations.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=528770
