Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State's Plan for Storm Sandy Relief Earns Federal Approval
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 19, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has approved the state's action plan for disbursing $71.82 million in federal funding to help Connecticut residents, businesses and communities recover and rebuild after Storm Sandy.

Governor Malloy said, "This funding will allow us to move forward with our plan to help residents rebuild, get businesses back on their feet and make some of the investments in our infrastructure that are so clearly necessary. Connecticut has experienced more than its fair share of severe weather related events over the last two and a half years. And while we have been through a lot, we know that another storm is inevitable.

"As we prepare for whatever Mother Nature throws at us next, getting this funding out to communities as quickly as possible will ensure that residents can recover from Storm Sandy and we can begin to make smart investments in our towns and cities," continued Governor Malloy. "I want to thank President Obama, Secretary Donovan and our entire delegation for their continued commitment to our state's recovery."

With HUD's approval, the state Department of Housing (DOH) can quickly implement its action plan, and has already started the hiring process. Request for proposals will soon be issued for many activities related to the Sandy recovery effort, including application intake, architectural and engineering work, environmental testing and construction management. Also, a request for qualifications will be issued to ensure qualified potential contractors will carry out the necessary work.

Drafted by DOH, the action plan details how funds will be divided to assist individuals, families, small businesses, and others affected by the storm. Highlights include:

- $30 million to help homeowners repair damage;
- $26 million to rehabilitate and rebuild low and moderate-income multifamily homes;
- $4 million to assist a wide range of businesses affected by the storm;
- $4 million to address infrastructure needs that pose health and safety risks;
- $2.2 million for public building repairs; and
- $2 million for planning activities, including plans for future mitigation.

HUD is providing the $71.82 million grant through its Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) program. Individual grants can be used for repairs of single-family and multifamily housing, infrastructure, public facilities, as well as small businesses in Fairfield, New London, New Haven, and Middlesex counties and the Mashantucket Pequot tribal area.

"Connecticut's disaster recovery plan will bring $72 million in federal funds to help families and small businesses throughout the state recover and fill gaps that are not covered by other federal assistance or private insurance," said HUD Secretary Donovan. "We've worked closely with Governor Malloy, Senators Blumenthal and Murphy and the Connecticut Congressional Delegation throughout the entire process to design effective programs that will help families get back in their homes, jumpstart local economies and make communities more resilient as quickly as possible."

"We know the need across southern Connecticut is great. Our primary focus is disbursing these funds in a way that maximizes their effectiveness -- to help as many people and as many communities as we possibly can with the funds we have available," said DOH Commissioner Evonne Klein.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=528588
