Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Launches Strategic Transportation Initiative
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 25, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced today that the Department of Transportation (DOT) has launched a strategic planning approach to transportation policies, programs, and projects. Transform CT will improve economic growth and competitiveness, build sustainability, and provide a blueprint for a world-class transportation system.

"Transportation is the backbone of our economy," said Governor Malloy. "The movement of people and goods, facilitating commerce, and bolstering tourism all depend on a highly functioning transit and highway system. Transform CT will help define the very future of Connecticut through a stakeholder process that will solicit input from residents and businesses about what works and what doesn't in our multi-modal system. The complexities in transportation are enormous, but this process will help us plan for a more sustainable, more efficient future."

Through a series of public meetings, focus groups, and surveys, DOT will engage businesses, elected officials, transportation advocacy groups, and other organizations and agencies as part of the Transform CT planning effort.

"It is essential that we continue to improve transportation options and service in Connecticut," said DOT Commissioner James P. Redeker. "This is a strategic approach to connecting our cities and towns and, most importantly, it gives the public a direct role in the process and the product. Improving our transportation system also makes Connecticut a more competitive, sustainable and livable state."

As part of the public outreach campaign, www.TransformCT.org, was launched today to offer residents a place to comment and share ideas on the transportation issues facing Connecticut. Visitors can also sign up to receive updates and public meeting schedules.

Public meetings are scheduled to begin this fall. The first report will be released by February 2014.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=527206
