Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: On Six Month Anniversary, Funding for Design of New Sandy Hook Elementary School Announced
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 14, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that an allocation of $750,000 towards the design of a new building for Newtown's Sandy Hook Elementary School is slated for approval at next week's meeting of the State Bond Commission.

"It's hard to imagine that six months have passed since that terrible day," said Governor Malloy. "In that time, we have mourned deeply for those we lost and done our best to move forward in a way that honors their memory. There are many decisions to be made when it comes to the construction of a new school. There will be many challenges along the way. But it's my hope that by announcing this funding today, we can help Newtown continue with the healing process. Our thoughts are with those 26 angels today and their families. Their memories will forever be close to our hearts."

Governor Malloy explained that this funding is being made available now to help the project, which is still in its early stages, begin moving forward as quickly as possible.

State Senate Minority Leader John McKinney, whose district includes Newtown, said, "On the sixth month anniversary of 12/14, my thoughts and prayers continue to be with the victims and their families. I am pleased that the State of Connecticut is contributing to the effort to help Newtown heal and rebuild."

"We are anxious to get this money into the community so that the design team can get to work," State Representatives DebraLee Hovey and Mitch Bolinsky said in a joint statement. "This allotment from the Bond Commission reaffirms the state's continued commitment to helping Newtown and its families heal. We deeply appreciate the ongoing support from the State of Connecticut as we rebuild Sandy Hook Elementary School and rebuild our lives."

Earlier this month, the Connecticut General Assembly approved legislation authorizing a separate allocation of up to $50 million in bonding for the school's construction. That funding will be taken up for final consideration by the members of the State Bond Commission in the coming months as the project progresses and its needs are assessed. All funding will be issued on an expedited basis.

The meeting will be held on Friday, June 21 at 10:30 a.m. in Room 1E of the Legislative Office Building in Hartford.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=526472
