Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: New Shore Line East Weekend Train Service Makes Coastal Connecticut More Accessible for Residents and Visitors
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 30, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that new weekend train service from New Haven to New London and Old Saybrook on Shore Line East will begin Saturday, June 1, 2013. The new service will improve the accessibility of Connecticut's many coastline tourist attractions and provide convenient access to beaches and parks.

"This is great news for Connecticut," said Governor Malloy. "New train service will make it easier and more convenient to get to the coast and ease road congestion during peak season. Visitors come from all over to enjoy Long Island Sound and the great venues near the shoreline. I join Connecticut residents in welcoming summer to the state."

The service, operated by the Connecticut Department of Transportation (DOT) will include 19 weekend and holiday trains--14 to/from New London and 5 to/from Old Saybrook--in addition to the 30 regular Shore Line East weekday trains.

"The Department continues to work closely with Amtrak to provide reliable and improved Shore Line East train service for Connecticut train riders. The June 1st schedule change, inaugurating regular weekend service to and from New London, provides travel choices for the citizens of Connecticut and is an attractive alternative to traveling on Interstate 95 during congested weekend traffic periods," said Department of Transportation Commissioner James P. Redeker. "The new service to New London on weekends and holidays complements the expanded New London service offered each weekday."

Connecticut's Still Revolutionary tourism campaign highlights the many activities and events happening across the state. The Cross Sound Ferry, Ocean Beach Park, Fort Trumbull State Park, and other venues and attractions are easily accessed from Shore Line East, and Niantic, Connecticut's "fan favorite" town, is also in the region.

"Expanded service on Shore Line East is great news, and it's just in time for the summer tourism rush in southeastern Connecticut," said Department of Economic and Community Development Deputy Commissioner Kip Bergstrom. "Weekend service on one of the busier commuter routes in the state unlocks the tremendous economic potential of the region because of its many popular attractions and destinations. This allows more residents to explore what's in their own backyards and opens up the New London area to even more visitors and tourists for overnight stays. It's truly a win-win for the state."

Information on the new service and schedule is available at www.shorelineeast.com.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=525728
