Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Investments Will Strengthen Transportation Infrastructure, Grow Economy and Create Jobs
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 26, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State Bond Commission on Friday approved funding for two Connecticut Department of Transportation (ConnDOT) projects that will enhance infrastructure, mass transportation and future economic growth in Connecticut, create thousands of direct and indirect jobs and improve the safety of the state's roads and bridges. The Governor highlighted ConnDOT's requests for funding to make various improvements to the Stamford Railroad Station and to finance several bridge replacement and rehabilitation projects around the state.

"We are investing in upgrades to our infrastructure and mass transportation system now in order to strengthen our economy and workforce and make our state a more attractive place to live, work and do business going forward," said Governor Malloy. "Funding these improvements to the Stamford station, one of our state's major economic drivers, makes the city's transportation hub more accessible and convenient for visitors and commuters alike and supports major transit-oriented development in the region."

"After years of neglect, our transportation infrastructure, including many of our bridges, is in dire need of repair," continued Governor Malloy. "The funding we are announcing today and the commitments we've made previously, are steps to address those needs."

$4.4 million is being allocated for several projects at the Stamford Railroad Station, including the construction of a pedestrian bridge to extend the public way across Washington Boulevard and connect with the fourth station platform and commuter drop-off lanes. The project also comprises platform canopy extensions, additional shelters, a walkway to Atlantic Street, signage upgrades and ADA compliance and other related improvements. The state funding will supplement a $10,500,000 federal TIGER grant the City of Stamford received to make critical functional upgrades to the city's Transportation Center. This project will support approximately 5,000 construction related jobs and another 5,000 indirect jobs, which include designers, planners, materials suppliers, landscapers and local economic development.

$7.3 million additional dollars are being allocated for state bridge improvement, rehabilitation and replacement projects in Greenwich, Madison, Montville and Thomaston which are expected to create or retain approximately 155 construction-related jobs. Bids will be sought this fall, work will begin in the spring of 2014 and completion is expected by the end of 2014. According to a 2011 report released by Transportation for America, 1,779 of Connecticut's 5,250 bridges are either structurally deficient or functionally obsolete. The location and estimated cost of each project are as follows:

Greenwich: $1 million for the rehabilitation of the Merritt Parkway bridge over Riversville Road which carries an average of about 50,000 cars per day.
Madison: $1.5 million for the full replacement of the Route 450 bridge over Huzzle Guzzle Brook.
Montville: $2.67 million for the full replacement of the two Route 163 bridges (one in each direction) over Fox Brook.
Thomaston: $2.2 million for the rehabilitation of the Route 848 bridge over the Naugatuck River and the Waterbury branch of the New Haven rail line.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=523642
