Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Investments Will Reduce Water Pollution, Strengthen Environmental Protection and Create Jobs
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 23, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that Friday's State Bond Commission agenda includes a Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) request for funding to make repairs and improvements to state maintenance and recreational facilities that incurred damage during Superstorm Sandy. DEEP also requested over $1.4 million to discontinue sewage treatment operations at Southbury Training School and transfer the facility's wastewater flow to the nearby privately-owned Heritage Village Water Pollution Control Facility (WPCF) for processing.

"Together, these projects are part of our ongoing effort to invest in preserving the natural resources that make Connecticut a great place to live, work and visit - our state parks, bodies of water and quality of life," said Governor Malloy. "With this funding, we are employing dozens of men and women in Connecticut's building trades and completing much needed infrastructure upgrades to ensure the health and sustainability of our communities, environment and water supplies."

$1.7 million is being allocated for the repair and improvement of facilities at Hammonasset State Park, which is enjoyed by over one million visitors annually, and at the state's Marine District Headquarters in Old Lyme. These projects consist of replacing metal roofs and installing new windows and doors at Hammonasset's maintenance facility and the Marine District's conference center and watercraft storage facility. The structural improvements will make these buildings more energy efficient and are expected to create or retain approximately 35 construction related jobs.

$1.4 million additional dollars are being allocated to the Heritage Village WPCF to finance construction related to closing the outdated and inadequate sewage treatment facility at the Southbury Training School and making necessary upgrades at the Heritage Village WPCF to accommodate additional wastewater flow. The existing facility at the Southbury Training School has reached the end of its design life and an engineering evaluation determined the most cost effective solution was to convey the residential facility's wastewater flows to the Heritage Village WPCF for treatment and discharge. The project will increase the efficiency and capacity of the Heritage Village WPCF, improve environmental protections by reducing pollution of local water bodies and create or retain 29 construction and other related jobs.

The State Bond Commission is scheduled to vote on the items at its April 26 meeting at 10:30 a.m. in Room 1E of the Legislative Office Building in Hartford.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=523376
