Public Statements
Gov. Malloy, Labor Commissioner Welcome Employers, Job Seekers to Heroes4Hire Career Fair
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 16, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Commissioner Sharon Palmer this morning welcomed more than 100 companies and service providers taking part in the 9th Annual Heroes4Hire Career Fair being held today at the Rentschler Field Ballroom in East Hartford. Veterans who served in the Army, Air Force, Coast Guard, Marines and Navy are welcome to attend the 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. event to meet with a wide variety of employers.

"Heroes4Hire is a great opportunity to highlight the unique talents and strong leadership skills that veterans bring to the table -- and connect these men and women to companies right here in Connecticut," said Governor Malloy. "I applaud the businesses that are here today, the Department of Labor, and the veterans who turned out today -- this event will strengthen Connecticut's economy and make us more competitive."

"Employers always let us know that they are extremely impressed with the professional caliber of Connecticut's veterans who attend our career fairs," noted Commissioner Palmer. "Companies are seeking the level of experience and the transferrable skills veterans can offer to their business, so we believe today's event will be a big success in terms of matching veterans to new jobs and careers."

Companies include Barnes Group, Comcast, ESPN, FedEx Ground, General Dynamics-Electric Boat, Travelers Insurance, U.S. Foods, Yarde Metals and several municipalities seeking firefighter and police personnel. Positions to be filled include managerial, sales, engineering, administrative, production and construction jobs. Professional résumé writers from the Connecticut Department of Labor are also at the event to help jobseekers who want their résumés reviewed and critiqued at no cost.

The free career fair is sponsored by the Connecticut departments of Labor and Veterans' Affairs, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Connecticut Business and Industry Association, Travelers, CBS Radio and local Chambers of Commerce. The career fair also features educational and service organizations that can answer questions specific to veteran benefits.

A complete listing of attending employers and directions to Rentschler Field, located off Silver Lane in East Hartford, can be found on the Connecticut Department of Labor's Web site at www.ctjobfairs.com.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=522938
