Public Statements
Gov. Malloy and Lt. Gov. Wyman Applaud Connecticut Senators for Defending the Affordable Care Act
Statement
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 9, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman released the following statements in response to actions by members of the Senate Democratic Caucus holding the Senate floor in opposition to repealing the Affordable Care Act without a replacement:
"Repealing the Affordable Care Act without an acceptable alternative in place will deny millions of Americans access to quality, affordable and comprehensive health insurance," said Governor Malloy. "Connecticut is proud of our record as a national leader in the implementation of the ACA. The state's health insurance exchange enrolls nearly 110,000 people and more than 200,000 of our residents have secured coverage through Connecticut's first-in-the-nation expanded Medicaid under the ACA. Thanks to the ACA, young people can remain covered on their parents plans until the age of 26 and no one can be denied coverage simply because of a pre-existing condition. Rolling back this progress is irresponsible -- and millions of families will suffer as a result. I applaud the Senators, especially Connecticut's Sen. Blumenthal and Sen. Murphy, who are fighting to defend the right to affordable healthcare for all people.
"Further, the continued attack against Planned Parenthood -- one of the nation's leading providers of affordable, quality healthcare -- defies logic. Planned Parenthood provides hundreds of thousands of women with access to life-saving cancer screenings annually--saving lives in the process. Those who seek to defund them should be ashamed."
"All members of Congress should be doing what Connecticut's delegation is doing--standing up on behalf of the millions of Americans who now have access to affordable health insurance and high-quality medical care," said Lt. Governor Wyman. "The Affordable Care Act has been a critical connection to medical care for so many people in our state. It's leveled the playing field for women who used to have to pay more than men for health insurance; it's helping close ethnic and racial gaps in healthcare, and it provides a significant measure of confidence to those men and women who've previously been denied coverage due to pre-existing health conditions. I applaud Senators Blumenthal and Murphy for their efforts to protect people in Connecticut and across the nation."

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2017/01-2017/Gov-Malloy-and-Lt-Gov-Wyman-Applaud-Connecticut-Senators-for-Defending-the-Affordable-Care-Act
