Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Directs Additional Agencies to Implement Lean Processes that Create Further Efficiencies & Cost Savings
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 25, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he has directed the commissioners of each remaining state agency to begin implementing specific project management processes that have already shown positive results in several state agencies and are designed to maximize customer value while minimizing waste, create efficiencies, and ultimately save taxpayer dollars.

Utilizing what is known as the "Lean Process," the remaining state agencies are being asked to undergo an in-depth evaluation in order to ascertain steps that can be eliminated, areas that might overlap, and procedures that may reduced.

"Nearly two years ago, I explained how Lean was the beginning of a new way of doing the state's business, one that will certainly lead to cost-savings for taxpayers, but as importantly, will make it easier for citizens and businesses to work with government," Governor Malloy said. "Today, I am pleased that we can continue on this path to enhance effectiveness, efficiency and timeliness of the processes we use every day in state government."

Over the last two years, several state agencies, including the Department of Administrative Services (DAS), the Department of Transportation (DOT), the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP), the Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD), and the Office of Policy and Management (OPM), began implementing these procedures and have seen significant cost-savings and a reduction in the production time for certain processes.

For example, Governor Malloy said that under these processes, DEEP has managed to reduce processing time for 12 of its permits by 74%, and DOT has reduced the processing time for certain of its permits from over a year down to 60 days.

"Lean is one of the best ways we can continue to improve service delivery even in the face of a tough budget and a challenging economy," Governor Malloy said. "By getting routine activities to function smoothly and consistently, staff time is freed up to focus on higher value tasks that are more directly linked to meeting customer needs."

The remaining agencies will soon begin identifying staff to serve as agency leads on this process and will participate in interagency meetings on its execution.

In September, Governor Malloy released a report detailing a number of different initiatives the administration began implementing since 2011 that have begun to make state government Leaner, cheaper and more efficient. Today's announcement is a continuation of these efforts.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=521456
