Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: President Obama Approves Major Disaster Declaration
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 21, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

President Barack Obama has approved Governor Dannel P. Malloy's request for a major disaster declaration for federal aid in connection with the historic February blizzard.

This federal aid will provide financial assistance to Connecticut municipalities and state agencies to help pay for costs incurred during the storm such as snow removal and other storm-related expenses. The eligible snow assistance time period has been approved for 72 hours for Hartford and New Haven Counties, and for 48 hours for Fairfield, Litchfield, New London, Tolland, Windham and Middlesex Counties and the Mohegan and Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nations.

FEMA policy typically restricts snow assistance to 48 hours unless a county has received snowfall that exceeds the previous record by fifty percent. However, Governor Malloy has directed the Connecticut Division of Emergency Management and Homeland Security to prepare an appeal to extend the assistance period to 72 hours for all counties.

"This declaration will provide much needed financial assistance to our municipalities and the state," said Governor Malloy. "I would like to thank President Obama for his continued support during the devastating storms Connecticut has encountered. Time and again, the President has shown that the federal government is a real partner in getting life back to normal after an extreme weather event.

"I am, however, already moving forward with an appeal to extend the assistance period to 72 hours for all counties, and hope that we can be successful in light of the extraordinary nature of the February storm," concluded Governor Malloy.

In addition, all counties and tribal nations in Connecticut are eligible to apply for assistance under the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, which provides assistance for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property from natural hazards.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=521242
