Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Statement on the Investigation of the Newtown Tragedy
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 21, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today released the following statement regarding the investigation of the Newtown tragedy:

"Like many others, I was disappointed and angered to learn that certain information about the Newtown shooting had been leaked, specifically with concern for the victim's families who may have been hearing this news for the first time.

"Today, my office contacted the Chief State's Attorney. I requested, and they have agreed, to release additional information relevant to the investigation and to provide a status on where the investigation currently stands. This information will be provided by Friday, March 29.

"As to what information can reasonably be shared at this time -- that is a question that must be left to the State's Attorney and other law enforcement. As a former prosecutor, I'm sensitive to the need for an independent investigation and believe that we must allow their work to continue without any undue interference.

"Having said all that, I will also say that I am bewildered by the demands of Mr. Cafero and others for a special briefing they claim is necessary in order for them to take a firm position on potential legislative responses to this horrific tragedy.

"To Mr. Cafero and those others I must ask: what more could you possibly need to know?

"We know for a fact that on December 14, a very disturbed young man took a military-style rifle with high-capacity magazines into a school and murdered 20 innocent children and six innocent adults. We know he had access to that weapon and others, although they were registered to someone else.

"Today, more than three months later, the vast majority of people in Connecticut can agree on some simple, common-sense things we can do -- right now -- to ban the sale of the weapon he used, to outlaw the high-capacity magazines he used, and to put in place systems that will make it much more difficult for a weapon like that to fall into the wrong hands.

"I ask again -- what more does Mr. Cafero need to know before he's finally ready to take action?"

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=521224
