Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Significant Improvements in DMV Wait Times as the Result of Time-Saving Measures that are Being Rolled Out in Offices Statewide
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 28, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that with the successful results of a pilot program that was launched at two Connecticut Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) offices this fall that has resulted in a 55 percent reduction in wait times, the efficiency measures are being rolled out to other offices around the state in order to duplicate the results that are providing more conveniences to consumers through the introduction of certain time-saving measures, the loosening of certain requirements, and the elimination of red tape.
"For the last few decades, our state's DMV systems needed a serious upgrade and modernization, but those tough decisions were put off for too long. Transitions in an agency of this size and importance are always difficult and always see challenges -- that's probably why no one took on these massive issues before our administration. State government needs to find ways to improve customer service in a cost-effective manner, and with this series of improvements, we're doing just that," Governor Malloy said.
"We are focused on end-to-end customer service and that is how these pilot projects were structured and the approach we are taking to our other branches as we duplicate these pilots," DMV Commissioner Michael Bzdyra explained.
In July, Governor Malloy tasked the DMV with producing a broad-based analysis of reasons for long wait-times and finding solutions to reduce them. A detailed analysis followed that revealed a number of ways to re-engineer the process, and a pilot program was launched in September and October at the branch offices in Wethersfield and Enfield.
The analysis led to three primary alterations as part of the pilot:
Opening DMV branch doors 15 minutes early and reviewing paperwork and compliance requirements for as many customers as possible to smooth out the early morning peak volume and allow all employees to be serving customers as soon as the offices formally open.
Implementing a Quick Ticket service with the primary responsibility of giving customers a service ticket immediately upon arrival at a DMV branch. This eliminates waiting to obtain a ticket and then waiting again to be served.
Making available a customer advocate who has the primary responsibility of checking all paperwork and compliance requirements after customers have a ticket. This helps ensure that customers are fully prepared and can be handled more quickly and efficiently upon being served.
Results of the pilot include:
An overall customer wait-time reduction of 1 hour and 17 minutes to 34.5 minutes -- a 55 percent decrease.
A 90 percent success rate in the amount of customers who were able to successfully complete their transactions because of the pre-checks that are being performed by a customer advocate upon the customers' arrival.
A 10 percent reduction in the number of repeat visits that are needed as the result of form changes and the elimination of red tape. This means about 10 percent more customers successfully completed their transactions during their first visit and did not need to return.
The accuracy of branch office wait-times that are posted on the DMV's website has increased because the process flow was adjusted to give customers a ticket when they arrived.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/en/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2016/12-2016/Gov-Malloy-Announces-Significant-Improvements-in-DMV-Wait-Times
