Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Investment in Carla's Pasta Will Create Jobs
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 12, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State Bond Commission will vote on a $4 million loan for Carla's Pasta, Inc. to help the company expand its production capacity and add 98 employees at its South Windsor headquarters.

"Carla's Pasta is a great example of how Connecticut's many economic development programs and services can help businesses expand and create jobs," said Governor Malloy. "I visited Carla's Pasta just a few months ago to highlight the innovative steps they took to increase energy efficiency and reduce consumption. Working as a partner with our business community, we can make sure that Connecticut businesses can do what we need them to do -- create good paying jobs with good benefits for our residents."

Carla's Pasta, founded in 1987 by Carla Squatrito, has more than 115 employees and produces frozen pasta and pesto that is sold throughout the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, and Mexico. As part of a $26 million expansion plan, Carla's is building a 27,000-square-foot addition on the existing 57,000-square-foot manufacturing facility and will purchase high-speed, state-of-the-art packaging equipment and additional pasta-making machines.

"We thank the State of Connecticut for all of their help," said Carla Squatrito. "Our growth strategy includes hospitals, hotels, restaurants, and local retain chains. This funding allows us to continue expanding and creates meaningful employment for Connecticut families."

The Department of Economic and Community Development's ten-year, $4 million loan at two percent interest will help purchase new equipment and leasehold improvements. If the company retains its 94 employees at the South Windsor facility and creates an additional 98 new employees, the loan will be fully forgiven.

The State Bond Commission is expected to approve the funding at its March 13 meeting.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=520556
