Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Support for Maritime Industry will Help Grow the Local Economy
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 12, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that Wednesday's State Bond Commission agenda includes a request for $6.1 million in funding for improvements to the Port of New London and State Pier. The allocation will go towards the design, reconstruction and enhancement of the warehouse and state pier at the Port of New London, which is expected to create or retain approximately 74 construction related jobs.

"The maritime industry is a vital component of our state's economy," said Governor Malloy. "It not only supports thousands of jobs, but based on the results of the study we commissioned last year, we know there is a potential for growth. In this difficult fiscal climate, it does not make sense to have these assets operating under capacity. Investing in these resources means jobs for residents -- it's that simple."

The project will include retrofitting the oldest of the pier's main warehouses with a "green" lighting system, improving infrastructure at the pier's warehouse structures to better support the loading, and offloading of shipments and upgrading and modernizing the long-unused wing walls at the pier. Funding will also be allocated for smaller capital projects such as general maintenance of the pier's structures and equipment.

The projects at the New London State Pier are part of the Governor's directive to follow the recommendations of the Connecticut Deep Water Port Strategy Study, which was released last year to analyze the strengths and deficiencies of the deep water ports in Bridgeport, New Haven, and New London and guide the development of a long-term economic development strategy at the state's main ports. The study also identifies new opportunities for business growth and makes recommendations to protect existing commercial operations at these ports.

The State Bond Commission is scheduled to vote on the item at its March 13 meeting at 10:30 a.m. in Room 1E of the Legislative Office Building in Hartford.

Funding for Connecticut Deep Water Port Strategy Study was established by the legislature in Public Act 11-57.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=520558
