Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Connecticut Awarded $2.8 Million in Federal Transit Administration Relief Funds for Hurricane Sandy
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 8, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Connecticut Department of Transportation (DOT) Commissioner James Redeker announced today that the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) has approved Connecticut's request for $2.8 million in relief funds to offset the costs of Hurricane Sandy preparation and response efforts.

"While Storm Sandy had a devastating impact on Connecticut, state and local preparation efforts played a key role in limiting damage and loss of life," said Governor Malloy. "To date, more than $50 million in FEMA assistance has been allocated to individuals and businesses across the state, and we continue to aggressively pursue additional assistance from Washington--competing for funding to help mitigate the costs of preparing for the storm, as well as funds to speed recovery and rebuilding efforts. We greatly appreciate the assistance of the federal government during restoration."

With a major storm surge projected during the storm, CT DOT and Metro-North engaged in comprehensive measures to protect the New Haven Line and its rail cars. A day before landfall, the DOT moved rail cars, including the new M-8 cars, to higher ground to protect them from damaging water and wind, and rail infrastructure was bolstered against surge waters.

"The preventative measures we took unquestionably saved Connecticut taxpayers millions of dollars," said CT DOT Commissioner James Redeker. "These preparations required strategic planning and extensive staff time, but saved our equipment from damage and expensive repairs. Just as importantly, because we took a proactive approach, we were able to get the New Haven main line back up and carrying passengers two days after the storm."

Connecticut's application for transit relief funds was submitted in February 2013 shortly after the FTA issued a Notice of Funding Availability.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=520376
