Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces More Than $37 Million for Capital Improvement Projects at State's Community Colleges
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 5, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that more than $37 million in capital improvement projects for the state's community colleges will be placed on the agenda for an upcoming meeting of the State Bond Commission. The funding will be used for new instruction, research and laboratory equipment; development of IT networks; and other various renovation and construction projects at the colleges.

"Our state's community and state colleges play in integral role in our effort to train the workforce of tomorrow," said Governor Malloy. "The investments we are announcing today will help our state and community colleges update and modernize their facilities, so that our students can compete in the global economy."

Included in the bonding is:

$18 million to finance new and replacement instruction, research and/or laboratory equipment for 12 community colleges and the system office.
$10 million to continue the advancement and development of IT networks and capabilities throughout the community college system and the system office.
$3.7 million to finance the design of renovations at Norwalk Community College, including a pedestrian bridge, an addition to house a student center, new classrooms, and exterior and interior renovations.
$3.2 million for Manchester Community College for parking lot renovations.
$1.3 million for Manchester Community College to bring its facilities into compliance with federal ADA standards.
$480,000 to finance deferred maintenance projects at various community colleges.
$329,000 for Quinebaug Valley Community College in Danielson to award a construction contract for the replacement of boilers and breeching.
$300,000 to finance on-call design projects at various community colleges.

Funds for construction of the renovations at Norwalk Community College have not yet been authorized by the General Assembly, but will be requested in a future capital budget and through the Bond Commission once the design process is sufficiently advanced.

The March 13 special meeting of the State Bond Commission will begin at 10:30 a.m. in Room 1E of the Legislative Office Building in Hartford.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=520172
