Public Statements
Gov. Malloy and Congressional Delegation Applaud $44.5 Million in Federal Grants to Help State Reach Goal of Ending Homelessness
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 20, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and the members of Connecticut's Congressional delegation are applauding an announcement made today from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) that the State of Connecticut will receive approximately $44.5 million in federal grants to help support the state's goal of ending homelessness.
"Over the last several years, with our partners in local, state, and federal organizations, Connecticut has created a system that is successfully working to provide housing when the need arises. These partnerships are helping us ensure that whenever a new episode of homelessness does occur, it is brief and nonrecurring. Ensuring and delivering housing is critical to building stronger communities for everyone, everywhere," Governor Malloy said. "I want to thank HUD and our local partners for working with our state to ensure these services are available so when one our residents need assistance, it is there for them."
The grants come under HUD's Continuum of Care program, which provide critically needed support to local programs on the front lines of serving individuals and families experiencing homelessness.
"Connecticut has led the nation in its efforts to reduce homelessness in our communities. But despite these gains, every night thousands of people in our state will seek refuge in an emergency shelter or fall sleep without a roof over their heads, a heartbreaking number of them children. In a state like ours -- and in a country like ours -- that is unacceptable," the members of Connecticut's Congressional delegation said in a joint statement. "The $44 million in federal grant announced today brings critical additional resources to help Connecticut build on its past success and bring us closer towards achieving the goal of ending homelessness for all."
"Under Governor Malloy, Connecticut has been recognized as a national leader for its efforts to prevent and end homelessness," Connecticut Department of Housing (DOH) Commissioner Evonne M. Klein said. "It is because of the strong partnerships that have been formed with governmental, non-governmental agencies, and non-profit providers that we have achieved unprecedented investment and success. I thank HUD for recognizing our efforts. This funding will continue to support and allow us to expand on our goal of ending homelessness."

Source:
