Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Appointed to Council of Governors, Attends National Governors Association Winter Meeting
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 22, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy has been appointed by President Barack Obama to serve a two-year term on the Council of Governors, a group of 10 state governors established in 2010 to address matters of national security, homeland defense, synchronization and integration of state and federal military activities in the United States and matters of mutual interest pertaining to the National Guard.

"It is an honor to have been appointed by President Obama to serve on the Council of Governors," Governor Malloy said. "I am proud of the men and women of the Connecticut Army and Air National Guard who are routinely called upon to support the needs of this state and the nation. Since taking office, I have activated Guard forces five times to support initial response and recovery operations to declared disasters. I have also attended the send off of nearly 1,500 soldiers and airmen in support of Operations Iraqi Freedom, New Dawn and Enduring Freedom. This appointment comes with great responsibility, and I thank the President for his confidence."

In addition to the 10 council members, charter federal participants include the secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security, presidential homeland security and counterterrorism advisors, the commander of U.S. Northern Command, the commandant of the Coast Guard and the chief of the National Guard Bureau. The council was established by Congress in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2008 and implemented by President Obama in Executive Order 13528.

In addition, this weekend Governor Malloy will attend the National Governors Association (NGA) 2013 Winter Meeting in Washington, DC and will also participate in Politico's Third Annual State Solutions Conference. Governor Malloy serves as chairman of the NGA's Education and Workforce Committee, which is scheduled to meet on Sunday.

Source:
