Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Long-Term Care Rebalancing Brings More Choices for Seniors, Adults with Disabilities
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 29, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, joined by Department of Social Services Commissioner Roderick L. Bremby today announced the release of the Strategic Plan to Rebalance Long-Term Services and Supports, a town-by-town projection of Connecticut's long-term care needs and strategies to meet those needs. The Governor also announced that up to $72.8 million in federal funding will be awarded to support the expansion of homecare services for seniors and adults with disabilities. The federal funding, combined with a $13 million state investment, marks the first step in a rebalancing plan to expand long-term care services and reduce spending on costly institutional care. It will also help the nursing home industry adapt to the changing needs of elders and other adults with disabilities.

"Planning for our future includes making strategic decisions to ensure that the health services people need are available," said Governor Malloy. "We have to find cost-effective ways of providing high-quality care in people's homes -- it improves quality of life and reduces expenses for consumers and government."

Coordinated by the Department of Social Services (DSS), the "Strategic Plan to Rebalance Long-Term Services and Supports" represents over a year's work by consumers, advocates, home care and other service providers, the nursing home industry, and the state. It uses census and demographic data to develop town-by-town projections for long-term care needs. The analysis will help focus services in specific areas, enlist local planning, and help nursing home operators adapt to meeting anticipated demand.

"Consumers deserve more choices and options for quality long-term care services and supports," said Commissioner Bremby. "At the same time, government must ensure we are using taxpayer dollars in the best way possible. The strategic rebalancing plan and investments are a way to guide and accelerate this process of change for everyone's benefit -- better, more individualized care that is less costly."

The Strategic Plan to Rebalance Long-Term Services and Supports includes:

connecting the public to information about long-term care services and supports;
increasing the number of transitions of long-term nursing home residents to the community;
closing service gaps, improving existing services, and identifying new services;
ensuring quality of care;
building capacity in the community workforce to sustain rebalancing goals;
focusing on housing and transportation supports; and
helping transform nursing facilities into community-based continuing care providers serving a range of needs.
















Source:
