Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: CT Care Fund Will Expedite Assistance for Residents in the Wake of an Emergency
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 28, 2013
Location: Unknown

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, joined by Lieutenant Governor Nancy Wyman and state and local officials, today proposed legislation to create the Connecticut Coordinated Assistance and Recovery Endowment (CT CARE) Fund for victims of disasters and other emergencies.

The CT CARE Fund will establish several separate accounts restricted to each emergency, as well as an endowment for operations and sustainability. It will provide an infrastructure to receive private donations in response to an emergency or disaster, will report on these donations, and will disseminate the dollars in accordance with the intent of the donors.

"The CT CARE Fund builds on important progress we have made in responding to natural disasters and other emergencies--and improving the state's resiliency," said Governor Malloy. "Working in conjunction with state and municipal emergency officials, this fund will provide a trusted venue for donors, and will help us get needed assistance to victims quickly."

"This fund will be a great way to formalize the way Connecticut has always responded to hardship -- by neighbor helping neighbor," said Lt. Governor Wyman. "That is how we have gotten through each of the disasters we have faced recently, and CT CARE will ensure that people have a direct, reliable way to show their generosity and goodwill."

While donations to the CT CARE Fund will pass through the state, 100 percent of all donations are restricted to carry out the donor's intent. The funds are not accessible to the state for any other use.

In response to a declaration, the spending committee, made up of the Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security Regional Coordinator, municipal CEO (s), the local Regional Emergency Response Team (REPT) Chair, and the Office of Victims Services, will offer recommendations to the Executive Board, which will make final decisions for distribution of funds.

The Executive Board consists of seven gubernatorial appointments from the nonprofit, corporate, and accounting community, a representative of the nonprofit community, five Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security REPT Chairs that are appointed by municipal leaders, the Office of Policy and Management Secretary, and the Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection Deputy Commissioner.

The bill will be included in the Governor's package of legislative proposals that will be unveiled on February 6.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=517798
