Public Statements
Gov. Malloy and Congressman Courtney Announce Creation of Innovative Apprenticeship Program at Electric Boat
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 12, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and U.S. Congressman Joe Courtney today announced that General Dynamics Electric Boat, working with the Connecticut Department of Labor (CTDOL), has re-introduced an on-the-job training initiative using the nationally-recognized Registered Apprenticeship program. The program, which officially began last week, currently has 30 apprentices training in various job classifications that include inside machinists, outside machinists, welders, ship fitters, and sheet metal workers. On January 17, a second apprentice program will begin at Electric Boat (EB). An additional thirty design apprentices are enrolled in this four-year program, which includes classroom instruction provided by Three Rivers Community College and on-the-job training.
"This apprenticeship initiative represents a unique partnership between Electric Boat, the State of Connecticut, and our state labor department's Office of Apprenticeship Training," Governor Malloy said. "Individuals under this successful training program will earn as they learn, with General Dynamics Electric Boat developing curriculum that combines on-the-job training with classroom education. Each apprentice will earn a national credential, while our state will gain a highly-skilled employee. I commend Electric Boat and the leaders of its unions for pursuing a partnership to upgrade the skills of Connecticut's workforce, promote well-paying jobs, and help our economy to grow."
"As the Electric Boat workforce continues its ramp up to meet the growing demand in submarine construction, we need to pursue every opportunity to ensure that our talented shipbuilders and designers have the skills they need to succeed. That is why reinstatement of these programs, with critical support from the State of Connecticut and federal funding I helped to secure, could not come at a better time," Congressman Courtney said. "Apprenticeships are an ideal way to train new high-skilled workers by paring classroom instruction at area technical schools and community colleges with hands-on training in the real-world, providing new skills and opportunity for workers and an even more trained workforce for Electric Boat and the nation. I applaud the leaders of the EB unions for their work in reinvigorating these programs, and know that it will help make a meaningful difference for their workers, for the shipyard and for the nation that is relying on them to continue building the best submarines in the world."
As part of the program, General Dynamics Electric Boat is making use of the federally-funded American Apprenticeship Initiative awarded to CTDOL. The $5 million grant, geared to increase apprenticeships in high-demand industries such as advanced manufacturing, provides tuition and training cost assistance up to $3,500 for each apprentice. The company has also made use of the Connecticut Manufacturing Pipeline Initiative, a $6 million federal grant that is helping to fund short-term, customized job training for manufacturing companies in southeastern Connecticut.
"We look forward to this new partnership with Electric Boat and hope to register several hundred new apprentices in the company over the next few years," CTDOL Commissioner Scott D. Jackson said. "This will include apprenticeships on the design side, such as drafting in various design disciplines, as well as the building side, that can include welders and painters. We appreciate EB's vision and ongoing commitment in strengthening the state's talent pipeline, and we thank Governor Malloy and Congressman Courtney for their invaluable support in helping to secure federal grant funding that can now be used toward training costs for these apprentices."
"The rejuvenation of our apprentice programs represents a key part of our strategy as Electric Boat prepares for a long period of sustained growth," Maura Dunn, Electric Boat vice president -- Human Resources & Administration, said. "We're deeply grateful for the support, direction and forward-thinking provided by Governor Malloy, Congressman Courtney and Commissioner Jackson."

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2016/12-2016/Gov-Malloy-and-Congressman-Courtney-Announce-Creation-of-Innovative-Apprenticeship-Program
