Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Storm Sandy Aid Tops $28 Million
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 7, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that more than $28 million in federal assistance to date has been approved to help individuals with disaster expenses since President Obama approved his Disaster Declaration request as a result of Storm Sandy.

"With $28 million in aid approved so far, it's clear that our state continues to feel a profound impact from the damage inflicted by Storm Sandy," said Governor Malloy. "House Republican leadership missed a real opportunity to accelerate recovery and mitigate future storm damage when the 112th Congress adjourned without considering the Senate-passed bill. However, there is still something you can do if you need assistance. If you received damage from Storm Sandy and live in one of the declared counties, you must register with FEMA before January 28 to begin the disaster assistance process, if you haven't done so already."

To date, more than $28 million in federal disaster assistance has been approved to help Connecticut residents with disaster-related expenses:

More than 11,700 Connecticut residents in Fairfield, Middlesex, New Haven, and New London counties, the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation, and the Mohegan Tribal Nation have registered for federal disaster assistance.
More than $9.9 million has been approved for housing assistance, including short-term rental assistance and home repair costs.
More than $683,000 has been approved to cover other essential disaster-related needs, such as medical and dental expenses and lost personal possessions.
More than $17.7 million in low-interest disaster loans for homeowners, renters and businesses has been approved by the U.S. Small Business Administration.

Residents in Fairfield, New Haven, Middlesex, and New London counties as well as businesses across the state who suffered damage from Storm Sandy are encouraged to register with FEMA by either calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or through www.DisasterAssistance.gov. For those with speech or hearing disabilities, the TTY number is 1-800-462-7585.

Residents seeking additional information are encouraged to download the fact sheet available at www.ct.gov/sandy.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=516428
