Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Creates Sandy Hook Advisory Commission to Address Key Policy Areas in Violence Prevention
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 3, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced the formation of the Sandy Hook Advisory Commission, an expert panel that will review current policy and make specific recommendations in the areas of public safety, with particular attention paid to school safety, mental health, and gun violence prevention.

"Shortly after the initial horror and the immediate grief over what occurred at Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14, there was one question on the lips of many of our residents: How do we make sure this never happens again? It's the right question, even as we recognize that despite our best efforts, bad things will happen," Governor Malloy said. "We don't yet know the underlying cause behind this tragedy, and we probably never will. But that can't be an excuse for inaction. I want the commission to have the ability to study every detail, so they can help craft meaningful legislative and policy changes."

The Governor continued, "This commission will look for ways to make sure our gun laws are as tight as they are reasonable, that our mental health system can reach those that need its help, and that our law enforcement has the tools it needs to protect public safety, particularly in our schools."

"This horrible tragedy has forced all of us to confront gun violence and the terrible impact it has had on so many lives," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "I am hopeful that this commission can begin to find some answers to how we can improve school security and how we can address and mitigate violence in our communities."

An initial report will be due to the Governor by March 15, in time for consideration during the regular session of the General Assembly.

The Advisory Commission will be chaired by Hamden Mayor Scott Jackson. Its members, which Governor Malloy will announce in the coming days, will consist of experts in various areas, including education, mental health, law enforcement and emergency response. Details and a schedule of the commission's meetings will be forthcoming.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=516230
