Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Connecticut Labor Department Recovered Over $7.1 Million in Owed Wages for Workers
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 2, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the Connecticut Department of Labor (CTDOL) has recovered more than $7.1 million in unpaid wages for Connecticut workers during the fiscal year that ended June 30 -- an increase of approximately $1 million from the previous year.
"It is important to the financial strength of this state that our working men and women are properly paid for the work they do and are correctly compensated with the wages they rightfully earn," Governor Malloy said. "The employees that earned these wages work hard and depend on this income to support their families and communities."
A total of $7,147,775 was returned to workers, which includes nearly $1.79 million recovered by wage enforcement staff responding to complaints that owed wages had not been paid. Approximately $1.14 million was provided to employees that did not receive the required minimum wage or overtime, and more than $2.57 million was recovered for employees when it was determined workers were paid incorrect amounts while working at public contract construction sites.
"The $7.1 million collected by our Division of Wage and Workplace Standards reflects the high priority we place on protecting our state's workforce, as well as law-abiding employers," CTDOL Commissioner Scott D. Jackson said, noting that the unit also investigated 180 cases involving workplace standards violations, with inspectors citing employers in areas that include permitting night work of minors in manufacturing and mechanical businesses, improper work hours of minors, minors working in prohibited jobs, and personnel files practices.
"It is our mission to ensure that all of Connecticut's wage laws -- including those pertaining to minimum wage, overtime or child labor -- are understood and followed by every employer in this state," he explained. "While we want our residents to be paid properly for the work they do, education and outreach is vital in our efforts toward helping employers gain a better understanding of federal and state laws."
During the year, wage investigators also issued 226 stop-work orders to employers that did not comply with workers compensation requirements and/or did not keep accurate pay records. In many cases, it was determined that employers misrepresented employees as independent contractors -- a practice that causes an economic disadvantage to the employees and those companies that follow state and federal laws.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2016/12-2016/Gov-Malloy-Announces-CTDOL-Recovered-Over-7-1-Million-in-Owed-Wages-for-Workers
