Public Statements
Gov. Malloy, Lt. Gov. Wyman Statement on September 11 Anniversary
Statement
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 10, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lieutenant Governor Nancy Wyman released the following statements on the anniversary of the attacks on September 11, 2001:

"Though eleven years have passed since the attacks, the grief and sorrow we felt for our country, for our friends and neighbors and complete strangers, is still very close to our hearts," said Governor Malloy. "With each passing year, this anniversary serves as a moment for reflection, a time to remember the brave and selfless acts of our first responders and the ordinary people who committed extraordinary acts of heroism. It's a day to keep in mind the dangers we still face, a time to renew our resolve to keep each other safe from harm, and to give thanks to all those in uniform for the work they do.

"It is also a day to remember that we Americans are a strong and resolute people, and that even when we are faced with unspeakable horror and tragedy, we have an indomitable will and spirit that cannot be broken -- by anyone, or anything. Our thoughts and prayers go out to everyone who is grieving today -- to friends, neighbors and complete strangers. Though some are gone, none are forgotten."

Lt. Governor Wyman said, "Here in Connecticut and across the nation, September 11th is a day for us to remember and honor those who lost their lives, and what they meant to their families and their communities. Their families live with the pain of that loss every day of every year, and we must support them in any way we can. It is also a time to recognize the dedication of our firefighters, police officers and EMS workers, and the 63 brave Connecticut military men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice in defending our freedom in Iraq and Afghanistan."

Governor Malloy proclaimed Tuesday, September 11, 2012 as Honor Our Heroes and Remembrance Day in the State of Connecticut and ordered Connecticut and U.S. flags to half-staff on the day from sunrise to sunset. By proclamation, President Barack Obama has directed U.S. flags to fly at half-staff and a moment of silence at 8:46 a.m.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=510666
