Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Named Chair of National Governors Association's Education and Workforce Committee
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 6, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

The National Governors Association (NGA), led by Delaware Governor Jack Markell and Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin, today announced that Governor Dannel P. Malloy will serve as the Chair of the organization's Education and Workforce Committee.

The committee has jurisdiction over issues in the area of education (including early childhood, elementary and secondary education, and higher education) as well as in the areas of workforce development and labor. Members of the committee ensure that the governors' views are represented in the shaping of federal policy.

"Last year on my jobs tour, I heard from countless business owners who had openings in their companies but couldn't find the talent to fill those positions," said Governor Malloy. "At a time when so many people are trying to reenter the workforce, nothing could be more frustrating."

"In both the comprehensive Jobs Bill and the Education Reform Bill, we made strides in correcting this problem," continued Governor Malloy. "The jobs bill has a number of workforce training initiatives that have put residents back to work. And the education reform bill is going to invest an additional $100 million in struggling schools that embrace much needed changes -- changes that will make sure our kids can compete."

"It's a good start, but the fact is people are still struggling. We need to do more. We need to let Washington know loud and clear the policies that will help our children and our workforce compete with anyone in the world. I look forward to working with my fellow governors on this important committee," concluded the Governor.

Iowa Governor Terry Branstad will serve as the committee's Vice Chair. Other members of the committee include Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper, Guam Governor Eddie Calvo, Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick, Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman, North Carolina Governor Beverly Perdue, Rhode Island Governor Lincoln Chafee, Utah Governor Gary Herbert, Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin and Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell.

Founded in 1908, NGA is the collective voice of the nation's governors and one of Washington, D.C.'s most respected public policy organizations. Its members are the governors of the 55 states, territories and commonwealths. NGA provides governors and their senior staff members with services that range from representing states on Capitol Hill and before the Administration on key federal issues to developing and implementing innovative solutions to public policy challenges through the NGA Center for Best Practices. For more information, visit www.nga.org.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=510468
