Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Funding to Continue Connecticut's Popular Rebate Program for Electric Vehicles
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 18, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that due to the ongoing success of a consumer rebate program he launched last year to promote the sale of electric vehicles (EVs), an additional $2.7 million in new funding is being made available to continue this popular initiative. He made the announcement during the opening ceremony of the 2016 Connecticut International Auto Show in Hartford, which brings together dozens of manufacturers and car dealers to showcase their latest models being offered to consumers, including many EVs.
The Connecticut Hydrogen and Electric Automobile Purchase Rebate Program -- known as "CHEAPR" -- provides a cash rebate for residents, businesses, and municipalities who purchase or lease a battery electric, fuel cell, or plug-in hybrid vehicle. Fuel cell powered EVs receive the largest rebate of $5,000, while plug-in hybrid and full battery electric EVs receive incentives ranging from $750 to $3,000, based on battery size.
"This rebate program puts money back into consumers' pockets while also supporting local retailers by helping make the price of electric vehicles competitive with a conventional car," Governor Malloy said. "Putting more Connecticut drivers behind the wheel of an EV is what it will take to drive down harmful carbon emissions linked to climate change, reduce conventional pollutants that threaten our air quality and public health, and help motorists reduce the cost of owning and operating a car."
Since the launch of CHEAPR in May 2015 more than $2 million in rebates have been issued or reserved for the purchase or lease of 960 electric vehicles in Connecticut. Consumers purchasing EVs have the option to receive a reduction in the price of their vehicles under this initiative at the point-of-sale. This upfront cost reduction is critical because EVs may cost more than their conventional counterparts, and their residual value can be lower because of their rapidly evolving technology. Eighty-one percent of consumers have transferred their rebate to their dealer and received the rebate immediately.

Source:
