Public Statements
At Invitation from the World Economic Forum, Governor Malloy to Participate in China Summit
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 2, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced today at a meeting with a delegation of officials from Guangdong Province that he has accepted an invitation to participate in the World Economic Forum Summit in Tianjin, China. The Governor will be joined by Department of Economic and Community Development Commissioner Catherine Smith, and will also include a stop in Connecticut's sister province, Shandong, to explore other economic opportunities. The trip, which is being paid for by the state, is expected to cost less than $20,000.

Governor Malloy joins a long list of other governors who have visited China in recent years, including Governor Mitch Daniels of Indiana, Governor Deval Patrick of Massachusetts, Governor Jack Markell of Delaware and Governor Edmund G. Brown of California.

"Every day I wake up, I'm focused on figuring out different ways to create good-paying jobs with good benefits for Connecticut residents," said Governor Malloy. "To that end, while it sounds like a worn out cliché, we truly do live in a global economy. When we recently announced the creation of a new multinational corporation that will be based in North Haven, I hope it sent a message to companies around the world that Connecticut is not only an alternative, but a prime place to grow and expand, and to create the kinds of good jobs we need here."

"If there's one thing that's a given in the 21st century economy, it's that China will be a leading player on the world stage," continued Governor Malloy. "I want to use this opportunity to do two things: convince Chinese companies that Connecticut is a great place to establish a presence in the United States, and let the Chinese know that Connecticut-based companies are ready and willing to do business with them too.

"As I made clear from the day I took office, I'm working hard to put Connecticut back on the map, and not just here in the United States -- but everywhere."

The Governor's trip will take place from September 8 to September 16. He is expected to meet with an array of business leaders and officials, including a group of bioscience companies and other technology companies. He will visit Beijing, Tianjin and Jinan, the capital city of Shandong province.

Governor Malloy will be the first Connecticut Governor to go to China since William O'Neill in 1987.

"I wanted to make this announcement today to this delegation because I think it speaks to the need for face-to-face communication with our friends in China," concluded Governor Malloy. "These are relationships that must be cultivated over a long period of time. For more than twenty years, we let those relationships languish. We can't afford to do that any longer. I know this interaction will pay dividends for both Connecticut residents and the people of China in the foreseeable future."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=508800
