Public Statements
Gov. Malloy and Congressional Delegation Applaud Federal Funding to Help Homeless Veterans find Permanent Homes
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 14, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman, and the members of Connecticut's Congressional delegation are applauding an announcement made today by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that local public housing agencies in Connecticut will receive $264,272 to help provide permanent homes to veterans experiencing homelessness. The supportive housing assistance announced today is provided through the HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) Program which combines rental assistance from HUD with case management and clinical services provided by VA.
Under the allocation, the West Haven Housing Authority will receive $171,840 for 20 vouchers, and the Meriden Housing Authority will receive $92,432 for nine vouchers.
"As a nation, we have an obligation to ensure that our veterans have a place to call home. Connecticut has effectively ended homelessness among veterans, and today's announcement strengthens our position by helping Meriden and West Haven provide housing and support to those who have served in our armed forces," Governor Malloy said. "I applaud the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs for supporting efforts to end homelessness amongst our veterans both here in Connecticut and nationwide."
Lt. Governor Wyman said, "This is good news for Connecticut, and it's an important part of ongoing efforts to ensure that every veteran has a place to call home. Investing in housing and expanding resources that help veterans and their families is real progress -- and honors the service and sacrifices our veterans have made for us."
"Ending chronic homelessness among veterans is a milestone that requires constant vigilance, and we welcome these new federal funds to support and sustain that ongoing commitment. No veteran who served and sacrificed for our nation should be left without a home," the members of Connecticut's Congressional delegation said in a joint statement.
Earlier this year, the federal government certified that Connecticut's recently increased housing efforts have effectively eliminated homelessness among veterans, meaning that the state has the capacity and sustainable systems in place to quickly find and connect a veteran who becomes homeless to the assistance needed for him or her to achieve stable, permanent housing. Connecticut is only one of three states in the nation to achieve this goal.
In the HUD-VASH program, VA Medical Centers (VAMCs) assess veterans experiencing homelessness before referring them to local housing agencies for these vouchers. Decisions are based on a variety of factors, most importantly the duration of homelessness and the need for longer term, more intensive support in obtaining and maintaining permanent housing. The HUD-VASH program includes both the rental assistance the voucher provides and the comprehensive case management that VAMC staff offers.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/en/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2016/11-2016/Gov-Malloy-and-Congressional-Delegation-Applaud-Federal-Funding-to-Help-Homeless-Veterans
