Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Recognized by NAACP for Leadership on Capital Punishment Repeal
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 9, 2012
Location: Houston, TX

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today was recognized by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) at their 103rd Annual Convention in Houston, Texas, for his leadership in repealing Connecticut's capital punishment law.

"Earlier this year, Connecticut joined 16 other states and the rest of the industrialized world in replacing capital punishment with life in prison without the possibility of parole. It's an issue that stirs deep emotion -- dividing families and communities, but it also ultimately speaks to our common goal of ensuring integrity in our justice system. I want to thank the NAACP, and Ben Jealous in particular, for their support on this issue," said Governor Malloy.

In his remarks to the Convention, Governor Malloy, who on January 16 proposed a voting rights reform package to preserve voting rights and expand access to voter registration, also took the opportunity to address another issue he calls a "fundamental right."

"This session, Connecticut lawmakers on both sides of the aisle worked to protect democracy and better serve our citizens. At a time when states across the nation are rolling back access to the ballot box, we are using technology to shore up our fundamental right to participate in the democratic process and choose our elected leaders. As public officials, we should always be doing whatever we can to encourage more people to participate in their democracy, and we should do whatever we can to make it easier for them to do so," said Governor Malloy. "I am proud to be a part of this progress, and honored to speak to the NAACP's 103rd convention."

In March, Ben Jealous, President and CEO of the NAACP, joined the Governor at a press conference in the State Capitol to advocate for repeal.

"We are proud to recognize Governor Malloy for his leadership at our annual convention, " said Ben Jealous, President and CEO of the NAACP. "In signing the bill to repeal capital punishment in Connecticut, Governor Malloy demonstrated a courageous commitment to civil rights and he demonstrated common sense. A former prosecutor, he understands that capital punishment is both biased against people of color and poor people of all colors, as well as an exorbitantly expensive punishment that fails to deter crime."

The Governor signed Public Act 12-5, An Act Revising the Penalty for Capital Felonies, into law on April 25, 2012.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=507676
