Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Appointments to Capital Region Development Authority
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 5, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced the names of his four appointees that will serve as members of the Capitol Region Development Authority (CRDA), the panel he proposed earlier this year to stimulate job growth and strengthen and broaden the economic development potential of the Greater Hartford region.

"With a cohesive strategy that connects local and state development efforts, we can create jobs and again make the capital city a center of commerce and economic activity," Governor Malloy said. "We can't keep doing the same things and expecting different results. CRDA represents a new path forward, one that will lay the groundwork for a new era of prosperity."

Governor Malloy's four appointments to the panel are:

Andy F. Bessette -- Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of the Travelers Companies, Inc.
Suzanne M. Hopgood -- President and CEO of the Hopgood Group, LLC
David J. Jorgensen -- Financial Advisor with Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
Pamela Trotman Reid -- President of the University of Saint Joseph

Created through Public Act 12-147, CRDA is responsible for stimulating new investment in the Greater Hartford region and diversifying the local economy. Among other duties, the board will focus on marketing the Capital City Economic Development District as a multicultural destination and creating a vibrant multidimensional downtown; developing and redeveloping property in Hartford; attracting large conventions, tradeshows, exhibitions, and similar events to the region; increasing tourism; and encouraging affordable housing throughout the region. The Authority will also manage certain assets in Greater Hartford, including Rentschler Field, the Connecticut Convention Center, and the XL Center.

The 13-member CRDA includes the Mayor of East Hartford, the Mayor of Hartford and his two appointees, a joint appointee of the House Speaker and President Pro Tempore, a joint appointee of the House and Senate Minority Leaders, and four appointees of the Governor. The Secretary of the Office of Policy & Management and the Commissioners of the state Department of Transportation and Department of Economic & Community Development serve as ex-officio members.

CRDA will hold its first meeting on July 17 from 9:00-10:30 a.m. in Room 11 on the sixth floor of the Connecticut Convention Center (100 Columbus Boulevard, Hartford).

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=507550
