Public Statements
Gov. Malloy to Promote Connecticut's "Still Revolutionary" Tourism Campaign
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 29, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he will launch a summer-long effort to highlight the role Connecticut's hospitality, tourism, and recreation sites play in strengthening the state's overall economy. The tour follows last month's unveiling of the state's new "Still Revolutionary' marketing campaign, a new initiative that will boost revenues and draw attention to the state's distinctive attractions and extraordinary destinations through an aggressive marketing campaign.

Connecticut's hospitality and tourism industry employs more than 110,000 people, generates $1.15 billion in state and local tax revenue and is responsible for $11.5 billion in spending, according to 2011 statistics.

"Tourism has always been a good investment for the state -- this sector returns three dollars for every one dollar invested," said Governor Malloy. "We have so much to offer visitors -- sites steeped in history, a beautiful coastline, and top tier entertainment and dining. But for too long, the state failed to invest in this crucial industry. These venues are important economic drivers -- employing Connecticut residents and attracting visitor dollars. This summer is an excellent opportunity to build on our earlier work and strengthen the state's competitive edge."

"We know that tourism campaigns generally pay for themselves and that tourism is one of the top five drivers of economic growth," said Randy Fiveash, Director of Connecticut's Office of Tourism. "If first and second quarter visitation and ticket sales data for key destinations around the state, including Mystic Seaport, Goodspeed Opera House, EMPOWER Zip lines and more, are any indication of what the rest of the summer will look like for tourism, we are in an excellent position for continued growth this season."

The Governor will begin with a daylong road trip on Monday with stops at Lake Compounce in Bristol, Blackie's Hot Dog Stand in Cheshire, Putnam Memorial State Park in West Redding, Weir Farms in Wilton, and a walk-through of Sunset Meadow Vineyards in Goshen.

Additional sites will be announced in the coming weeks.

Source:
