Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: $10 Million Investment in Connecticut Public Housing
Press Release
By: Terry Gerratana Kathleen Tallarita Robert Sanchez Elissa Wright Dan Malloy Brendan Sharkey John Kissel Andrew Maynard
Date: June 27, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the state is investing $10 million in seven state-funded public housing developments and 561 public housing units. The funding is part of the Governor's overall 10-year $420 million commitment to expand and revitalize affordable housing across the state.

"Nearly 60 percent of the state's public housing supply is more than 30 years old--it is deteriorating, it isn't safe for families, and in some cases it is uninhabitable," Governor Malloy said. "My commitment to public housing is clear--we've invested $150 million in this biennial budget, and over nine years we will invest an additional $270 million. This support will restore leadership on this important issue and ensure we have safe, secure housing for Connecticut's low-income families."

Through a new initiative called State Housing Rehabilitation & Preservation (SHRP), this first round of funding will be used for the rehabilitation or redevelopment of existing properties. Priority is given to housing developments with long-term operating plans that bring formerly vacant units back online, and in which the improvements will create safe and sustainable communities.

The successful projects, each selected through a highly competitive process, are as follows:

Middletown Housing Authority has been awarded $3,000,000 that will go toward 198 units of moderate rental housing for families in three developments: Santangelo Circle, Sunset Ridge, and Rockwood Acres.

Glastonbury Housing Authority was awarded $3,000,000 for 140 units of elderly housing at 10-119 Knox Lane and 79 New London Turnpike.

Friendship Service Center of New Britain will receive $577,880 for 22 units of transitional housing for the homeless in the center at 85 Arch Street.

"This is a worthwhile and very necessary state investment in its citizens," State Senator Terry Gerratana (D-New Britain) said. "The way the economy has been for the past several years, more and more people are struggling with homelessness. I get a lot of calls from constituents who are long-term unemployed or who have crushing medical bills and they are looking for supportive services like housing. More affordable housing is greatly needed in New Britain and throughout Connecticut."

"The people at New Britain's Friendship Center are not only caring and committed, but the services they offer to those in need are indispensible," State Representative Robert Sanchez (D-New Britain) said. "I am pleased to see funding heading to this excellent organization to help them with their plans for growth and expansion. I thank Governor Malloy for prioritizing this essential center."

Wethersfield Housing Authority was awarded $644,341 for 28 units of moderate rental housing for families at Highview Apartments, with properties on Highview Avenue, Holbrook Terrace, Oxford Street, and Wolcott Hill Road.

Mark Twain Congregate will receive $1,444,115 for 82 units of congregate housing for the frail elderly in the complex at 110 South Road, Enfield.

"What great news for our seniors," State Senator John A. Kissel (R-Enfield) said. "As demographics and income levels change, demands for affordable senior housing such as the Mark Twain facility continue to rise. This investment will help meet that demand by providing for clean, safe housing in the form of preserved, rehabilitated units. At the same time, many local construction jobs will be created. The project will be a nice boost and benefit for Enfield. It is very much appreciated."

"The announcement of this grant for Enfield's Mark Twain Congregate is great news for our community," State Representative Kathy Tallarita (D-Enfield) said. "Services and housing for the elderly have always been a legislative priority of mine. We must continue to support our frail elderly with safe and independent living that provides them and their family with a high level of comfort and security. My thanks to Governor Malloy for his support and for making this grant a reality."

Mt. Carmel Elderly was awarded $1,063,839 for 40 units of elderly housing at 33 Woodruff Street, Hamden.

"I would l like to thank Governor Malloy for his support for these projects and for taking the lead on securing the $1,063,839 grant for improvements at Mt. Carmel Congregate Senior Housing," Brendan Sharkey, House Majority Leader (D-Hamden) said. "I know first-hand that these upgrades will greatly improve the quality of life for residents."

Mystic River Homes has been awarded $269,825 for 51 units of congregate housing for the elderly at the Mystic River Congregate facility at 205 Elm Street in the Noank section of Groton.

"Our senior citizens work all their lives to earn their retirement, and it is very important that each and every one have access to an affordable place to live. It is great news that 51 new units will soon be added at Mystic River Homes in Noank, and I thank Governor Malloy for his support of this project. There has long been a waiting list to move into the congregate housing at Mystic River, and now that option will be available to more people," State Senator Andrew Maynard (D-Stonington) said.

"The approval of this funding is welcome news," State Representative Elissa Wright (D-Groton) said. "It will help Mystic River Homes Congregate Housing continue to provide frail older persons with a home-like residential setting where they can live independently with some service support, often near the community where they lived before, or where their children live. I want to thank Governor Malloy and the Department of Economic and Community Development for finalizing this grant."

Funding will be used to expand existing units, as well as handicapped accessibility modifications; modernization upgrades; repair/replacement of heating and electrical systems; improvements to enhance energy usage and savings (insulation, roofing, windows); security and fire system upgrades; and site improvements such as paving and sidewalk repair.

In Connecticut, there are 348 state-funded public housing properties with 14,132 units. The units serve a variety of households who are at or below 80 percent of the local area median income.

SHRP, jointly developed by the Department of Economic and Community Development and the Connecticut Housing and Finance Authority, is a competitive initiative that provides funding to eligible sponsors to address capital improvements. The program is co-administered by both agencies. Visit www.decd.org or www.chfa.org for more information.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=507090
