Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Advantage Program Provides Benefits to Veterans While Building Scholarship Fund
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy Nancy Wyman
Date: June 15, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State Department of Veterans' Affairs has partnered with Veterans Advantage, Inc. on an initiative to extend private sector benefits to veterans and their families who reside in Connecticut through the VetRewards Card program.

The program provides special offers, such as discounts on services through a network of retailers and service providers. Funding from the program's membership goes to the creation of a statewide scholarship program that will be awarded by the state Department of Veterans' Affairs.

"The Veterans Advantage card is a way for private sector companies to extend their appreciation for our country's troops by providing discounts on services while at the same time creating opportunities for military families to pursue higher education," Governor Malloy said. "This is another way we can thank our nation's veterans and their families."

"I strongly believe that our troops and their families deserve our support not only when they are in uniform, but when they return home," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "Deployment has meant many months away from their families and their jobs and this card is a great way to lend a hand to those who sacrificed so much for us."

Veterans Advantage is a national program that partners with private corporations that want to do their part to honor and thank all who serve in the United States military. Partner companies, such as retail stores, restaurants and service providers, show their appreciation for the program's members by providing discounts on their goods or services every day.

Interested Connecticut veterans, Active Duty Military, National Guard, Reserve and their family members are encouraged to enroll in the Veterans Advantage through the Connecticut Department of Veterans' Affairs website (www.ct.gov/ctva), where they will be eligible to receive a special 25% discount on the program's fees.

"There are tens of thousands of military veterans in the State of Connecticut and we are committed to recognizing them and their family members for their service with real benefits," said Dr. Linda S. Schwartz, the Connecticut Commissioner of Veterans' Affairs. "The VetRewards Card program offers a real benefits package from the nation's top companies for returning troops from Iraq and Afghanistan, there is also important financial assistance for the transition back to civilian life. We encourage those who have served and their families to enroll," she said.

"With our headquarters in the State of Connecticut, Veterans Advantage is honored to serve Connecticut veterans and their family members," said Veterans Advantage founder and CEO H. Scott Higgins, a Vietnam Veteran and Connecticut resident. "The VetRewards Card discount and scholarship program represent our way to show our appreciation for the work of the Connecticut Department of Veterans' Affairs in the care of our veterans. We thank Dr. Schwartz for all her help and support in forming this special initiative"

About Veterans Advantage
Veterans Advantage, founded in 1999 by a group of high-ranking military veterans, is the leading card membership program offering exclusive benefits for the more than 90 million qualifying Americans from a nationwide network of retailers and service providers across the U.S. The program's mission is to deliver greater recognition, respect and rewards as a thank you for service to the country through the VetRewards Card, a universal military service ID card, and in its partnerships with patriotic companies. Learn more at: www.VeteransAdvantage.com.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=506054
