Public Statements
United States Climate Alliance Adds 10 New Members to Coalition Committed to Upholding the Paris Accord
Press Release
By: Jay Inslee Phil Scott Terry McAuliffe Gina Raimondo Kate Brown Andrew Cuomo Charlie Baker John Carney, Jr. Dan Malloy Jerry Brown, Jr. Mark Dayton
Date: June 5, 2017
Location: Unknown

The U.S. Climate Alliance announced that Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Oregon, Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, Vermont and Virginia have all joined the coalition, which is committed to upholding the Paris Accord and taking aggressive action on climate change.
In response to President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris Accord, Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, and California Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. formed the Alliance to convene U.S. states committed to achieving the U.S. goal of reducing emissions 26-28 percent from 2005 levels and meeting or exceeding the targets of the federal Clean Power Plan.
With input from all participants, the U.S. Climate Alliance will also act as a forum to sustain and strengthen existing climate programs, promote the sharing of information and best practices, and implement new programs to reduce carbon emissions from all sectors of the economy.
"Those of us who understand science and feel the urgency of protecting our children's air and water are as united as ever in confronting one of the greatest challenges of our lifetime," Gov. Jay Inslee said. "Our collective efforts to act on climate will ensure we maintain the United State's commitment to curb carbon pollution while advancing a clean energy economy that will bring good-paying jobs to America's workers."
"The President has already said climate change is a hoax, which is the exact opposite of virtually all scientific and worldwide opinion," California Gov. Edmund G. Brown, Jr. said. "I don't believe fighting reality is a good strategy -- not for America, not for anybody. If the President is going to be AWOL in this profoundly important human endeavor, then California and other states will step up."

Source:
