Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Signs Voting Rights Legislation
Statement
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy Denise Merrill
Date: June 4, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy has signed into law House Bill 5024, An Act Concerning Voting Rights, legislation that will make voter registration more efficient and increase participation in elections.

"We are proud of the work we've done in Connecticut to ensure citizens have every opportunity to choose their elected leaders, even as other states are moving to restrict voting rights," said Governor Dannel P. Malloy. "Voting is the most basic tenet of our democracy--it is incumbent upon us to use 21st century technology to give people better access to the ballot box and not impede participation in our electoral process. I applaud the work done by the Connecticut legislature to ensure the integrity of our electoral system."

"These reforms allow more people to have their voices to be heard in a place where it truly matters -- the voting booth," said Lt. Governor Wyman. "More of our residents will have the power to decide who they want to represent them in government, how they want their tax dollars spent, what kind of health care system they want and how they want their children to be educated. And I believe there is nothing more important than that."

"I commend Governor Malloy for his leadership in championing these long overdue reforms and signing this bill into law," said Secretary of the State Denise Merrill. "Connecticut now makes history, becoming the 10th state to enact Election Day Registration. This practice has worked extremely well for decades in other states has been shown to lead to higher voter participation. The convenience of enabling voters to register securely online through a computer or mobile device will also bring more citizens into the democratic process and result in more accurate voter lists. Together, these modernizations bring voting in Connecticut into the 21st century with a net result of higher civic engagement."

The law will create web-based voter registration that will allow eligible Connecticut citizens who have a valid and current driver's license to register to vote online. It will also allow for Election Day registration to improve voter turnout and will create a more accurate voter file.

The Governor introduced this legislation on Martin Luther King Jr. Day in January with Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman and Secretary of the State Denise Merrill.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=505462
