Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Governor's Residence to Participate in Connecticut Open House Day
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 1, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the Governor's Residence will be participating in the state's 8th Annual Connecticut Open House Day and will be open to the public for tours from 10:00 a.m. until 2:00 p.m. on Saturday, June 9.

Connecticut Open House Day is an annual event coordinated by the Connecticut Office of Tourism and encourages residents to explore the state's exciting destinations and attractions -- new and old -- by offering special incentives for one day only, such as free or reduced admission, free gifts, or special exhibits and activities. More than 200 arts, history and tourism attractions throughout the state will be participating, the full list of which can be found on the state's tourism website: CTvisit.com.

"Connecticut Open House Day provides an excellent opportunity for residents to participate in the state's new brand campaign, "Still Revolutionary,' which highlights the rich history, culture and innovation that makes our state unique, beautiful and full of inspiration," Governor Malloy said. "In addition to the Governor's Residence, we're proud to announce that museums, galleries, theaters, vineyards, shops and historic properties from throughout the state will be participating. I encourage everyone to check out the full list of the participating attractions on the state's tourism website, CTvisit.com, and take advantage of the day."

The Governor's Residence is located at 990 Prospect Avenue in Hartford. Docents will be available for tours of the residence during the open house, and various garden clubs from around the state will be donating floral decorations. Information on the history of the Connecticut Governor's Residence can be found on the Governor's website.

Earlier this month, the State of Connecticut launched its new "Still Revolutionary" campaign -- a two-year initiative to bolster tourism that includes television, radio, print and digital advertising and tells the story of Connecticut's deep roots in the founding of this country and its continued spirit of innovation. The tourism sector is responsible for employing nearly 111,000 workers in the state and generates an annual $11.5 billion in spending and $1.15 billion in state and local tax revenue.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=505358
