Public Statements
Gov. Malloy and DEEP Commissioner Klee Applaud EPA for Designation of Eastern Long Island Sound Dredged Material Disposal Site
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 4, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection Commissioner Robert Klee, released the following statements regarding the final action announced today by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to designate a disposal site for dredged material in Eastern Long Island Sound:
Governor Malloy said, "With today's decision, Gina McCarthy and her team at the EPA continue to demonstrate their commitment to the health of Long Island Sound, as well as a sensitivity to the needs of the region. We appreciate the hard work and determination the EPA has shown in pursuing the designation of an Eastern Connecticut disposal site over the course of several years - with an approach based on sound science and a commitment to protection of resources.
"The simple fact is that given the nature of our coastline, periodic dredging is required to ensure the navigability of waters and continued access to ports and harbors. While we continually seek opportunities for beneficial reuse of dredged materials, this approach is not always available. In those cases, we must maintain the option for well-managed open water disposal. The EPA's decision ensures that the practical, environmentally sound, and cost effective option of open water disposal will remain available for dredging projects in Eastern Connecticut.
"The designation of a disposal site in Eastern Connecticut will make it possible to conduct periodic dredging projects to benefit many, including the U.S. Navy submarine base in Groton and our national security, key industries such as Electric Boat - that contribute to our economy and job growth - as well as thousands of recreational boaters who require access to marinas along our coast."
Commissioner Klee said, "Long Island Sound is Connecticut's most important natural resource. As such, we are investing heavily in its future - through billions of dollars for upgraded wastewater treatment plants, more effective management of storm water runoff, and the development of a 21st Century Blue Plan. We believe that maintaining the full range of options for the handling of dredged materials - from beneficial reuse to open water disposal - is fully consistent with our stewardship of Long Island Sound.
"Connecticut is committed to actively exploring and taking advantage of all opportunities for the reuse of dredged materials. There are times when dredged sediments are suitable for renourishing beaches, marshes, and sand dunes - and for other projects designed to protect people, resources, or infrastructure along our coast.
"As EPA's decision makes clear, however, there are also times when open water disposal of dredged materials is the only path forward. Our experience over almost four decades shows that through careful oversight and management, open water placement of dredged materials has served our maritime needs without negative impacts on water quality, natural resources, aquatic life, or public health in Connecticut or neighboring states."

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/en/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2016/11-2016/Gov-Malloy-and-DEEP-Commissioner-Klee-Applaud-EPA-for-Designation-of-Eastern-Long-Island-Sound
