Public Statements
Governor Malloy on Senator Passage of Capital Region Development Authority
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 7, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today applauded Senate passage of SB22, An Act Concerning the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA).

"Economic development -- and the jobs that come with it -- is one of my administration's top priorities," said Governor Malloy. "A cohesive strategy that links state resources with our development goals is critical to maximizing the potential of our Capitol region. CRDA will be the central authority in charge of overseeing a comprehensive strategy that will ensure our residents are getting the best possible return on their investment."

CRDA will move the management of assets in the greater Hartford region--Rentschler Field, the Convention Center, and, ultimately, the XL Center, under one umbrella and will stimulate new investment and economic growth in Connecticut. Coordination in marketing and venue development that highlights the Hartford/East Hartford region will strengthen the capital area and attract new business.

CRDA will also offer assistance with state funding to cultural and entertainment venues, parks and other organizations, and will expand the development district currently under the Capital City Economic Development Authority (CCEDA).

The 13-member CRDA will include four appointees of the Governor, as well as the Commissioners of the Departments of Transportation and Economic and Community Development, the Secretary of OPM, the Mayors of Hartford and East Hartford, one appointment each for the state House of Representatives and the Senate, and two appointees of the Mayor of Hartford--a member of city administration and a community representative.

Governor Malloy and Catherine Smith, Commissioner of the Department of Economic and Community Development, announced the CRDA proposal in January. The bill will now go to the House of Representatives.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=503784
