Public Statements
Governor Malloy and Lieutenant Governor Wyman Applaud House Passage of Voting Rights Legislation
Statement
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: April 30, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lieutenant Governor Nancy Wyman released the following statements on House passage of HB 5024, legislation that will increase participation in elections and improve voter access to the ballot box.

"Passage of this legislation demonstrates Connecticut's commitment to fair, accessible elections, and I applaud the House for their action on this bill. We've sent a clear signal to the rest of the country that Connecticut will not go in the direction of other states," said Governor Malloy. "Using the technology we have available to preserve the integrity of our elections, expand access to the ballot box, and improve participation in the public process will allow our democracy flourish. By making our elections as open and accessible as possible, we will make sure that our residents have the representation they demand at every level of government."

"Voting is power, and these reforms will give more Connecticut residents the power to decide who they want to represent them in government," said Lt. Governor Wyman. "That means more of our residents will have a voice in how their tax dollars are spent, what kind of health care system we have, how their children are educated, and so many other aspects of their lives. This is a bill that will allow their voices to be heard in a place where it truly matters -- the voting booth -- and the importance of that cannot be overstated."

To make registration more efficient and create a more accurate voter file, HB 5024 will create web-based voter registration that will allow eligible Connecticut citizens who have a valid and current driver's license to register to vote online. It will also allow for Election Day registration to improve voter turnout.

The Governor introduced this legislation on Martin Luther King Jr. Day in January with Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman and Secretary of the State Denise Merrill.

The bill now goes to the Senate for consideration.

Source:
