Public Statements
Governor Malloy Directs Agency Heads to Consider Returning Veterans for State Job Openings
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 26, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today issued a directive to the heads of executive branch state agencies instructing them to consider hiring and recruiting veterans who have recently returned from military service or will be returning in the near future and are looking for employment.

"It is estimated that 6,000 to 8,000 military veterans will be returning to Connecticut in the next 24 months," said Governor Malloy. "This is a great opportunity to open the doors of state service to someone who has already done so much for our nation."

The Governor directed agency heads to make every effort to interview qualified veterans for approved positions where appropriate. As always, merit system and contractual rules must be followed and affirmative action plans must be considered when filling positions.

"For many of our returning veterans, finding employment will be one of their most significant challenges. Our administration is committed to welcoming our nation's veterans home with every opportunity to find a fulfilling job as they begin the next phase of their life," Governor Malloy said. "It is our goal to provide qualified veterans access to state job interviews and when veterans appear on employment lists, strive to ensure that at least one veteran is interviewed for each position vacancy."

Governor Malloy is also encouraging veterans seeking employment to attend the Heroes 4 Hire Career Fair on Friday, April 27, 2012 from 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. at Rentschler Field in East Hartford. The Department of Administrative Services (DAS) will be in attendance at the event, which is co-sponsored by the Connecticut Department of Labor (DOL) and the Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA), and will make available information on obtaining employment with the State of Connecticut, including how to find job and exam postings on the DAS website and registering for exam and job e-alerts. Open state positions are posted on the DAS website, where notifications of future job fairs dedicated to veterans will also be posted.

Recognizing the fact that Connecticut veterans have an important role to play in the state's economic recovery, Governor Malloy and the state legislature last fall created a new tax credit incentive program for employers who hire veterans. The Job Expansion Tax Credit Program provides a $900 per month tax credit for employers who hire current armed forces members or those who have either been honorably discharged or released from active service.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=503158
