Public Statements
Governor Malloy Appoints Recycling Working Group Members
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 5, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today named members to the Governor's Modernizing Recycling Working Group, which is tasked with submitting recommendations to improve the state's approach to recycling, reduce costs, and more efficiently use waste material.

"Smarter government starts by identifying opportunities. Expanding and improving how the state manages recycling offers multiple benefits for taxpayers and the environment," said Governor Malloy. "I'm appreciative that the members of this working group are lending their time and expertise to helping us modernize and implement recycling initiatives, and develop a strong plan for the future."

"We can unlock untapped economic values from the solid waste stream, harness global economic forces, and send clearer economic signals that materials must remain in the stream of commerce," said Daniel C. Esty, Commissioner of Department of Energy and Environmental Protection.

Announced in January 2012, the working group will:

1. Modernize the state's solid waste and materials management policies to better recover the value of materials and step up our efforts to reduce, reuse, and recycle materials.

2. Ensure we manage non-recycled waste sustainably to protect the environment, achieve economic sustainability, and control energy costs. Currently 92% of Connecticut's solid waste is recycled or recovered for energy value, though greater energy efficiencies and cost savings can be achieved through increased recycling.

3. Establish stable, cost effective funding mechanisms to provide sustainable materials management that encourages collaboration between municipalities, regional authorities, state agencies, and public/private partnerships.

The working group includes representatives from municipalities, recycling and material management, and members with finance and environmental backgrounds. All members serve as volunteers.

Tom DeVivo, Willimantic Waste Paper
Marilynn Cruz-Aponte, City of Hartford
Brian Bartram, Sharon-Salisbury Transfer Station
Lyle Wray, Capitol Region Council of Governments
Cheryl Reedy, Housatonic Resources Recovery Authority
Mike Paine, CT Representative National Solid Waste Management Assoc.
Marian Chertow, Industrial Ecology professor
Mark Moriarty, City of New Britain
Mark Cirilli, Mission Point Capital
Adrienne Houel, Park City Green, Bridgeport
John Phetteplace, Town of Stonington
Sean Duffy, ReCommunity, Hartford
Dick Barlowe, Town of Canton
Mike Walsh, City of East Hartford
Jonathan Bilmes, Bristol Resources Recovery Facility Operating Committee

The working group's recommendations are due to the Governor by December 1, 2012.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=502124
