Public Statements
Middleton Press - Malloy Compares Education Reform to Civil Rights Movement
News Article
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 3, 2012
Location: Middleton, CT

By Laura Sievert
The situation involving education reform in Connecticut is like a modern day version of the civil rights movement, Gov. Dannel Malloy said Monday during a Town Meeting in Middletown.

The NAACP sponsored the meeting to talk about the Education Reform Bill at Shiloh Baptist Church. Many of the public's questions focused on the cultural awareness needing to being covered in the bill. Malloy spoke about the points in the bill he wanted to focus on and then opened the floor to questions from the community.

State NAACP President Scot X. Esdaile said before the meeting that there was a serious concern that no one from the black community was in the meetings about the bill.

"At the end of the day I want to make sure my community has influence over this bill," Esdaile said. "There is no way this bill is going to go through without us having our voice on it. We want real reform. Let's put it all on the table."

District presidents as well as many other influential people in both education and the NAACP were in attendance.

"We have some concerns but we are cautiously optimistic," said Dr. Benjamin Foster Jr., chairman of the State Education Committee for the NAACP. "We hope the governor will interact with us about the issues. We are seeing things in the legislature that is causing us to be hopeful."

Many residents and concerned parents attended the meeting, hoping to hear about progress on the bill.

Delita Daniels, who has four children, three of which have transferred from the Hartford system to Middletown, said she is "interested in what the governor has to bring and see what changes will be made." Cindy Bankowski, with two children in the school system, said she would like to see a "goal of excellence brought back to the public education."

Malloy spoke about needing to get the bill back to its original contents, not the "gutted" version approved by the legislature last week. Malloy said there was too much talk about studies and research, and the children need the change now. One thing Malloy argued with Gary Highsmith, the principal of Hamden High School, about was using those "out of the box" ideas to turn around failing schools.

"Accepting failure is not acceptable," Malloy said. "Why should we invest in schools that are going to continue to fail? You have to get out of that box because what's in the box isn't working."

Under Malloy's proposed plan, out of the $50 million for school funding, $39.5 million would go to the 30 lowest performing schools in the state. Malloy said he wants to have a multi-level certification process for teachers, where they would keep the one certification they already have, but there should be a way to recognize master teachers with more certifications.

Malloy also spoke about parent involvement, saying that while he cannot mandate parent involvement, there are ways for the schools to work with parents to encourage more involvement. Instead of an open house night, which Malloy said many working parents cant attend to speak with their children's teachers, he suggested an open weekend day, or holiday for parents to have the chance to be a part of their child's education.

Andrew Doba, director of communications for Malloy, said the governor is willing to work on this bill as long as it takes.

"He wants the six principles he outlined in the beginning." Doba said, "There are aspects of the bill he is willing to negotiate and others he will not compromise on."

Source: http://www.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=11&Q=501906
