Public Statements
Malloy Stresses Value of Groton Sub Base During Meeting with U.S. Navy Secretary Mabus
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 26, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy on Monday joined United States Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus for a meeting at the Pentagon, where the Governor discussed the state's support of the U.S. Navy submarine base in Groton and highlighted the extensive enhancements and upgrades that have been made at the sub base since the most recent Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process in 2005.

"My administration -- in cooperation with Connecticut's Congressional delegation -- has been closely monitoring the Department of Defense proposal to conduct a new BRAC process, and I am pleased that Secretary Mabus and I had an opportunity today to discuss the increased military value of the Groton sub base, in addition to what the base means for Connecticut," Governor Malloy said. "Forging a relationship with the Navy Secretary can only help us as we navigate the BRAC process in the years ahead.

"As a former governor of a coastal state himself, Secretary Mabus can certainly appreciate the relationship a state has with its maritime facilities, and I made sure to let him know that Connecticut's support for our sub base remains strong and in fact has played a leading role in its transformation over the last few years into what has become a thriving, vibrant campus."

Since 2005, the State of Connecticut has taken a number of strategic actions to prepare for the next BRAC. These include:

Establishing the Office of Military Affairs with an Executive Director responsible for overseeing issues related to the sub base and other military matters;
Conducting a very thorough analysis of policies and actions required to ensure that the sub base and the state are positioned as well as possible for the next BRAC;
Authorizing bond funding of $50 million in 2007 to invest in improving the sub base's military value;
Negotiating an agreement with the Navy to fully fund infrastructure improvements at the sub base, the first time that such investments have been made for any Department of Defense military installation by a state government;
$10M used to refurbish the EB Dry Docks available for Groton-based subs
$11M invested in the sub base infrastructure
Establishing several programs to address quality of life issues for service members and their families living in or deploying from Connecticut;
Organizing and regularly participating in programs to create truly outstanding community relations between the base, the state and surrounding communities.

Over the last seven years, $150 million in federal funding has also been spent on transformational projects at the sub base, including:

Demolishing archaic infrastructure;
Creating room for future growth and reduced energy consumption;
Constructing new modern, energy-efficient facilities, including a new double-wide pier, the Submarine Learning Center, state-of-the-art training facilities, an indoor firing range, and a waterfront Port Operations Center.

Governor Malloy said the State of Connecticut will continue this unprecedented partnership with the Navy as the state demonstrates its commitment and support of the submarine base, which accounts for an estimated 15,000 jobs and has a $4.5 billion annual economic impact in Connecticut's economy.

Source:
