Public Statements
Governor Malloy: Connecticut Receives Federal Grant to Improve Solar Capacity
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 22, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that Connecticut was awarded $481,473 from the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to help lower costs associated with the installation of rooftop solar panels. The grant will be used by the Clean Energy Finance and Investment Authority (CEFIA) and its partners to streamline permitting processes, address connectivity with the state's utilities, and improve financing options for homeowners and small businesses who install rooftop solar power systems.

"This funding will bolster our work to provide cleaner, cheaper energy options for Connecticut residents," said Governor Malloy. "I want to thank CEFIA for their efforts to secure federal dollars for this initiative, and the U.S. Department of Energy for their support of our broader energy, environmental, and economic development goals. Connecticut is leading the way in developing clean energy solutions and bringing us one step closer to energy independence."

"President Obama has made it clear that we need an all-out, all-of-the-above American energy strategy fueled by homegrown and alternative energy sources designed and produced by American workers," said U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu. "The Energy Department is helping to unleash America's solar energy potential in Connecticut and communities across the country. These awards will reduce the costs homeowners and businesses pay to install solar energy systems, while at the same time saving time and money for local governments faced with tight budgets."

The Connecticut team will use SunShot Initiative funds to reduce non-hardware related costs of solar power installation and identify other cost savings. In partnership with several municipalities, CEFIA will create a standard online permitting application that will streamline the process and assist applicants in working with utility companies.

"Ensuring low-cost accessibility to rooftop solar power systems for households and businesses will increase demand for clean energy across Connecticut," said Catherine Smith, Commissioner of the Department of Economic and Community Development and Chair of CEFIA's Board of Directors. "By working closely with our community partners to accomplish the goals of this project, we will be able to bring the benefits to the rest of Connecticut and across the New England region."

"This program will allow us to accelerate the process of obtaining, installing, and utilizing solar power for residences and small businesses," said Daniel C. Esty, Commissioner of the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection. "Passage of last year's energy bill has created a strong platform from which Connecticut can assume a leadership role on energy and this program is a perfect example of how the state is poised to become a national leader for energy efficiency, and increasing our use of cleaner renewable power sources."

CEFIA is working in partnership with the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP), New England Governor's Conference; United Illuminating; Northeast Utilities; Connecticut Light & Power; Snugg Home; Solar CT; the University of Connecticut; Yale University, and the towns of Cornwall, Coventry, Danbury, Fairfield, Greenwich, Hampton, Manchester, Middletown, Milford, New Haven, Stamford, and West Hartford.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=501306
