Public Statements
Gov. Malloy, Attorney General Jepsen and Consumer Counsel Katz Announce Agreement with Northeast Utilities and NSTAR
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 13, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Attorney General George Jepsen, and Consumer Counsel Elin Swanson Katz today announced an agreement with Northeast Utilities and Boston-based NSTAR that guarantees substantial benefits to Connecticut residents from the proposed merger of the two utility companies.

The agreement, reached after nearly a month of negotiations, provides at least $120 million in benefits to Connecticut in rate relief, investment in the state's energy future, and preservation of 1,000 acres of open space. Other benefits include a two and half year distribution rate freeze; a commitment to keep NU headquarters in Hartford for at least seven years; protection of Connecticut jobs; the opportunity to preserve as much as 8,500 additional acres of open space; and a $300 million investment in infrastructure reliability improvements.

The settlement agreement will be filed today with the state Public Utilities Regulatory Authority (PURA), where review of the proposed merger is now pending. Both the settlement agreement and proposed merger will need state regulatory approval on or before April 2, 2012, and the merger would have to be completed by the companies for the settlement to become binding.

"After everything our residents have been through over the past year, weathering storms and enduring long outages of utility service, we knew that we had a tremendous opportunity to negotiate an agreement that would really benefit the people of Connecticut," said Governor Malloy. "The agreement we're announcing today does many things, but most importantly, it will ensure that distribution rates for our consumers will stay flat for two and a half years, providing some much needed relief for residents."

Attorney General Jepsen and Consumer Counsel Swanson Katz, who pushed the PURA to review the proposed merger and helped to negotiate the agreement, were pleased by the result.

"Protecting Connecticut and the interests of its citizens were our first concerns," Attorney General Jepsen said. "Like our neighbors in Massachusetts, we will know up front what this merger will mean for our state."

Consumer Counsel Swanson Katz said, "Connecticut residents are entitled to share in the benefits of any merger and this agreement does that. They will see a rate credit on their bill and other benefits up front, and more down the road as the savings anticipated from the merger are realized."

Among the provisions, the agreement provides:

Direct cash benefits:


















Source:
