Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Applauds Report Showing Connecticut Ranks First in the Nation in Childhood Vaccinations
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 7, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy is applauding the results of a report released today by the U.S. Center for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, which shows that the State of Connecticut has the highest childhood immunization coverage rate of any state in the nation.
"Connecticut is a national leader in childhood immunization, and that is in large part due to the efforts of many professional, community-based, and private partnerships that have worked diligently with the state to raise awareness of this issue," Governor Malloy said. "I want to thank the Connecticut Department of Public Health and Department of Social Services, as well as the state chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics, local health departments, and all of the health care practitioners who champion immunizations for their work, ensuring the health and safety of our state's children."
"Vaccinations are an important part of public health strategy, protecting individuals from disease and communities from outbreak," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "Connecticut and our provider partners have done a good job on outreach and education - the results of their work protect us all. When it's harder for disease to get a hold and run unchecked, all of our communities are safer."
Connecticut Department of Public Health Commissioner Dr. Raul Pino said, "Today's announcement is the result of years of hard work and the collaboration among all of our partners. I want to extend my appreciation to our staff for their relentless work to increase vaccination rates in Connecticut. Our partnership with providers, local health departments, and the insurance industry is placing our state in a leadership role in this field."
According to results from the CDC 2015 National Immunization Survey, Connecticut achieved an 80.6 percent coverage rate for the recommended immunization series among children 19 to 35 months of age. Connecticut's immunization rate was well above the national average of 72.2 percent, and above the average for the New England region of 77.8 percent.
Connecticut was also recently recognized for several other vaccination coverage awards, including being one of three states to receive an award for most improved influenza vaccination of adults 18 years of age and older. In addition, the state received the "Health People 2020 Outstanding Progress" awards for influenza vaccination of children under 18 years old, and for adolescent vaccination with three vaccines that include meningococcal, tetanus-diphtheria and acellular pertussis, and human papillomavirus.
"We have a vision of a day when every child in Connecticut receives all of their vaccines in a timely manner," Commissioner Pino added.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2016/10-2016/Gov__Malloy_Applauds_Report_Showing_Connecticut_Ranks_First_in_the_Nation_in_Childhood_Vaccinations/
