Public Statements
Governor Malloy Announces Education Reform Tour
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 28, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he will take his education reform message to school auditoriums and town halls across the state in an effort to drive home the importance of fixing what's broken in Connecticut's public schools. On the first day of session, Governor Malloy submitted a comprehensive, 163-page bill to the legislature that utilizes proven models to turn around low-performing schools. Initiatives include additional funding for failing schools that adopt comprehensive reforms, improved teacher preparation, removing red tape for local school districts, reforming teacher tenure and expanding access to early childhood education.

"Last year, after I proposed the budget, I went to 17 cities and towns across the state to have a direct conversation about the magnitude of the problems we were facing and how I thought we needed to share in the sacrifice to begin to stabilize the state's finances," said Governor Malloy. "I met with thousands of people and answered hundreds of questions. What I liked most about it -- what I heard back from so many people -- was that it allowed people to be connected to their government in a way that just hadn't happened before. I think that's really important; the people pay for this government, so they should have the ability to talk directly to it, ask questions, and get answers."

"Connecticut has the largest achievement gap in the nation," continued Governor Malloy. "In a state like ours, with the resources and talent we have at our disposal, this is unacceptable. We already know the consequences of inaction -- let's use the chance we have before us today to change direction once and for all.

"There has never been a time when education and jobs are more closely aligned," Governor Malloy concluded. "I am determined to fix what's broken in our public schools, so that every district is giving students the tools they need to succeed in the 21st Century Economy. If I have to go door-to-door to sell this package to Connecticut residents, then so be it."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=499764
