Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Henkel Corporation Moving Headquarters Across the Country and Creating Hundreds of Jobs in Connecticut
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 6, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy is applauding the decision of Germany-based Henkel Corporation to relocate its Laundry & Home Care and Beauty Care headquarters across the country from Arizona to Stamford, Connecticut, where the company plans on expanding in a $50 million project that will create up to 266 new jobs in the state.
Henkel offers beauty and personal care, laundry and home care, and a broad portfolio of adhesives, sealants, and surface treatments for consumer and industrial use. Earlier this year, the company announced the acquisition of the Wilton-based The Sun Products Corporation, a leading manufacturer and marketer of laundry care products. With the acquisition of Sun Products, Henkel is the number two laundry and home care products company in North America.
"When an international company of Henkel's stature decides to relocate to our state, expand its operations, and create hundreds of new jobs, it sends a message to the rest of the world that Connecticut is serious about working with companies to grow, generate capital investment, and strengthen our economy for the residents of our state," Governor Malloy said. "Henkel is a valued member of the business community - we are proud of their decision to relocate and expand in Connecticut and we welcome the company to our state."
Henkel plans on relocating its Scottsdale, Arizona operations, which currently serves as Henkel's Beauty Care and Laundry & Home Care headquarters, to Stamford, in a location yet to be determined. The relocation is expected to begin in the second quarter of 2017.
As part of the project, Henkel is committed to retaining the combined jobs from its former Sun Products facilities, as well as its North American headquarters and Adhesive Technologies General Industries division in Rocky Hill.

Source:
