Public Statements
The Bridgeport News - Tech School Plan Targets Employers' Needs
News Article
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 13, 2012
Location: Unknown

By Susan Hunter

Gov. Dannel P. Malloy's proposed legislation to change the Connecticut Technical High School System is being praised by local legislators.

The changes would tailor programming to the needs of employers, so that graduates are better prepared for real-world employment, according to a statement issued by Malloy's office.

Malloy proposes changing the governance of the CTHSS to an independent 11-member board whose members are designated by appointment. Four members would be executives of Connecticut employers nominated by regional Chambers of Commerce and other business organizations and appointed by the governor.

Four members would be appointed by the State Board of Education, and the commissioners of the Department of Education, Department of Economic and Community Development and Department of Labor and would serve in an ex-officio capacity.

The governor would appoint the new board's chair, who would also serve ex-officio on the State Board of Education.

This would move the 20-school system to the purview of a board dedicated solely to its operations and would remove oversight from the State Board of Education.

The changes are "long overdue," said Sen. Joseph Crisco (D-17th District) shortly after he heard about the proposal. "It's fantastic. The [technical] school system has never received the attention it should have."

Malloy's original proposal to bring the technical high schools under the jurisdiction of local school districts was part of his budget plan unveiled in February 2011. It was met with opposition by municipal officials and educators.

Crisco called that plan "bizarre."

He applauded the recent proposal to put the schools under the purview of a separate board.

"I see it as a plus," he said. "I'm elated."

Changes address filling high-tech jobs

"Turning the corner on decades of economic decline means we have to prepare our students for a successful future in the high-tech workforce, and we have to create the skilled labor that Connecticut companies need to compete globally," Malloy said. "When these reforms are in place, we will position our technical high school system to offer programs that are relevant for the high-tech jobs of today and tomorrow."

"If we want to stop our students, our children, from leaving Connecticut, we have to give them a reason to stay here," said Lt. Gov. Nancy Wyman. "This proposal is another way we can do that -- by preparing students for careers in emerging fields like precision manufacturing, bioscience and fuel cells and ensuring that their skills are directly matched with the needs of our businesses."

The changes stem from the January recommendations of the Connecticut Technical High School System Task Force and build on the outcomes of the October jobs special session.

"The governor's plan invites the investment of the private sector in our vocational technical schools -- ensuring that we're preparing students for the jobs of tomorrow and enabling stronger school-to-workplace connections," said Stefan Pryor, the state education commissioner. "The plan also ensures a continuing connection to the State Department of Education, which, working with our fellow state departments, will help to position our technical high school system in a way that draws from and compares favorably to national and global models."

The governor is allocating $500,000 in additional funding to increase the training resources and supplies for students.

In a report issued Jan. 10, the Connecticut Technical High School System Task Force recommended continuing state operations of the CTHSS; requiring the state Department of Education to develop CTHSS's strategic plan in conjunction with the departments of Labor, Economic and Community Development, and Higher Education, and specific business and industry consortiums; establishing a separate CTHSS board to set standards to which the superintendent of the CTHSS would be accountable; and benchmarking standards against international leaders.

Malloy's proposed legislation has to go through the Education Committee and perhaps through the Appropriations Committee, Crisco said.

He testified before the CTHSS Task Force and said he "can't wait" to testify before the legislative committees.

Additional news about state education reforms was expected to be released this week.

Source: http://www.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=11&Q=499200
