Public Statements
Gov. Mallor: FBI Restores State Crime Lab's Access to DNA Database
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 10, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) has renewed the Connecticut Forensic Science Laboratory's participation in the National DNA Index System (NDIS) -- an expansive computer database of DNA profiles funded by the FBI and used by federal, state and local crime laboratories across the country to assist in the identification of suspects in crimes -- effective immediately.

"The decision today by the FBI will allow the state crime lab to thoroughly operate and fulfill its fundamental mission to assist in solving crimes and improving public safety," said Governor Malloy. "In recent years, the lab's scientists had been given a dwindling number of resources even as it saw a dramatic increase in workload. The resulting backlog was unacceptable and legitimate concerns were raised, but thankfully through swift, thorough action, the lab's scientists and the state's criminal justice professionals were able to develop and execute a set of short and long-term strategies to address the situation."

Today's decision by the FBI comes in response to the approval on Tuesday by the American Society of Crime Laboratory Directors to restore the lab's accreditation following improvements made during the last six months at the lab to alleviate the backlog of cases that had stretched over a period of years. Upon receiving accreditation, the state immediately appealed to the FBI to restore its participation in NDIS.

"While today's news concludes what was a difficult chapter, this in no way completes our mission of continuing to make improvements and implementing strategies that will once again make Connecticut's crime lab a national model," said Governor Malloy.

"Now we can focus on the important work of replenishing the scientific staff and the lab and restructuring its management to make sure this does not happen again," said Mike Lawlor, Office of Policy and Management Under Secretary for Criminal Justice Policy and Planning.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=499064
