Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Creates Recycling Working Group to Reduce Waste and Lower Costs for Municipalities and Consumers
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 30, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he is establishing an eleven-member working group to analyze and make recommendations on how the state can modernize its approach to recycling, reduce waste through improved materials management and lower costs for municipalities and consumers.

"Last year, unlike other states, we did not balance the state budget on the backs of municipalities," said Governor Malloy. "This year, I'm hoping to build on that and help municipalities reduce their expenses by finding more efficient ways to operate our recycling programs.

"When we recycle more effectively and efficiently, we gain greater value from waste materials, improve our air quality and reduce costs." Governor Malloy said. "Thanks to recent significant advances in technology and a rise in value of the materials we currently treat as waste, Connecticut has an opportunity to transform our recycling system. This working group will tell us how to make the most of it."

Areas the Governor's Modernizing Recycling Working Group will be responsible for examining include:
* modernizing the state's recycling and materials management policies, including organic composting, recycling streams and methods, possible market frameworks and education;
* the governance, responsibilities and operations of the Connecticut Resources Recovery Authority to ensure the state has the proper mechanisms for reducing waste, maximizing recycling and minimizing reliance on burning as a disposal method; and
* ensuring that Connecticut has a comprehensive plan for solid waste disposal and materials management that considers environmental impacts on host communities and the state as a whole.

The working group must take into consideration any impact on residential commercial customers, municipalities, air quality, land use and Connecticut's carbon footprint. Specifically, the working group will examine single stream recycling and its expanded use in Connecticut households to increase recycling and reduce disposal costs. Its recommendations will be due to the Governor by December 1, 2012.

Led by the Governor's Office, members of the working group will include representatives of the Department of Energy & Environmental Protection, the Department of Public Health, the Office of Policy & Management, and members of the public that include representatives of municipalities and experts in recycling and materials management, finance and environmental justice.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=498350
