Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Launches Effort to Revitalize the Capital Region
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 19, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today joined Department of Economic and Community Development Commissioner Catherine Smith, state lawmakers, municipal officials and business leaders to announce the formation of the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA), which will strengthen and broaden the redevelopment efforts in Hartford and East Hartford.

"Today we are launching a joint effort to expand our work to revitalize the capital region and, just as importantly, connect these efforts with the work being done to promote our many local attractions. This will help re-energize and support ongoing efforts to make Hartford, once again, the major business center in the region," said Governor Malloy. "I've said I can't imagine a Hartford without the XL Center and other attractions, and the CRDA gives us the ability to fulfill the potential offered by these venues. This is an important part of reinventing Connecticut."

The 13-member CRDA will include four appointees of the Governor, as well as the Commissioners of the Departments of Transportation and Economic and Community Development, the Secretary of OPM, the Mayors of Hartford and East Hartford, one appointment each for the state House of Representatives and the Senate, and two appointees of the Mayor of Hartford--a member of city administration and a community member.

"We all want our capital city to be a key part of a vibrant Connecticut. This new authority will provide the organizational backbone needed to better manage the state's interest in the many assets, activities and investments in greater Hartford," said Catherine Smith, commissioner of the Department of Economic and Community Development. "Improved coordination will help create a more lively, thriving capital city with stronger economic prospects over the long-term."

By placing the management of our assets--Rentschler Field, the Convention Center, and, ultimately, the XL Center, under one umbrella, CRDA will redouble efforts to stimulate new investment in Connecticut and highlight the Hartford/East Hartford regional attractions through an integrated management structure and coordination of marketing and venue development.

Collaborating with venues such as the Wadsworth Atheneum, the Bushnell and the iQuilt project, CRDA will engage in strategic planning with Hartford, East Hartford and surrounding communities and propel the area toward the next stage of economic growth by attracting new business and strengthening the capital area's role in a revitalized Connecticut.

CRDA will also offer a path to assist cultural and entertainment venues, parks and other organizations with state funding, and will expand the development district currently under the Capital City Economic Development Authority (CCEDA).

This initiative will require legislation that will be submitted this session.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=494554
