Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces New Initiative to Streamline and Modernize Contracting Process for Nonprofits
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 18, 2012
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced the establishment of a Point of Service Contracting Efficiency Office within the Office of Policy and Management.

The Point of Service Contracting Efficiency Office is charged with streamlining and modernizing the contracting processes for the health and human service agencies which include the Departments of Children and Families, Corrections, Developmental Services, Mental Health and Addiction Services, Public Health and Social Services.

"Since day one, we have been talking about reforming how Connecticut does business--using technology and innovative new processes to save staff time and taxpayer dollars is critical to that effort," said Governor Malloy. "Connecticut's nonprofits serve over three million people each year and they play a substantial role in maintaining our safety net. But for too long how we work with the nonprofit community has caused unnecessary delays and wasted time on their end and on ours. We are working to change that and focus on getting services to the people who need them."

"This effort makes our nonprofit providers true partners in serving the most vulnerable residents in the state," said Deb Heinrich, Governor Malloy's Nonprofit Liaison. "We are creating a more efficient and user-friendly system that will make the contracting component easier and directly benefit the clients we serve--it is a true win-win-win."

Leading the project team is Suzanne Cooney, Director of Business Administration at the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services. Team members include representatives from each of the health and human service departments who will work closely with the Office of Policy and Management and the Office of the Attorney General over the next year to implement this systemic change.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=494538
