Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Opportunities to Remediate and Revitalize Brownfields in Connecticut
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 3, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced the Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD) is now accepting applications for its 10th round of competitive grant funding that will provide up to $5 million to remediate and redevelop brownfield sites throughout the state.
"Brownfield remediation and redevelopment is a priority of our administration because of its environmental, economic, community, and fiscal benefits," Governor Malloy said. "Connecticut is now a leader in unlocking the potential of brownfields and repurposing these properties so that they no longer drain local resources but rather add value and boost local economies."
Since 2012, the state has invested $173 million to investigate, clean up, and help revitalize more than 100 old or vacant factories, mills, warehouses and other contaminated sites and structures.
The funding announced today will be made available under the Connecticut Brownfield Remediation Program. Eligible applicants for grant funding include municipalities and economic development agencies.
Awards may be used for a range of brownfield assessment, remediation and redevelopment activities, including abatement, demolition, site investigation and assessment, groundwater monitoring, installation of institutional controls, and professional service fees associated with redevelopment including attorney's fees, and planning, design and consulting fees.
"Major investments in brownfield redevelopment are a core economic development priority because these projects help a community take back underutilized properties - sites that often were once a center of commerce - and put them back into productive use that benefits residents, neighborhoods and businesses," DECD Commissioner Catherine Smith said.
"Cleaning up and redeveloping brownfields is a smart investment as the state's economy continues to evolve and diversify. Reclaiming brownfields transforms properties across the state - turning them from a burdensome threat to human health and the environment into to an asset that makes communities stronger, safer and healthier," Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) Commissioner Rob Klee said. "Yankee ingenuity has set Connecticut apart since colonial times. That same spirit of innovation is alive and well at brownfield sites all around our state that have been put back into productive use. DEEP looks forward to working with DECD and other state agencies and our municipal and private sector partners to continue the progress we have made in brownfield redevelopment".
"Under Governor Malloy's leadership, we are seeing the transformative power of investing in brownfield redevelopment in numerous communities across Connecticut, with new jobs, new housing, new energy generation, and new parks and open space coming to life at what were once blighted sites," DECD Deputy Commissioner Tim Sullivan said. "With this new round of funding we are looking forward to investing in the next crop of catalytic projects which will continue Connecticut's economic momentum."
All projects will be rated and ranked by an inter-agency committee on the following criteria:
Applicant/municipal financial need
Remediation/cleanup (or assessment) project feasibility
Redevelopment project feasibility
Redevelopment project economic and community impact
Responsible growth and livability initiatives
Applicant capacity and experience

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2016/10-2016/Gov__Malloy_Announces_Opportunities_to_Remediate_and_Revitalize_Brownfields_in_Connecticut/
