Public Statements
State Selects Moffatt & Nichol to Complete Deep Water Port Economic Development Study
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 28, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

The Office of Policy and Management -- working with the Department of Economic and Community Development, the Department of Transportation, the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection, and local officials -- today announced that it has selected leading global port and harbor advisor Moffat & Nichol to complete a comprehensive strategy study of the state's three deep water ports, including a focused effort at growing maritime industry jobs. Hartford-based BETA Group, Inc., a local engineering, planning and environmental services firm, will also serve as a subcontractor on the project.

Moffat & Nichol's final analysis will include: a full inventory of current port facilities; detailed profiles of transportation accessibility to the ports; a market analysis, including a list of markets or regions that can be serviced by Connecticut ports; a comprehensive strategy for economic development of the deep draft ports, including short- and long-term strategic initiatives and action plans; and, a plan for providing grants-in-aid for improvements to ports and marinas, including dredging and navigational direction.

"Connecticut's maritime industry is a vital piece of our State's economy, accounting for tens of thousands of good jobs," said Governor Dannel P. Malloy. "Unfortunately, without a comprehensive strategy in place, we can't know where the best chances for us to promote economic development exist. This study will change that. It will guide the State -- in the short and long-term -- in our effort to partner with Connecticut's ports, grow jobs, and bolster our economy."

Dr. Walter Kemmsies, Chief Economist at Moffat & Nichol, added, "In the current uncertain economic environment where capital is scarce, the best way to ensure that infrastructure investment is oriented towards supporting the state economy is to use a market-based analysis."

Earlier this year, legislation was passed requiring the state to develop a strategy for economic development of the ports in New Haven, New London and Bridgeport. In September, the State issued a request-for-proposals (RFP) for these services, with a specific focus on generating strategic initiatives and detailed action plans it can use in developing and marketing the ports. As part of the selection process, the State also invited representatives from each of three municipalities with a deep water port to sit on the formal selection committee for the RFP, evaluating and scoring each proposal and helping to inform the State's contractor selection from a local perspective. The State will pay Moffat & Nichol a total sum not to exceed $477,179 for the study, which is to be completed before June 30, 2012.

Based on the most recent analysis conducted by the Connecticut Maritime Coalition, Connecticut's maritime industries and related economic activity account for more than $5 billion in business output within the state -- including more than 30,000 jobs -- and approximately $2.7 billion in State GDP.

Headquartered in Long Beach, California, Moffatt & Nichol serves clients worldwide from 27 offices in North America, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and the Pacific Rim. The firm serves public and private entities in several primary areas -- ports and harbors; coastal, environmental and water resources; urban waterfronts and marinas; transportation, bridges and rail; inspection and rehabilitation; and energy. For more information about the firm, please visit www.moffattnichol.com.

BETA Group, Inc. is a full service consulting firm and a regional leader providing transportation, environmental, structural, landscape architecture and asset management services to federal, state, municipal, and private clients in the New England area. For more information about the firm, please visit www.beta-inc.com.

The State's original RFP can be viewed here: http://www.biznet.ct.gov/scp_search/BidDetail.aspx?CID=23185.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=493484
