Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces STEAP Awards for Connecticut Communities
Press Release
By: Edward Meyer Tom Reynolds Lonnie Reed Dan Malloy Andrew Maynard Andrea Stillman James Crawford Edith Prague Elizabeth Ritter Steve Mikutel Phil Miller Kevin Ryan Eileen Daily Pat Widlitz
Date: Dec. 21, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy visited five Connecticut towns today to announce Small Town Economic Assistance Program (STEAP) grants for capital improvement projects.

"These grants are a critical component of municipal budgets, allowing for capital improvement projects that might not otherwise get done," said Governor Malloy. "I am pleased to join the local officials who have worked so hard to strengthen our communities and improve our public spaces and business districts. This is part of reinventing Connecticut--town by town, project by project. I know that Connecticut's best days are ahead of us."

Montville was awarded $500,000 for the design of a culvert on Montville Road at Trading Cove Brook.

"This project addresses two critical needs in Montville: first, the public safety needs of all those who use Montville Road alongside Trading Cove Brook, and also the environmental and erosion control need to contain the brook itself," Senator Edith G. Prague (D-Columbia) said. "This STEAP grant will help Montville underwrite the cost of this important project that might otherwise go unfunded in the town's otherwise modest budget."

"The timing of this half-million dollar grant for Montville couldn't be better, given recent news about the power plant closing, the diminished Grand List as a result, and an estimated loss of $1.2 million in annual property taxes," Senator Andrea L. Stillman (D-Waterford) said. "As Montville officials continue working to fund the town's infrastructure needs I will continue working with them, Governor Malloy, and appropriate state agencies to determine how and to what extent the state can provide assistance."

The original Montville Road culvert was deemed too small by FEMA and sustained damage by heavy flooding in 2007, 2009, and 2010.

"These improvements will have a daily positive impact on residents of the area," said State Representative Kevin Ryan (D-Montville, Bozrah, Franklin, Lebanon) "Restoring this bridge to service means an increase in economic development and job opportunities in the region."

"I thank the governor for allocating this funding for the design of road culverts on Montville Road," Rep. Betsy Ritter stated. "The town of Montville has been waiting a long time for these improvements and these funds will go a long way in helping our town with this much needed project we would otherwise not be able to afford at this time."

"This project will make necessary infrastructure repairs that will benefit residents of Montville and surrounding communities," said Rep. Tom Reynolds. "These grants help stimulate the local economy bringing good paying construction jobs to our area."

The Town of Griswold was also awarded $500,000 for drainage and resurfacing projects on Geer and Lily Pond Roads.

"The STEAP program was designed to help small towns improve their infrastructure while putting local contractors to work in the process. This grant will substantially improve Geer Road and Lily Pond Road in Griswold, making them safer and more reliable for local drivers," said Senator Andy Maynard.

"I want to thank Governor Malloy for this infrastructure improvement for Griswold," said State Representative Steven Mikutel (D-Griswold, Plainfield, Lisbon, Voluntown). "Without this funding, this much needed repair to Geer Road just wouldn't have happened. This is a godsend for the town."

A $400,000 STEAP grant to Clinton will go to downtown streetscape revitalization efforts.

"The new streetscape envisioned for downtown Clinton is a key ingredient in the town's economic revitalization efforts already underway, and this $400,000 state grant is essential for that new streetscape to go forward," Senator Eileen M. Daily (D-Westbrook) said. "Clinton has become well-known for its retail corridor right along I-95; I expect this investment will boost the profile of the original business district along Route 1 as well."

"This grant is a further endorsement by the state of the vision the Clinton Board of Selectmen has set forth for this community", said Rep. Jim Crawford. "Each new project further enhances the quality of life for all the residents. The steady pace of improvements is a positive reflection of the vitality that energizes Clinton."

Deep River was awarded $200,000 for phase V of a Main Street improvement initiative. The funding will be used to replace blacktop and install lighting and benches.

"In Deep River this $200,000 grant will put the finishing touches on an overhaul of Main Street First Selectman Dick Smith has been working on for a number of years, to include new street surfacing, the installation of new benches, and new lighting as well," Senator Eileen M. Daily (D-Westbrook) said. "I'm delighted these state funds will help Deep River put its best foot forward in a village district known to attract shoppers and visitors from New York and across New England."

"This grant will continue the revitalization of Deep River's downtown," said State Representative Phil Miller. "It will make Deep River an even more attractive place for residents, small businesses and visitors. I thank Governor Malloy for his strong support for our small towns and local businesses."

Two awards were granted to Branford. The first award of $150,000 will aid the town in completing a pedestrian walkway and adding lighting to the town green. Branford also received a $30,000 grant for a housing feasibility study and for a consultant to work with the Branford Housing Authority and planning body to assess the town's future housing needs.

"The governor is to be congratulated for his recognition of making Branford a more attractive place for its residents and businesses," said state Senator Ed Meyer (D-Guilford). "This grant could actually bring new jobs to the town."

"These STEAP grants enhance our quality of life in Branford and I thank the Governor for his support and for delivering the good news in person," said State Representative Lonnie Reed (D-Branford). "Branford's town center is a vibrant hub of activity and this grant will ensure the pedestrian walkway extends around our town green and that it is well lit, safe and in excellent repair. Shoppers, restaurant-goers, families pushing strollers and exercisers of all ages--everyone benefits from these walkway improvements."

"I'm delighted that we could bring financial assistance to Branford to improve the beautiful downtown area," said Rep. Pat Widlitz (D-Guilford, Branford). "The town green is the pride of Branford and the hub of activity for all ages."

Under Governor Malloy's leadership, the State Bond Commission allocated $20 million for STEAP grants on September 23, 2011. The awards were granted in part due to project readiness and their impact on overall regional economic development. Two grants to the towns of Putnam and Thompson were announced at press events yesterday.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=493134
