Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Hails Passage of Jackson Laboratory Bill
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 26, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today praised final passage of a bill that will provide $291 million in state funding for Jackson Laboratory's (JAX) new billion dollar personalized medicine project on the campus of the University of Connecticut Health Center. A collaborative effort between Jackson Laboratory, the State of Connecticut, the University of Connecticut and Yale University, the Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine will accelerate the development of new medical treatments tailored to each patient's unique genetic makeup.

Permanent jobs associated with the facility total more than 6,800 over 20 years, including 300 direct jobs within 10 years and 600 direct jobs within 20 years. The total 20-year capital and research budget for the institute is projected to be $1.1 billion, with Jackson Laboratory providing $809 million through federal research grants, philanthropy and service income, and the State of Connecticut contributing $291 million ($192 million in a secured construction loan and $99 million in research partnership participation). For every $1 the state is spending on this project, Jackson Laboratory will spend $3.

"By investing in Bioscience Connecticut, we sent a strong message to the industry that the state is ready, willing and able to be a player," said Governor Malloy. "Just five months later, the state is already reaping its rewards, and tonight we took the next step toward reinventing Connecticut as a leader in the industry by officially welcoming JAX to the state. Yes, this is about jobs -- more than 6,800 of them. But it's also about a lot more than that. It's about making Connecticut a leader in a growth industry. When was the last time we could say anything like that? I'd like to thank everyone -- Democrats and the few Republicans -- who voted in favor of this bill. Supporting a smart, strategic investment like this shouldn't be a partisan issue. We have the infrastructure, the talent and the drive to make Connecticut a leader in this emerging science, and I'm pleased to welcome Jackson Laboratory to our state."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=489644
