Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: New Billion Dollar Jackson Lab Project Highlights Immediate Return on Investment in Bioscience Connecticut
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 30, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today said that Jackson Laboratory's (JAX) decision to launch a billion dollar personalized medicine project on the campus of the University of Connecticut Health Center highlights an immediate return on the investment the state made earlier this year in Bioscience Connecticut, and that it shows Connecticut's research triangle is "coming to life." A collaborative effort between Jackson Laboratory, the State of Connecticut, the University of Connecticut and Yale University, the Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine will accelerate the development of new medical treatments tailored to each patient's unique genetic makeup.

Permanent jobs associated with the facility total more than 6,800 over 20 years, including 300 direct jobs within 10 years and 600 direct jobs within 20 years. The total 20-year capital and research budget for the institute is projected to be $1.1 billion, with Jackson Laboratory providing $809 million through federal research grants, philanthropy and service income, and the State of Connecticut contributing $291 million ($192 million in a secured construction loan and $99 million in research partnership participation). For every $1 dollar the state is spending on this project, Jackson Laboratory will spend $3.

"This is how we begin to reinvent Connecticut: by propelling our state into the forefront of an emerging industry. By investing in a smart, strategic project like Bioscience Connecticut, as we did in May, the state sent a loud and clear message around the world to companies and research institutes like Jackson Laboratory that we are ready, willing and able to be a partner in this up-and-coming industry," said Gov. Malloy. "We have laid down our marker and this immediate return on our investment will help attract other companies to do the same. We have the infrastructure, the talent and the drive to make Connecticut a leader in this emerging science, and I'm pleased to welcome Jackson Laboratory to our state."

"Without the State of Connecticut's investment in its Bioscience Connecticut program, which strategically links Storrs, Farmington, New Haven and points in between, we would not have chosen Connecticut for our new Genomic Medicine facility," said Edison T. Liu, M.D., JAX's president and CEO. "The state made a compelling case to establish this lab here and because of its ideal location between New York City and Boston, its world-class colleges and universities, and its existing work in the bioscience field, it made perfect sense to come to Connecticut."

The Bioscience Connecticut initiative, launched earlier this year, will help link the state's bioscience and research facilities at UConn's main campus in Storrs, its Health Center campus in Farmington and the work being done in this field at Yale and points in between. JAX Genomic Medicine will combine JAX's strengths in mammalian genetics and genomics technologies with the clinical care and biological research strengths of UConn and Yale University. By deciphering the genomic complexity of human disease and testing emerging discoveries in disease models, Yale, UCHC, JAX and the state's clinical providers can jointly deliver on the promise of personalized medicine.

The Jackson Laboratory is an independent, nonprofit biomedical research institution and National Cancer Institute-designated Cancer Center based in Bar Harbor, Maine, with a facility in Sacramento, California, and a total staff of about 1,400. Its mission is to discover the genetic basis for preventing, treating and curing human disease, and to enable research and education for the global biomedical community. Annual research grants awarded to JAX during the 2010 fiscal year totaled $62.7 million.

According to PricewaterhouseCoopers, the personalized medicine industry currently is worth $284 billion per year, and it is growing by 11 percent annually. By focusing on personalized medicine, JAX Genomic Medicine will produce high-paying jobs, new business and investment opportunities and bioscience-based spin-offs and start-ups. JAX Genomic Medicine is a sound and strategic asset that will help to position Connecticut as the major U.S. hub for genomic and personalized medicine.

Source: http://www.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=487678
