Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Construction Begins on Criminal Justice Information System
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 20, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the state has signed a contract with Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (ACS), a Xerox company, to build the state's new Criminal Justice Information System (CJIS), a tool to help criminal justice professionals enhance public safety.

This state-of-the-art public safety system will allow appropriate criminal justice professionals from various agencies and branches of government to seamlessly share comprehensive files and information on offenders electronically instead of transporting paper documents. The need for the state to create an electronic, modern system such as this became the centerpiece of the criminal justice reform package approved by the General Assembly in 2008.

"This new electronic system will increase efficiency among the state's criminal justice agencies, allow the state to do a lot more with a lot less, and save money at the same time as we improve public safety and the justice system as a whole. Quite frankly, the current methods are woefully outdated and inefficient," Governor Malloy said. "When the state's police, court officials, prosecutors, prison administrators, and probation and parole officers were asked what one tool would best improve public safety in the state, they pointed to the creation of this type of integrated electronic system. It is imperative that these agencies have comprehensive access to all of the documents necessary before making vital decisions. While I was amazed to see how little had been done to implement this system earlier this year when I assumed office, I'm glad the state is finally on track to make this become a reality and I remain committed to its completion being one of my highest priorities."

Connecticut's criminal justice community consists of 11 agencies with over 23,000 staff members and 52 information systems to support its needs. CJIS will provide the first unified information sharing system for all of these users and systems, allowing the instant sharing of everything from audio, video, graphic, and text files.

This initial contract with ACS is for $14.2 million, while the estimate for the total project is $24 million. Earlier this year, Governor Malloy and the State Bond Commission approved bonding to begin the creation of the system.

Planning and implementation for the system has been overseen by the CJIS Governing Board, which is co-chaired by Office of Policy & Management Under Secretary Mike Lawlor and Deputy Chief Court Administrator Judge Patrick L. Carroll, III.

Source: http://www.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=487082
