Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Release of $30 Million in Federal Funds for High-Speed Rail
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 19, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced the release of $30 million in federal funding for the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield passenger rail corridor. In May 2011, the Federal Railroad Administration announced that Connecticut would receive $30 million of the $2 billion in federal funding that the state of Florida had declined.

"Improving passenger rail service -- and our overall transportation network -- is one of the keys to improving our economy and our business climate," said Governor Malloy. "We were aggressive in pursuing these federal funds and I thank President Obama, Secretary LaHood, and our Congressional Delegation for helping us make our vision of higher speed rail a reality. Upon completion, this rail line will have a direct and immediate impact on congestion through the I-91 corridor, a benefit for Connecticut and all of our Northeast neighbors."

The funding will be used to double track 5.8 miles of the corridor beginning just north of the Hartford Station and extending to the Windsor Station. The work will also include improvements to a freight siding in the Hartford Yard and safety improvements to at-grade crossings as far north as Windsor Locks. These funds will also allow for an advance project, planned for the spring to install Amtrak signal cable between New Haven and Hartford, to be extended to Springfield.

James P. Redeker, Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Transportation, thanked Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick and Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin for their support of Connecticut's application. In addition to the $30 million for Connecticut, Amtrak will receive $450 million, to be used on the Philadelphia-New York City portion of the Washington-Boston rail corridor.

Plans for the rail project include service every 30 minutes during peak rush-hour periods and every 60 minutes throughout the day. By 2030, projections anticipate 1.26 million riders annually. The state expects to complete all design work on the project in 2013 and launch the new service in 2016. The 62-mile rail corridor between New Haven and Springfield is owned by Amtrak.

Source: http://www.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=487024
