Public Statements
New Report: Construction Jobs are Increasing in North Central CT
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 8, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Contrary to popular belief, the construction industry is poised to heat up in North Central Connecticut, adding as many as 30,000 projected jobs in the next five years. These jobs have the highest concentration in the areas of Hartford, East Hartford, New Britain, Bristol, Canton and Simsbury. Total expected cost for these projects is nearly $5 billion and that will translate into hundreds of thousands of worker hours to complete.

A new report from Capital Workforce Partners identifies the currently established database of construction projects in and around the North Central Connecticut region, and the list is impressive. The report will also be maintained as projects are added, and will serve as a construction project tracking tool that includes the project descriptions, estimated budgets, timelines and projected number of jobs (hours and earnings) associated with each project.

While this report focuses on the Capital Region, other regions in the state may also have a surprising number of construction projects lined up, and these jobs will require adequately trained, job-ready workers. This will be especially important as individuals will be needed to replace the state's aging workforce.

The state has invested $425,000 in its "Jobs Funnels" to build the talent pipeline to be ready for these jobs, with $125,000 provided to Capital Region program. In addition,
a portion of the $5.8 million federal grant awarded in June from the U.S. Department of Labor for the creation of green jobs will be dedicated to supporting the state's Jobs Funnels programs.

The Jobs Funnels provide pre-employment preparation, specific work competencies and trade-related certifications that are aligned with today's needs. For example, in recent years, the Funnels have added green job training in the areas of weatherization, Brownfields remediation and solar installation to meet the needs of environmental and cost efficiency based construction projects.

"This new report is good news for the construction and trades industries and it's good news for our
state's economy," said Governor Dannel P. Malloy. "The Jobs Funnels program is an innovative way to train the workers our employers need now. Our economy continues to evolve and change, and we need
to ensure our workers do, too."

"It is critical that we identify today the needs of employers so that workers are trained for the jobs of today and tomorrow," noted State Labor Commissioner Glenn Marshall. "Construction, along with advanced manufacturing and high-tech medical research are industries that offer excellent growth potential in our state, and we must be ready to fill these jobs with qualified workers."

"We are excited to have led the research on this project," said Thomas Phillips, President and CEO of Capital Workforce Partners, "and we are well-positioned to ensure the workforce will be ready to complete the supply side of this job creation equation."

For more information about the report, or to receive a report summary, visit www.capitalworkforce.org and click on the "Construction Outlook for North Central Connecticut" feature on the home page.

Source:
