Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces FEMA Disaster Recovery Centers Open Across State
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 7, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced today that FEMA Disaster Recovery Centers (DRCs) will be opening in every county of the state -- and two in New Haven County -- on Thursday, September 8 to assist home owners and businesses affected by Tropical Storm Irene.

"I am urging any individual or business who has suffered losses or damages as a result of Tropical Storm Irene to visit a center and work with staff there to review what benefits to which they may be entitled," said Governor Malloy. "These centers provide an opportunity to get answers to any questions you might have with regard to federal disaster assistance and assistance with application preparation."

All of the Disaster Recovery Centers will open on Thursday, September 8 at noon. After Thursday, the regular hours will be Monday through Saturday from 9AM to 7PM and Sunday from 10AM to 3PM.

The Disaster Recovery Centers will be staffed with state and federal disaster recovery specialists, including representatives from the Small Business Administration, who will provide information and answer questions about disaster assistance programs.

Those with damage or losses as a result of the tropical storm are encouraged to register with FEMA before visiting the recovery center by either calling 800-621-FEMA (3362), going online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov, or by using any PDA device at m.fema.gov. For those with speech or hearing disabilities, the TTY number is 800-462-7585.

"Registering with FEMA is the first step in determining if you qualify for federal disaster assistance," added Governor Malloy.

It is also important to note that residents who have already provided damage information to their towns, FEMA, state officials or 2-1-1 must still register with FEMA.

The Connecticut DRC locations include:

Fairfield County
Western Greenwich Civic Center
449 Pemberwick Road
Greenwich, CT

Hartford County
Tunxis Community College
271 Scott Swamp Road
Farmington, CT

Litchfield County
Torrington Fire Headquarters
111 Water Street
Torrington, CT

Middlesex County
Department of Police Services
6 Custom Drive
Old Saybrook, CT

New Haven County
Gateway Community College
88 Bassett Road
North Haven, CT

High Plains Community Center
525 Orange Center Road
Orange, CT

New London County
Groton Senior Center
102 Newtown Road
Groton, CT
Tolland County
Community Center
10 South Eagleville Road
Storrs-Mansfield, CT 06268

Windham County
Quinebaug Valley Community College
742 Upper Maple St
Danielson, CT

Source: http://www.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=486328
