Public Statements
CNN "American Morning" - Transcript
Interview
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 31, 2011
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Joining us now is Connecticut governor, Dan Malloy. Welcome to the program. Again, I just want to reach out to everyone in your state and say that, you know, we're feeling for you, because this is still happening. You know, even as -- media types are arguing about whether there was too much hype or not enough hype, this is still playing out for you, isn't it?
GOV. DAN MALLOY, (D) CONNECTICUT: Yes. I mean, I think the conversation of hype is being hyped. The reality is people of Connecticut are hurting. Thirty-two percent of our population is without power days after this event. We've had homes destroyed. Infrastructure destroyed. We're now experiencing extensive flooding along the Connecticut River basin.
I just drove by the river. It's higher than I've ever seen it before. You know, there are incredible things going on, and I think this kind of post-hurricane analysis, whether some individuals call it a little too big for what actually happened, I think, is a ridiculous conversation to be having right now.
ROMANS: All right. Let's talk about the 32 percent of your state without power. We can show a graphic here to just show how significant that is and where these power outages are. You know, I'm told this is even bigger power outages, then, you got to go back to Gloria, I think, back in 1985. When do you think this power will come back online?
MALLOY: No. Let's be specific.
ROMANS: Sure.
MALLOY: This is twice as bad as Gloria --
ROMANS: Wow!
MALLOY: With respect to the amount of damage done to the electric infrastructure of the state of Connecticut. Literally, twice as many people are without power for some portion of this storm, and here we are days later. You know, Connecticut is a small state. It actually is population is concentrated. It's one of the more urban states, but that belies the fact that much of our state is, in fact, rural.
And that we have major agricultural communities in our state. And it's that those portions of the state right now where the most pain is being inflicted. We have farms that are under water. We have streams and rivers that are overflowing their banks, and we had this tremendous amount of wind damage done to the eastern portion of our state. We have communities, many communities still that are 80 percent to 100 percent without power.
ROMANS: New York and North Carolina both got federal disaster declarations today. This is, of course, an important step in getting aid from FEMA and the kind of aid they're getting from FEMA. What about Connecticut? What are you asking for?
MALLOY: I suspect that that will come. Certainly, I've been on the phone with the officials at FEMA. Two days ago, we had a long -- a conversation. We have filed the same paper work that they have filed, and, clearly, we're in the midst of a disaster. So, I suspect that that will be coming, and I certainly want it to happen as soon as possible.
As I say, if for no other reason that it gives people hope that the experiences and the losses that they're currently having, there'll be some assistance with respect to that at the end of the road. Once they get through it, we're in the midst of it, and I think that that's one of the things that people aren't quite understanding out there is that we -- although, it's sunny outside, we're still experiencing the effects of this hurricane/tropical storm Irene.
ROMANS: Can I ask you a question? You know, Ron Paul is running for president. I mean, he says FEMA just gets in the way and that wastes money and that tells people they can't go home. I mean, what do you think about this kind of -- this political debate about FEMA and the federal role of disaster response? I mean, and, quite frankly, talk about, you know, dollar-for-dollar if you're going to fund FEMA, you got to take a dollar from somewhere else.
MALLOY: I think he's an idiot.
ROMANS: That's blunt. (LAUGHTER)
ROMANS: That's quite blunt.
MALLOY: Well, let me -- you know, we're spending $900 million a week in wars, and he is arguing about whether we should spend some amount of money? FEMA now has currently $900 million budget available to it. This is a ridiculous conversation. Really don't understand what he's talking about, and I'm not sure he does.
ROMANS: I think I hear a frustrated Democratic governor of Connecticut who is frustrated --
MALLOY: No, listen.
ROMANS: About the conversation about the hype about the storm, about whether FEMA should be -- what the priority should be for FEMA because you're in the middle of a mess right now.
MALLOY: Well, you know, it's not that. I'm a supporter of FEMA. Listen. The reality is that this storm was handled in such a way that we have preserved hundreds of lives, without this warning system, without this system of response. We would not be standing here with as few people who have died in this massive storm that stretches from North Carolina through Quebec.
So, for someone whose state is actually escaped this problem, although leading into this broadcast, you were talking about wildfires in Texas. For someone in Texas to be talking about FEMA, perhaps, being defunded, really does rise to idiocy and hypocrisy. I mean, what state has benefited more than Texas over the years from declarations of disasters. I mean, let's just concentrate. This is pure politics playing out across individuals' misery.
ROMANS: All right. Daniel Malloy, we have to leave it there. Governor of Connecticut, thank you so much and best of luck getting the power back on and helping those folks whose farms and livelihoods are underwater right now. Thank you, sir.
MALLOY: Thank you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1108/31/ltm.03.html
