Public Statements
Governor Malloy Encourages Storm Preparedness During Hurricane Season
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 24, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

At the onset of hurricane season, Governor Dannel P. Malloy is reminding Connecticut residents and businesses to prepare for storms that could impact Connecticut. The Governor is leading a call with the Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection (DESPP) and state agency heads tomorrow morning to receive an update on Hurricane Irene and preparations for any related bad weather.

"Our priority is to ensure the safety and welfare of Connecticut residents," said Governor Malloy. "Last winter during record snow, residents aided efforts immensely by following the advice of our emergency services personnel and staying off the roads. We are urging people to stay informed during hurricane season as well --if bad weather is going to impact the state, we will be ready, and want residents to be prepared too."

"I recommend that all Connecticut residents take three simple preparedness steps: get a kit, make a plan, and stay informed," said Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection Commissioner Reuben F. Bradford."We cannot become complacent, it is vital that we are prepared."

DESPP is holding daily conference calls with the National Weather Service and FEMA, and regularly updating municipalities on the storm track.

"Although hurricanes are unpredictable, this storm has the potential to impact Connecticut and we need to be prepared." said DESPP Deputy Commissioner Peter Boynton. "Because a shift in the track of the hurricane of just a few miles can have a significant impact on the state, it is important to stay informed by listening to TV and Radio and heed the warnings of public safety officials."

DESPP has planned a Hurricane Irene media update call for tomorrow afternoon -- details of which are forthcoming.

Governor Malloy and DESPP offered the following preparedness tips:

Recommended Items to Include in a Basic Emergency Supply Kit:
















Source:
