Public Statements
Associated Press - Malloy: Federal Debt Rating Unlikely to Hurt Conn.
News Article
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 8, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

By Susan Haigh
Gov. Dannel P. Malloy and his budget director said Monday they don't expect Connecticut's bond rating to suffer from the ill effects of Standard & Poor's decision to downgrade the federal government's bond rating.
Benjamin Barnes, secretary of the Office of Policy and Management, said Connecticut is "relatively well-protected" because the state does not use certain federally backed bonds to pay for capital improvements.
"Those types of things are more concerning if you have a lot of those instruments in your debt portfolio," he said. "Then, that's a greater concern."
Barnes also said the state does not rely on as much federal revenue as other states, adding how Connecticut receives a disproportionate share of federal funds compared to the amount of what's paid in federal taxes.
"We're a net exporter of support to the federal government. We are less at risk of adverse consequences to our budget or to our bond rating from federal problems than many other states, which are huge importers of federal funds and rely very strongly on the federal government to provide basic services," he said. "So, in that sense, we're probably better protected as a result of our relative affluence than many other states."
Standard & Poor's announced late Friday that it was reducing its credit rating for long-term U.S. government debt by one notch, from AAA, the highest rating, to AA+. The credit rating agency said it downgraded U.S. debt for the first time in history because it lacks confidence that political leaders will make the choices needed to avert a long-term fiscal crisis.
Officials at the rating agency are expected to indicate how local and state governments will be affected by their decision to lower the rating for long-term U.S. debt. The other two major rating agencies, Moody's and Fitch, have not taken a similar step.
Barnes said there are concerns for Connecticut in the future, however, especially if the federal government makes cuts in aid to states for Medicaid and other programs. Rating agencies will be looking to see whether the states are financially stable to absorb those cuts.
Both Malloy and Barnes said that's why it's important to show that Connecticut is taking steps to reduce its debt and its future employee costs, such as by ratifying the labor savings and concessions agreement. Unionized state employees are expected to finish voting on the tentative deal by Aug. 18. Besides $1.6 billion in savings to cover the two-year, $40.1 billion budget, it calls for changes to state employee pensions and retirement benefits that are supposed to reduce costs and the state's pension liabilities over time.
"We've done things that are strong, ratings positive for Standard and Poor's," said Barnes, adding how the agency recently reaffirmed the state's AA-stable rating.
Malloy called the decision by S&P to downgrade the federal government's long-term debt "a warning shot." He told The Associated Press that Congress missed "a tremendous opportunity" by not passing President Barack Obama's proposal to cut $4 trillion in spending over a decade.
"I think the tea party folks caused us to lose a great opportunity that was in our grasp," said Malloy, a Democrat. He said he agrees spending cuts need to be made in Washington, adding how the federal government's spending is not sustainable. He suggested efforts should be made to discontinue "subsidizing oil companies" through tax breaks.

Source: http://www.boston.com/news/local/connecticut/articles/2011/08/08/malloy_federal_debt_rating_unlikely_to_hurt_conn/
