Public Statements
News Times - Malloy Visits Danbury, Says He Envisions Rebirth of Manufacturing
News Article
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 3, 2011
Location: Danbury, CT

By Dirk Perrefort
Engineers at Hologic Inc. have created a new wave of digital mammogram technology they say will help save lives.
It's that kind of innovative thinking and precision manufacturing that needs to be fostered to help ensure the state's economic future, Gov. Dannel P. Malloy said Wednesday.
Hologic was the governor's first stop. He toured several sites in the city including Danbury Hospital, a division of Western Connecticut Health Services, and its new biomedical research facility.
The visit was part of Malloy's statewide jobs tour, an effort by the governor to learn more about what the state needs to do to promote job creation.
Malloy has called on the state Legislature to hold a special session in October to focus on jobs.
"To improve our efforts to increase job growth in the state, we have to be cognisant of these kinds of innovations that are occurring in Connecticut," Malloy said during his tour of Hologic. "We are drilling down to understand what we can do to improve our efforts to grow jobs."
In the past 20 years, the governor said, Connecticut has been one of only two states in the country that has failed to increase jobs.
According to the state Department of Labor, jobs declined from 1,619,500 in 1990 to 1,608,000 in 2010 -- using nonseasonally adjusted figures.
Precision and "high-value added" manufacturing can help turn that trend around, Malloy said.
Hologic company officials showed Malloy their latest offering in digital breast-imaging technology, the Selenia Dimensions system, which provides images not available before to health care professionals.
The system allows health-care providers to see "slices" of the breast and view possible growths that would have been hidden behind tissue by using more common mammogram technologies.
"It has the ability to find things we couldn't find before and save lives," said Terri Orefice, the company's senior manager of clinical services.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the device in February.
Michael Parrilla, Hologic's vice president of manufacturing, said the company hopes to expand its operations and revenues from $1.7 billion to more than $3 billion in the next five years.
"I'm very impressed in how interested the governor is in developing the manufacturing base and looking for ways to grow these kind of businesses," Parrilla said after the tour.
One of the challenges he discussed with Malloy is the need for a highly skilled workforce.
"A lot of the manufacturing jobs today require candidates with engineering degrees," Parrilla said.
Along with the higher skill set, he said, also comes higher salaries that Malloy said could help ensure the strength of Connecticut families.
Company officials said they were concerned about cost-cutting proposals floating around Hartford earlier this year that could have affected schools such as Henry Abbott Technical High School.
Malloy said he is unhappy with the amount of support technical high schools currently receive, adding that the state Board of Education had proposed closing the institutions, a recommendation he rejected.
"I doubt we're going to see many new state schools," Malloy said. "We need to encourage local education boards to get back into this type of education."
The governor said there also has to be more efforts to encourage the state's younger generations to pursue careers in manufacturing.
"The United States is going to see a new wave of re-industrialization that we didn't envision just five to 10 years ago," Malloy said.

Source: http://www.newstimes.com/local/article/Malloy-visits-Danbury-says-he-envisions-rebirth-1715607.php
