Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: New FBI Data Shows Connecticut Saw Second Largest Violent Crime Drop in the Nation
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 26, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy released the following statement after new 2015 crime numbers released by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) showed that Connecticut had the second largest drop in violent crime across the nation over the previous year. The 8.5 percent drop in violent crime in 2015 builds upon a significant drop violent crime in 2014 and 2013. Connecticut's violent crime rate is now at the lowest levels since 1974, with the overall crime rate the lowest since 1967.
"Over the last six years, we have experienced significant reductions in crime in Connecticut. We are making extraordinary strides in fostering safer communities with crime at a 50-year low and continuing Connecticut's downward trend of violent crime. We're being smart on crime and transforming our criminal justice system- and it's working. The prison population is at a 20-year low and the number of people aged 18-21 entering our criminal justice system has fallen by more than 50 percent since 2008 - a predictor of a further drop in crime and imprisonment rate in the years to come," Governor Malloy said. "We have taken action to our make our communities the safest they have been two generations-a testament to the dedication of our police officers, our public safety officials, and our community advocates who prove that, by working together, it's possible to reform the system while improving public safety. We are grateful to them for their daily contributions to making the state a safer and more just home for residents. But we cannot rest on our laurels - there is more work to be done and we will continue to pursue policies that will lower our crime rate even further while breaking the cycle of poverty and incarceration."
"Smart, strategic anti-crime and anti-violence initiatives are making a big difference in Connecticut," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "The Governor's leadership, and the expertise and dedication of our public safety officials, mean our communities are safer for everyone. These numbers tell another story too; that more citizens are engaged in the workforce, in their communities, and in making a better life for themselves and their families. It's critical that at-risk young people understand that they have options beyond crime and prison-safer communities model better opportunity and a better future."
Notable statistics in the FBI's annual report for 2015 include:
With an overall decrease of 8.5 percent, Connecticut saw the biggest drop in violent crime of any state with a population of more than 1 million people. The next closest was Michigan, where violent crime was down 3.1 percent. Among all fifty states, Connecticut saw the second largest drop in violent crime next to North Dakota which experienced a decrease of 9.4 percent.
Since 2010, violent crime in Connecticut has reduced 22 percent from 10,083 incidents reported in 2010 to 7,845 incidents reported in 2015.
Violent crime in Connecticut during 2015 decreased an overall 8.5 percent, which includes a 2.6 percent decrease in rape, an 8.8 percent decrease in robberies, and a 10.1 percent decrease in aggravated assaults.
Nonviolent property crimes have also decreased in the state during 2015, including a 16.7 percent drop in burglaries, a 4.9 percent drop in larcenies. The state did witness a 3.7 percent increase in motor vehicle thefts.
The total number of index crimes reported for Connecticut in 2015 is the lowest total since 1967.
Connecticut is one of nine states to experience a drop in violent crime over the last year.
Neighboring states saw the following changes in the violent crime rate: Massachusetts 0.5 percent decrease, New York 1.1 percent decrease, Rhode Island 10.4 percent increase.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2016/09-2016/Gov__Malloy__New_FBI_Data_Shows_Connecticut_Saw_Second_Largest_Violent_Crime_Drop_in_the_Nation/
