Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Partnership with Employers, Non-Profits to Create Over 275 Jobs Opportunities for Citizens with Disabilities
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 16, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today joined a coalition of business, government and advocacy groups at a statewide employment forum, announcing a job training and placement initiative for over 275 citizens with disabilities and underscoring the economic connection between Connecticut's employers and a diversified workforce.

Speaking at the "Connect-Ability' employment summit at the Connecticut Convention Center, Governor Malloy praised the Mohegan Sun, Lowe's Distribution Center of Plainfield, and HomeGoods Distribution Center of Bloomfield for helping the state launch a new partnership for on-the-job training and employment.

"These business leaders will be working with non-profit service providers and my administration to create economic success stories on several levels," Governor Malloy said. "First and foremost, we are creating quality opportunities for highly-motivated residents who have a disabling condition but who are able to work competitively with the right combination of training and cooperative placement.

"Second, we are developing the job skills and personnel that our businesses need," Governor Malloy said. "Some of our employers are having difficulty in hiring for positions that currently exist. Third, we are demonstrating how employers, government and the non-profit community can work together to create good job opportunities for all citizens, while helping the private sector's bottom line."

The public-private partnership will use federal funding to enroll Connecticut residents in training programs that transition into jobs in the hospitality and product distribution industries. Through a competitive procurement process, the state is awarding grants to community rehabilitation providers linked to the three major employers.

Mohegan Sun will work with Windsor-based Community Enterprises Inc. and Southeastern Employment Services to create 113 job opportunities over two years. Lowe's Distribution Center will work with ARC of Quinebaug Valley, based in Danielson, to create 105 job opportunities. HomeGoods Distribution Center will partner with Community Enterprises Inc. to create 60 job opportunities.

Department of Social Services Commissioner Roderick L. Bremby said the initiative will support a mix of current and projected future positions to be filled by employees with disabilities. "The plan is to create opportunities for individuals to become qualified to fill both existing jobs and to fill jobs expected to be created by the employers, based on their business plans," Commissioner Bremby said.

A total of $1.98 million in Title I vocational rehabilitation services funding from the U.S. Department of Education is being awarded for the partnership.

A model for this initiative, called "industry-specific training and placement programs,' is a highly successful partnership between the state and Walgreens Distribution Center in Windsor, employing several hundred individuals with disabilities in the product distribution field.

About 300 representatives from business, government and service providers, as well as consumers and advocates of vocational rehabilitation services, attended the annual Connect-Ability employment summit. Besides remarks by Governor Malloy and Commissioner Bremby, highlights included an address by Scott Hines, vice president of distribution for Lowe's Companies Inc., based in North Carolina; a business roundtable moderated by Hartford Business Journal publisher Gail Lebert; and top employer recognition for ConnectiCare; ESPN; Connecticut Network (CT-N); Advanced Office Systems of Cromwell; Lanaco Manufacturing Inc. of Wolcott; and Cheyenne's Daycare & Learning of Stamford.

Funded by the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the state's Connect-Ability initiative helps bring together employers with job-seekers with disabilities through a variety of measures, including a media campaign featuring Connecticut residents and employers; community-based programs; website (www.connect-ability.com); and toll-free number (1-866-844-1903) and email link (info@connect-ability.com).

The Connect-Ability initiative and the job-generating training and placement programs are managed by the Bureau of Rehabilitation Services. The Department of Social Services' MED-Connect program, also known as Medicaid for Employees with Disabilities, allows workers to keep Medicaid health coverage while earning up to $75,000 annually, with premium contributions on a sliding, income-based scale.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=481338
