Public Statements
Larson, Gov. Malloy: State Police Receive $1.5 Million Federal Grant to Expand Initiatives Combating Heroin and Opioid Abuse
Statement
By: Dan Malloy John Larson
Date: Sept. 23, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the Connecticut State Police have been awarded a $1.5 million federal grant from the U.S. Department of Justice (USDOJ) to expand their ongoing efforts to address the issue of heroin and opioid abuse and addiction.
"Opioid abuse is a problem that is impacting every corner of our nation, including here in our state, which is why we are increasing efforts at every possible level to fight and put a stop to this crisis," Governor Malloy said. "Battling this epidemic requires a multifaceted approach between public health and public safety professionals - an effort that not only improves investigations, but one that also provides necessary treatment and saves lives."
The funds will be used towards investigating illicit activities related to the distribution of heroin and unlawful distribution of prescriptive opioids. The Connecticut State Police plan to utilize the grant through a two-pronged approach, including:
Focusing on interrupting the transportation and sale of opiates in Connecticut by the identification, disruption, and dismantling of drug trafficking organizations through the maintenance and enhancement of the current Statewide Narcotics Task Force. This will include strengthening partnerships among federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies to combine strategy and efforts requiring extended use of law enforcement personnel in the areas of investigation and intervention.
Enhancing community policing interventions by partnering with the judicial branch and prosecutors in search of alternatives to incarceration for those requiring substance abuse treatment interventions, and including the development of a best practice model used by individuals with mental health or substance use disorder.

Source:
