Public Statements
The Day - Governor: State Will Continue to Invest in Submarine Base
News Article
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 13, 2011
Location: Groton, CT

By Jeffrey A. Johnson
Gov. Dannel P. Malloy said Thursday that Connecticut will continue to invest in the Naval Submarine Base and that recent state investments in the base have kept it the "best submarine facility in the world."
Malloy spoke at the groundbreaking ceremony for a submarine bridge simulator training facility at Nimitz Hall on the sub base. The state invested $2.48 million in the facility, which will help train officers and crews in navigation.
In the last two years, the state has invested $10.87 million in the sub base. The expenditure is meant to help ensure the base's standing with the Navy in the event of a future defense base closing process.
Malloy spoke briefly to a crowd of about 50, mainly legislators and politicians. In a brief interview with reporters afterward, Malloy fielded a variety of questions, mainly on his budget and talks of labor concessions with state workers.
He also said the state will continue to back the sub base.
"Absolutely," Malloy said. "We will support the sub base."
"Those monies have been previously allocated," he continued, pointing to a 2007 bond authorization by then-Gov. Jodi Rell that earmarked $40 million for improvements at the base. "As the Navy comes forward with projects where we think we can play a meaningful role, we'll continue to do that."
The sub base is the homeport for 15 fast-attack submarines. In the Defense Base Closure and Realignment process (BRAC) in 2005, the Pentagon recommended closing the base but the independent BRAC commission voted to keep it open.
The state contributed $7.65 million in 2009 to the sub base, marking the first time any state government had fully funded a military project of that magnitude. That money was used for the construction of a new diver support facility and modernizing a boiler at the base's power plant.
The state then invested $3.22 million in the sub base in 2010, with $2.48 million going to the submarine bridge simulator training facility. Some will also go toward the construction of a culinary training center.
John Markowicz, executive director of the Southeastern Connecticut Enterprise Region, said the state's investment in the sub base represents a "unique commitment."
"No other state in the country does this," Markowicz said. "It represents an investment by the citizens of Connecticut and a commitment  to put dollars on the line to improve the military value of the submarine base."
Before introducing Malloy, Capt. Marc Denno, the base commander, said the recent sub base infrastructure improvements will have a "tremendous impact" on the training of submariners.
Capt. Paul McHale, the commanding officer of the Naval Submarine School, also spoke.
Malloy told the crowd he was "particularly proud to be the governor of Connecticut at a time when the state makes a further commitment to the success of this base."

Source: http://www.theday.com/article/20110513/NWS12/305139944/-1/rss03
