Public Statements
Governor Malloy: Bond Commission Approves Funding for Development of Renaissance Place in Naugatuck
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 29, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State Bond Commission on Friday approved a grant of $500,000 to assist with architectural and engineering design services for a parking garage at the Renaissance Place development project in Naugatuck.

"This project will result in an overall reshaping of downtown Naugatuck, creating a vision that will spur revitalization, growth, and job creation," Governor Malloy said. "This funding will help the project move forward so that it can accomplish these important development goals."

The planned garage will provide parking for a proposed medical office wellness center and the nearby Naugatuck railroad platform. Renaissance Place will be a green, mixed-use, transit oriented development encompassing 60 acres along the Naugatuck River that will result in thousands of new construction and support jobs in addition to the creation of new permanent jobs. The project will be constructed in several phases, with the first phase containing the wellness center and parking garage.

"Final approval for this funding is yet another example of good progress underway toward completion of the downtown redevelopment project, to the benefit of all Naugatuck residents and those from neighboring towns," State Senator Joseph J. Crisco, Jr. (D-Woodbridge) said. "This particular funding will help underwrite the design for a new parking facility that will improve access to downtown offices and the Naugatuck train station."

"It's important to note how the collaborative effort of the Naugatuck legislative delegation and Mayor Robert Mezzo and his administration led to this funding plan," Senator Crisco added. "I'm grateful to Governor Malloy and all members of the State Bond Commission for their support of our ongoing efforts in Naugatuck."

"I am grateful to Governor Malloy and the Bond Commission for recognizing the significance of continued economic development projects for central business district in Naugatuck," State Senator Joan V. Hartley (D-Waterbury) said. "It is critical we provide safe and secure parking for the Naugatuck train station. In addition, I am pleased for the state support in moving Waterbury's intermodal downtown transportation center forward."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=478118
