Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Connecticut Submits Robust Application for $227 Million of Florida's Declined Rail Money
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 5, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced today that the state has submitted a robust application for $227 million in federal funding to complete the third phase of the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield (NHHS) high-speed intercity passenger rail project. The Connecticut Department of Transportation (DOT) submitted its application Monday to the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) for the $227 million, which is available because the State of Florida recently decided to reject some $2.4 billion in high-speed rail money because it did not want to commit to the state matching funds.

"Once implemented, this line will support up to 50 daily passenger trains reaching speeds up to 110 miles an hour -- providing some of the best rail service in the nation," Governor Malloy said. "We are underscoring our commitment to this crucial project by investing a total of $259 million in state funds to match the federal funding."

"Furthermore," the Governor added, "this project will create about 13,000 construction-related jobs and produce important environmental energy and economic benefits. For communities in the region, the project will offer employment opportunities and serve as a catalyst for new transit-oriented development. It will also support what will be one of the most robust transportation networks in the country -- connecting to regional commuter and high-speed trains, Bradley International Airport and the New Britain-Hartford Busway."

The FRA has already awarded two grants to Connecticut for Phases 1 and 2 of the NHHS project, totaling $160.9 million, and Connecticut has matched that with $161 million in state bond funds. This application is for Phase 3, which will complete the necessary improvements between Hartford and Springfield. With Phase 3, enhanced passenger service will extend north of Hartford to Springfield. The increased rail capacity will also support expanded freight service in the region.

"New train service will connect communities, generate sustainable growth, help build energy dependence and provide links to travel corridors and markets within and beyond our region," Acting DOT Commissioner James P. Redeker said.

It is anticipated that the FRA will act on the state's application promptly.

Plans include service every 30 minutes during peak rush-hour periods and every 60 minutes during the rest of the day. Projections anticipate 1.26 million riders annually on the NHHS line by 2030.

The state expects to complete all design work on the project in 2013 and launch the new service in 2016. The 62-mile rail corridor between New Haven and Springfield is owned by Amtrak.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=476580
