Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Dual-Track Decision on Busway and Bristol/Waterbury Commuter Rail Line
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 4, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced his decision regarding the fate of the New Britain-Hartford Bus Rapid Transit project -- better known as the "Busway" -- and the Bristol/Waterbury commuter rail line. After meeting with advocates and opponents of the Busway, Governor Malloy has decided to aggressively pursue construction of the Busway while launching a parallel and equally aggressive initiative to plan for the Bristol/Waterbury commuter line. This decision will create new jobs now, as the Busway project is "ready to go," while continuing to address the needs of commuters on the Bristol/Waterbury rail line. In addition, Governor Malloy's decision maximizes the availability of federal funding now and going forward.

"The Busway is "ready to go' with 80% federal funding and a commitment from the Federal Transit Administration to sign a Full Funding Grant Agreement," Governor Malloy said. "The proposed revitalization of the commuter rail line is in the early stages of study and planning. Although some viewed the two options as mutually exclusive, I do not. It is clear Connecticut can no longer afford the status quo on any front, including our current transportation system. With this decision, and others involving high speed rail and other forms of mass transportation, we are working towards a comprehensive multimodal system that will not only move people and goods more efficiently but more critically, foster economic growth and an improved quality of life for Connecticut residents. To strengthen Connecticut's economic competitiveness, we must find the right mix of road, rail, transit, air, bicycle and pedestrian travel to catalyze responsible commercial growth and job creation."

A large factor in Governor Malloy's decision to move forward with the Busway was the probability of leaving federal funds on the table with regards to this project, and possibly losing additional federal funds in the future. According to a letter from the FTA to Governor Malloy on March 20, "(a) decision to withdraw (the Busway) project for consideration and seek FTA funding for an alternative rail project in the region would require Connecticut to reenter the competitive New Starts process at the beginning. In effect, the state would be starting from scratch, which would require new planning, design and engineering work to be completed on the alternative project."
"Even if the state completed all the necessary requirements, there is no guarantee that the $275 million Connecticut would forgo now in New Starts funds would be available to the state in the future," Governor Malloy said. "Connecticut has a track record of leaving federal funds on the table. I am unwilling to run the risk of losing additional federal funds. It is time to break with history. The timing is right to undertake this project. Taxpayers can get more transit for less money given the competitive bidding environment, and while it may not be a perfect project, it is the first step in creating a comprehensive multimodal transportation system in central Connecticut."

Governor Malloy noted the Bristol/Waterbury coalition members' effective case for the importance of linking one of the region's largest employers with easier access to New York City, as well as the need to understand the changing commuter patterns in a larger central Connecticut region as the state faces new economic realities. Governor Malloy has directed a study of the Central Connecticut Rail Alternative to be included on the April Bond Commission Agenda for $1 million, in addition to Connecticut's remaining part of the funding for the Busway at $89 million.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=476522
