Public Statements
Governor Malloy, DOT, DEMHS RE-Launch Statewide Public Safety Awareness Campaign
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 28, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced the start of an aggressive, statewide security awareness campaign urging residents -- especially users of public transportation -- to be alert and report suspicious activity.

The "If You See Something, Say Something" campaign aims to empower people to monitor their own environment for suspicious objects or behavior on trains or buses, at stations and other public places. The purpose of this initiative is to urge citizens to stay vigilant when they are riding on buses or trains, walking down the street, boarding an airplane, working, shopping, attending events or locating their car in a parking lot. By being observant in these types of settings, you could drastically minimize the chance of danger and help to keep our state safer.

"This common-sense campaign is one of the most effective ways to keep authorities informed and protect us from potential threats," stated Governor Malloy. "As you go about your daily routines, make sure you are aware of your surroundings and recognize when something looks out of place or suspicious.

"If you see something, then by all means, say something," the Governor said. "Take note and speak to a uniformed officer or an official of the transit system such as a conductor or other employee, or call the Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security 24-hour homeland security tip line at 1--866-HLS-TIPS. If you feel immediate attention is necessary, please call 911. Tell them what you saw and why it struck you as odd. It's as simple as that."

The campaign is being conducted by the state Departments of Transportation (DOT) and Emergency Management and Homeland Security (DEMHS) and funded through the federal Transit Security Grant Program. It is being re-launched with new attention-grabbing images that clearly communicate the campaign's message to stay aware of your surroundings.

"It is our hope that this campaign will remind residents to be alert and report when they see something suspicious on public transportation or anywhere else in their community." said DOT Acting Commissioner James P. Redeker. "Terrorism is a real threat, and our priority is to do what we can to keep our transportation systems and most importantly, our citizens safe."

"Homeland security begins with hometown security," said DEMHS Commissioner Peter J. Boynton. "The public is an important partner in emergency management and homeland security. I want all of our residents to know that they are a vital part of our team and will continue to play an integral role."

The awareness campaign, is a truly integrated campaign that includes television, radio, online, print, billboards, transit, social media, and more. The goal is to reach as many Connecticut residents as possible to maintain awareness and remind residents to remain cognizant of their surroundings.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=476142
