Public Statements
The Greenwich Times - Malloy's Torrington Visit Focuses on Clean Energy
News Article
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 23, 2011
Location: Torrington, CT

By Ricky Campbell
Before his Town Hall-style meeting to discuss the budget in New Haven Wednesday, Gov. Dannel P. Malloy stopped in Torrington to tour a local manufacturer.
FuelCell Energy company executives accompanied the governor on a brief walk through the plant as they discussed the future of clean energy in the state of Connecticut. Malloy said his visit wasn't a promotion of the fuel cell manufacturer, but more of a future opportunity.
"I think the state has a role to play in making a market for this product as part of a menu of opportunity to create energies in an alternative fashion," he said. "[It's] good for our environment, good for spreading out our energy base and being less dependant on certain fuels, and ultimately with a company like this, good for employment in the state."
FuelCell Energy President and CEO of Chip Bottone was more than happy to have the governor visit for a second visit to the campus.
"It was terrific to have the governor back. When he was a candidate he came, and he came back and we appreciate when people do that," he said. "Obviously he thinks it was important to make that trip."
Battone said Malloy is not only fiscally-minded, but strategically-minded as well, when it comes to fuel cell technologies, creating a one-two punch for alternative energy in the state.
"If we can capitalize putting those two things together and us being a part of that, it's a win for everybody," Bottone said.
His company, with offices in both Torrington and Danbury, has more than 440 employees with markets in South Korea, California and Canada. "It's jobs here, but we also have created a demand elsewhere in the world that can continue to drive the growth forward."
Forward growth in green energy doesn't come easy. It takes a lot of work and as much as Connecticut strives to be a leader in the manufacturing side of things, the governor said the next step in becoming more environmentally friendly will be a long one.
"I am concerned about our ability to meet our 20 percent alternative energy [goal] by 2020. I don't think we've laid out a road map on how to get there," Malloy said, acknowledging that the state needs to broaden its energy portfolio. "That's one of the reasons we're putting together an energy department, which our state has never had."
Malloy said the energy department is one way of getting the state caught up on environmentally-friendly initiatives and energies predominantly found in the Pacific Northwest or in Asia. But long before Connecticut climbs the hierarchy of these types of technologies, it starts locally with companies such as FuelCell.
"There are people now looking at this as a possible solution and what better way to do it than at home in Connecticut, where frankly, some of the attributions in the environment are there," said Bottone. "I think eventually we'll get there. Sometimes it's a process and a journey."

Source: http://www.greenwichtime.com/news/article/Malloy-s-Torrington-visit-focuses-on-clean-1279094.php
