Public Statements
Governor Malloy: Infrastructure Investments in Bond Agenda Create/Retain Jobs, Keep Connecticut Moving Forward
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 22, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today highlighted several items on the agenda for this week's meeting of the State Bond Commission which invest in the revitalization of Connecticut's infrastructure, create or maintain thousands of construction-related jobs, and enhance future economic growth in the state.

"Projects like these not only provide jobs for Connecticut residents, but they make long-term investments in our state and enable us to attract and escalate future economic development in Connecticut," Governor Malloy said. "If we want to make Connecticut more attractive to businesses, we must make balanced investments in our infrastructure and other projects, even in tough economic times."

The Governor highlighted an allocation of $50 million that will be used for the resurfacing of approximately 200 lane miles of state roads and highways, a project that will create or retain approximately 1,050 construction-related jobs.

"The state has, for too long, neglected our transportation infrastructure, leading many of our roads and bridges to languish in woeful need of repair," he said. "These types of strategic investments will bring our aging system into the 21st century so it can be part of the equation to attract businesses to our state."

The commission will also consider over $3.7 million to finance repairs for flood control improvements, including state-owned dams that were breached, damaged or determined to be high or significant hazards. The funds, which will incorporate emergency repairs or engineering services to dams in an assortment of towns including in Griswold, Voluntown, North Stonington, Middletown, Middlefield, East Haddam, Lebanon, Coventry, Enfield, and other emergency repairs to dams as necessary, will leverage an additional $900,000 in federal funding.

A loan of $1.2 million has also been allocated to assist in development of 50 units of affordable housing in Stamford, consisting of eight 3-bedroom townhouses, 39 multi-bedroom units in a new structure and three units in an existing historic structure.

The Bond Commission will take up the agenda during its meeting on Friday, March 25.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=475768
