Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Directs State to "Aggressively Pursue" Florida Rail Money
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 11, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today instructed the state Department of Transportation to "aggressively pursue" rail money originally intended for Florida's high speed rail project. Florida Governor Rick Scott declined the $2.4 billion, and the U.S. Department of Transportation opened up applications for the funds today. Governor Malloy is seeking $100 million for the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield high-speed rail initiative, which will form the backbone of an interconnected, regional rail network linking key economic centers in the northeast corridor. This interconnectivity and freedom-of-movement throughout the region will allow for the efficient and timely transport of people and goods, providing incentives for businesses and bolstering the economy.

According to USDOT, "A project's ability to reduce energy consumption, improve the efficiency of a region's overall transportation network, and generate sustained economic activity along the corridor are among the selection criteria."

"This is a huge opportunity for Connecticut and I've directed the state DOT to aggressively pursue any and all avenues to get those funds to our state," said Governor Malloy. "Governor Scott and I obviously have very different opinions about the usefulness of this money, and I'm working to make sure Florida's loss is Connecticut's gain. Applications are due on April 4, and suffice it to say that Connecticut's application will be completed as quickly as possible, and no questions will be left blank. If there's federal money on the table, I want it."

To date, the state has committed $286 million of its own funding, and $161 million of federal High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail (HSIPR) funding toward modernizing and improving the roughly 62-mile corridor between Springfield and New Haven to allow for high-speed regional trains and for commuter rail service.

Governor Malloy previously wrote to President Obama expressing his intention to pursue the funding and spoke with Deputy Transportation Secretary John Porcari on the same issue.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=475252
