Public Statements
Journal Inquirer - "Politics is Communication,' Malloy Tells MCC Students
News Article
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 10, 2011
Location: Manchester, CT

About 50 Manchester Community College students had an unusual substitute teacher Wednesday: Gov. Dannel P. Malloy.

The state's chief executive talked to students from interpersonal communications and American government classes about unions, life as governor, political speech, the challenges facing young residents, and budgeting 101.

"I was asked to come by and try to be interesting," said Malloy, who has bachelor's and law degrees from Boston College. "I don't know how interesting I'll be."

Malloy gave students a short history lesson about the power of communication and politics. He gave the examples of Adolf Hitler's "disinformation campaign" that used infuriating rhetoric during a stressed economy to obtain power, contrasting that with the compassion of Mohandas Gandhi, "the great communicator" of India, who used nonviolent resistance to break from British colonial rule.

"At it's very core, politics is communication," he said, adding there's a great need for "independent thinkers."

Malloy also used the example of Congressional Republicans trying to block federal funding for Planned Parenthood as an example of "ideology being hidden in political speech."

The "vast majority of the services they offer are not abortion-related," he said of Planned Parenthood, adding that the organization is the largest single provider in the nation of health services to women.

"It's really important to raise up a generation of people who understand language," Malloy said during the hour-long lecture.

The state's first Democratic governor in 20 years also fielded questions from the students and talked about the projected $3.67 billion state budget deficit and how he has come to office during a time in its history that has never been "more troubled."

"We took our eye off the ball. We released bad budgets, we under-invested in our infrastructure, we allowed ourselves to drop significantly in recent years in the total number of people graduating from college," Malloy said.

"Some people would feel that's not a job worth having, but I feel just the opposite, to begin the process of repositioning Connecticut" to help "meet your aspirations."

He said part of his job is "convincing people even though they don't like the medicine you serve them up that it's better for them if they take it."

"If we are transparent and open about our budget and if we make some small investments, our state could actually become a state of growth, instead of a shrinking one," Malloy said. "The bad news for you sitting here is for 20 years Connecticut has not created additional jobs."

He said that most state governments are choosing to balance their budgets by "extensively cutting their services, demonizing state employees, and shifting responsibility to the local level. I'm not seeking to do that."

He told the students that his budget proposal cuts $800 million in spending, includes "potential concessions" from state employees, and tax increases totaling $1.5 billion.

"I'm not trying to be popular, I'm trying to be successful," Malloy said.

When asked about union concessions, he responded: "Hopefully we will get there because the alternative is the loss of thousands and thousands of jobs" and "shredding the state's safety net."

Malloy's budget proposes consolidating the University of Connecticut, Charter Oak State College, the state community colleges, and the Connecticut State University System into two departments.

He said the move would help save "millions of dollars" in administrative costs. Malloy added that he wanted to help make it easier for students to transfer between the different schools.

He told students that jobs in the fields of bioscience, nanotechnology, precision manufacturing, and medical insurance will offer the most opportunity in the years to come in Connecticut.

He said the "No. 1 factor to being attractive" as a state is to create more jobs.

"Our focus is on economic development and selling Connecticut as a useful destination," Malloy said.

"We have things worthy of being sold, and we have to tell our story."

He predicted recovery will take anywhere from four to 12 years.

"Change begins when we have our budget because it will be the first honest budget that we've had in a long time," Malloy said.

Largely absent from the discussion was how Malloy's budget proposal to reduce funding by $143.5 million to the public colleges and universities over the next two years would affect the students. Community college officials have voted to increase tuition by nearly 3 percent next year under the assumption that state funding would remain level.

Political science Professor Angelo Messore said a lot of his students have said they are upset with the proposed gas and sales tax increases and have discussed how the governor could "justify raising taxes during a recession."

"Our students work. They pay their own bills. They are directly affected by the economic conditions," Messore said. "Their budgets are pretty tight already."

Source: http://www.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=11&Q=475218
