Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces First Set of M-8 Cars Operating on New Haven Line
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 7, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Metro-North today announced that the first set of eight new M-8 rail cars were put into service today from Stamford, offering Metro-North customers the latest in rail technology and comfort. The train left Stamford at 10:30 a.m. and arrived at Grand Central Terminal in New York at 11:36 a.m.

In all, 380 new Kawasaki rail cars will replace a fleet that is well beyond its useful lifespan and has been plagued with weather-related failures this winter resulting in crowded trains and below normal on-time performance. The cars will run on the commuter line between New Haven and New York City, operated by Metro-North under a contract with the Connecticut Department of Transportation (DOT).

"Putting these cars into service is major milestone that underscores my commitment to investing in public transportation and in Connecticut's economy," said Governor Malloy. "Getting people to and from work on a system that is clean, reliable, safe and convenient is key to our effort to encourage people to get out of their cars and onto public transportation. Our commuters have endured the existing fleet long enough and I thank them for their patience. I am delighted to see these cars go into service and I commend the DOT, Metro-North and Kawasaki for all they have done to make this happen."

"These cars have successfully completed extensive, systematic tests. The many challenges that were revealed during intensive, real-world operations of the most complex rail car in North America on the continent's busiest rail corridor, have been resolved," said Metro-North President Howard Permut. "This testing took over one year to ensure that the M-8 will provide quality service for its 30 year life. We plan to put more of these cars into service as soon as they complete individual quality assurance testing."

"These cars are the first of the new breed of technologically advanced trains that usher in a new era of comfort and reliability for New Haven Line riders," said Jeffrey A. Parker, Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Transportation. "Even this single eight-car train set will help alleviate crowding and bring hope to our beleaguered New Haven Line customers. These cars will serve us for decades to come."

The New Haven Line's 63,000 daily customers can expect the next set of M-8 cars to be in service in a matter of weeks and later this year it is expected that delivery of approximately 10 cars a month will begin and continue until all 380 cars are in service in 2013.





















Source:
