Public Statements
Associated Press - Governor Hits the Road to Sell an Unpopular Budget
News Article
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 7, 2011
Location: Unknown

By Susan Haigh
Gov. Dannel P. Malloy is back on the campaign trail, but he's not trying to win an election this time.
Instead, the new Democratic governor is touring the state, trying to sell people on the concept of "shared sacrifice" and his proposed two-year, nearly $40 billion budget that raises taxes on everything from gasoline to personal income, demands state employee concessions and cuts back some state programs.
At the same time, Malloy is dispensing tough talk to everyday citizens, chambers of commerce and special interest groups about the state's daunting financial challenges: a projected $3.5 billion deficit starting July 1, and the need to address decisions by his predecessors to delay pension payments, sign a 20-year pension and benefits deal with state employees, borrow money to cover state operating expenses, and use one-time federal stimulus money to cover annual public education costs.
"What I'm on a campaign to do is to explain what I'm trying to do in the state," he said last week after completing the third of 17 planned town hall meetings, in addition to separate appearances with groups including organized labor and car dealers.
"We know how to lose. We've been doing it for 22 years. We know how to run up deficits, structural and otherwise. We've been doing that for years," Malloy said. "All of those things, I want to break them. And I think when you're going to break them, you do it in public and that's what I'm doing."
William F. Henderson III, president of the Communication Workers of America, Local 1298, said he's never seen a governor reach out to the public like Malloy has done.
"I've seen this governor more in the last six weeks than I have our previous governor in the previous six years. She used to run from the public, he runs to the public and he's looking for ideas," Henderson said.

Source: http://www.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=11&Q=474886
