Public Statements
Governor Malloy Will Return to Washington; Events at White House, Vice President's House
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 4, 2011
Location: Unknown

Governor Dannel P. Malloy will return to Washington to attend events at both the Naval Observatory (Vice President's home) and the White House on March 17. Governor Malloy was most recently in Washington last week to attend the meetings of the National Governors Association and the Democratic Governors Association. Today, Governor Malloy announced that the Obama Administration had issued a major disaster declaration in six of Connecticut's eight counties based on the January 12 snowstorm. This declaration will help provide federal aid to cities and towns in those six counties. Governor Malloy is appealing the ruling regarding Middlesex and Windham Counties.

"Not only are these excellent opportunities to speak with the President and Vice President personally about a number of issues we're dealing with here in Connecticut, but I look forward to speaking with other elected colleagues of mine, and anybody else whose ear I can bend about Connecticut," said Governor Malloy. "I went to the NGA and DGA conferences last week to speak with governors across the country, and President Obama, but while I was down there, I also met with Secretaries Geithner (Treasury), LaHood (Transportation), Donovan (Housing), Sebelius (Health & Human Services), and Duncan (Education). Each and every time I go to Washington, it's yet another opportunity to speak to administration officials and the President about our concerns in Connecticut."

Governor Malloy's staff is working to set up other business meetings while he is in Washington, in between events with the President and Vice President.

Governor Malloy had originally been scheduled to lead the New London St. Patrick's Day parade as its Grand Marshal. Due to this trip to Washington, he will be unable to attend. Lieutenant Governor Nancy Wyman will attend and act as Grand Marshal in his stead.

"I was very much looking forward to leading the New London St. Patrick's Day Parade," said Governor Malloy. "Unfortunately business in Washington on behalf of Connecticut will take me away from the state. However, I know the citizens of New London and the surrounding area will have a wonderful time with Lieutenant Governor Wyman. I wish everyone involved a very Happy St. Patrick's Day."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=474862
