Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Nominates Judge Lubbie Harper, Jr. to the Connecticut Supreme Court
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 23, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced his nomination of Judge Lubbie Harper, Jr. to be an associate justice of the Connecticut Supreme Court. Judge Harper, when confirmed by the General Assembly, would take the place of Justice Joette Katz, who was selected as Governor Malloy's Commissioner of the Department of Children and Families.

"In my first selection of a judicial candidate, it is a great honor to nominate Judge Lubbie Harper, Jr. to the Supreme Court," said Governor Malloy. "Judge Harper is an experienced, talented and fair jurist, and he will be a welcomed addition to the Court. In his personal time, Judge Harper has given back extensively to his community and the state, and he is well respected both inside the legal community and out."

"It is a privilege to be asked to continue my work on behalf of the people of the State of Connecticut on the Supreme Court," said Judge Harper. "I have the greatest respect for the justices on the Court and will be deeply honored to join them in their efforts to ensure fairness and justice in our legal system. Justice Katz's exemplary service to the Court leaves big shoes to fill, and I am honored to have this opportunity."

Judge Harper was nominated to the Appellate Court in 2005 by Governor Rell. He is currently the Chair of the Commission on Racial and Ethnic Disparity in the Criminal Justice System, and is the state's representative to the National Consortium on Racial and Ethnic Fairness in the Courts. He was also the president of the Board of Directors of the New Haven Legal Assistance Association and was a tutor at the Yale University School of Law. Judge Harper is a former member of the Rules Committee of the Superior Court, and a former participant in the Judicial Branch's Mentor Program.

Prior to his judicial appointment, Judge Harper was in private practice specializing in litigation, municipal finance, labor law, education and administrative law, arbitration and contract negotiations. He graduated from the University of New Haven, received his Masters from the University of Connecticut School of Social Work, and his JD from the University of Connecticut School of Law.

Judge Harper lives with his wife, Twila, in North Haven, Connecticut.

Source:
