Public Statements
Governor Malloy Seeks High-Speed Rail Money that Florida Rejected
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 18, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

In light of Florida's rejection of roughly $2 billion dollars in federal stimulus funding for high-speed rail infrastructure, Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he is actively pursuing a portion of those freed-up dollars to further bolster Connecticut's own high-speed rail expansion - the Springfield-Hartford-New Haven rail line. The Governor expressed this sentiment to Deputy Transportation Secretary John Porcari in a phone call earlier yesterday evening, as well as in a bipartisan letter to President Barack Obama sent today, stating that "Connecticut stands ready to move on high-speed rail."

The New Haven-Hartford-Springfield high-speed rail initiative, which continues to take steps forward, will form the backbone of an interconnected, regional rail network linking key economic centers in the northeast corridor. This interconnectivity and freedom-of-movement throughout the region will allow for the efficient and timely transport of people, goods, and ideas, providing incentives for businesses and bolstering the economy.

"Everyone knows that effective transportation is crucial to keeping the economy moving. The better the transportation infrastructure, the better positioned the economy will be to recover, prosper, and create new jobs, and that's why it is so critical for us to capitalize on the opportunity before us. This money is now up for grabs, and we're not going to waste a second. We know our project is a strong contender, and we're going to do our best to get additional funds from our federal partners," said Governor Malloy. "This is about doing what's right for our state, and that's why I'm pleased to have bipartisan support from my colleagues in the legislature in pursuing these additional dollars."

In the letter, the Governor, along with Republican and Democratic legislative leaders from the state House and Senate, asked President Obama for continued commitment to the initiative by affording Connecticut an additional $100 million dollars for the project. To date, the state has committed $286 million dollars of its own funding, and $161 million dollars of federal High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail (HSIPR) funding toward modernizing and improving the roughly 62-mile corridor between Springfield and New Haven to allow not only for high-speed regional trains, but also, commuter rail service.

Governor Malloy said, "We need to be progressive, and maximizing the use of this existing rail corridor, one that the state already owns, really is a no-brainer. This is the best solution for reducing the stagnating traffic congestion along Interstate 91. It will help keep the air we breathe cleaner, and it will offer our state the best chance to attract new businesses and create new jobs. I'm very appreciative of the support that Speaker Chris Donovan, Senate President Don Williams, Minority Leader Larry Cafero and Minority Leader John McKinney are showing by co-signing this letter with me - we're united on this and prepared to make our case."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=474210
