Public Statements
Letter to Speaker John Boehner
Letter
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 17, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman today called on Speaker of the House John A. Boehner to oppose efforts to defund Planned Parenthood and other family planning centers, in light of promises by Republicans to work first on stabilizing the economy and putting people back to work.

"We write deeply concerned that efforts in the House of Representatives to eliminate women's access to Planned Parenthood's health centers will dangerously threaten Connecticut's ability to provide care for the approximately 40,000 women, men and teens who depend on these clinics for essential health services," Governor Malloy and Lt. Gov Wyman wrote in a letter Sent to Speaker Boehner today.

Malloy and Wyman cited proposed bills such as H.R. 217, sponsored by Rep. Mike Pence (R-IN), as examples of the effort to "take away health care from millions" and defund family planning centers across the country and in Connecticut.

"As Connecticut's Governor and Lt. Governor, one of our primary responsibilities is to ensure that all of our state's citizens have access to adequate health care. We implore you to reject the calls to deny this care, and instead focus on the issues you were elected on, and Americans care about."
February 17, 2011

Speaker John Boehner
Office of the Speaker
H-232 The Capitol
Washington, DC 20515

Dear Speaker Boehner,
We write deeply concerned that efforts in the House of Representatives to eliminate women's access to Planned Parenthood's health centers will dangerously threaten Connecticut's ability to provide care for the approximately 40,000 women, men and teens who depend on these clinics for essential health services.

Connecticut is already facing painful budget cuts. Further decreases in federal funding could hardly come at a worse time. Across our state, Planned Parenthood health centers are invaluable community-based health care providers, offering routine examinations, cancer screenings, immunizations, contraceptive services, and HIV and STI testing and treatment to nearly 65,000 individuals in this state.

Especially in urban areas, the efforts to defund family planning services would have devastating effects. For over 90 years, Planned Parenthood has delivered these services in a professional, responsible and personal manner. Connecticut cannot meet its goal of providing high quality health care without Planned Parenthood's essential contribution. For many of the 3 million Americans who rely on Planned Parenthood's more than 800 health centers for primary and preventive care, these health centers are their sole source of health care.

Republicans promised to create jobs and get our economy moving again. Yet, defunding Planned Parenthood and other women's health providers is a top legislative objective for some members of Congress. Bills such as H.R. 217, sponsored by Rep. Mike Pence (R-IN), will take away health care from millions.
Furthermore, Americans are firmly against these flawed policies. In fact, a recent Hart Research poll could not be clearer, showing that 71 percent of all voters, including 60 percent of those who voted for the Republican candidate for Congress in 2010, disagree with the Pence bill's restrictions on federal funding.

As Connecticut's Governor and Lt. Governor, one of our primary responsibilities is to ensure that all of our state's citizens have access to adequate health care. We implore you to reject the calls to deny this care, and instead focus on the issues you were elected on, and Americans care about. Please do not put certain members' agendas above sound health policy.

We look forward to working with you to protect the health and health care of millions of Americans.

Sincerely,
Dannel P. Malloy
Governor

Nancy Wyman
Lt. Governor

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=474140
