Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Joins Operation Fuel and Energy Providers to Annoucne Innovative New Program Aimed at Reducing Small Business Energy Costs
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 15, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today joined State Senator John Fonfara, representatives from Dominion, PSEG and Operation Fuel at a mid-morning press conference in Hartford to announce a new pilot program designed to help women- and minority-owned businesses reduce their energy costs and educate themselves about energy consumption.

"It's been a long, cold winter in Connecticut, and I know this is welcome news to the minority and women small business owners across the state," said Governor Malloy. "I'd like to thank both Dominion and PSEG for their generous contributions, and I'd like to thank Operation Fuel for implementing this important and innovative program. By helping to defray energy costs for the recipients of these grants, we can help small business owners continue to operate within their local communities. This is a great example of private industry coming out to support public interest. It's not only a smart business move, but smart public policy, as well."

The pilot program, administered through Operation Fuel, will be conducted in five cities--Hartford, Bridgeport, New London, New Haven, and Waterbury--and will offer 1,200 small businesses grants of up to $1,000 to help pay their electric costs. The program also offers an educational component, teaching small business owners how to conserve energy and become more efficient. Dominion donated $1 million to the project; PSEG donated $150,000.

Dominion, owner/operator of Millstone, and PSEG, owner/operator of electrical generation plants at Bridgeport Harbor and New Haven, operate some of Connecticut's largest electric generation facilities. Operation Fuel, a non-profit founded under Governor Ella Grasso in the mid-1970s, helps Connecticut residents with energy assistance year round.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=473950
