Public Statements
The Hartford Courant - Governor Reiterates Pledge Not To Cut Education Funding
News Article
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 9, 2011
Location: Unknown

By Jenna Carlesso
During his campaign for governor, Dannel P. Malloy pledged not to cut state school aid when federal economic stimulus money, now being used to buoy the state's education cost-sharing program, runs out in 2012.
On Wednesday, he reiterated that promise after meeting with mayors of the state's three largest cities.
"We will, in fact, honor our commitment to hold our communities harmless for the loss of ECS dollars," Malloy said. "Nobody should be shocked by that."
Malloy said he will keep the state education cost-sharing program funded at the same level -- $1.9 billion -- next year as it is in this fiscal year. State aid to education this year has been supplemented by $271 million in federal stimulus money. The stimulus program is set to expire June 30.
That means the state, which is facing a $3.7 million budget deficit, will have to make up the $271 million education aid shortfall. Malloy said that will be done by reallocating state resources, including consolidating some state agencies.
As Malloy made his pledge Wednesday to protect local school systems from the 2012 budget cliff, the big-city mayors stood by his side. It was a different picture than in June, when all three supported Ned Lamont for governor during the Democratic primary.
"For me, this was the start of a beautiful relationship," Bridgeport Mayor Bill Finch said.
Hartford Mayor Pedro Segarra, who voiced support for Lamont when he was president of the Hartford city council, said that Malloy had demonstrated "a real commitment to urban centers."
"Thus far, I've been very pleased," Segarra said. "When we reach out for a dialogue, he's lent an ear. We need to build on that relationship."
With education costs making up about 60 percent of Hartford's budget, Segarra said he was relieved to hear that the cost-sharing grant would not be cut. The city is already facing a $10 million shortfall this fiscal year and a projected $40 million deficit for 2011-12.
"It's a big relief," he said. "Any losses in ECS would have translated into a large property tax increase for our residents."
New Haven Mayor John DeStefano called Malloy's move a "strategic investment" and said he viewed it as a jobs-related announcement.
"For this state to be competitive, it has to have a workforce that supports a knowledge-based economy," he said.

Source: http://articles.courant.com/2011-02-09/news/hc-malloy-meets-mayors-0210-20110209_1_cost-sharing-stimulus-money-dannel-p-malloy
