Public Statements
Governor Malloy Proposes Consolidated Department of Energy & Environmental Protection
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 8, 2011
Location: Unknown

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced his plan to create a newly consolidated Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP), an agency that will consolidate Connecticut's widely dispersed energy functions, including the Department of Public Utility Control, with the Department of Environmental Protection to allow for a more effective coordination of state energy and environmental policies.

"Merging these two functions under one leader will allow the state to act cohesively in two vitally important and directly related policy areas, particularly in terms of economic development, siting, permitting and other issues," Governor Malloy said. "Under this new agency, we will better integrate and coordinate our state's energy and environmental policy in order to strengthen our ability to protect the environment; to clean, conserve and lower the cost of energy; and to set the table for rapid and responsible economic growth."

Creating the new Department of Energy and Environmental Protection will enable the state to continue its environmental conservation and regulation functions and to couple them closely with energy policy and pricing. Organizationally, the state's energy policy will become centralized in the agency through the creation of two new bureaus: the Bureau of Energy Policy and Efficiency and the Bureau of Utilities Control.

The Bureau of Energy Policy and Efficiency will be responsible for the development and analysis of energy policy as it affects all of Connecticut's citizens and businesses through its Division of Energy Policy and Program Development. The bureau's Division of Government Energy Management will be responsible for the effective management of energy costs and energy usage by and within state government buildings and facilities. Existing staff from the Office of Policy and Management Energy Unit will be transferred into this bureau.

DEEP's second energy bureau, the Bureau of Utilities Control, is formed by transferring the Department of Public Utility Control, which will continue to be responsible for conducting management audits of the public service companies; scheduling, coordinating, and issuing legal notices, and conducting public hearings and adjudicating all contested cases; conducting investigations into generic issues and conducting or sponsoring management audits of specific utility functions.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=473626
