Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Recent Building Collapses Reinforce Need to Clear Roofs Before Saturday's Storm
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 3, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

The recent building collapses across the state, buckling under the weight of record snowfall, and recent ice, sleet, freezing rain and rain, reinforce the need to clear roofs before Saturday's storm, said Governor Dannel P. Malloy. Over the past several weeks, Governor Malloy has warned of the hazards of increased roof weight, and urged that any structures, particularly those with flat roofs, be cleared prior to each winter storm.

"I cannot say it enough -- people need to be vigilant about clearing their roofs and they need to be smart about it," said Governor Malloy. "People might think I sound like a broken record, but the collapse yesterday of several building across the state -- in addition to the structures which have collapsed over the past few weeks -- illustrates the real need to go out there and get this done prior to another storm that is forecast to hit Connecticut on Saturday.

"This goes for homeowners, business owners and municipal leaders, too," continued Governor Malloy. "The state Department of Education has sent out a notice to every single school urging them to clear their roofs, and I've been reinforcing that message in my conversations with municipal leaders, as well. The state Department of Public Works has been out often over the last few weeks clearing the roofs off state buildings, and that will continue. We all need to do our part to help keep our communities safe during this prolonged period of winter weather."

Governor Malloy also urged those residents living next to seniors who cannot clear their own roof to ask if they might need a hand. In addition, if residents can't clear their own roofs and need to pay for someone else to do it, Governor Malloy suggested contacting the Better Business Bureau to ensure the quality of services.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=473244
