Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Calls Metro-North President to Help Find Immediate Solution to Service Reduction on New Have Line
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 2, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Earlier this afternoon, Governor Dannel P. Malloy called Metro-North Railroad President Howard Permut, directly intervening to help find an immediate solution to a problem with which New Haven line commuters have been dealing. Due to the severity and intensity of the storms which have affected both Connecticut and New York this winter, as well as the aged and antiquated equipment and service facilities on the line, Permut has announced a reduction in the number of trains and shift times on the New Haven line. Governor Malloy was joined on the call by Lieutenant Governor Nancy Wyman and state Department of Transportation Commissioner Jeffrey Parker.

"Hailing from Fairfield County, I know all too well what a reduction in service or reliability on the New Haven line means for commuters in the area," said Governor Malloy. "That's why I felt it was important to call Howard to ask about any and all alternative options for commuters. Let me be clear: This isn't about placing blame. We've had a record-breaking winter in terms of our weather, and our railcars and service facilities have not been kept up in the manner they should have been. We all know this is true. So in addition to my long-term focus on improving Metro-North's reliability and functionality, I'm also focused on this short-term service reduction and ways in which we can help commuters get into and out of New York City more easily."

Permut told Governor Malloy that Metro-North is operating under an expedited repair schedule, with crews working around the clock to put cars back in service as quickly as they can. Permut said that the lack of shop space has been an impediment to their success. In addition to funding for the M8 rail cars, Governor Malloy has also put funding for the New Haven rail yard on his Bond Commission Agenda. That agenda is expected to be voted on later this month.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=473174
