Public Statements
Governor Malloy to Roundtable: Transportation Critical to State's Economic Engine
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 28, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy joined Congressman John Larson, Co-Chair of the Northeast Rail Caucus, Pennsylvania Congressman Bill Shuster, Chair of the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials, and a group of legislators, state and federal officials and other stakeholders at Hartford's Union Station to discuss efforts to build the New Haven-Springfield rail line and increase high speed rail access in New England.

"This roundtable is a great opportunity to make some real headway on rail issues. Upgrading our transportation infrastructure is absolutely critical to building our economy and creating jobs, and we have the right people at the table to make this happen," said Governor Malloy. "Strategic investments -- like the New Haven-Springfield line, the purchase of the new rail cars for the Metro North line, and expanding New Haven's Union Station -- bring our aging system into the 21st century so it can be part of the equation to attract business and additional revenue to the state."

Connecticut's Congressional delegation was instrumental in bringing $120.9 million in federal funds to the state for the planning and construction of the New Haven-Springfield line.

"We have an opportunity here, quite literally, to get Connecticut moving again," said Governor Malloy. "Right now, notorious highway congestion is a drag on our economy, environment, and quality of life. Building Connecticut starts from the ground up. Improving the services that make us go will bring opportunity to the state. Connecticut will make the investment as well, but we have to be aggressive about pursuing federal dollars."

Recently, Governor Malloy put forward a bonding package that includes over $176 million to improve Connecticut's rail service.

The package includes $81.6 million to purchase the final 38 M-8 rail cars for the Metro North and Shoreline East routes. According to 2008 data, the Metro North line carries about 38 million riders annually, and is the second busiest rail line in the United States.

The Bond Commission agenda also includes $95 million to expand New Haven's busy Union Station.

The Bond Commission will meet February 2.

Source: http://www.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=472902
