Public Statements
News Times - Malloy Says He Likes Some GOP Budget Ideas
News Article
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 26, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

By Ken Dixon
Gov. Dannel P. Malloy found some ideas to support in the budget alternatives presented this week by minority Republicans in the General Assembly.
"They're calling for a reduction in anticipated expenditures," Malloy told reporters. "I've called for a reduction of anticipated expenditures. I think I called for more than they did, so they'll probably want to amend their plan."
Malloy told reporters Wednesday that he read the Republican proposals, which were announced Tuesday morning, on the plane trip to Washington for President Barack Obama's State of the Union address.
"I agree with some of them. Obviously they agree with a lot of things I say," Malloy said. "I think we need government to be substantially more efficient. I think my horizon might be a little more orderly than what they're proposing. I agree even with some of the recommendations on realignments."
Senate Minority Leader John McKinney, R-Fairfield, and House Minority Leader Lawrence F. Cafero Jr., R-Norwalk, on Tuesday proposed a variety of plans to attack the looming $3.4 billion deficit, from combining state agencies, to privatizing services. They also called for a two-year wage freeze for state employees.
"We're going to take this budget on in a straightforward fashion," Malloy said, adding that it will be "a number of days" before any revenue enhancements, including higher taxes or ending current tax exemptions, are settled.
"I can assure you that the first questions I ask is, 'What's New York doing, what's New Jersey doing, what's Massachusetts doing and what's Rhode island doing?' " he said. "So I'm keenly aware of the necessity of maintaining a substantial tax advantage on certain types of income and parity in other types of potential income to the state."
Earlier this week, Malloy announced he would not seek an early retirement plan to shed higher-salaried state employees because it doesn't make fiscal sense and might actually add to the state's problem with underfunded pensions.
He also plans to offer a budget to lawmakers next month that is no higher than the current year's $19 billion spending package.

Source: http://www.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=11&Q=472934
