Public Statements
Governor Malloy: Road Safety Projects in Bond Package Will Improve Safety, Create and Keep Jobs
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 24, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today highlighted several items on the Bond Commission agenda involving Department of Transportation projects that will create or retain thousands of construction-related jobs in the state, and improve the safety of our state's roads.

"For decades we have woefully neglected our transportation infrastructure, and we are now forced to face the grim reality that our roads and bridges are badly in need of repair," said Governor Malloy. "Projects in this bond package address transportation infrastructure in a smart, strategic way. Despite the state's fiscal morass, we must find a balance between making investments to ensure to the long-term viability of our infrastructure and the cost of borrowing to meet those needs."

The Governor continued ,"We have an opportunity to create jobs now and do these projects at lower costs than if we shelve them for another five years and watch project and labor costs rise. Most importantly, these projects represent an investment in the state, in our workforce, and in the safety of all of Connecticut's travelers."

The Commission will consider $3.5 million for Fix-it-First road maintenance projects that are currently underway and were initially funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. This funding will create or retain 375 construction-related jobs.

Fix-it-First prioritizes repairing existing infrastructure over building or expanding highways and bridges. Fixing existing infrastructure creates immediate jobs, is better for the environment, and makes road travel safer.

Additionally, the Commission will be asked to bond $18.9 million for highway paving and safety improvements along I-84, I-91, and six state routes in Canaan, Killingly, Mansfield, Simsbury, Woodbury, and Wethersfield. These projects are expected to create or retain 802 construction-related jobs.

The Bond Commission is meeting on Thursday, January 27 to take up the agenda.

Source: http://www.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=472602
