Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Moves to Protect State's Most Vulnerable from Frigid Temperatures Coming Our Way
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 20, 2011
Location: Hartford, CT

With bitter winter cold expected to arrive in the wake of a Friday snowstorm, Governor Dannel P. Malloy tonight directed the Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security (DEMHS) and the Department of Social Services (DSS) to coordinate with 2-1-1 and Connecticut's network of shelters to ensure that the state's most vulnerable people are protected.

"Overnight temperatures -- especially Saturday night and Sunday night -- are expected to range from near zero along the shoreline to well below zero in the northwestern and northeastern corners of the state," Governor Malloy said. "Factor in the wind chill, which makes temperatures feel another 10 degrees colder, and the weather for the next few days will be truly brutal. We are taking steps now to make sure that we can take care of those in need of warmth and shelter.

"The 2-1-1 line is available for people who need help and -- using the "Web EOC' communications network operated by DEMHS -- the staff at 2-1-1 will coordinate among local shelters that need referral information when they stretch capacity limits," the Governor said. "The 2-1-1 system provides an incredibly important service to the people of Connecticut and I encourage everyone to take advantage of the help that is available to them. I am also encouraging local communities to consider opening "warming centers' or other facilities to help people in need during this extraordinary cold snap."

Web EOC is an Internet-based system that allows local, regional and state emergency management officials and first responders to share up-to-date information about a variety of situations and conditions. The system will be used to monitor capacity at shelters across the state, enabling 2-1-1 to act as a clearinghouse to ensure shelter space is found for those who need it.

In addition to coordinating with 2-1-1, the Connecticut Coalition to End Homelessness and any short-term shelters, DSS will be working with existing vendors to resolve any transportation issues involving people needing shelter.

Source: http://www.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=472462
