Public Statements
Blog: The One Poll That Matters
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

I just got off a call with my staff, and wanted to share with you what I told them about today's Quinnipiac poll, and about other polls in recent days. Some, like today's, have me down slightly. Others, like yesterday's, had me up slightly. And one poll had the race even. But here's the truth
Polls don't matter. Your vote does.
Some may want to call me the underdog going into tomorrow's election. That's fine. I've played that role before. In fact, I've been overcoming obstacles my whole life.
You've stood with me at every hurdle, and whether it was winning the convention, becoming the first publicly financed gubernatorial candidate in Connecticut history, or winning a huge upset victory in the primary, we've overcome the odds together time and time again.
We enter Tuesday with the strongest ground game and the strongest team of volunteers, and a GOTV operation that is pulling out all the stops. Over 2,000 volunteers knocked on doors or made calls this weekend, and nearly 10,000 supporters turned out to see President Obama and President Clinton.
We enter Tuesday with the right plan, and the right values. Connecticut needs a Governor that can grow jobs and make government work again. I've faced those challenges as Mayor of Stamford. We created thousands of new jobs, reduced the size of government, and helped Stamford become a thriving community. I can do the same for Connecticut.
We enter Tuesday with a clear choice in this race. The New York Times, Hartford Courant, Connecticut Post, The Greenwich Time (my opponent's hometown newspaper), The Danbury News Times, and fifteen other papers agree, and I'm proud to have their endorsements.
I ask you again for your support, and to get involved. Call your friends. Join our GOTV team.
And most importantly, vote tomorrow.
Sincerely,
Dan Malloy

Source: http://danmalloy.com/blogs/dan-malloy/the-one-poll-that-matters
