Public Statements
Malloy and Wyman Meet With Child Advocates
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 12, 2010
Location: Unknown

Democratic nominees for Governor and Lt. Governor Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman today met with the Connecticut Early Childhood Alliance, a group of organizations and individuals committed to improving developmental outcomes for children. Stressing the "real and critical differences" between their campaign versus that of their opponents, Malloy and Wyman answered questions from the Alliance on topics ranging from education, to health care, and the state's financial circumstances.
"There is no greater obligation state government has than protecting the most vulnerable among us, and there is no more vulnerable population than our children," said Malloy. "It's an obligation I took seriously as Mayor of Stamford for 14 years, where we implemented the first universal pre-K program in the state. We expanded health insurance coverage to more than 2,200 low-income children. And we made critical investments in education, including the creation of two new public charter schools."
Malloy said his plans for protecting Connecticut's children stand in stark contrast to those of his opponent.
"Three weeks ago, Tom Foley introduced a "core health care plan' that would do away with critical health mandates -- mandates Connecticut worked hard to put in place," continued Malloy. "They include maternity care, coverage for kids with cancer and mental illness, and providing hearing aids for deaf children. In Tom Foley's Connecticut, those aren't services we need to guarantee. I disagree. I think that how we provide for our children should be the barometer that we measure ourselves upon."
Wyman, a grandmother of five, said that making childhood development a priority not only benefits the children and their families, but is a sound investment for the entire state .
"The education and protection we provide to our children and grandchildren is enormously important to our success as a state," Wyman said. "Dan and I will work to preserve the critical safeguards for children already in place, and to expand their opportunities for developing into healthy, productive men and women."
In recent weeks Malloy and Wyman have travelled the state sharing their plans for Connecticut, which can be read at www.danmalloy.com/policy.

Source: http://danmalloy.com/news/101210/malloy-and-wyman-meet-with-child-advocat
