Public Statements
New Haven Register - Malloy: My Experience Gives Me an Edge
Op-Ed
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 10, 2010
Location: Unknown

By Dan Malloy
HEALTH care. Education. Transportation. There are so many issues Connecticut needs to take on in the years ahead. And, we will. However, our ability to tackle them in a meaningful way will largely depend on the following: how quickly we can simultaneously get our budget under control and begin to grow jobs and get our economy growing.
Like most states, Connecticut faces an uphill battle in getting our economy back on track. We're dead last in job growth and retention over the past 20 years. Most critically, we've fallen behind our neighboring states when it comes to attracting new jobs and protecting the ones we have.
Getting our budget under control won't be easy. I know something about balancing a budget, because for 14 years as the mayor of Stamford I turned in honest, balanced budgets, and I did it on time. That's a big difference from what Connecticut has gotten from recent governors. Last year, Gov. M. Jodi Rell proposed a budget that fell more than $2 billion short, and then waited for months to begin correcting it. That's a political tactic that's unfortunately all too familiar in Connecticut: one side tries to rig the game by setting the other up to fail before negotiations have even truly begun. I didn't do it as mayor; I won't do it as governor.
In Stamford, I also had to abide by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) when putting a budget together, a standard that Connecticut requires of its municipalities, but not of itself. That will change when I'm governor. For too long we've had to watch as Hartford uses financial gimmicks and shady accounting to keep from facing its problems. It has to stop.
When it comes to digging out from our deficit, we need to find smart ways to save money. That begins with making state government smaller, and more efficient. For instance, I've set a goal of reducing the number of state agencies by a third by consolidating duplicative processes. As just one example, I'd look at merging the state's three economic development agencies into one department. If we can be dead last in job growth with three agencies, how much worse off can we be with one? I'd also suggest reducing the amount of staff under the governor's direct control by 15 percent, and freezing compensation for all remaining political appointees.
I know something about making government more efficient. The day I became mayor there were 1,298 employees under the mayor's watch. The day I left, there were 1,171. Government got smaller and more effective. That's the kind of experience the next governor needs.
As we close our deficit and trim government, we need to simultaneously begin growing our economy. For too many years, Connecticut hasn't had an economic development strategy that anyone can understand. We've careened from trying to build casinos and football stadiums to begging companies that we've bribed with taxpayer dollars to keep their jobs in Connecticut. That's not a strategy; it's desperation.
My running mate, Nancy Wyman, and I have released a comprehensive plan for creating jobs in Connecticut, full of specific ideas for driving job creation. That plan can be read in full at www.danmalloy.com.
Perhaps, the boldest, short-term solution we've suggested is the creation of a new fund using close to a billion dollars in unused research and development tax credits to leverage new research and advanced manufacturing space, and to encourage the participation of state and municipal pension funds to augment the initial investment. This plan, done correctly, could result in a $2 billion investment and as many as 30,000 direct jobs, and 75,000 spin-off jobs.
Other initiatives involve expanding state investment in stem cell research and other cutting edge biomedical fields, aggressively developing the state's three deep water ports to drive commerce, and changing how we manage Bradley International Airport to help spur trade and grow jobs.
As mayor of Stamford, I worked every day not only to create jobs in the city, but also to provide economic security by promoting a thriving economy. As a result, over 14 years we created close to 5,000 new private sector jobs at small, medium and large businesses and Stamford became an international banking and financial services center.
Government can't fix the economy by itself, nor should it try. But what government can do is help put in place an economic development strategy that makes sense for the 21st century economy. That's what I did for 14 years as mayor of Stamford. As governor, I'll apply my experience and know-how every day to making Connecticut a more desirable place to work and live.
Dan Malloy is the Democrats' candidate for governor. Readers may write to him at P.O. Box 110073, Stamford 06911 or e-mail him through his campaign website, danmalloy.com.

Source: http://www.nhregister.com/articles/2010/10/10/opinion/doc4cb1356306b13224058615.txt
