Public Statements
New Haven Register - Malloy: Autism Center Could Save Money
News Article
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 9, 2010
Location: Unknown

By Mary E. O'Leary
Democratic gubernatorial candidate Dan Malloy has proposed setting up a Center for Autism and Development Disabilities in Connecticut that would share research on the disorder, as well as offer diagnostic services and treatment.
Malloy suggested it be housed in a private nonprofit and said it could save money for local school districts that now send children out of state or to multiple facilities for treatment.
He said the amount of public money spent on the children would be the same, except that it would stay in Connecticut. Any initial capital outlay for the center would be taken from previously authorized bonding.
While overall state bonding may have to shrink, Malloy said he would prioritize projects to cover the proposed center. Once up and running, it would be funded through medical insurance, either private or HUSKY, and local school districts.
He said autism is the fastest growing population of children with disabilities in the state, a costly disorder that requires significant resources from families, schools, social service agencies and the medical system.
Earlier this year, the General Assembly passed a bipartisan measure that requires all private insurers to cover autism spectrum disorders.
As the number of cases continues to grow, Malloy said the state will likely be faced with a large group of children and adults who will need resources beyond what their families can provide.
The key to dealing with autism is early intervention, which requires a multidisciplinary approach involving educators and doctors. The difficulties for families begin immediately when they find diagnostic services are hard to access, he said.
The center could be the place to be diagnosed, as well as to get outpatient treatment with a small inpatient unit. Malloy envisions partnering with Southern Connecticut State University's autism center, where parents could get help with care coordination and referrals.
Malloy took a stab at his Republican opponent, Tom Foley, who has proposed a state- approved "core health care plan" that would not have to include health mandates and would be available to businesses that pay a certain percentage of payroll to benefits. He hasn't been specific on the plan beyond it providing catastrophic coverage.
"I'm trying to find smart, fiscally responsible ways to make sure as many people as possible have the best coverage possible. Tom's proposal, which he waited a year to roll out, would eliminate vital coverage for things like autism, breast cancer screenings, maternity care and a host of other procedures and illnesses. He's just wrong on this issue," Malloy said.
But Foley's spokeswoman, Liz Osborn, disagreed.
"As usual, Dannel Malloy is trying to obscure his own record by distorting the facts," she said. "Tom Foley has produced a comprehensive plan that reduces health care costs and provides better quality care. Dan Malloy uses deliberate distortions to hide his long record of over-spending and high taxes. The voters of Connecticut know the difference and they are moving Tom's way," Osborn said.
She had no comment on the proposed center.

Source: http://nhregister.com/articles/2010/10/09/news/aa3_capautism2100910.txt
