Public Statements
Malloy/Wyman Announce State's First-Ever Comprehensive Plan for Addressing Autism Needs
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 30, 2010
Location: Unknown

Democratic nominees for Governor and Lt. Governor Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman today announced a proposal for addressing autism needs in Connecticut, primarily through the creation of a Center for Autism & Developmental Disabilities housed within the state's private, non-profit system. Noting that incidences of autism continue to grow in Connecticut, Malloy and Wyman said the condition affects not only families, but also "school districts, social services agencies and the medical system at large."

"Children diagnosed with autism need specialized care, education and treatment -- but right now their families their families are challenged to find care and often have to go out of state at an increased cost to them, and to other taxpayers," said Malloy. "The Center we're proposing would not only provide a much needed service to Connecticut's fastest growing population of children with disabilities, but it could actually save the state money and create quality, permanent health-care related jobs in the private sector at the same time."

Malloy noted that this plan comes in addition to a broader health care plan that he and Wyman announced in June, which can be read here: http://www.danmalloy.com/policy/health_care. He also pointed out that his opponent recently announced a "core health care plan" that would do away with all state mandates, including support for children with autism.

"Tom and I just have a very fundamental difference when it comes to this issue," Malloy continued. "I'm trying to find smart, fiscally responsible ways to make sure as many people as possible have the best coverage possible. Tom's proposal -- which he waited close to a year to roll out -- would eliminate vital coverage for things like autism, breast cancer screenings, maternity care, and a host of other procedures and illnesses. He's just wrong on this issue."

The proposed Center would collaborate with both UConn and Yale on autism research and clinical trials, and it would work to develop best practices for outside settings as well. It would serve four primary functions:
o Diagnostic Services
o Outpatient Treatment
o In-Patient Treatment
o Care Coordination and Referrals

The plan can be read in full at: http://danmalloy.com/Autism.pdf

"Connecticut is fortunate to have an effective network of groups advocating for the many needs of autistic children and their families, but they are working with limited resources," Wyman said. "This center will build on their efforts and offer more complete services that will not just benefit families dealing with autism, but the entire state."

As nominees for Governor and Lt Governor, Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman have toured the state in recent months sharing their plans creating jobs and growing the state's economy. More details on their plans can be found at www.danmalloy.com/policy.

Source: http://danmalloy.com/news/093010/malloywyman-announce-states-first-ever-c
