Public Statements
Malloy Rolls Out Port Development Plan to Spur Economy, Create Jobs
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 21, 2010
Location: Unknown

Democratic nominee for Governor Dan Malloy today announced a plan for developing Connecticut's three major water ports. During stops in Bridgeport, New Haven and New London, Malloy said the plan has the potential to "create jobs, increase economic growth and trade flow, and improve transportation infrastructure -- all without any fiscal impact on the state."
The plan calls for making port development a strategic transportation priority by allocating up to $50 million in previously authorized Special Tax Obligation bonds, Urban Act and Manufacturing Assistance Act funds toward port development, including dredging to protect the integrity of the deepwater channels. It would also create a State Port Authority comprised of unpaid gubernatorial appointees, representatives of DECD, DOT and representatives of Connecticut's three deepwater port authorities. This Authority would work to market the ports, coordinate capital projects, jointly pursue federal funds, and more. The full plan can be read here: http://danmalloy.com/PortDevelopment.pdf
"The economic potential for the development of these ports is enormous," said Malloy. "By establishing a real partnership with port cities, we can leverage private sector investments, foster economic development and create jobs. We don't have to look any further than Rhode Island, where their recent developments have made Providence the fastest growing commercial port in the Northeast, with an economic impact estimated at $200 million per year. Once again, Connecticut's neighboring states continue to eat our lunch."
Malloy's running mate, State Comptroller Nancy Wyman, joined him in New Haven and New London. The pair said the proposal is part of several larger plans that would create more jobs in Connecticut, which they unveiled in June.
"The importance of port- related development in Connecticut and its potential for job growth are especially significant given that each of our deep water port cities are listed among the state's most distressed municipalities," said Wyman. "This plan can make our state more competitive and an integral part of the emerging global economy."
As nominees for Governor and Lt Governor, Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman have toured the state in recent months sharing their plans creating jobs and growing the state's economy. More details on their plans can be found at www.danmalloy.com/policy.

Source: http://danmalloy.com/news/092110/malloy-rolls-out-port-development-plan-t
