Public Statements
Malloy/Wyman Lay Out Another Plan to Create Jobs: 'A Bioscience Connecticut'
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 16, 2010
Location: Unknown

Democratic nominees for Governor and Lt. Governor Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman today announced plans for investing in bioscience as an economic driver that will help Connecticut create jobs and grow its economy.
Amongst other initiatives, the plan calls for leveraging state funds to build on the UConn, Yale and Wesleyan research engines, in order to bring more federal and private research funds (as well as clinical trials) into Connecticut. Malloy and Wyman believe that by demonstrating a fundamental capacity for bioscience, the state will be better able to attract talent, investment, and entrepreneurial start-ups. The full plan can be viewed at: http://danmalloy.com/Bioscience.pdf
"It's imperative that Connecticut recognizes that bioscience is already one of the greatest economic drivers in this new century," said Malloy. "In fact, our neighboring states have all made significant investments in the industry, while we continue to miss out. The initiatives I'm putting forth today will put us on the track for major growth and economic development in the years ahead."
Malloy said the proposal, which avoids the need for immediate new funds, is part of several larger plans that would create more jobs in Connecticut, which he and Wyman unveiled in June.
"Having a smart, comprehensive job creation strategy is about setting the right direction, then putting the right pieces in place to make it happen. The comprehensive proposal we put forward in June set that direction; these initiatives that we're putting forward now are designed to make it happen," said Malloy
Wyman added that new investments in bioscience make particular sense for Connecticut.
"Investing in bioscience plays to all of Connecticut's strengths," Wyman said. "We have high rates of educational degreed professionals, as well as some of the most prestigious research and education facilities in the world. This is an industry ripe for growth, and Connecticut needs to take advantage while we can."

Source: http://danmalloy.com/news/091610/malloywyman-lay-out-another-plan-to-crea
