Public Statements
Malloy: Foley is 'Putting A Price on Our Children's Safety'
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 31, 2010
Location: Unknown

Democratic nominee for Governor Dan Malloy today criticized his Republican opponent for supporting a plan to end almost 20 years of federal oversight of the Department of Children and Families, Connecticut's child welfare agency. Malloy sharply criticized his opponent for arguing that ending the court oversight would save the state money.
"For Tom Foley to turn this into a matter of dollars and cents is beyond insensitive," said Malloy. "I've said time and time again that Connecticut will need to make tough budgetary decisions in the years ahead -- and we will -- but the one group that must be off the table for cuts are those most in need. I can't think of a group more in need than children who've been subjected to neglect or abuse."
Malloy said that the oversight is critical in protecting children's safety, and that "it should remain in place until we're certain that DCF is able to adequately provide for the children in its care -- right now, that simply isn't the case."
"You have to earn the right to dissolve a consent order of this nature," continued Malloy. "The truth is, while progress has been made, I'm not aware of a single child advocacy group who would say that DCF is currently meeting acceptable standards. Until it is, we need to do what's necessary to protect Connecticut children in need."
Malloy argued that until DCF is adequately meeting children's needs, removing the oversight could end up costing the state more money in paying for legal fights like the one that spurred the current consent decree. A 1989 lawsuit argued that approximately 100 agency practices were in violation of various federal child protection laws, including reports of abuse and neglect not being investigated properly and children being left in dangerous situations.

Source: http://danmalloy.com/news/083010/malloy-foley-is-putting-a-price-on-our-c
