Public Statements
Issue Position: Housing Affordability & Opportunity
Issue Position
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

If we are to see a revitalized Connecticut, we must think comprehensively about strategies for renewal. One important ingredient in Connecticut's renewal is housing affordability. Affordability is key to attracting and retaining young skilled workers, and it's key to attracting and retaining small innovative companies that can grow to be major employers. In fact, I view it as critical to enhancing Connecticut's quality of life for all.
Creative Solutions
Right now, however, Connecticut is less affordable for families, workers, and businesses than many metropolitan areas across the country. According to the National Association of Home Builders "Housing Opportunity Index," which measures affordability based on median income, housing in the Fairfield County, I-95 corridor is less affordable than in Boston. While this is not too much of a surprise given the area's proximity and access to New York City, the lack of affordability in other parts of the state is significant as well. Housing in the Milford to New Haven corridor is less affordable than Denver or Dallas. Housing in New London, Hartford and West Hartford is less affordable than Tampa or even Atlanta.
Connecticut competes against these and other areas of the country for businesses and skilled workers. We must address affordability if we are to become more attractive and enhance our competitive advantages.
Unfortunately, the lack of creativity and leadership in the Governor's office, and in the appointed leadership of our state agencies, has left Connecticut behind. Connecticut needs a leader who has shown an ability to tackle difficult affordable housing challenges with innovative solutions. Connecticut needs a leader with more than good ideas; Connecticut needs a leader with a proven record of accomplishment.
A Successful Record
As Mayor of Stamford, a city challenged by housing costs driven by its proximity to New York and Greenwich, l successfully enhanced affordable housing opportunities.
I secured $90 million for downtown affordable housing and spurred the construction of more affordable housing units than any other mayor in the state. I was the first mayor to require inclusionary zoning in new housing developments as a condition of receiving approval. The result was that in my 14 years as Mayor, Stamford saw the creation of nearly 3,000 units of affordable housing.
As Mayor, I approached the challenge of affordability by developing and implementing creative strategies. I also ensured that our creative strategies were consistent with other goals, such as revitalizing Stamford's downtown and increasing access to public transportation. For example, I advocated for zoning changes that encouraged the goal of "Transit Oriented Development" that reconnects housing with downtowns and access to rail and other mass transit options. And, I created neighborhood empowerment grants to ensure that that the connection between affordable housing and the neighborhood and communities where it is built, are seamless.
Comprehensive Strategies
I was the first Mayor to launch a "Safe House" initiative to combat illegal and unsafe housing. Connecticut must do more to address homelessness, particularly by enhancing its commitment to successful "sustainable housing" programs that help those who are at risk of revolving-door homelessness to find stability and to be at home.
It is this kind of creativity and comprehensive strategy that is needed statewide.
Connecticut should do more to support applicants for federal funding and tax credits. It should expand the affordable housing bonus in its Historic Preservation Tax Credit program - a program that creates jobs and preserves our historical assets by encouraging rehabilitation of old buildings.
Connecticut should consider bonuses for affordable housing that are consistent with Transit Oriented Development. It should approach affordable housing expansion in a way that builds community and grows neighborhood connections.
And, it must tackle homelessness by doing more to support sustainable housing programs and addressing the root causes of homelessness linked to mental illness and economic opportunity.
What progress Connecticut has made has been insufficient. The HOME Program created by the Legislature in 2007 provides planning and zoning incentives that encourage affordable housing opportunities. But the program is limited in scope and has not been adequately funded. Sustainable housing funding has been cut. State tax credits to support affordable housing and rehabilitation of historic properties have been tightly limited. We can and must do better.
Contextual Approach
We also cannot look at "housing" as a singular issue. Housing, like education and economic development, is an issue that is interconnected to the most significant issues facing our state.
Connecticut's twenty-year record of abysmal job growth is well documented and only worsened by the recent economic downturn. When we fail to invest in housing development, we fail to grow jobs. For every 1,000 units of housing, 1,330 jobs are created; 2,840 jobs for every 1,000 homes.24 Home building and housing services account for over $31 billion of economic activity, which is about 15% of the Connecticut's economy. We should consider affordable housing not only as a tool to make Connecticut more competitive, but also as an important investment in Connecticut's economic renewal.
Additionally, housing affordability in Connecticut is worsened by our overreliance on a property tax system that is among the costliest in the country. If we are to truly improve opportunities for housing and enhance Connecticut's ability to attract and retain workers and businesses, we must also recognize the additional burdens caused by our outdated and unfair property tax system.
In addition to the economic reasons we need to do better on affordable housing, there's another reason: family. Too often our young people, as they look to make lives of their own upon graduating from college or a trade school, are forced to move away from their families because they simply can't afford to live here. Inevitably, they end up not coming home. Which means they get married and raise their children far away from their roots. This is not to suggest that we shouldn't encourage our children to realize their personal and professional dreams, but it is to say that by making housing more affordable in Connecticut, we might just begin to reverse the trend where grandchildren only see their grandparents during the holidays.
For all these reasons - economic competitiveness, job creation, quality of life, and family - affordable housing needs to be at the top of the agenda for our next Governor.
References:
24DECD, Connecticut Economic Strategic Plan, 2009 (p. 105).

Source: http://danmalloy.com/policy/housing_affordability_and_opportunity
