Public Statements
Issue Position: Jobs and Economic Security
Issue Position
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

There's no question that jobs and economic security is the most important issue facing Connecticut today. Many people who have jobs are worried they'll lose them, there are too many people who are under-employed, and with unemployment hovering around 8%, there are obviously far too many people out of work.
Over the past five years, I've made it my business to meet with workers and their families across the state. From Greenwich to Griswold and from Stonington to Salisbury, one message is clear -- economic security is the biggest concern of Connecticut workers. Some have lost their jobs. Others in their family have. And each wants nothing more than to get back to work, and to know that their job will be there tomorrow. For themselves, for their kids, and for their community, they all want access to training and other opportunities that can help them enhance their careers, provide for their families and achieve their goals.
But we don't have time for on-the-job training for our next Governor. My attention to jobs and economic opportunity as Governor will be built on experience, not theory, and realistic rather than pie-in-the sky solutions that might sound good, but stand no chance of success. Serving as Mayor and revitalizing the economy of one of Connecticut's largest cities has taught me that lesson.
A First Priority
Job #1 for Connecticut's next Governor is to, finally, put in place a strategy that will help revitalize our economy. For too many years Connecticut hasn't had an economic development strategy that anyone can understand. We've careened from trying to build casinos and football stadiums to begging companies that we've bribed with taxpayer dollars to keep their jobs in Connecticut. That's not a strategy; it's desperation. It's got to stop.
There is no doubt the recession that began in December 2007 continues to take its toll on Connecticut's job environment. The current recession is the third since 1990, and it's of great concern that under the Rowland and Rell administrations, Connecticut never fully recovered from the first two. In a 2006 study by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Connecticut was ranked dead last in job growth since 1990.
If you've read the book report Gov. Rell put forward as an economic development "plan" last year, you'll understand why we rank last: we don't have a strategy. We have a bunch of statistics, shopworn phrases, and a hodge-podge of ideas that aren't connected to an overarching vision that makes sense in the new economy.
As Mayor of Stamford, I worked every day not only to create jobs in the city, but also to provide economic security by promoting a thriving economy. As a result, over 14 years we created close to 5,000 private sector jobs at small, medium and large businesses and Stamford became an international banking and financial services center. As Governor, I will apply my experience and know-how every day to protect jobs and promote Connecticut as the place to grow businesses.
Simply put, Connecticut must rethink the failed economic development policies of the past if we are to reverse course. There was a Golden Age of Connecticut when manufacturing was booming, financial services were thriving, and innovation was growing. But for too long, we've rested on the laurels of a fruitful past at the expense of a prosperous future. If we are to restore Connecticut's economic security, we need a fresh start, one based on experience, not theory, and based on a realistic game plan led by a Governor who knows how to make it work.
Becoming Competitive
Connecticut is still a place where innovative and forward thinking entrepreneurs call home. However, we are quickly losing ground to other states. In fact, since 1990 Connecticut has lost more technology employees than any other state. And, we are ranked 44th in an essential measure of future global competitiveness.1
Our record on building the small businesses that fuel job growth has been terrible. Small businesses account for 34% of all jobs in Connecticut, but we rank 46th when it comes to generating small business job growth. 2
Over the past 5 years, I've met with leaders of small and big business across the state. Their message? For 16 years, Hartford has been out of touch with the economic realities of our state. The Rowland and Rell administrations have failed to do what was necessary to compete for new jobs. They failed to do what was necessary to keep pace with changes in the global economy. And, they failed to marshal state economic development resources efficiently and effectively.
During my tenure as Mayor, Stamford earned the distinction of being one of the few cities in the Northeast to grow jobs, and it bucked the trend in Connecticut.3 It is a top-five city in terms of concentration of Fortune 500 headquarters in the country.4 It has attracted key anchor companies, like UBS and RBS in the financial services sector. Attracting and retaining the businesses that keep Connecticut working takes leadership. It takes innovation and creativity. And it takes the commitment to work every day to recruit and retain good jobs for Connecticut's workers.
A Roadmap
As your Governor, I will implement a comprehensive road map for economic security that focuses on the following twelve goals:
Listen and Lead.
Economic decisions that impact our communities are too often left in the hands of Hartford bureaucrats. Quite often the best expertise can be found in those who work closest to the areas they serve. My administration will engage local officials and business leaders in decisions that will make their communities stronger, and their local economies more competitive. There are a host of economic development projects and related issues in communities across the state that are critical to the future of those communities. Some examples include Steel Point in Bridgeport, the Norwich Hospital site in Preston and Norwich, the Seaside Regional Center property in Waterford, the future of the Pfizer site in New London. There are many other projects like those in other parts of the state. In some cases those projects that have languished because the state tried to impose its will from Hartford, as opposed to what I'd do as Governor: figure out a smart way for the state to partner with local leaders to move the projects forward to completion.
Use Incentives that Work.
Connecticut currently grants in excess of $1.9 billion a year in economic incentives to businesses of all shapes and sizes. My Administration will do a comprehensive review of these incentives; if it can be shown that the incentive has been effective in creating and/or retaining jobs, it should probably stay on the books. If the incentive hasn't worked, or if it's outlived its usefulness, then the incentive should be recast in ways that do work, or they should be terminated because they don't.
Be Bold. Think outside the box. Drive job creation.
If we don't, we'll forever be stuck in the box we've been in for 20 years: no job growth. And we'll continue to trail the nation in creating jobs going forward. To that end, as Governor I will:
* Create a new fund using close to a billion dollars in unused research & development tax credits to leverage new research and advanced manufacturing space, and encourage the participation of state and municipal pension funds to augment the initial investment. This plan, done correctly, could result in a $2 billion investment and as many as 30,000 direct jobs, and 75,000 spin-off jobs.
* Expand state investment in stem cell research and other cutting edge bio-medical fields; these investments directly generate high-quality, high-skill jobs and strengthen competitiveness in this critical field.
* Aggressively develop the state's three deep water ports, reducing Connecticut's brutal and expensive dependence on trucks. In addition to creating jobs, this will make us more economically competitive and reduce highway congestion.
* Expand on the Bradley Development Zone to bring a European connection to Bradley. Connecticut is deeply embedded in the global economy, and it's absolutely critical that Bradley support that engagement. Moreover, according to a University of Connecticut analysis, every additional million passengers at Bradley translate into 10,000 jobs in Connecticut.
* Make additional investments in the research capabilities at John Dempsey Hospital in order to allow that campus to compete more effectively for important clinical trials, research, and experimentation - thus enabling the campus to work in synergy with the major medical complex in and around Yale University."
Improve Connecticut's Business Climate
Two areas need our immediate focus: Energy costs and Health Care costs. If we can lower those costs by 10% or more, we'll immediately make Connecticut significantly more business friendly, and a favored destination for the entrepreneurs and small business owners that are the greatest job creators in America.
Reducing Energy Costs: On energy, we need a comprehensive plan designed to conserve and control costs. Our businesses pay the highest electric rates in the continental United States. As Governor, I'll lead a statewide effort to promote efficiency, lower consumption, re-focus state investments to target renewable energy, and drive down electricity prices so that our businesses have will have the breathing room they need to grow and thrive (more information on energy can be found at www.danmalloy.com/policy/energy ).
Reducing Health Care Costs: When it comes to health care, Connecticut has been routinely failed by its executive leadership. Last year, Gov. Rell's vetoed numerous health care bills that would have directly benefited small businesses, namely the Pooling Bill, which would have allowed small businesses, municipalities and nonprofit agencies greater access to affordable health care. I would support pooling as Governor and look forward to drawing on the experience of my running mate, Nancy Wyman, who spearheaded the effort to extend state prescription drug coverage to municipal contracts. Under this program cities can save up to an estimated $1.5 million in costs and smaller communities (those with less than 500 municipal workers) can save as much as $250,000. These savings will help keep workers on the job instead of on unemployment lines - a benefit that means more active participants in our economy. They could also help control local property taxes for families and businesses alike, ultimately enhancing the competitiveness of our communities. (For more information on health care please visit http://danmalloy.com/policy/health_care).
A Balanced Approach: To be clear, making Connecticut more business friendly does not mean making it less worker friendly. As with so many other arguments I've heard over the years, I reject this false choice. We can and should do both, simultaneously. That's one of the reasons I support a smart mandatory paid sick days policy; studies have shown that implemented in the right fashion, this produces a healthier, more efficient, more effective workforce, and actually saves money.
In addition, we need to do a better job of helping maturing businesses to succeed. One of the most difficult stages of business development is when a small start-up faces the complexity of employing an increasing number of workers. Companies growing to employ ten to one hundred employees face new challenges that increase the chance of failure.
As Governor, I can't guarantee a company's success, but I will commit to reforming and simplifying our regulatory system to make success more likely. In these lean times, we cannot afford to provide funding to every company that needs it, but my administration will provide assistance to companies that seek to invest in their future and help make navigating investment options more fruitful.
Succeed in Recruiting Businesses
As the Mayor of Stamford, I spent 14 years recruiting businesses to bring their jobs to the City. In fact, we made recruitment an ongoing priority - we went into New York and other states and actively engaged with businesses we thought might move, and we hosted forums to promote the advantages of working in Stamford. I played an active, engaged role in that process. And it paid off as company leaders recognized our commitment to them as a host and as a responsive, engaged community. As Governor, I'd do the same.
My administration will identify companies that have great potential to grow in Connecticut, target them for recruitment, and welcome them to our state.
As Governor, I will ensure that recruitment is about community and commitment. My administration will establish recruiting teams comprised of the local chief elected official, local economic development specialists, and other key people such as local and regional representatives from business groups such as local Chambers of Commerce and other "builders" of communities, such as educational leaders, community non-profits, foundations, and Arts and Culture organizations.
My administration will invigorate recruitment by including on these teams a representative from the Governor's office and key individuals from state agencies related to a company's industry. And, as Governor, I will be a hands-on partner in the process.
Connecticut has watched as other Governors have lured companies from our borders. Now it's time to return the favor.
Compete and Win in the High Tech, New Energy Economy
In order to ensure economic security, Connecticut must continually enhance its competitiveness, or watch jobs leave our state. Right now, our state is losing its edge in innovation and will continue to do so unless we do more to keep pace. My administration will deliver programs that support entrepreneurs and start-up businesses that grow jobs in technology and research. Connecticut can be a success story in the New Energy Economy by continuing to support home-grown alternative energy and new technologies that help us reduce our dependence on fossil fuels.
Additionally, as part of last year's Recovery Act, the federal government recently provided $2.3 billion in tax incentives for Clean Energy Manufacturing Tax Credits to qualifying projects in states like Connecticut. Connecticut's own Clean Energy Fund provides investment opportunities for manufacturing of clean energy components like the photovoltaic cells used in solar energy.5 As other states like Arizona are proving, existing programs like these have the potential to attract international investment and grow cutting-edge clean energy companies.6 We can too.
My administration will direct resources toward technologies where Connecticut has a competitive advantage and greater potential for growing and keeping high-skilled jobs and attract and grow cutting-edge companies in three ways:
First, my administration will aggressively identify and recruit cutting edge companies from around the country and beyond. Other states are way ahead of ours and we must get in the game. I have a plan that establishes targeted recruitment teams do this, and I know how to do this.
Second, if a company can qualify under the strict federal and Clean Energy guidelines, my administration will kick-start their success by providing access to a low-interest revolving loan that will not cost Connecticut taxpayers a dime.7 This is a realistic and effective plan-not one that is wishful rather than doable.
My administration will also provide companies qualifying for Clean Energy incentives with a team of ambassadors to expedite their opening. Teams will help link companies to local, state, and federal fiscal resources. Moreover, I will ensure that we have the kind of representation in our state's Washington D.C. office that can help shape federal programs in ways that will benefit Connecticut. We will assign experts in my Administration to help companies quickly comply with agency regulations, paperwork, and other reviews. In fact, qualifying companies will be given front-of-the-line priority, reducing the time it takes for them to begin putting people to work. Our teams of ambassadors will also provide expertise and legal assistance tailored to the specific needs of these cutting edge companies.8
Redouble Efforts to Revitalize Manufacturing.
For years, Connecticut's manufacturing sector thrived. While that's no longer the case, I refuse to let Connecticut cede its manufacturing heritage to distant lands. While we no longer make some of the most common consumer goods or even the arsenals of democracy that made us safe and secure, our best days do not have to be behind us. We continue to have the greatest asset any state could have - a tradition of innovation and entrepreneurship. Forty years ago, one in four persons worked in a Fortune 500 firm; now only 1 in 14 does.9 Small, innovative companies lead by pioneering entrepreneurs fuel our economic future.
But this tradition can't flourish and succeed without leadership and experience. As Governor, my administration will extend the same Ambassador service advantages we plan to make available to Clean Energy companies to cutting-edge manufacturers. My administration would also expand key programs, like CONNSTEP and CCAT, that assist small companies in integrating advanced technologies into their production lines and make them part of our Ambassadors' portfolios. This kind of localized, unique onsite assistance helps retain promising companies and increase their potential to expand in state.
We will ensure that small, growing manufacturing companies have access to legal, financial and regulatory expertise and assistance so that they neither balk at growth nor fail when they face the complexity of growing into a mid-size company. I will call on a growing cadre of highly talented volunteers in our state - retired senior executives and management experts-who I know want to be part of Connecticut's economic renaissance. This strategy of seeding our economic garden is not business as usual, it's an innovative approach that will allow us to grow a manufacturing base that provides for a diverse economy rich in jobs and built to compete and win.
Make a real commitment to move forward on Brownfields.
Many of Connecticut's urban centers have had substantial portions of property wiped out because of brownfields. But we've seen what's possible when we make an investment in redeveloping these sites. In Stamford, the Harbor Point project recently won "Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design -- Neighborhood Development Gold" certification from the U.S. Green Building Council. The project is planned to include 4,000 residences, two hotels, and 400,000 sq. feet of retail and restaurant space.
The Connecticut Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (CBRA) has made progress on many of the sites and should be commended, but the fact is more needs to be done. CBRA has identified hundreds of contaminated industrial sites in towns and cities throughout the state - the State should view each of these as an opportunity for economic development. As Governor, I will call for the creation of a $500 million revolving account to assist communities in paying for cleanup and restoration of brownfields, with the expectation that the state would recover all costs on that account in a reasonable time period.
Recognize and Invest in Women and Minority Owned Businesses.
By making it my business to listen and learn, I know that women and minority owned businesses account for about 31% of the number of small businesses in Connecticut.10 Yet, between 1993 and 2009, only about $15 million of investment has been provided to the state's primary fund supporting women and minority owned business (the Community Economic Development Fund).11 That's not only wrong, it's also not smart.
This lack of focus in investment has been underscored by a blatant disregard for the State's own goals. During the current administration, the State has fallen short of meeting its own target of ensuring that 25% of funds paid for small business contracts go to women and minority owned businesses. Under the State's set-aside program, less than 21% of funds for small business contracts are awarded women and minority owned firms.12 This is like leaving money (and jobs) on the table. As Governor, I'll re-focus the state's attention on these critical businesses, and will commit to having the State achieve its investment goals.
Improve and Enhance Infrastructure and Transportation.
Connecticut can grow jobs and revitalize the infrastructure to enhance future economic growth. Whether it's through investments in building more affordable housing, rehabilitating historic buildings in our downtowns, improving our mass transit and transportation infrastructure, or enhancing our air and sea ports, Connecticut should prioritize projects that create jobs and improve our competitiveness. Oregon targeted $175 million to capital projects and renovation; Virginia targeted $230 million, Ohio $1.57 billion. A Malloy administration would focus resources on projects with a big payoff, rather than on earmarked projects that can be inconsistent with a statewide economic strategic plan.
We know that for every 10 transportation construction jobs, about 7 more jobs are created in the economy. Our own Department of Transportation recognized this in their applications for federal transportation Recovery Act funds (aka "Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery or TIGER funds). 13 Investments in transportation projects not only provide jobs, they fuel long-term improvements in our quality of life and our ability to attract, grow and retain companies and their workers.
In fact, since the beginning of the economic recession, states across the country have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in transportation enhancements as a key to job growth and economic competitiveness (e.g. Illinois invested $31 billion, Vermont $100 million).14 Many have also successfully tapped into federal TIGER funding.
Connecticut, on the other hand, failed miserably in winning any of the $630 million in TIGER funds applied for by the State Department of Transportation (DOT), regional planning agencies and localities. Many point to poor leadership at the DOT for failing to submit adequate applications. $630 million could have fueled the creation of more than 40,000 much needed jobs in this state. 15 The Administration regrettably dropped the ball on TIGER funds. It even dropped the ball in other areas of Recovery Act funding.
Connecticut is ranked a remarkable 54th in jobs created with Recovery Act funds - worse than every other state, the Virgin Islands, and Guam. This highlights the failure of the Rell Administration in competing for federal funds, and in actually shaping federal programs in ways that help Connecticut.16
Rather than compete and win, we lost big time. Sometimes we didn't even play. Key projects like those renovating the Moses Wheeler bridge between Milford to Stratford, the New Britain-to-Hartford busway, and a $3.5 billion harbor redevelopment project in Stamford, are part of a long list of missed opportunities, where instead we could be creating jobs and growing our economy right now.17
Given that time is running out, I wish I could start tomorrow in reframing Connecticut's approach to shaping and competing for federal funding across a range of job-creating industries and sectors. But I can't, so in the meantime I urge the Governor to fight for funding during the days left in her Administration. The only way to succeed over the long term, to get our fair share, is for the next Governor to create a team that will represent Connecticut more effectively in our nation's capitol, and provide the help needed in our state for businesses, state agencies, non-profits, universities and indeed all those who want to compete and win in securing federal dollars to grow our economy. I know how teams like that work - that's what we did in Stamford - and I will do the same as Governor.
Institute Benchmarks and Greater Accountability.
Excelling in the innovation economy requires Connecticut resources to be targeted more efficiently. Many thriving states have instituted benchmark systems that help leaders identify critical economic needs, like the need for more engineers or difficulty in attracting capital. As Governor, I will identify strategic economic benchmarks to ensure that state resources are allocated as efficiently as possible.
And, my administration would make sure that any state assistance provided for economic development is transparent and that companies receiving assistance are held accountable to the goals they promise. How ridiculous is it that, to this day, despite repeated attempts by the Auditors of Public Accounts to get this policy changed, the State still refuses to release a comprehensive list of companies that have received state aid and their respective records on job creation and wages paid?
Focus on Workforce Development and Education.
Today, Connecticut's workers are no longer just competing with workers from other states but with workers from other countries. And in an age where our economy is rapidly changing, the jobs we have depended on for generations are fading away, being replaced by jobs that require newer and quite different skills. Today, ensuring that "life-long learning" strategies are in place for Connecticut students and workers is critical to the prosperity and economic security of all. My administration will develop comprehensive strategies for enhancing education (http://www.danmalloy.com/policy/education) at all levels, including improving links between workforce training and our key competitive industries, retooling career ladders to keep pace with our changing economy, and ensuring access to affordable, and relevant incumbent worker training. We have to harness workforce development, education at all levels, private sector support and the philanthropic community in this effort-that's how we made it work in Stamford and that's how we can do this statewide.
Forward Thinking
Government can't fix the economy by itself, nor should it try. But what government can do is help put in place an economic development strategy that makes sense for the 21st century economy, instead of holding onto strategies that were designed for the last century.
We need to recognize and value the critical engines of job growth in our state-the small businesses, run by men and women, and drawn from a diverse group of Connecticut entrepreneurs--that deserve better from state government.
We need to understand the need for balance: that we can grow the economy and create jobs while protecting the environment, preserving what's best about Connecticut, and promoting fair policies for workers. All while running a game plan that allows us to compete and win in the high tech new energy economy.
We need to engage everyone in this effort, and provide support from state government. We need the energy and expertise of retired business leaders, or retired shop stewards, in fact anyone with experience to mentor and support the growth of Connecticut's businesses and workers.
Even more important, we need to be mindful of young people in our state - building an economy with their future in mind will guarantee the kind of economy and job opportunities we want in our state now and for generations to come.
But what matters most is leadership. What Connecticut deserves from its next Governor is experience, vision, and the ability to listen and lead. As the Mayor of Stamford, I worked day and night to help create jobs and revitalize the Stamford economy with these values as my guide.
The results speak for themselves. I know I can help lead the way at the state level if I'm given the chance.
References:
1CERC "Benchmarking Connecticut 2007 - A comparative Analysis of Innovation and Technology"
2CERC Report p. 43
3http://www.bos.frb.org/economic/neppc/memos/2006/brome102006.pdf
4http://www.city-data.com/us-cities/The-Northeast/Stamford-Economy.html
5http://www.ctcleanenergy.com/CleanEnergyIncentives/tabid/57/Default.aspx
6http://www.glgroup.com/News/Impact-of-Clean-Energy-Manufacturing-Tax-Incentives-45889.html
7Establishes a revolving loan fund through a revenue bond paid back with the proceeds of the loans.
8Teams would be comprised of a representative from the Governor's office, appropriate local economic development designees, and key individuals from state agencies related to a particular company's industry.
9http://www.sba.gov/advo/research/sbe_06_ch06.pdf
10http://www.sba.gov/advo/research/profiles/
11OLR Report 2009-R-0013
12http://www.ct.gov/chro/lib/chro/pdf/chro_ccrpt_fy05thru08.pdf
13For example, see http://www.ct.gov/recovery/lib/recovery/certification/transportation/tiger/ctdot-_stamford_complete_streets_transit_project_tiger_grant_9-15-09.pdf and http://www.ct.gov/recovery/lib/recovery/certification/transportation/tiger/ctdot_-_moses_wheeler_bridge_project_tiger_grant_appl_09-15-09_final.pdf
14NCSL State Economic Stimulus Plans http://ncsl.org/?tabid=12579
15Based on the cost per job creation, both indirect and direct, noted in the DOT Tiger Application for the Moses-Wheeler Bridge and Stamford Complete Streets Transit Project.
16http://www.staterecovery.org/connecticut
11http://www.ct.gov/dot/cwp/view.asp?a=1372&Q=444928&PM=1

Source: http://danmalloy.com/policy/jobs_and_economy
