Public Statements
Issue Position: Education
Issue Position
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 1, 2010
Location: Unknown

As a young boy who faced a learning disability, I understand the importance of schools in helping all students reach their potential. Because my mother refused to let that disability overtake my desire to learn, and because I was taught by caring, dedicated teachers in schools that treated me as more than a test score, I was able to overcome my disability. Then I went on to graduate from law school and become a prosecutor, before becoming Mayor of Stamford and the Democratic Party's endorsed candidate for Governor.
That's what schools can help you do. But for my parents and my teachers, I would not be a candidate for Governor today. No way. Their kind, loving attention, their patience, their determination that I would not be left behind -- all of that, taken together, changed my life. As that type of commitment has changed the lives of so many others.
On my watch, that's my dream for Connecticut's children: that they are given every chance to succeed, and that the environment in which they learn leaves the same impact on their lives that it left on mine.
One early example of my commitment to education is the selection of my running mate, Nancy Wyman. Most people know her for her record of blowing the whistle early on the state's deteriorating financial condition, and for her groundbreaking work on health care. But prior to that, Nancy made a real mark on the issue of education. She served as vice-chair of the Tolland Board of Education, and co-Chair of the Legislature's Education Committee when she was a state representative. She brings a wealth of education experience to this effort, and she'll have a strong voice and role in the education policies my Administration puts forward.
Nancy agrees with me when I say that as much as we need to focus on rebuilding our economy and getting the state's fiscal house in order, there is nothing as important as the conversation this state needs to have about how we educate our children.
Priorities
Our children depend on us. The sad truth is, we've let too many of them down, especially in our urban areas. That we are still talking about Sheff v. O'Neill more than 21 years after the lawsuit was first brought is just one indication of that reality. And let's be clear: the achievement gap that exists in Connecticut is a tragedy. We should be ashamed of it. It's the worst in the nation, and it's got to be fixed. As Mayor, I reduced it in Stamford. As Governor, I'll do the same across the state. How? By strengthening our public schools, by making sure parents, teachers, and administrators are working together, and by helping to push reforms that make sense.
So, let's talk about education reform.







































































Source:
