Public Statements
Malloy Calls For Statewide Universal Pre-K
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 26, 2006
Location: New Britain, CT


Malloy Calls For Statewide Universal Pre-K
07.26.2006
Category: Education
NEW BRITAIN - Endorsed Democrat for Governor Dan Malloy today addressed an Educational Opportunity Candidates' Forum at Central Connecticut State University, where he called for a statewide universal pre-kindergarten program in Connecticut.
"The fact is, study after study has shown that early education is critical to future academic success, and necessary in leveling the playing field for our children," said Malloy. "Too often kindergarten teachers are faced with a dilemma: half their students arrive ready to learn, with skill sets and knowledge that the other students do not yet have. The result is that every child is worse off. It's imperative that we fix the system."
Malloy discussed universal pre-k as just a part of the solution offered in his "Life-Long Learning Initiative." In addition to universal pre-k, the plan also proposes strengthening ties between high schools and colleges in Connecticut, ensuring that state colleges are affordable, increasing workforce investment and job training, and supporting the teaching profession "from recruitment through retirement."
Malloy cited the success that Stamford has had with its city-wide, universal pre-k "School Readiness Program," which entitles all four year olds in the City of Stamford to a preschool experience regardless of their economic circumstances. Stamford was the first city in Connecticut to implement such a program, which has since earned national recognition.
"In Stamford, we seek to guarantee every child a pre-k experience, regardless of financial circumstance. Our goal is to expand universal pre-school to include all three and four-year-olds. As governor, I will take this program statewide," Malloy said. "The benefits of an early educational experience are countless -- well worth the investment. Our children, and our future, depend on it."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=6675
