Public Statements
Malloy Unveils First Phase Of Tax Reform Proposal
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 20, 2006
Location: Hartford, CT


Malloy Unveils First Phase Of Tax Reform Proposal
07.20.2006
Category: Taxes
Hartford -- Endorsed Democrat for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today discussed the first steps he would take as Governor to address the tax crisis in Connecticut. Joined by State Representatives Andy Fleischmann, David McClusky, and Faith McMahon, as well as State Senator Tom Gaffey, Malloy outlined the initial phase of his plan to be implemented in his first year in office. Calling it "the immediate and necessary first steps to comprehensive reform", Malloy went on to discuss future measures that a Malloy administration would explore.
Phase I of Malloy's plan focuses on creating a more equitable, progressive system of taxation, necessary to address the state's over-reliance on property taxes. With that goal, it takes a 3-part approach to tax reform:
· Funding education: The plan will dedicate $545 million in new education aid to towns and cities by setting aside state casino, lottery, and other gaming revenues. It will increase the state base per pupil education grant by about 25%. And finally it will address special education costs that burden local budgets by lowering the threshold at which the state begins paying for special education students. To replace gaming revenues that will be diverted for education, the plan also includes progressive changes to the income tax and the elimination of special interest tax breaks.
· Senior Property Tax Relief: The plan adds a $500 refundable income tax credit to the existing $500 property tax credit to help provide relief to more elderly residents from rising housing costs. This credit will be available to seniors earning less than $74,000 -- regardless of whether they own or rent -- and lower income veterans and individuals with disabilities.
· A More Progessive Tax System: Phase I of Malloy's plan argues firstly for a more progressive tax structure by proposing an income tax increase for joint filers making over $1,000,000, heads of households making over $792,000, and singles making over $531,500. It also calls for ending tax breaks for special interests by prioritizing the $620 million they already receive and end those that do not bring a commensurate benefit to the state.
Malloy went on to discuss a number of options that his administration would explore as possibilities for Phase II of his plan. They include, but are not limited to: the sharing of certain tax revenues amongst local municipalities, allowing towns to tax different types of property at different rates, expanding income tax credits, providing homestead exemptions, and instituting property tax rebates.
"I'm very proud today to be opening the dialogue on this critical issue. The fact is, if the people of Connecticut were tasked today with designing a tax structure to pay for local government, to pay for education, to support our senior citizens... this current system is not the one we would choose. Why then, should we continue to suffer under it?" asked Malloy. "Phase one of my plan takes bold measures to create a more fair and equitable tax structure. It will give local municipalities the breathing room they so desperately need."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=6636
