Public Statements
A Letter From Dan Malloy To UNITE HERE Leadership Representing Hotel Workers
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 19, 2006
Location: Unknown


A Letter From Dan Malloy To UNITE HERE Leadership Representing Hotel Workers
07.19.2006
Category: General
The following is a letter from Dan Malloy to UNITE HERE leadership representing hotel workers:
Last night after the debate in New London, someone came up to me and told me that they'd taken exception to my comments about hotel jobs; this woman explained to me that she was offended, and why she was offended. I'd like to take this opportunity to say that I misspoke, and that it was certainly not my intention to offend anyone, least of all the hard-working men and women who work in hotels across the state.
At the time, I believe we were discussing eminent domain and its use in economic development. What I meant to say in my comments was that when eminent domain is used for the purpose of development that it must lead to long term jobs with full benefits that will help grow the community, not low paying or part-time jobs with no benefits that do not provide long term economic growth for the community. In addition, the current practice of some hotels and other businesses of not allowing employees to work enough hours to qualify for benefits must stop. These are the types of jobs that I was referring to in my comments.
The irony is that I have stood with union organizing drives at the Doubletree Hotel in Norwalk, the Hartford Convention Center, the Justice for Janitors movement and other important general union fights such as at Sikorsky and at Stamford Hospital.
To be clear: I misspoke. Even those of us who speak publicly every day do that from time to time. I certainly didn't mean to offend anyone. In fact, my comments were meant to be a statement of solidarity.
This is certainly a case where actions speak louder than words. I am happy to discuss this further at your convenience if you would like. Please accept my sincere apologies.
Sincerely,
Dan Malloy
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=6632
