Public Statements
Malloy Urges Strategic Near And Long-Term Energy Focus
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 17, 2006
Location: Uncasville, CT


Malloy Urges Strategic Near And Long-Term Energy Focus
07.17.2006
Category: Energy
Uncasville -- This morning, Dan Malloy, the endorsed Democrat running for Governor, along with State Senator Andrea Stillman, and State Representative Betsy Ritter, spoke in front of NRG Energy, Inc. to discuss his proposal to address the energy crisis disproportionately disadvantaging Connecticut citizens and businesses. "When I am elected Governor, I will confront the energy issue head on," he said on probably the hottest day of the summer. "As I successfully did in Stamford, I will focus on Clean and Lean energy to make Connecticut a better and more affordable place to raise a family and to grow jobs." The proposal can be found by clicking here or visiting www.danmalloy.com.
In response, Governor Rell this afternoon released a letter, promising to deliver to the state an energy policy in two weeks, "Under Governor Rell, we have had no leadership on energy policy, just rhetoric and inaction -- inaction that each year costs ratepayers $200 million in federal congestion penalties and hundreds of millions more in inefficient use of increasingly costly electricity. It's entirely IN character that after hearing of my initiative, the governor would only now announce her intent to address this issue... in two weeks?! She's had twelve years to think about energy." Malloy said.
"We now must make up lost time in Connecticut, " said Ritter, herself a member of the Energy and Technology Committee, "The Malloy plan is comprehensive, addressing the near- and long-term, employing a broad approach." "Mayor Malloy's initiative is sound policy that will take us in the right direction," added Stillman.
The Malloy initiative is a multi-pronged approach that includes investment in alternative energy sources, such as fuel cells; conservation plans; and generation projects. "It's just not right that Connecticut prices for energy are so far above the national average," he said, referring to Connecticut's price of $14.03 per kilowatt hour, compared to the national average of $8.40. "It's no shocker that businesses are moving out of Connecticut where energy costs are lower. In Connecticut, our precious businesses just can't compete. "
"The human factor is even more compelling. We are now facing a crisis. But Connecticut temps -- summer highs and winter lows -- are nothing new for our New England state. As the old adage goes, 'if you don't like the weather, just wait a moment and it will change.' These waiting periods can be deadly for those vulnerable to temperature extremes -- the elderly, the poor, those without the means to afford rising energy costs. These days, that's the vast majority of Connecticut residents."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=6647
