Public Statements
The Norwich Bulletin - Malloy Campaigns At Electric Boat
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 12, 2006
Location: Groton, CT


Malloy Campaigns At Electric Boat
07.12.2006. Category: Jobs
By RAY HACKETT
Norwich Bulletin
GROTON -- Charles Hedding has seen many politicians campaigning outside the gates of Electric Boat during the 37 years he has worked for the company.
Democratic gubernatorial candidate Dan Malloy of Stamford took his turn at the gates Tuesday, greeting the wave of first-shift workers leaving through the north gate.
Hedding said he doesn't believe the gubernatorial candidates can reverse the recent downsizing at the plant, but he doesn't consider it political grandstanding.
"They're trying to get elected, and this is what you've got to do," the New London native said Tuesday. "It would be nice if they could do something. But ultimately, it's the Navy that makes the decision regarding submarine production."
"I can understand how they might feel that politicians don't care, or can't get the job done," Malloy said. "But we're talking about jobs, and I've got a plan. And my plan begins by holding me accountable."
Malloy's campaign stop came the day after EB announced layoffs of 440 workers, the second wave of layoffs this year -- with more scheduled before 2006 ends.
Hedding, a member of the boilermakers union, avoided this latest round of layoffs. But about 100 of his fellow union workers didn't, and will lose their jobs Sept. 8.
"The Navy has a schedule, and it's not looking like things are going to change anytime soon," he said.
Both Malloy and his Democratic primary challenger, John DeStefano of New Haven, criticized Gov. M. Jodi Rell's administration for the job losses. Malloy focused his criticism on the state's high energy costs and DeStefano on the administration's lack of investment in transportation infrastructure.
"This company, like all Connecticut businesses, are in a competitive situation," Malloy said. "We've got to drive electric prices down, and that's not going to happen with this governor."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=6569
