Public Statements
Malloy Talks Jobs, Environment, And Crime Throughout Eastern Connecticut
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 11, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Talks Jobs, Environment, And Crime Throughout Eastern Connecticut
07.11.2006
Category: Jobs
Makes stops in Vernon, Groton, Colchester and Westbrook
Endorsed Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, on the heels of out-raising his two opponents in the last filing quarter, today visited several cities and towns in Eastern Connecticut. Malloy was joined by local elected officials and community leaders as he discussed issues such as job growth and retention, protecting the environment, and fighting crime.
Malloy's first stop was Vernon, where he received the endorsement of Vernon Mayor Dr. Ellen Marmer. As they walked together through Vernon's business district, the two Mayors spoke of the need for systematic tax reform to reduce the property tax burden, as well as the need for comprehensive economic development plans to lift Connecticut out of economic stagnation. "I am delighted to offer my support for Dan Malloy and Mary Messina Glassman as they seek the offices of Governor and Lt. Governor," said Mayor Marmer. "It is about time that Connecticut has a leadership team that is working for Connecticut -- actually tackling the problems most on people's minds."
Malloy's next stop was Colchester, where he held a press conference to discuss crime and the police force in Connecticut. Participants in the press conference included Colchester First Selectwoman Jenny Contois, State Representative Linda Orange, Democratic State Central Committee Secretary Barbara Gordon and East Haddam First Selectman Brad Parker. Malloy reviewed aspects of his Community Crime Reduction Initiative, introduced last month, specifically highlighted plans to put at least 1,000 more police officers on the streets. Malloy has called for legislation to increase the minimum State Trooper staffing levels and to enable more troopers to participate in the resident trooper program -- particularly important in Eastern Connecticut.
From there Mayor Malloy drove to Groton, where he addressed workers at Electric Boat. The visit came in the wake of Electric Boat's announcement yesterday that an additional 440 jobs would be cut. Said Malloy, "The Rell and Rowland Administrations have employed a top-down, fly-blind, hope-for-the-best approach to jobs and the economy," said Malloy. "But 'the best' hasn't happened. In fact, over a 15 year period, Connecticut has been ranked dead last in job growth and retention of all 50 states. Governor Rell's 'plan' has turned out to be more of the same old tired ideas that just don't work. The hard working, dedicated people of Connecticut deserve more. We need a whole new way of doing business. We need a different kind of leadership."
Malloy's last stop was Westbrook, where he met with local officials to discuss the importance of environmental stewardship and clean energy. Malloy, who released an environmental proposal earlier in the campaign, also touched on a local issue affecting the area, the dispute over the creation of a regional sewer system. The proposal worries some local residents, who fear the environmental impact such a system might have. "The most important thing is that State Government has to act as a true partner with local communities, respect local communities' wishes, and work as a partner to find environmentally sound and progressive solutions."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=6597
