Public Statements
Weekly Wrap Up -- July 7
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 7, 2006
Location: Unknown


Weekly Wrap Up -- July 7
Topic: Campaign News
This week my campaign for Governor continued to crisscross the state, making stops in a number of communities across Connecticut, including New Haven, Waterbury, Hartford, Manchester, Canterbury and Willimantic. It's an exciting time for us, as we build momentum approaching the primary in August on our way to the general election. Whether it was marching in a Fourth of July celebration in Willimantic, or canvassing the streets of New Haven with volunteers, the sense of growing excitement over the campaign is palpable.
Unfortunately though, this week our Governor gave the people of Connecticut a different reason to get excited about this race. The Hartford Courant and other papers are now reporting on the most recent in a string of scandals surrounding her office (read more in today's editorial in the Courant). Like many of you, I am deeply troubled by Governor Rell's conduct. Originally we may have given the Governor the benefit of the doubt. But now, as we learn about Governor Rell's Chief of Staff, Lisa Moody, misleading the legislature, and Governor Rell's inappropriate threats toward our Speaker of the House, Jim Amann, there is simply too much to ignore. That is why this week I called for Connecticut's Chief State's Attorney to reopen the investigation of Gov. Rell's Chief of Staff, and to examine new evidence that she and other members of the Rell Administration have innapropriately interfered with the legislative investigation.
It is time that together we stand up and end the culture of corruption that has surrounded our Governor's office for too many years. Upon taking office, Governor Rell said her "first order of business" was to clean up the ethical lapses in state government. My friends, the simple fact is that she has not done that, and it's time for a change. My campaign is about offering a new choice, and a new kind of leadership for Connecticut. I know that together we will clean up our government, and that it will be the first step toward a brighter, more successful, and more livable Connecticut.
Posted 07.07.2006 by Dan Malloy
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=blogExcerpts&entryID=1048
