Public Statements
The Middletown Press - Malloy: Middletown To Become A 'Powerhouse'
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 28, 2006
Location: Unknown


06/28/2006
Malloy: Middletown To Become A 'Powerhouse'
By: Matthew Engelhardt , Press Staff
Malloy marched up and down Main Street, flanked by members of his campaign staff and State Rep. Joseph Serra (D-33). Malloy stopped into area restaurants and shops to say hello to voters, introducing himself and his platform as he makes his run for the governor's office.
According to Malloy, Middletown is a city on the rise that has been left off the radar by recent Republican governors. He addressed the needs of the city with folks on the street and discussed what the state can do to help improve the area.
"You have major issues and you have been ignored for so long," Malloy said.
Malloy explained his educational policy, noting that Middletown has a tax base that is not growing as fast as its school budget. He talked about the traffic problems related to the Arrigoni Bridge and of the planned power plant that would bring tax revenue into the community.
The Stamford mayor is involved in a tight race with New Haven Mayor John DeStefano for the Democratic nomination for governor. The winner will go on to face incumbent Republican Gov. M. Jodi Rell in the November election.
Middletown has a history of voting for Democrats in state and national elections. Malloy called the city a "Democratic stronghold," and was visiting for the second time in a week.
"I have a lot of support here," Malloy said. "It has grown since the convention. So I think I am going to do very well here, but we don't take anything for granted."
Malloy said he identified with local voters and that as Stamford mayor, he deals with a city that has many similarities to Middletown.
"This is a major concentration of Democrats," Malloy said. "On the other hand, I have to say they are my kind of Democrats. I think they would find me a much more attractive candidate than the mayor of New Haven. Yesterday I came out with a crime proposal that will directly impact this community. I want to put a thousand new police officers on the streets in Connecticut."
Malloy said that many of those new officers would be assigned to city departments such as Middletown. According to him, increases in crime require more prevention and increasing police presence will make for a safer community.
"You have a great city," Malloy said. "You have a lot of neat things going on your main drag there and you should be proud that this has been preserved, and you can see that it's making a comeback. I think that if we could fix the transportation woes and we had a different way to pay for education, this town would take off."
If elected, Malloy said he would fight for cities like Middletown and help eliminate the traffic impediments and other problems that are blocking progress. Along with Meriden and Bristol, he said that Middletown was one of the smaller cities in the state that could really become a "powerhouse."
"That two Republican governors haven't been able to get that just amazes me," Malloy said.
While their candidate spoke to voters, the campaign staff waived signs and passed out literature to diners and walkers.
"People are always receptive to Dan," said Kelly Libby, Malloy's canvassing manager. "He's a great candidate and a really good guy."
The Democratic primary will be held on Aug. 8.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=6500
