Public Statements
The Hartford Courant - Malloy Plan Calls For 1,000 More Officers
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 27, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Plan Calls For 1,000 More Officers
06.27.2006. Category: Crime
By CHRISTOPHER KEATING
Hartford Courant
Speaking at a church in Hartford's North End, Democratic gubernatorial candidate Dannel P. Malloy called Monday for the placing of 1,000 more police officers on streets statewide and the adoption of "common sense gun control" in an attempt to reduce violence.
Malloy announced his crime-fighting initiative at Bethel AME Zion Church at Albany Avenue and Vine Street because the corner is near the heart of a spate of violence in the city that has killed three people and wounded more than 20 since May 24.
The initiative would cost at least $92.5 million over four years, but Malloy declined to disclose the exact cost, partly because, he said, "some of it we're going to have to price out further."
Malloy also declined to specify how the plan would be funded.
"I'm always asked the question: How are you going to pay for it?" Malloy said after the announcement. "How I'm going to pay for it is by being a better budgeter, a better executive and testing presumptions. Right now, we operate under the presumption that the more people we send to jail, the better - and that there's no cost assigned for failure to provide programs that keep people out of jail. I reject that 100 percent. I want to be very clear."
The state, he said, does not calculate what would be saved by improving prevention programs and reducing the prison population.
A key component of Malloy's plan is spending a total of $35 million over four years to increase the number of state troopers and providing matching funds to cities and towns to increase community policing efforts.
The state has repeatedly fallen below the minimum level of 1,248 state troopers that was set by the legislature, but Malloy said he would increase that to 1,600 troopers by 2010.
Malloy's opponent in the Aug. 8 Democratic gubernatorial primary, New Haven Mayor John DeStefano Jr., ripped the proposal as impractical and under-funded.
It would cost $150 million over the course of four years to hire the state and local officers, from 250 in the first year up to 1,000 in the fourth at salaries of $60,000 a year, said DeStefano spokesman Derek Slap. He said $60,000 was a conservative number because it would need to cover the officers' salaries, benefits, overtime, uniforms, guns and bulletproof vests.
"It's just throwing big numbers out there and trying to snow people," Slap said. "It's the exact same thing he did with his health care plan. It is becoming very typical. ... It seems the Malloy campaign is engaged in a cynical political game, willing to say anything to win - even if it means making a mockery of community policing."
Malloy announced his plan to an audience of about 30 people, including Democratic state legislators and residents. Malloy asked Hartford Mayor Eddie A. Perez to find a place to announce the statewide plan, and Perez said he immediately thought of Bethel AME Zion Church and its pastor, the Rev. Alvan Johnson.
"We need to have as many officers on our streets, 24-7," Perez said.
Perez supports Malloy in the primary. The winner will face Republican Gov. M. Jodi Rell in November, and Malloy has come to Perez's defense in his recent clash with Rell over sending state troopers into the North End to help Hartford police during the recent violence. After a testy exchange of letters that were made public, Rell and Perez pledged to work together to help end violence.
"The mayor, despite the words of the governor, is going it alone," Malloy told the audience in the church. "I can assure you, when I am governor, I'm not going to pick fights with people who are on the front lines."
Rell's campaign spokesman, Rich Harris, rejected Malloy's statements, saying Rell proved she was assisting Hartford, by directing the state police to work with local officers. Rell, he added, proposed boosting the number of troopers to the state-mandated 1,248, but retirements have dropped the total below that.
Rell, DeStefano, Malloy and Perez all support a bill that would require gun owners to report stolen or lost weapons within three days or face a minimum $500 fine. Malloy said Monday that he would push again for the legislation as part of his "common sense gun control," even though it was defeated in late April in the House of Representatives as the session was winding down.
When asked whether he blamed the legislature for the bill's failure, Malloy responded: "No. The governor blew it. ... Did they miss an opportunity? Yes. If she had championed it, it would have passed."
Harris, though, said it was unfair to blame Rell for the failure of a bill in the Democratic-controlled House.
"Of course, it's all the governor's fault. Naturally," Harris said. "It rained pretty hard over the weekend, and I'm sure it was the governor's fault."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=6472
