Public Statements
Malloy: Governor Rell Failing State On Jobs And Economy
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 21, 2006
Location: New London, CT


Malloy: Governor Rell Failing State On Jobs And Economy
06.21.2006
Category: Jobs
Malloy, in Eastern Connecticut, says recent job losses highlight Rell's lack of leadership; pledges to work to expand jobs and diversify the economy
New London -- Dan Malloy, endorsed Democratic candidate for Governor, visited Eastern Connecticut, a region hard hit by layoffs and job losses, and called Governor Rell's record in job creation a dismal failure and highlighted his own plans for creating 100,000 new jobs in Connecticut and investing to diversify the region's economy.
Malloy, joined by local elected officials and community leaders, stood on City Pier along the Thames River in New London, overlooking the site in neighboring Groton of the recently announced plans to eliminate hundreds of manufacturing jobs at Pfizer. Malloy pledged to work with businesses to expand their R&D operations and attract other innovation economy jobs to the state and the region.
"I know how devastating these job losses are -- especially here in Eastern Connecticut, which has already been hard hit by job losses in recent years," said Malloy. "Sadly, these announcements highlight Gov. Rell's dismal record in leading our state's economy."
"We need a governor who will work to diversify our economy, who will work to keep the good jobs we have and who will work to attract new industries and new jobs to our state. And we need to expand and diversify the economy of this region," said Malloy. "I am here today to pledge to you that I will do just that when I am governor."
Malloy's visit to the region comes just one day after two large, long-time Connecticut employers announced they were moving 600 jobs out of the state. With those announcements, Pfizer in Groton and Lego in Enfield join a staggering list of more than 5,000 job cuts announced in every corner of the state -- in just this year alone.
"It's time for real leadership and a plan to move our economy forward so that Connecticut is number one again -- instead of dead last in job growth, as it was for the last 15 years."
"Dan Malloy knows that job creation and improving the economy are the most important jobs for our next governor," said State Senator Andrea Stillman (D - 20). "We need leadership from our governor, and we need a real plan to move our state forward again. Dan Malloy has a plan to create jobs, to reduce the highest in the nation electricity cost, to guarantee universal health coverage and reduced costs -- which are all critical to improving our economy."
Said Representative Ted Moukawsher (D - 40), "We've had a tough time in this part of the state the last few years. We need more than a caretaker, we need a creative leader For us, it's critical to have a governor who knows how to retain the jobs we have and attract new jobs. Dan's done that as mayor of Stamford - creating 5,000 new jobs while the rest of the state was stagnant -- and I know he can do that for all of Connecticut."
Malloy's plan will invest in Eastern Connecticut to support diversifying the economy; provide life-long learning and worker retraining to help those in transition; work to reduce health care costs and provide universal coverage; and reduce the costs of energy -- all of which are critical to businesses when they decide to stay or expand in the state.

"It's time for Connecticut to move forward again," said Malloy. "That's why I have proposed my jobs plan -- Every Job Matters -- which is a detailed plan to make Connecticut number one again and bring 100,000 new jobs to our state. And it's why I say to the people of Connecticut that I will give them 100,000 new jobs -- if they just give me one."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=6441
