Public Statements
Malloy: Devastating Job Loss Announcements Today Highlight Rell's Dismal Record In Leading State's Economy
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 20, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy: Devastating Job Loss Announcements Today Highlight Rell's Dismal Record In Leading State's Economy
06.20.2006
Category: Jobs
Pfizer, Lego join growing list of lost jobs under Rell's watch -- nearly 5,000 in this year alone -- due to Governor's failure to improve CT economy

Statement of Dan Malloy, endorsed Democratic candidate for Governor:

Connecticut today lost nearly 600 jobs as two large, long-time Connecticut employers announced they were moving jobs out of the state. The job losses announced today of 300 workers in Groton at Pfizer and 300 more layoffs in Enfield at the Lego production facility join a staggering list of jobs that are leaving the state -- nearly 5,000 job losses announced just this year alone.

The announcements today are devastating, and they highlight Gov. Rell's dismal record in leading our state's economy.

Sadly for Connecticut and the hard working men and women who live and work in our state, this Governor has been a complete failure when it comes to showing the leadership we need to create new jobs -- or even to keep the ones we have.

Gov. Rell has failed us time and again when it comes to improving our economy: she has no jobs plan, no energy plan to deal with the highest in the nation electricity cost, no health care plan to guarantee universal coverage and reduce costs, no education plan -- all of which are critical to creating jobs, retaining businesses in our state, and improving our economy.

The governor continually seems surprised at events where she should be playing a highly active role. How often has the governor reached out to these major, name brand employers in the last 12 months? What was her plan for retaining these jobs? What is her strategy and plan to ensure that more jobs are created by Pfizer and other employers?

These are not questions that should have to be asked every time Connecticut sustains one economic blow after another. We deserve better than governing by surprise. It's time for real leadership and a plan to move our economy forward so that Connecticut is number one again -- instead of dead last in job growth as it's been for the last 15 years.

That kind of leadership and plan for our future is how as Mayor I was able to turn Stamford around and create 5,000 new jobs at a time the rest of the state was stuck in neutral or losing jobs.
That's why I have proposed my jobs plan -- Every Job Matters -- which is a plan to make Connecticut number one again and bring 100,000 new jobs to our state. And why I say to the people of Connecticut that I will give them 100,000 new jobs -- if they just give me one.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=6428
