Public Statements
Preserving The Open Internet
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 15, 2006
Location: Unknown


Preserving The Open Internet
This entry is cross-posted from My Left Nutmeg
In the coming months, I hope that we can engage in a discussion about the broad issues facing our state: how we create more jobs, grow the economy, provide universal health care for everyone in Connecticut, and tackle other tough issues that help us prosper and become competitive once again.
For my first diary here, however, I'd like to discuss a more specific issue that I'm sure is near and dear to each of you: internet access. I certainly don't need to explain to anyone reading a blog how the internet has revolutionized the way we work and socialize, or convince you all that making access as easy and fast as possible is a benefit to us personally, and also to our businesses and our communities. There are, however, some more specific things going on right now that are probably of interest to you.
Firstly, if you're like me you've been following the "net neutrality" debate with concern. If you aren't familiar, net neutrality is - in short - the idea that the internet should be a level playing field, and that websites should be granted equal treatment by telecommunications companies. Many of those companies would like to create a tiered system, where websites must pay to allow users to access their content faster than others. Last week, the House rejected a Democrat sponsored amendment that attempted to preserve net neutrality.
We've been lucky enough to see the internet explosion first hand over the past 10-15 years. It has revolutionized the way we do business and spurred the economy. It has fueled and facilitated scholarly debate, as well as scientific discovery. And it has been able to do that because it is an open system. We simply cannot afford to take away that component, so critical to its success, and to ours. Limiting access to certain areas of the web is a slippery slope down the wrong path. I stand with my fellow Democrats who support the Internet Freedom Preservation Act, and I hope you all do as well.
On a local note, next week in Stamford I will unveil the city's first free wifi hotspot, covering Columbus Park (it will be up and running for the beginning of our Alive@5 concert series, so I urge anyone in Stamford to come and hear some live music while browsing this site!). It's a pilot program, but in time we'll be building out from the park, allowing more and more of the city to access the wifi. We're certainly excited about the freedom this will offer our residents, and also about the benefit to local businesses. Services such as these draw people out into their downtowns, and can only have a positive influence on a community.
That's it for now. I have been and will continue to campaign on a platform of ideas that work towards making Connecticut #1 again - and I look forward to sharing that experience with you in the coming months. If anyone has questions about this, or anything else, I'm going to make myself available to check in over the next few hours.
Posted 06.15.2006 by Dan Malloy
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=blogExcerpts&entryID=1026
