Public Statements
Malloy Continues Momentum With Grand Opening Of Danbury Headquarters
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 9, 2006
Location: Danbury, CT


Malloy Continues Momentum With Grand Opening Of Danbury Headquarters
06.09.2006
Category: Campaign News
Dan Malloy returns to city critical to his Convention win
Danbury -- Last night the Danbury Democrats played host to the Grand Opening of the Dan Malloy for Governor Headquarters at 161 Main Street in downtown Danbury. Mayor Malloy's choice of Danbury as the location for his first regional headquarters reflects the gratitude and kinship he feels for Danbury's active Democratic organization. "I am exceptionally grateful for the support of Danbury Democrats throughout this campaign," said Mayor Malloy.
Malloy, whose victory at the Democratic Party's convention on May 20th earned him the right to use the Main Street headquarters, is the first candidate to open regional campaign offices, demonstrating his commitment to building a strong grass-roots campaign. "We're in full swing now," said Malloy. "It's time to take our message directly to the voters, and we've built the organization to do it."
Introduced by DTC Chair Joe DaSilva and State Representative Bob Godfrey -- who have both endorsed Malloy's candidacy -- Malloy addressed the large crowd. "I am looking forward to working from what will prove a great source of continued momentum for the campaign at large, given Danbury's strong tradition of political activism," said Malloy. "Danbury is one of our great cities, and one of the great potential centers of economic and cultural activity in Connecticut -- but it needs a real partner in the Governor's office. I intend to be that partner."
"I believe we can win the gubernatorial election by choosing a Democrat who can actually defeat the Republican regime in November," said DaSilva. "That candidate is Dan Malloy. He's beaten Republicans every time he's run against them, and with his outstanding big city credentials and a socially progressive but fiscally responsible record, Dan Malloy will run strong in cities, suburbs and small towns alike."
Over 70 individuals crowded the headquarters throughout the night in support of Malloy, with representatives from over 14 towns. Several members of the public also joined the festivities and signed on to support the campaign. Malloy later gave a filmed interview on site to the local online newspaper, Hat City Blog.
The Danbury Headquarters opening is the first of a series of headquarters' openings which will occur over the next two weeks.
Malloy, who has served as Mayor of Stamford for 10 years, has made economic development a centerpiece of his gubernatorial campaign, emphasizing the need to revitalize regional centers. During Malloy's time as Mayor, Stamford has experienced a 63% reduction in crime, the creation of 5,000 new jobs and 4,000 units of housing in and around the revitalized downtown.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=6354
