Public Statements
Malloy Launches Plan For Support Of The Arts
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 9, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Launches Plan For Support Of The Arts
06.09.2006
Category: General
Criticizes Rell for past attempts at cuts; Calls upon her to support the arts
Malloy Will Receive Arts Award Tonight
Democratic endorsed candidate for Governor Dan Malloy today announced the Connecticut Arts and Cultural Enhancement Program (ACE) to provide millions in annual funding to local and regional arts organizations, calling the arts a cultural and economic imperative for Connecticut.
"We can make Connecticut number one again, but only if we invest in our communities in ways that help them grow," Malloy said. "I believe the time has come to step up our investment in the arts at the local and regional levels so that communities throughout the state -- from our cities to our small towns -- can enjoy the cultural, social and economic benefits of a thriving and vibrant arts community. We have to start fighting back against the kind of cuts that Governor Rell has proposed in the past, and the way to do that is with ideas that work and a way to pay for them."
ACE will provide $10 million of new revenues to invest in our artists and performers, historic sites and landmarks, community theaters and museums for the enhancement of the arts and communities throughout Connecticut. This grant program would be administered by the Connecticut Commission on Culture and Tourism and funded by growth in hotel tax revenue (not a tax increase). In addition, this plan anticipates earmarking up to $10 million for enhancing local impact aid in the areas of eastern Connecticut that are most affected by the growth of our tourism industry, depending on the growth in the hotel tax revenue.
View details of the plan by clicking here, or by visiting www.danmalloy.com and clicking on "Issues."
Malloy added that a number of new arts initiatives will also be proposed this summer, many directed toward arts in the classroom, which will benefit from this revenue stream.
Since Dan Malloy took office in 1995 he made the arts a key component of his vision for revitalizing Stamford. For instance, Malloy provided $1.1M for the Palace Theatre renovation, awarded major grants to local arts groups directly from the Mayor's Office that benefit important organizations such as the symphony, orchestra, the museum, and outdoor music festivals. This is all supported by extra community policing initiatives, additional parking and beautification projects.
"A big part of revitalizing downtown Stamford was reinvesting in the arts and creating a magnet that drew people into the downtown area," Malloy said. "The core part of our strategy in Stamford was to create a culture and atmosphere that artists and audiences reacted to which enabled us to build a community around the arts. Bottom line is that the arts can help bring people together and build healthy communities that grow culturally and economically."
For his support of the arts, tonight at 7pm Dan Malloy will receive the FD Rich Jr. Annual Award from the Stamford Center for the Arts at the Palace Theatre in Stamford.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=6355
