Public Statements
Universal Health Care: A Moral And Economic Imperative
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 8, 2006
Location: Unknown


Universal Health Care: A Moral And Economic Imperative
Topic: Health Care
Yesterday, I announced my plan to provide universal health care for Connecticut. I wanted to share the plan with you and also briefly explain why this is such a critical issue to the future of our State.
As you read this, nearly 400,000 people in Connecticut lack health insurance. These are working men and women -- and their children -- who, due to the skyrocketing costs of coverage, are forced to go without. Those same increasing costs are crippling the families and businesses who currently do pay for coverage. Simply put, the system is broken, and as a group we must consider health care reform both a moral and an economic imperative.
That is why I unveiled my Every Child Matters proposal in January -- as a first step that Governor Rell could, and should, have adopted immediately to cover all children and begin working towards health care for everyone. And, it is why I proposed this new plan, which includes and builds off of Every Child Matters.
My universal health care plan will:
* Expand access to all and ensure it is continuous and can be taken from job to job.
* Reduce costs so that those without coverage can get it -- and those with coverage can afford it.
* Focus on health and wellness, so that we will have both better public health and reduce overall health care costs as well.
You may also have heard this morning that a Quinnipiac poll was released showing no real change in the Democratic primary numbers or in the head-to-head with Governor Rell. The primary race remains what it has been for some time: close and competitive. Just as we approached the Convention with momentum and won it with passion, energy and ideas, so will we approach and win the August 8th primary. After that, the gap between the Governor and me will close quickly, and by November this will be a close race. I look forward to putting my record of accomplishment as Mayor up against a Governor under whose watch Connecticut continues to lose ground.
I know that together, the necessary change can and will be achieved, and that we can continue to work towards making Connecticut number one again.
Posted 06.08.2006 by Dan Malloy
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=blogExcerpts&entryID=1015
