Public Statements
The Hartford Courant - In Governor's Race, Duel Over Health Care
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 7, 2006
Location: Unknown


06.07.2006. Category: Health Care
In Governor's Race, Duel Over Health Care
By CHRISTOPHER KEATING
Capitol Bureau Chief
June 7 2006
The issue of universal health care is emerging as a critical battleground for Democratic gubernatorial rivals Dannel Malloy and John DeStefano with their August primary showdown just two months away.
Today, Malloy will announce a universal health care plan broadly similar to the one DeStefano premiered in April. A major difference, however, is how each will be funded.
At a health clinic in Hartford's North End, Malloy will introduce a plan to be funded by increasing the cigarette tax by 95 cents per pack, generating more federal funding by broadening Medicaid eligibility and earmarking money from the national settlement with tobacco companies and future state budget surpluses.
Malloy's announcement comes after DeStefano presented a $350 million universal health care plan two months ago to cover an estimated 356,000 uninsured residents in Connecticut.
DeStefano has criticized an earlier proposal by Malloy that would have covered only children - an estimated 71,000 residents who Malloy says could fill up the Yale Bowl in New Haven.
Both Democrats are proposing universal plans that could be transferred from job to job as workers change employers. Malloy, who narrowly won the Democratic gubernatorial endorsement last month, has been working on the multi-pronged, 10-page proposal for months, but he has kept it under wraps until today. Both mayors believe health care is a core issue for Democratic voters in the Aug. 8 primary, where the winner will earn the right to face Republican Gov. M. Jodi Rell, who leads both rivals in opinion polls.
Both campaigns are trying, with universal health care proposals, to solve a problem that has baffled politicians for decades and caused a political setback for then-President Bill Clinton in the 1994 mid-term elections after his proposal failed.
A key difference between the Malloy and DeStefano plans is how to pay for medical care that has become so expensive some state legislatures have largely avoided even attempting universal coverage.
DeStefano said he can fund the entire $350 million program by closing corporate tax loopholes, an idea Rell's campaign says simply equates to an increase in corporate taxes.
"Connecticut's corporate tax system is riddled with loopholes that allow wealthy corporations who can hire multiple lawyers to avoid paying their fair share," DeStefano said.
By contrast, Malloy will avoid a direct corporate tax increase but said businesses can decide voluntarily to spend up to 1 percent of their payrolls to join the state employee health insurance pool - an idea pushed repeatedly by former Democratic gubernatorial candidate Bill Curry. The idea is that small businesses would have access to lower insurance premiums by buying into a large insurance pool.
Malloy is also calling for Connecticut to raise its cigarette tax by 63 percent - to the same level as neighboring Rhode Island, at $2.46 per pack. Rell tried to increase the current $1.51-per-pack cigarette tax last year, but the idea was rejected by the Democrat-controlled legislature as a measure that would disproportionately hurt the poor. Malloy's plan says the cigarette increase not only would generate more taxes, but would contribute to improved health.
"That change could generate over $100 million of additional revenue annually for health care and wellness programs," Malloy's plan states, "but the greatest impact would be on smoking rates and future health care costs."
Citing statistics from the Campaign For Tobacco-Free Kids in Washington, D.C., Malloy said, "Taking this step would mean that almost 11,000 fewer young people and almost 4,000 fewer adults would die of smoking related causes, and the long-term health care savings are estimated at $550 million."
Malloy's increase would place Connecticut in a tie with Rhode Island for the nation's highest state cigarette tax, according to The Tax Foundation of Washington, D.C.
Malloy will speak about health care today as DeStefano is in Stamford being endorsed by city workers in Malloy's hometown. Members of the United Auto Workers Local 2377, representing nearly 400 clerical and professional workers, will join with the New Haven mayor.
Both Malloy and DeStefano offer tax incentives to encourage businesses to join their universal plans. DeStefano said his plan encourages businesses "to buy insurance, not punish them." Major corporations could slice their current corporate tax rate of 7.5 percent to 3.75 percent if they earmark at least 5 percent of their payroll to health care under DeStefano's plan.
Structurally, the two plans attempt to create universal access using different methods.
Malloy would cover nearly half of the uninsured simply by expanding Medicaid, making far more people eligible by increasing the income thresholds. As a result, adults earning 200 percent of the federal poverty level - rather than 100 percent - would become eligible for adult coverage, Malloy said.
Rather than expand Medicaid, DeStefano would create the Connecticut HealthCare Consortium as a "one-stop marketplace" for businesses, families, and individuals to purchase health insurance coverage in a large pool.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=6295
