Public Statements
Malloy To Rell: Political Infighting Won't Stop Urban Violence
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 1, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy To Rell: Political Infighting Won't Stop Urban Violence
06.01.2006
Category: Better Government
The following is a statement from Dan Malloy, Connecticut Democratic Party endorsed candidate for Governor:
Connecticut's urban leaders, like those throughout this region of the country, are fighting flare ups in violence in many of our cities.
Yet in this environment, when we need to pull together to solve this very real problem and work as partners with one another, we have a Governor in Jodi Rell who chose to mail a letter to the mayor of the state's capitol city, Eddie Perez, who works just minutes from her, making ridiculous claims that she is trying to help but he won't let her.
To the people of Connecticut, this should sound like a silly claim at best, and a politically motivated claim at worst over an issue that in many cases means the difference between life and death. The answer may be in how, when and to whom she delivered the message -- Governor Rell blasted the letter to the press the day before and then it wound its way to Mayor Perez via U.S. Mail (she does have his email address and fax number).
This is especially troubling because three and a half months ago, just after I released my urban youth development initiative to help combat urban violence, Governor Rell called together city mayors throughout the state to discuss the problem of urban violence and the partnership and leadership we have been seeking from Governor Rell. Given the lack of aggressive follow through on Governor Rell's part since that meeting and her out-of-nowhere ambush letter to the City of Hartford, it's now painfully clear to most of us that it was much more publicity in the moment for Jodi Rell than wanting to forge an aggressive partnership and action plan.
As a former prosecutor who has tried and won many felony cases including murders, I know first hand that urban violence is a serious problem that requires a solid plan, strong leadership and vigilant execution of that plan. We need a Governor who is committed to working with urban leaders, from elected officials at all levels to private sector organizations to non-profit groups. What we don't need is a Governor playing sophomoric political gotcha. Governing by press release won't solve the problems facing Connecticut, and it won't make Connecticut number one again.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=6215
