Public Statements
The Record-Journal - Gubernatorial Hopeful Gets Guided Tour From Benigni
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 31, 2006
Location: Meriden, CT


Gubernatorial Hopeful Gets Guided Tour From Benigni
05.31.2006. Category: On the Road
Record-Journal
By Bill Yelenak
MERIDEN -- Mayor Mark D. Benigni gave gubernatorial candidate Dannel P. Malloy a tour of the city on Wednesday afternoon, showing him the Hub site, Middlesex Communi­ty College, Thompson Brands and Lincoln Middle School.
Malloy and Benigni rode around the city as Malloy ad­mired some of the architecture on East Main Street and along Railroad Avenue. The two got out of Malloy's sport utility ve­hicle at the corner of Colony and West Main streets and walked up the sidewalk to Mid­dlesex Community College while shaking hands with fel­low pedestrians.
"I think Bristol and Meriden are these little gems in the state of Connecticut," Malloy told Benigni and Middlesex Presi­dent Wilfredo Nieves. "With a little help from the government, they can take off. Those two communities have huge upside potential." Benigni and Malloy, the may­or of Stamford, discussed the community college's potential with Nieves, including the pos­sibility of expanding the Meri­den branch.
Nieves said he is pleased with the growing cooperation between city and school. "We really feel we're a real partner with the town of Meriden in moving it forward," he told Be­nigni and Malloy.
The two mayors also visited Thompson Brands on South Vine Street and received a tour from Helen Gaynier, the vice president of finance, and Steve Gollob, the executive vice pres­ident of sales. Malloy learned about the work done at the fac­tory and that the company chose to stay in Meriden rather than relocate to California. He grabbed one of the gold choco­late coins as it slid down a ramp.
"I feel like a kid in a candy factory," Malloy said. He later donned a hairnet and walked around on the factory floor to watch the candy being poured into molds. "Amazing," he said. At the Hub site, Benigni and Malloy discussed the city's plan to raze the building and resi­dents of the nearby Mills Memorial Apartments. Benigni discussed how the city wants to open up Harbor Brook, which runs under the site.
"Our goal is to take down this structure and a long-term plan is to uncover the water­way," he told Malloy.
Malloy's visit cawme a day after House Majority Leader Christopher G. Donovan host­ed an event at the senior center with Malloy's rival for the De­mocratic gubernatorial nomi­nation, New Haven Mayor John De Stefano. De Stefano and Mal­loy will face off in an Aug. 8 primary, with the winner to face Gov. M. Jodi Rell in No­vember.
The city's leading Democrats are split on their party's guber­natorial hopefuls. Malloy has the support of Benigni, state Sen. Thomas P. Gaffey and state Reps. Catherine F. Aber­crombie and Emil A. Altobello. Donovan and Democratic Town Committee Chairwoman Mildred Torres-Ferguson sup­port De Stefano. During the De­mocratic convention in May, Malloy received support from 17 of the city's 23 delegates.
Later Wednesday, Donovan said having two gubernatorial candidates visiting the city can only be a good thing for Meri­den residents and the city itself. "It's always good to have people running for governor and potential governors com­ing into our city," he said. "I think it's good. Good, healthy competition."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=6223
