Public Statements
The Stamford Advocate - Stamford's Strategy Should Serve As Model For Town, Advocates Say
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 30, 2006
Location: Unknown


Stamford's Strategy Should Serve As Model For Town, Advocates Say

By Michael Dinan
Staff Writer
Published May 30 2006
Affordable housing advocates in Greenwich are looking to Stamford as a successful model for creating more units here.
Town officials should follow Stamford's example by laying out a comprehensive plan that includes designating a special affordable housing fund, requiring developers to build new low-income units and contributing more taxpayer dollars to solve the problem, advocates say.
Click here to find out more!
Advertisement
A key to the city's success has been so-called "inclusionary zoning." Under that model, developers are required to either include affordable units in market-rate residential developments or pay a buy-out fee that goes into a designated fund to create units somewhere else.
"There needs to be a strategy that's developed at the highest level and has connected to it the funding mechanism needed for something like this to have a chance to work in Greenwich," said Commission on Aging Director Sam Deibler, one of several town residents and officials who attended a recent housing conference hosted by Stamford Mayor Dannel Malloy.
"That's what I found really compelling, and inclusionary zoning is the key to it, because otherwise you throw your hands up and say you'll leave it to the market or wait until funds from government sources or foundations become available," Deibler said. "But they just don't, so you have to find other ways to capture the value of development as it's occurring."
Stamford began tackling the problem seven years ago, Malloy said, and its inclusionary zoning requirement has yielded 135 affordable units in the city since it took effect four years ago. That's three times as many new units as have been created in Greenwich during the same period, according to state statistics. By Connecticut standards, 11.39 percent of all housing stock in Stamford is considered affordable, compared with 4.57 percent in Greenwich.
Another 140 units are expected in Stamford from other projects now seeking approval, Malloy said, and the city has received more than $2.3 million in buy-out funds.
The inclusionary zoning has been the city's most important tool, Malloy said, along with a concept that as affordable units are removed, they must be replaced. The city also has upped its contribution of taxpayer dollars, from $300,000 in 2000, to $600,000 each of the following four years, to $700,000 in 2005, $800,000 in 2006 and a proposed $900,000 in 2007.
"It was very important, initially, to bring everyone together, because we weren't talking about building projects or failed housing," Malloy said. "We were talking about building housing for those who could afford it, and it was important to have a common understanding."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.stamfordadvocate.com/news/local/scn-gt-housing3may30,0,7597738.story
