Public Statements
Malloy Lauds Housing Advocates For Bringing Attention To Housing Affordability
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 24, 2006
Location: Stamford, CT


Malloy Lauds Housing Advocates For Bringing Attention To Housing Affordability
05.24.2006
Category: Housing
Call for action made today reinforces Malloy's housing proposals made earlier this year, as well as successful efforts in housing production as Mayor
STAMFORD -- Today, Dan Malloy, the endorsed Democratic candidate for Governor, lauded the work of HOMEConnecticut and the state's leading housing advocates for highlighting the problem of housing affordability in the state.
In March, Malloy announced his own plan to create new housing for middle class and working families as well as low and moderate wage earners throughout Connecticut.
"This study highlights once again that our affordable housing crisis affects all economic groups, in every part of the state," said Malloy. "My experience in Stamford shows that with leadership and innovative policies we can make progress on creating more housing and making it more affordable in all parts of Connecticut. The lack of affordable housing hurts our economy and is a main reason why Connecticut is losing so many young people and workers of all ages."
Under Malloy's leadership, Stamford has been a statewide leader in preserving and creating more affordable housing and, Malloy said, "the success we've had in Stamford is something that can be replicated throughout our state, finding the unique solutions that work in large cities, small towns and rural areas."
Under the initiative he announced in March, as governor Dan Malloy will work to increase affordable housing by:
* Encouraging cities and towns to adopt "inclusionary zoning"
* Providing support to communities working to develop and preserve affordable housing.
* Targeting the state's investments to support Transit Oriented Development (TOD) and Smart Growth plans for more housing and less traffic.
Said Malloy, "I applaud the work that was done by William Cibes and all those members of the Coalition for raising this issue and for their commitment to educating public officials about the housing crisis. What we need now is leadership from the governor's office, and when I am governor I look forward to working with the members of this coalition and the leaders of cities and towns thorough-out the state to create the housing we need in our state."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=6139
