Public Statements
Thank You
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 22, 2006
Location: Unknown


Thank You
Topic: Campaign News
I am proud to report that my Lt. Governor running mate, Mary Messina Glassman, and I received the nomination of the Democratic Party at the Convention on Saturday. There's no simpler way to say it: thanks to a lot of hard work and the support of so many of you and thousands of others at the grassroots level throughout the state, we defied the odds and won the nomination to be the next Governor and Lt. Governor of the state of Connecticut!
Both campaigns waged a spirited effort, and the convention was a thriller right down to the last minute. We never backed down, we never lost hope and we never stopped working -- kind of how we've run our campaign for the last couple of years. Our convention campaign team was broad, deep and well organized. And it was fueled by a powerful team of friends such as those who put us into nomination from the podium in a rousing series of rapid fire speeches, including Democratic 4th Congressional District candidate Diane Farrell, House Speaker Jim Amann, Hartford Mayor Eddie Perez, former Senate Majority Leader and Democratic Party Chairman George Jepsen, Carpenters Union President Glenn Marshall, former super welterweight boxing champion Travis Simms of Norwalk, key progressive leader Gary Collins, and other good friends.
No matter who you supported during our dramatic convention I hope you will come join the Malloy/Glassman ticket. Working together -- with your help and a united Democratic Party -- I know we can beat Gov. Rell in November!
Mary Glassman and I are deeply honored to accept the Democratic Party's nomination. We commit to unifying the Democratic Party in a singular goal to win against the Republicans in the fall and set Connecticut back on track as one of the most prosperous and inspired states in the country, for everyone in our state. As we move into an August 8 primary phase as the Democratic Party nominee, we renew our commitment for bringing about positive change in this state. And that is going to take renewed support from people like you. I hope that you will consider making a financial contribution in this phase of the campaign and volunteering your time, as well as getting friends and family to do the same. Because with your help when we take the fight to the Republicans we won't back down, we'll never lose hope and we'll never stop working harder and smarter than our opponents. Please join us in that noble fight.
