Public Statements
The Norwich Bulletin - Malloy Wins Democratic Nomination
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 21, 2006
Location: Hartford, CT


Malloy Wins Democratic Nomination
05.21.2006. Category: Campaign News
Norwich Bulletin
By RAY HACKETT
HARTFORD -- In one of the closest Democratic races for governor in state history, Stamford Mayor Dan Malloy emerged victorious Saturday, winning the party's nomination by one vote.
Malloy needed 798 votes to lock up the nomination. He got 799, four more than his Democratic rival John DeStefano, who finished with 795 votes.
"Today I, you, pulled off a stunning victory," Malloy said to his supporters, using a bullhorn on the convention floor more than an hour before the official vote tally was announced. "There may be a primary, but I know with what we accomplished here, we're going to November."
DeStefano introduced his running mate, West Hartford Mayor Scott Slifa, ensuring a primary and saying the campaign for the governor's race begins today.
"So we have one for the records today," DeStefano said. "First, we won by three votes, and then we lost by four votes. Tomorrow (today) the campaign begins. Today was an interesting experience, but the campaign begins tomorrow."
Democrats concluded their two-day state convention at the Hartford Expo Center, endorsing candidates for U.S. Senate and the six state Constitutional offices. At least two primaries are now looming, governor and U.S. Senate. The convention ended with the endorsement of Mary Glassman of Simsbury for lieutenant governor.
The voting for governor began at about noon Saturday. It took 47 minutes to complete the first roll call vote. When it was over -- depending on whom you talked to -- Malloy won by one; DeStefano took it by three, or it ended in a tie. During the next two hours, four challenges were made, investigated and resolved before a final decision was rendered.
"I want to congratulate my opponent, John DeStefano, who fought a good fight," Malloy said when he finally took the stage to accept the nomination.
"Republicans will say, boy those Democrats are messy," he said. "And the day after the election, Democrats are going to say, boy, those Republicans should never have counted us out."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=6192
