Public Statements
Malloy Visits Danbury
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 9, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Visits Danbury
05.09.2006
Category: On the Road
Democratic Candidate for Governor Shares his Vision with the Democratic Town Committee
On Monday evening Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's four-term mayor, continued to show his commitment to Western Connecticut by visiting the Danbury Democratic Town Committee (DTC) to share his vision and listen to concerns of area residents. Malloy spent the previous Sunday speaking with area residents from the Northwest corner before making a campaign stop to meet with DTC members and delegates from New Fairfield and surrounding towns. Last month the candidate was endorsed by the Southbury DTC.
In the Danbury meeting, Malloy discussed the need for affordable housing, the states over reliance on property taxes, education, his economic development plan for the entire state and why he is the best candidate to run against Governor Jodi Rell in November.
To provide housing for workers priced out of the market, Malloy's Affordable Housing Plan policy proposal outlines how he will apply his successful strategies in Stamford to other community across the state. Under Malloy's leadership, Stamford forged public-private partnerships to create inclusionary zoning policies to provide on-site affordable housing or contribute to a fund designated for the same purpose.
Malloy stressed that the state once and for all needs leadership in the governor's office that delivers on the promise to provide a solid education for all Connecticut's children, and in doing so finally fixes the thoroughly broken property tax system and the education cost sharing formula associated with it. "We cannot hope to spark the wave of economic security and prosperity we all know Connecticut is capable of without providing a first rate education to our kids, and fixing our over-reliance on property taxes. As your governor, you would have a partner who would do both."
As governor, Malloy has said the first priority of his administration would be economic redevelopment. Ranked dead last in job growth and retention according the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), Malloy spoke about his Every Job Matters policy proposal, presented in January at the capitol. The plan proposes changing the way Connecticut approaches business growth and has a clear, attainable goal to create 100,000 jobs by 2010. The added revenue associated with 100,000 new jobs - approximately $190 million - will offset the operating expenses associated with implementing the plan.
When asked why he is the right candidate to lead the Party in November, Malloy said, "I am the candidate that can beat Jodi Rell in November. I can run strong in urban areas because I have a track record of success in Connecticut's fourth largest city. I understand the needs of the suburban and rural areas and I come from a part of the state that Governor Rell must win if she's going to win the election in November. My strong showing in the Fourth Congressional District will make that very difficult to accomplish. Finally, my bottom-up, consensus-building approach to leadership is what this state needs if we're going to get the job done."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5984
