Public Statements
Manchester Mayor And Other Town Officials Come Out In Support Of Malloy For Governor
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 7, 2006
Location: Manchester, CT


Manchester Mayor And Other Town Officials Come Out In Support Of Malloy For Governor
05.07.2006
Category: Campaign News
Bus tour campaign with high school students from the Greater Hartford Area ends in important endorsements
MANCHESTER - Democratic candidate for Governor, Dan Malloy topped off a day of campaigning in the Greater Hartford area with another feather in his cap. Standing with other Manchester officials, Mayor Josh Howroyd formally announced his endorsement of Stamford's four-term mayor at a wrap-up dinner held at the Hartford Road Café.
Malloy spent the day Saturday campaigning in seven towns. Stops included the AFT debate against his Democratic rival and a meet and greet sponsored by East Hartford Mayor Melody Currey before winding down in Manchester.
"I am impressed with Dan Malloy as a candidate, with his record and with his campaign organization. He has been able to attract a group of capable and dedicated people that speak to the quality of his message and leadership style," said Howroyd. "After an objective evaluation of the two candidates, I am convinced that he is the Democrat who can win in November."
In addition to Mayor Howroyd, Manchester's Deputy Mayor Lisa O'Neill, Board of Directors members John Topping and Joe Hachey, and Board of Education Chairperson Margaret Hackett also announced they were supporting Malloy for governor.
State Representative Ryan Barry announced his endorsement of Malloy in February.
"I am thrilled to receive the support of Mayor Howroyd," said Malloy. "When a mayor endorses me, it is because they understand the difficulties of running a town and know that my record and leadership will make me a valuable partner in the governor's office."
Bearing the same name as the street that runs past its front door, The Hartford Road Café is home to many a Democratic get together and Saturday night was no exception as forty people gathered to celebrate Malloy's day-long bus tour dubbed the Malloy ConneCTion. Malloy, a veteran politician since high school, invited high school students from towns all over the area to join him on the stump. The white bus, decked out in blue Malloy banners and signs was a show stopper, ferrying staffers and students to venues organized by supporters in the towns they visited.
Stops included conventions in West Hartford and Wallingford, the Cow Chip Festival and Book Fair in Newington, a senior citizen's residence in Wethersfield, the Step-Off Classic sponsored by the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity at the University of Hartford, and a meet and greet organized by Mayor Melody Currey of East Hartford.
"It was a wonderful day," said Malloy. "They were an impressive group of young people and as the father of three boys; it just doesn't get any better than that. I was peppered with questions on the bus - and it was gratifying to know that my message resonated with them. If these kids are any example, the world will be good hands when the next generation is ready to take the helm."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5959
