Public Statements
The Main Street News - Dan Malloy: On The Record
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 4, 2006
Location: Unknown


Dan Malloy: On The Record
05.04.2006. Category: Better Government
The Main Street News
05/04/2006
Democratic gubernatorial candidate Dan Malloy met with Main Street News last week to discuss issues of interest to the shoreline communities.
MSN: You have great hopes for Connecticut's economy, how do you plan on increasing CT's economy while protecting the environment?

MALLOY: I think the eastern part of the state has been largely ignored by the Rowland and Rell administration. And for instance, if you take out the presence of the two casinos, which have added easily 22,000 to 25,000 jobs, this region is actually in a job depression. It's needs have been ignored...You don't have a transportation system to compete in this century. Infrastructure, other forms of infrastructure? You just don't have those. The state government has taken you for granted, has ignored your needs and I think with respect to much of the 2nd district has just said, "Hey well there's a lot of democrats out there, who cares." And I think, having said that, that you've been beaten down so long by the Rowland and Rell administration that this is an area that is actually primed for economic diversification and strength and growth.

You still have a fairly intact workforce who I think could respond to new challenges and so some of the things that I have called for in my Every Job Matters economic proposal, I think, are very apropos to this region: number one, we are one of three states that leaves federal dollars in Washington that would be available to design regional economic development plans and that is just reprehensible. I am in favor of regions of the state coming together and developing through a community wide, but multi community process, economic development plans for themselves.

I don't want to be a governor that happens to have an office in a building that has a golden roof and say I know everything about this part of the state. I won't. What I do know is that I can be your partner, but the best decision will actually be the ones that are locally made. That's an approach I take. I was up in Norwich a week or so ago where I announced that I would fund an economic diversification program in the region at a minimum of ten million dollars a year for ten years. It was interesting. This is a proposal that is consistent with what a regional group is calling for with respect to economic diversification. The governor, before I had called that press conference, the governor had refused to commit to fund it and once I called the press conference, within a number of hours, she announced that she would fund it at least for the first year. You know, my mother would be proud; I'm already having an impact in gubernatorial leadership without having been elected.

I also believe that housing is a critical issue and affordable housing in particular. That's an area where I believe we need a higher degree of cooperation and leadership in the state and particularly in this region that has been so profoundly impacted by the importation of a work force that is not home grown and its implications on the housing market. So, I'm cognizant of that and I want to play a role in helping communities who want to be active in housing issues and to allow them to be active and that means more money being available to build and maintain affordable housing in places where people want it. But I'm not seeking to order or make anyone do things that they don't want to do.

And finally, and this is very much a part of what I want to do, our state is just too reliant on property taxes and that reliance is killing us. Property tax reliance is anti-job, its anti-senior, its anti-fixed income, and it's ultimately anti-Connecticut. It's the virus that's now devouring our way of life and you can see that in communities and right along the shore where revaluation has taken place and people who've lived in houses for generations are having to consider disposing of those homes because of escalating property values [that are] really unforeseen, unpredictable. If we had a broader tax base for the payment of local government, the largest single expense of which is education, we would be much better off.

MSN: Do you support the Broadwater proposal?

MALLOY: No, God no. I think it's disgusting and abhorrent. I've already committed to spending local tax dollars in a cooperative effort to fight it. I assume that New York is going to approve it. We gotta tie it up in the courts; we gotta wrestle it to the ground. Let's sink Broadwater. It is such a bad, stupid idea to put something like that in Long Island Sound, I will also point out to you that there's probably 8 or 9 of these things now being proposed and we probably have a need for 2 or 3 of these things in the entire multi-state area. But if New York really wants it, let them build it on the other side of Long Island Sound. Let them enjoy the view and the danger, or put it in one of their harbors, which they won't do, by the way. But it's just ill conceived and we need to fight it every step of the way.

MSN: What are your thoughts on reinstating the tolls on Interstate 95?

MALLOY: Well, I don't like tolls. I will also tell you that I think tolls are very dangerous and if we reinstate tolls we have to keep that danger first and foremost in our mind. Recently a federal report has come out that indicates that of the 31 states that have tolls on their highway systems, somewhere between 31 and 61 percent of all accidents on those toll roads actually takes place at the toll collection area. It's kind of a scary proposition, when you think of all the accidents that already exist in Connecticut on our highway system, that we are going to put something in that will contribute an additional 30 to 60 percent. Having said that, if it's one of the ways that we are going to have to pay for a major transportation improvement plan then I believe we have to use the latest technology, the latest design... and standards to effect it.

MSN: Do you believe that the gas tax should be increased to help pay for transportation improvements?

MALLOY: I think gas taxes, general receipt taxes, tire taxes are all ways to pay for it... I think we have not been wise on how we use our binding capacity in this state. I also believe that opening up general obligation bonding for transportation projects is going to be an important thing to do.

MSN: Do you think the Preserve should be purchased by the state?

MALLOY: Yes, I do. I'm really surprised that the Rell administration has backed away from open land and preservation purchasers. We had a very strong program in this state. Being from Brookfield I would have thought that the governor would have been more attuned to this issue and I think parcels on the shore or on major rivers that are undeveloped- we need to be competing with the market place to purchase those and preserve those... You are a little younger than I am. I don't want your grandchildren to blame you for having lost the quality of what Connecticut once was.

MSN: Do you think it should be made into a state forest or a park?

MALLOY: I think a park in the sense of a park that's available primarily for passive recreational purposes, so I'm not looking at making this an area where we want to build RV lanes or that kind of thing. I think passive recreation that allows people to enjoy the Connecticut that existed hundreds of years ago is the important thing, so walking trails, exercise areas, access to the water and the vistas. I think all of that is important... I don't think we should cut down trees and fill it with ball fields or that kind of thing.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=5925
