Public Statements
Malloy Announces Education Plan
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 1, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Announces Education Plan
05.01.2006
Category: Education
Malloy highlights importance of early education programs and "Life-Long Learning" in education proposals
Hartford Mayor Eddie Perez and Malloy Visit Parkville Community School, call for real commitment to early education
HARTFORD: Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's mayor, and Hartford Mayor Eddie Perez today met at Parkville Community School to visit a kindergarten class and promote the importance of early childhood education.
Also today, Malloy released details of his "Life-Long Learning" education plan for the state, which highlights the critical importance of pre-K and early childhood education as important building blocks for a life of learning and opportunity.
"To ensure Connecticut's children can meet their potential, we must make a commitment to give every single child in our state the opportunity for early-childhood education," said Malloy.
"Mayor Perez and I agree on the critical importance of early childhood education. I am proud that under my administration Stamford was the first city in Connecticut to offer universal access to pre-school," said Malloy. "We have offered every four-year old access to pre-school and we are working hard to extend universal access to three-year olds. And I applaud the work that Mayor Perez has done in his city to similarly work to expand educational opportunities here in Hartford."
Studies have shown the tremendous benefit of early education. Children who receive pre-kindergarten education are more likely to graduate from high school, less likely to repeat a grade or need special education classes, and less likely to be disruptive in the classroom and hinder teaching. Additionally, investments made in pre-K education pay off in cost savings from reduced education expenditures later in life, fewer social service costs, and higher economic earning capacity.
Mayor Perez says, "I want to commend Mayor Malloy for making sure that the children of our great state come first. He has demonstrated his commitment through his actions as Mayor of Stamford and I believe this is the kind of dedication that will carry through to all the kids of Connecticut when he is elected Governor. Mayor Malloy and I are on the same page when it comes to education. Here in Hartford, education starts at birth and through the Mayor's Office for Young Children, there's a comprehensive plan to prepare our youngest citizens with the skills needed to succeed in school and in life."
Today Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy also announced his strategy to create an educational system that prepares all of Connecticut's children and adults to live and compete in a global economy. Dan Malloy's "Life-Long Learning" education proposals will expand educational opportunities for all -- from the state's youngest children through high school and college and beyond.

"We know that our children face tougher challenges today than even just a generation ago," said Malloy. "Today, Connecticut's children are no longer just competing with children from other states but with children from other countries. With young adults in New Delhi competing for the same jobs as young adults in New Haven, students' future opportunities will depend on their educational attainment.
"And in an age where our economy is rapidly changing we also now know that education must be a life-long process: the jobs we have depended on for generations are disappearing, and the 'new economy' jobs we can attract to replace them often demand different skills.
"That's why we must commit Connecticut to the support of 'life-long learning' -- providing the tools and opportunities to achieve prosperity. That means making a commitment to expanding early childhood education; increasing the number of students who graduate from high school; making college possible for all, not just the wealthy; providing job re-training programs for workers caught in a time of economic transition; and supporting our teachers," Malloy said.

Malloy's education strategy commits to five key points in support of "life-long learning":
1. All children will have access to early childhood education by providing a universal pre-K experience to all four-year olds, regardless of the family's ability to pay.
2. Strengthening connections between high schools and colleges will better prepare students and broaden opportunities to gain experience.
3. To improve the chances that all Connecticut students will have the opportunity to attend and graduate from college, attaining a degree will be made more affordable.
4. Workers caught in an economic transition will have expanded job-retraining programs and a customized job training program for incumbent workers will be implemented.
5. Supporting the teaching profession from recruitment through retirement will guarantee a workforce that is second to none.
Details of the plan can be found by clicking here.
"Investing in education and expanding opportunities for all is a commitment I've lived up to as Mayor, and one I'll continue as Governor," Malloy said.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5864
