Public Statements
Malloy Visits Bolton
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 28, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Visits Bolton
04.28.2006
Category: On the Road
Democratic Candidate for Governor Shares his Vision with the Democratic Town Committee
On Wednesday evening Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's four-term mayor, continued to show his commitment to the region by visiting the Bolton Democratic Town Committee to share his vision and listen to concerns of its members. On April 13, Malloy visited Norwich, New London, Waterford and Montville to discuss his Eastern Connecticut Economic Development Initiative. The following week, after receiving a Clean Energy Award from Connecticut Clean Energy Fund for Stamford's commitment to reducing energy consumption, he met with East Haddam First Selectman Brad Parker to share his plan for a Cleaner Connecticut.
In addition to discussing his policy proposal for a cleaner environment and the development of alternative energy sources, Malloy also discussed the necessity for affordable housing, the state's over reliance on property taxes to fund education, pension funding, and his economic development plan for the entire state.
As governor, Malloy has said the first priority of his administration would be economic redevelopment. Ranked dead last in job growth and retention according the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), Malloy spoke about his Every Job Matters policy proposal, presented in January at the capitol. The plan proposes changing the way Connecticut approaches business growth and has a clear, attainable goal to create 100,000 jobs by 2010. The added revenue associated with 100,000 new jobs - approximately $190 million - will offset the operating expenses associated with implementing the plan.
To provide housing for workers priced out of the market, Malloy's Affordable Housing Plan policy proposal outlines how he will apply his successful strategies in Stamford to other community across the state. Under Malloy's leadership, Stamford forged public-private partnerships to create inclusionary zoning policies to provide on-site affordable housing or contribute to a fund designated for the same purpose.
Recognizing that all communities in the state - regardless of size - are over reliant on property taxes to fund local programs and services, especially education, which takes the lion's share of any municipal budget, Malloy said, "As Mayor, I'm proud of my record on controlling property tax hikes. Under my administration, Stamford's property taxes have been held to an average annual increase of 2.68% over 10 years - below the rate of inflation. As governor, I will address the inequities inherent in the current system."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5866
