Public Statements
The Middletown Press - Malloy Says Rell Ignores East Of River
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 21, 2006
Location: East Haddam, CT


Malloy Says Rell Ignores East Of River
04.21.2006. Category: Taxes
The Middletown Press
By JOSH MROZINSKI
EAST HADDAM --- During a campaign stop Thursday, a Democratic candidate for governor said the eastern part of the state has been ignored by the Gov. M. Jodi Rell administration.
The candidate, Stamford Mayor Dan Malloy, was later in the day criticized by his opponents who were interviewed by telephone.
The press conference Thursday afternoon was attended by Malloy, members of his campaign and First Selectman Brad Parker.
Parker has endorsed Malloy.
Standing near the Goodspeed Opera House, Malloy talked about Rell, alternative energy sources, development and the environment.
"From time to time what is lacking is vision from our leadership," said Malloy.
Investment in the area, said Malloy, would include empowering regional agencies to be actively involved in economic development.
"Regional economic development would be a priority," said Malloy.
State government, said Malloy, would partner with towns to create their plans of development.
Numerous Middlesex County towns are updating their plans, including East Haddam and East Hampton.
Sound energy and environmental planning are inseparable, said Malloy.
In a policy statement developed by Malloy, fuel cell technology, smart growth and a multi-modal transportation system are promoted.
Thursday Malloy said more open space needs to be preserved.
In the next 10 years, he said, the eastern part of Connecticut, especially communities along the Connecticut River, will face increased development pressure.
Town officials are dealing with proposals to build "big-box" stores.
The Cromwell Planning and Zoning Commission is reviewing an application for a 169,000 square foot Lowe's store that would be built on Route 372 on land adjacent to the Crowne Plaza hotel.
In East Hampton, a 65,000 square foot Shaw's supermarket is scheduled to open in the fall on Route 66 near Town Hall.
Malloy said "big box" stores are not a form of economic development.
"They are going for it because we are so over relying on property taxes," said Malloy.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=5744
