Public Statements
Dan Malloy Presents Vision For A Cleaner Environment
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 20, 2006
Location: Unknown


Dan Malloy Presents Vision For A Cleaner Environment
04.20.2006
Category: On the Road
Democratic Candidate visits East Haddam and talks "green"
A day after announcing his environmental plan, Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy traveled to East Haddam to meet with First Selectman Brad Parker to discuss his vision for a cleaner environment and hear about the environmental concerns in the community.
Standing on the banks of the Connecticut River next to the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Malloy talked about his accomplishments on environmental issues and as mayor and his plans for the state when he is governor. "As mayor of Stamford, I have worked to build a stronger economy, a cleaner environment, and a more livable community. And I am proud to have made Stamford a national leader in environmental protection by being an early advocate of innovative policies. As governor, I will continue to work to find the next generation of new, innovative environmental policies," said Malloy.
Malloy called for a series of initiatives, including supporting Connecticut becoming a global leader in the development of alternate energy sources, including fuel cells; promoting Smart Growth development to preserve open space and farmland; increasing energy conservation; stepped up enforcement of environmental regulations; and the development of a multi-modal transportation plan which will improve air quality and reduce congestion.
"Dan Malloy has a vision for a cleaner Connecticut, and a track record of innovation and accomplishment on environmental issues," said Parker. "He also understands the concerns we have here in East Haddam and all along the Connecticut River Valley - including preserving open space and protecting this river and watershed. I'm proud to be supporting him for governor, and I know our communities and our entire state's environment will benefit from his leadership."
"For far too long, people have said you can either grow the economy or protect the environment. I strongly reject that argument because it's a false choice - these two goals are not mutually exclusive. If you're committed to doing both and if you're willing to think outside the box in a creative, innovative, thoughtful fashion, then both can be achieved. Connecticut deserves a governor who recognizes that we must both foster economic development and protect the environment. That's a commitment I've lived up to as Mayor, and one I'll continue as Governor."
Last week Malloy visited Norwich and New London to present his Eastern Connecticut Economic Development and Diversification Initiative.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5742
