Public Statements
Malloy Outlines Vision For Cleaner Environment And Support For Developing Alternative Energy Sources
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 19, 2006
Location: Stamford, CT


Malloy Outlines Vision For Cleaner Environment And Support For Developing Alternative Energy Sources
04.19.2006
Category: Environment
Calls for "next generation" environmental and energy solutions to help environment and boost Connecticut's economy.
STAMFORD -- Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy discussed his vision for a cleaner environment and his support for development of alterative energy sources at an event hosted by the Connecticut Clean Energy Fund (CCEF) and Smart Power in Stamford. The purpose of the event was to present Clean Energy Communities Awards to towns who had adopted CCEF's plan to reduce energy consumption 20 percent by 2010.
Stamford, where Malloy is serving his fourth term as mayor, is one of 10 communities to earn the award.
"As mayor of Stamford, I have worked to build a stronger economy, a cleaner environment, and a more livable community," said Malloy. "And I am proud to have made Stamford a national leader in environmental protection by being an early advocate of innovative policies. As Governor, I will continue to work to find the next generation of new, innovative environmental policies."
Malloy called for a series of initiatives, including supporting Connecticut becoming a global leader in the development of alternate energy sources, including fuel cells; promoting Smart Growth development to preserve open space and farmland; increasing energy conservation; stepped up enforcement of environmental regulations; and the development of a multi-modal transportation plan which will improve air quality and reduce congestion.
A summary of Malloy's Plan For A Cleaner Connecticut can be found by clicking here.
"For far too long, people have said you can either grow the economy or protect the environment. I strongly reject that argument because it's a false choice -- these two goals are not mutually exclusive," said Malloy. "If you're committed to doing both and if you're willing to think outside the box in a creative, innovative, thoughtful fashion, then both can be achieved. Connecticut deserves a governor who recognizes that we must both foster economic development and protect the environment. That's a commitment I've lived up to as Mayor, and one I'll continue as Governor."
As mayor of Stamford, Malloy turned that city into a state-wide leader in environmental policies. Stamford's was the first solar system installed by a municipality under the Connecticut Clean Energy Fund, and two more systems are planned. Last year Stamford earned one of six "Clean Air-Cool Planet Climate Champion Awards" for its innovative energy efficient emissions reduction plan and saved more that $1.1 million in energy costs since instituting an action plan to reduce global warming emissions by 20% in publicly-operated facilities. Stamford has also implemented nationally recognized programs in recycling, sewage treatment and Brownfield redevelopment, and is a state leader in open space preservation.
Malloy's announcement today calls for the next generation of measures to help the environment and promote the state's economy.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5713
