Public Statements
Malloy Pulls Into Hebron
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 19, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Pulls Into Hebron
04.19.2006
Category: On the Road
Democratic Candidate Listens and Shares Vision for Connecticut
Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's four-term mayor, met with the Hebron Democratic Town Committee to talk about how his vision, and listen to the concerns of the town's local Democrats.
Topics discussed included Malloy's views on the state's tax structure, pension funding, and economic development; as well as the style of management he would use to work with the legislature as Governor.
Identifying local governments dependence on the property tax to fund education, Malloy called on state government to, "Stop playing politics with the Education Cost Sharing formula," saying that he had recommended state reimbursement begin at two times expenditure rather than the current four times.
Malloy also reviewed Stamford's policy of fully funding worker pensions, and said that he would like to see the same policy applied statewide. After a DTC member asked Malloy his opinion of the state pension with teacher's that is not fully funded, Malloy said that, "It's a shame that state government refuses to fully fund the pension plan of some of our most important public employees. As Governor, it is not something that I would let happen."
Hebron Selectman Mark Stuart asked Malloy to describe how he would work with the legislature to accomplish his goals. "I'm a bottom-up leader who gets the job done by building bridges not walls and I've proven it in Stamford which is in a heavily Republican district. A Democratic Governor coupled with a Democratic majority in the legislature can accomplish great things in this state. Plus, I'm the Democratic candidate who can win in November because I know to run against a Republican and I come from a part of the state that Governor Rell needs to win big if she is going to win this election. She won't be able to do that if I am the candidate."
Malloy ended the meeting by outlining his state and local economic development strategies. "State government needs to treat local government as a partner. Only by working together can we create a successful economy - one that can not only retain current jobs and business, but also create new opportunities for growth."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5865
