Public Statements
Malloy Pulls Into Ashford
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 18, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Pulls Into Ashford
Democratic Candidate Listens and Shares Vision for Connecticut
April 18 - Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's mayor, on Tuesday met with members of the Ashford Democratic Town Committee (DTC) to learn about issues most important to Ashford, and to share his vision for making Connecticut work again and how that vision will help the Ashford community. The meeting was held at the Ashford Town Hall where many local residents joined Malloy in an open forum about Ashford's future.
"Each Connecticut community is special and unique; it's what unites us," Malloy said. "The job of Connecticut's governor ought to be working with Ashford and all of our State's 169 towns to leverage individual strengths and tackle collective challenges, together. It's by working together from the ground up, not the top down, and respecting and partnering with Ashford that we will make Connecticut work again."
Ashford Democratic Town Chair Jean McCarthy led the wide-ranging discussion, focusing on critically important issues such as economic development, universal health care for children, education funding, fully funding state pensions, and the future of green energy in Connecticut.
"One of our first policy proposals in this campaign was to create 100,000 jobs by 2010," Malloy said. "And that doesn't start in Hartford. That starts here, right here in Ashford and like-minded communities throughout our state that are seeking to spark growth and prosperity for its citizens to effectively compete and win not just in this region or this nation, but in an increasingly globalized economy. And it means thinking differently about everything we do, including the fact that economic and environmental prosperity are not mutually exclusive, and creative approaches to energy costs, for instance, and investing in 'green' air and water and solar energy research would be resources well spent for our future, both economically and environmentally."
Special guest Hampton DTC Chairman Mary Oliver also joined the meeting, sparking a discussion on the importance of regional economic development. "Towns throughout Connecticut, and I'll bet right here in Ashford, are leaving significant money on the table because we're not organized and working together at all levels of government, as one team. My economic renewal plan creates jobs by capitalizing on local, regional and statewide efforts, which in turn generates currently untapped federal dollars to build the economic engines that will drive our future prosperity."
"This is not rocket science," Malloy told the crowd. "This is common sense, but for the past dozen years we have not seen a common sense approach coming from the governor's office. Ashford needs a partner, and a leader at the state level who can marshal the forces already here in this region to make a difference today and tomorrow for the people of Ashford."
Malloy added that Connecticut cannot hit its full economic potential while it faces a health care crisis with more than 400,000 residents without health care coverage, 71,000 of whom are children who often receive expensive emergency medical care after their conditions reach the boiling point. "The very first proposal my team and I launched was to provide universal health care for children NOW. We figured out how to pay for it without additional taxes and proposed it prior to this year's legislative session in the hopes that the Governor would champion it for kids, but she didn't pick up the ball," Malloy said. "It's not just an economic imperative; it is a moral imperative to cover these children - our children - so they have the health care they need. This is not a third world country - this is Connecticut, and we can and must do better."
Malloy stressed that the state once and for all needs leadership in the governor's office that delivers on the promise to provide a solid education for all Connecticut's children, and in doing so finally fixes the thoroughly broken property tax system and the education cost sharing formula associated with it. "We cannot hope to spark the wave of economic security and prosperity we all know Connecticut is capable of without providing a first rate education to our kids, and fixing our over-reliance on property taxes. As your governor, you would have a partner who would do both."
Malloy said that part of good government is living up to its obligations, including fully funding the state's pension system. "I believe the state has a legal and ethical obligation to fully fund state pensions," Malloy said. "In Stamford, I have always fully funded our entire pension system - always. I can tell you that I could not sleep at night if I didn't take care of, and honor the service of our current and future retirees. The state pension fund is a disaster waiting to happen, and needs gubernatorial leadership that has been absent for the past 12 years of the Rell and Rowland administrations."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5867
