Public Statements
In Annual Address, Malloy Cites Successes, Eyes Potential
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 13, 2006
Location: Stamford, CT


In Annual Address, Malloy Cites Successes, Eyes Potential
State of the city covers more than Stamford
By Donna Porstner
Staff Writer
Published April 13 2006
STAMFORD -- Mayor Dannel Malloy's State of the City address yesterday at a Chamber of Commerce luncheon had more to do with the state than the city.
As he has done in the past, the mayor touted his administration's recent successes in the addresses, including a tax increase of less than 3 percent in July and retaining the sAAA bond rating that allows the city to borrow money at a lower interest rate.
But this year's speech, his 11th, comes when the race for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination is heating up, and he used the podium in the Marriott hotel ballroom to talk about how state leaders have done little to alleviate traffic congestion in lower Fairfield County, lure new businesses or reform the property tax system.
"Connecticut and New Jersey were roughly in the same place 20 years ago when it came to transportation," Malloy said.
Both had aging highways and needed to make improvements, he said, but only New Jersey built a new commuter rail, improved airport transportation and added ferry service to Manhattan.
"In 20 years, all Connecticut did was Exit 8 coming south (from Interstate 95) into Stamford," he said.
Malloy sarcastically said it worked "so well" that traffic is now backed up to Exit 14 in Norwalk during the morning rush. Malloy and New Haven Mayor John DeStefano Jr. are vying to be the Democratic Party's candidate to run against Republican Gov. M. Jodi Rell in November. Democrats will choose a candidate at their state convention May 20. The last Democrat in the governor's seat was William O'Neill, who served from 1980 to 1991.
"In post 9/11 New York City, about 300,000 jobs shifted around and left New York City," Malloy said. "Many of those jobs went to New Jersey or other counties in New York. Almost none of them came to Connecticut. Imagine if we got half of those jobs. Imagine how robust our economy would be?"
At the time of the terrorist attacks, Rell was lieutenant governor under Republican Gov. John Rowland. She became governor in July 2004 when Rowland resigned during impeachment hearings prompted by an ethics scandal and ongoing federal and state corruption investigation.
Malloy also said the state's tax system puts too heavy a burden on property owners to fund public education and has made the state too expensive for many senior citizens, forcing them to move to states where the cost of living is lower. "We export people in our state because they can no longer afford to pay the property tax," Malloy said. The state has been underfunding public education in Stamford for years, he said, leaving the bulk of public schools' $195 million budget on the shoulders of local taxpayers.
"We receive about 6 percent of operating dollars in a system where about 40 percent of our students are receiving free or reduced-price lunch, and about 54 percent of our students are black, Latino or Asian," Malloy said. Malloy did not talk about the recent spate of shootings and youth violence on the city's West Side, but encouraged the corporations represented to offer summer jobs to city teens.
"While I am talking to people who give out paychecks, I urge all of you to rethink your hiring for your operation, your retail center, to see if you can open up employment to young people," he said.
Malloy announced a new program designed to keep at-risk children out of trouble last month. The mayor's Youth Development and Violence Prevention Initiative will give community and faith-based organizations $2,500 grants for every summer job created for Stamford teens. Stamford corporations are not eligible for the grants.
Chamber members had no questions for Malloy, even after he threatened to keep speaking if someone didn't raise their hand.
http://www.stamfordadvocate.com/news/scn-malloy041306,0,2780953.story
