Public Statements
Local Officials Laud Malloy's Plan For Eastern Connecticut
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 13, 2006
Location: Hartford, CT


Local Officials Laud Malloy's Plan For Eastern Connecticut
04.13.2006
Category: On the Road
Malloy visits New London, Norwich, Waterford and Montville to discuss vision for region and his plans for state's most overlooked region
HARTFORD - Visiting several cities and towns in southeastern Connecticut today, Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy was joined by local elected officials and community leaders as he announced his plans to create much needed economic development, transportation improvements and more affordable housing in the region.
"For far too long, eastern Connecticut has been overlooked by Hartford. That will end when I am your governor," said Malloy.
At Norwich City Hall, where he was joined by Alderman Larry Goldman and a group of supporters, Malloy discussed his plans for creating jobs and housing throughout Connecticut, and announced several immediate actions he will take as governor to address some of the pressing problems that are unique to the eastern part of the state, including investing $100 million over 10 years to diversify the region's economy, and funding a regional affordable housing coordinator. He later toured downtown and visited a local restaurant.
Malloy then visited New London City Hall, joined by City Councilor Kevin Cavanagh, was interviewed on WXLN by Ron Carson, and later in the day made an appearance on the Murray Renshaw Show in Waterford. Tonight Malloy will meet with the Montville DTC.
"Dan Malloy's vision for eastern Connecticut is right on target with the needs of the citizens of New London and the surrounding cities and towns," said Councilor Cavanagh. "His commitment to job growth, major transportation enhancements and a substantial increase in affordable housing is good news to all of us. Dan Malloy understands our needs."
State Senator Andrea Stillman (D-Waterford), who was unable to be in New London due to legislative matters in Harford, also lauded Malloy. "I have known Dan for several years and I am very impressed with his track record in Stamford. He is just the right person we need for southeastern Connecticut and better yet the people of the entire state. He is a true leader."
Malloy said, "What we need right now is to have the same intensity and focused effort on developing the future of eastern Connecticut that we had for fighting base closures during the BRAC process," said Malloy. "But instead, the Rell Administration has failed to act. When I am governor, we will move forward - and the communities in eastern Connecticut will have a real partner in Hartford."
The following is a statement of Dan Malloy, Democratic candidate for governor, on his plans for eastern Connecticut, which he discussed at his meeting with supporters and the media in Norwich.
Economic Development and Diversification:
In just the last few weeks we've seen more disturbing news of further job losses in eastern Connecticut: perhaps as many as 150 people already laid-off at Electric Boat, with as many as 2,400 coming later this year; talk of job cuts at Computer Sciences Corp. in Norwich; the loss of Franklin Farms.
Economic Development and Diversification are desperately needed - throughout Connecticut, but particularly here in the eastern part of the state. I know what it takes to build our economy. I've done that as mayor of Stamford, and I've released a plan - Every Job Matters - that describes in detail how we will build the economy of the entire state.
Here in eastern Connecticut, thanks to the leadership and hard work of local elected, community and business leaders, we already have a specific blueprint for diversifying the economy and making the investments we need for the future. What we are lacking is a governor with the will to commit the resources we need to implement that plan, and the leadership ability and vision to get it done.
What we need right now is to have the same intensity and focused effort on developing the future of eastern Connecticut that we had for fighting base closures during the BRAC process. But instead, the Rell Administration has failed to act - actually removing the cost estimates in some of the recommendations! You can't lead when you stick your head in the sand and ignore the hard choices and the difficult details because they are controversial.
That's why when I am governor I will be clear about out commitment to this region: we will make the $100 million investment over 10 years in projects recommended by the Commission for the Diversification of Southeastern Connecticut, and we will fight in Washington for matching funds to support this critical part of the nation's national security and homeland defense. We will also make the much needed transportation investments in this part of the state that are needed for future economic growth.
These are investments that will not only benefit this region - but will benefit ALL of Connecticut.
It is not a question of resources - it is a question of priorities. And investing in these communities to diversify and strengthen the economy of this part of our state will be one of my top priorities.
Affordable Housing:
There is a need for affordable housing in every part of Connecticut, from our large cities to small towns and rural areas - but it is especially acute here in the eastern half of the state. For example, in New London County over the last five years, housing costs jumped 63% - but incomes only rose by 18%. And overall the stock of affordable housing dropped.
If this trend continues, it will be impossible to attract the workers we need to keep the economy growing. And it will mean that young families will not be able to live and work in the towns they grew up in.
And the lack of affordable housing only exacerbates the serious and growing problem of homelessness - a problem I know you have been working hard at and that even just this morning that you held a regional steering committee meeting on homelessness.
We also know that without a plan to deal with housing creation in a smart way that we will see sprawl development instead - which will put more pressure to develop rural areas and farmlands - creating more traffic and ruining these important resources.
That's why I proposed a plan for affordable housing - one that can make an immediate difference in eastern Connecticut, in communities large and small. My plan will encourage towns to adopt inclusionary zoning; it will offer financial support to cities and towns that are building new affordable housing or preserving what they have; and it will direct state investments to communities that promote Transit Oriented Development or other Smart Growth policies.
But we will not wait to act when I am governor - we'll get moving: I will immediately fund the full-time affordable housing coordinator that has been proposed by the Commission and which this region has been asking for.
Real Partnership Between Governor's office and Eastern Connecticut:
Finally, the most important thing I can do as governor is to be a real partner with the communities in eastern Connecticut - to help you plan your future. For you to be able to do that effectively, eastern Connecticut needs to know it will get its fair share of revenues as you deal with the impact of the casinos and plan ahead during this period of economic transition. That's why we must work to create a steady, reliable source of revenue for the communities in the region.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5740
