Public Statements
While Our Children Wait, DeStefano Plays Slash-And-Burn Politics
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 13, 2006
Location: Unknown


While Our Children Wait, DeStefano Plays Slash-And-Burn Politics
04.13.2006
Category: Campaign News
Statement by Democratic candidate for governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's mayor:

John DeStefano's pattern of slash-and-burn politics is now clear: say anything, do anything, pander to anyone -- no matter what -- because this is a campaign. It's sad to see a public figure act like this just because he's running for office.

John DeStefano's health care plan doesn't provide health insurance immediately for anyone. That's right -- with 71,000 children lacking coverage, and 400,000 people overall lacking coverage, John DeStefano thinks it's a good idea to wait more than one year, at least, for any of those children or adults to get health insurance -- if they even get it then.

I don't think our children should have to wait while John DeStefano plays politics.

As opposed to John's plan, my plan for universal health care for children could be implemented today. That's right -- today. If the Governor would take my plan and push it forward, those 71,000 children could be provided with health insurance almost immediately. Would that take it away from me as campaign issue? Yes. Would that bother me? No. I'd be thrilled, actually, for the children -- whose lives would be better off for it.

While John DeStefano plays slash-and-burn politics, while he misrepresents my positions on issues, and while he issues meaningless promises that may never come to pass...71,000 children are without health insurance.

So, what matters more to John DeStefano: Connecticut's 71,000 children, or his campaign for Governor? Evidently, it's his campaign. That's sad, exploitative, and an indication of John's style of putting politics over people.

After suffering under the reign of John Rowland -- where politics trumped policy every time -- aren't we entitled to better? We are. And that's why I'm running for Governor. Because our children can't wait while John plays politics.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5591
