Public Statements
Malloy Welcomes DeStefano To Health Care Debate
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 12, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Welcomes DeStefano To Health Care Debate
04.12.2006
Category: Health Care
Unlike opponents, Malloy is only one calling for both universal coverage
and specific, immediate action to insure more people now.

Statement by Democratic candidate for governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's mayor:

For the past several months as I have campaigned for governor, I have been talking about the crisis in health care, the need for universal coverage in Connecticut -- and the utter failure of the Rell Administration to do anything about it. Today nearly 400,000 of our fellow citizens do not have health insurance -- and Governor Rell could not be bothered to even mention the health care crisis in her State of the State Address.

So today I welcome the announcement by my fellow Democrat John DeStefano saying he, too, would work to ensure universal health care in Connecticut.

He and I share the same goal -- guaranteeing that every man, woman and child in Connecticut has access to safe, affordable health care.
We have some differences to be sure -- perhaps the most important one is that unlike John DeStefano, I don't believe we can wait any longer to take action. We need to implement real, specific, achievable plans -- and we can't wait for the next session or the next election: the time to act is now.

That's why I proposed a plan for immediate universal health care coverage for children, called "Every Child Matters," prior to this legislative session. But the Rell Administration did nothing. And I was surprised and disappointed that John didn't join my call to have this plan implemented immediately -- in this legislative session. Not next year -- but now.

And it's why months ago I called for opening the state insurance pool to small businesses and the self-employed. Again, as with universal health insurance for children, this is something that can and should be done immediately -- in this legislative session. Not next year -- but now.

And again last week, when Massachusetts passed a landmark plan, I once again called on the Governor to act -- to use that opportunity to bring all the stakeholders together here in Connecticut to develop our own plan for universal coverage. Again, she did nothing.
My proposals are real, specific, achievable plans that will immediately insure more people. We can't wait any longer -- we need leadership to solve this crisis.

While candidates always look for opportunities in political campaigns to tell voters what they'd do if they get elected, there are times when even competing candidates need to put politics aside. This is one of those times.

The proposals and ideas I was the first to discuss -- universal health care for children, and the opening up of the state employee insurance pool to small businesses and the self-employed -- should be implemented immediately.

We must act now and take the steps I have laid out to immediately give more people access to affordable health insurance. And over the next few weeks I will continue to talk in detail about how when I am Governor we will guarantee that every man, woman and child in Connecticut will have access to affordable health insurance.

http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5566
