Public Statements
Malloy Calls On Gov. Rell To Show Leadership On Providing Health Care
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 7, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Calls On Gov. Rell To Show Leadership On Providing Health Care
04.07.2006
Category: Better Government
Malloy: "The people of Connecticut can't wait any longer for action on this important issue. We can't wait for the next legislative session or the next election -- the time to act is now."
Statement by Democratic candidate for governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's mayor:
We've known for some time that Gov. Rell doesn't understand that Connecticut is in the midst of a health care crisis. She either doesn't care about the 400,000 people in Connecticut who lack health insurance -- or just doesn't know what to do about it. In her State of the State Address, she did not say a single word about the health care crisis in our state.
Meanwhile our neighbors in Massachusetts have made remarkable progress: brought together by the governor and legislative leaders, they worked with all stakeholders to pass an innovative, first-in-the-nation plan for universal health care.
The people of Connecticut can't wait any longer for action on this important issue. We can't wait for the next legislative session or the next election -- the time to act is now.
Today I am calling on Governor Rell to convene a high-level panel of experts -- top legislative leaders, health care experts, workers and members of the business community and others -- to meet with our colleagues in Massachusetts who crafted that plan to see what parts of that plan would work here in Connecticut and to begin working on developing a health care plan for our state. The Massachusetts plan may not be perfect and may not have all the right elements we need in Connecticut, but there is much from that plan and the process they followed that can help us achieve our goal of universal health care.
This is what I would do if I were governor today. It's called leadership.
Make no mistake about it -- we have a real crisis in Connecticut. That's why I have already proposed "Every Child Matters," an initiative that will immediately provide health insurance to the 71,000 children in our state who don't have any. It is why last year I announced that I would convene a group of our best and brightest to come together and work with me when I am Governor to find a way to provide health care for all. And it is why I think we must seize the opportunity presented by the recent accomplishment in Massachusetts to take action here to ensure that every man, woman and child in our state has access to affordable health care.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5501
