Public Statements
The Journal Inquirer - Malloy Unveils Affordable Housing Plan
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 6, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Unveils Affordable Housing Plan
04.06.2006. Category: Housing
The Journal Inquirer
By Keith M. Phaneuf , Journal Inquirer
Democratic gubernatorial contender Dannel P. Malloy has unveiled a plan to expand affordable housing by promoting new zoning, state investments, and better planning.
"The affordable housing crisis affects all economic groups, in every part of the state," said Malloy, the mayor of Stamford, who is expected to face New Haven Mayor John DeStefano Jr. in an Aug. 8 Democratic gubernatorial primary. "There is no silver bullet, but our experience in Stamford shows that with leadership and innovative policies we can make progress on creating more housing and making it more affordable in all parts of Connecticut."
The state's housing costs rank among the highest in the nation. And though Connecticut also ranks as one of the wealthiest states in the nation, Malloy said, housing costs grew four times as fast as wages between 2000 and 2004.
Malloy says his plan, which has three components, would follow a similar approach his administration has used to promote affordable housing during his four terms as Stamford's mayor.
The first step is to encourage cities and towns to adopt "inclusionary zoning" standards that require new developers to include a minimal number of affordable housing units within a project or to make contributions to an affordable housing trust.
The state also needs to step up its financial assistance to those communities that take steps to preserve or create affordable housing, Malloy said.
The third component is to use state investments to encourage housing development closer to work centers.
Malloy said the state should try to control the suburban sprawl that results when higher urban housing prices mean new housing is built farther from employment centers - a trend that means more traffic congestion and auto-related pollution.
By adopting a "transit-oriented development" strategy, the state could better prioritize its housing investments and help develop more units closer to work centers, he said.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=5488
