Public Statements
Malloy Offers Plan For Affordable Housing Throughout Connecticut
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 29, 2006
Location: Stamford, CT


Malloy Offers Plan For Affordable Housing Throughout Connecticut
03.29.2006
Category: Housing
At housing forum highlighting Stamford's accomplishments, Malloy cites need for leadership, innovation to address crisis of affordability statewide
STAMFORD -- Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's mayor, today announced a three point action plan for building new housing for middle class and working families as well as low and moderate wage earners throughout Connecticut. The plan would expand on the highly successful policies he has put in place in the City of Stamford.
"The affordable housing crisis affects all economic groups, in every part of the state," said Malloy. "There is no silver bullet, but our experience in Stamford shows that with leadership and innovative policies we can make progress on creating more housing and making it more affordable in all parts of Connecticut."
Malloy's housing plan and call for action comes at a time when Connecticut's housing costs are among the highest in the nation: one recent study ranks Connecticut the seventh most expensive state for renters in the country. And housing costs are dramatically outpacing wages -- Connecticut housing costs rose 49.7% between 2000 and 2004, while wages rose just 12.6%.
Malloy, Stamford's four-term mayor, offered his plan Wednesday while addressing the Affordable Housing Action Collaborative forum, "From Blueprints to Building: How Stamford has used new collaborations to turn a vision for affordable housing into homes and financing," at Union Baptist Church in Stamford.
The forum highlighted the success that Stamford has had in addressing the critical need for affordable housing in that city and throughout southwest Connecticut by being proactive -- creating public-private partnerships and developing innovative policy solutions including the use of inclusionary zoning.
"What we've done in Stamford is develop housing policies that work for everyone -- policies that are aimed at renewing our downtown, creating more units of housing and preserving the housing that we have -- all with a goal of making housing more affordable and giving more of our citizens a chance at the American Dream of owning their own home," said Malloy. "We've done it with leadership here at the local level, forging partnerships among developers, government, banks, housing advocates and citizens -- and I am proud to say we are beginning to see the successful results."
Recognizing that affordable housing was a critically important issue, and knowing that the Stamford area had particularly high housing costs -- the second most expensive rental costs in the nation, behind only the San Francisco area -- Mayor Malloy convened a broad-based group of business, political and community leaders to analyze the problem and develop an action plan. In the five years since, 2,817 units of housing have been built and preserved in the city of Stamford -- and nearly 60% (1,652) are affordable, below-market housing units. In addition, the city has received or directed $2.35 million in payments from developers to be used to build more affordable housing.
Said Malloy, "The success we've had in Stamford is something that can be replicated throughout our state, finding the unique solutions that work in large cities, small towns and rural areas. What we need is leadership from the governor's office, and a real partnership with the leaders in our communities to find the right solutions for each city and town."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5357
