Public Statements
Malloy Calls For Special Legislative Investigation Of Rell
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 17, 2006
Location: Stamford, CT


Malloy Calls For Special Legislative Investigation Of Rell
03.17.2006
Category: Ethics
MALLOY CALLS FOR SPECIAL LEGISLATIVE INVESTIGATION OF RELL ADMINISTRATION AND RELL CAMPAIGN
Calls Revelations of Rell's Campaign Manager Involvement in Rell Fundraising Investigation "Disturbing"
Stamford -- Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today called upon the Legislature's Government Administrations and Elections Committee (GAE) to conduct a special investigation of the Rell Administration and the Rell campaign involving her Administration's fundraising practices. The Courant today reported that the state's top elections enforcement officer gave Governor Rell's campaign manager confidential information and let him act as a go-between last month during efforts to settle charges of fundraising violations by top Rell administration officials.
"It is clearly improper for a campaign manager to negotiate with a government entity, and to be in touch with state commissioners acting as a go-between," Malloy said. "Governor Rell's campaign manager is not a state official or legal counsel for anyone who was being investigated from the Rell Administration."
"This can not be left to the Rell Administration to look into itself," Malloy said. "There are so many basic questions that need to be asked, which is why the Legislature should launch an investigation: Who told Rell's campaign manager to act as a go-between with investigators? Governor Rell herself? Governor Rell's Chief of Staff Lisa Moody? What did Governor Rell know and when did she know it? Is this a continuation of a theme from Governor Rell's decade with John Rowland where she knew nothing about the widespread corruption, and, more recently, when she claimed to know nothing about her chief of staff's misdealings with regard to fundraising? If all of these people are doing improper things right under Governor Rell's nose, who is actually running the State? These are fair and important questions that need to be asked."
Malloy added that based on a court decision this week, the GAE Committee should not hesitate to use its subpoena powers to compel members of the Rell campaign and the Rell Administration to testify in an open and transparent legislative investigation. "The public has the right to know the facts, and after what the people of this State have gone through with the Rowland scandals, we deserve to have a high degree of confidence that the system actually works."
"If the special legislative investigation finds that laws have been violated then the issue has to be referred to the proper investigative authorities for further action, and possibly a Grand Jury" Malloy said. "If no laws were violated, the Legislature can and should still consider closing any legal loopholes that would allow Governor Rell's campaign manager to act as a go between in an investigation involving high ranking Rell Administration officials. Not dissimilar to what the Legislature is doing in this session -- closing the loophole that allowed Governor Rell's chief of staff to solicit campaign money."
"If we have learned nothing else from Rowland years it's that if you don't ask questions when something appears to be wrong, and if you don't conduct formal investigations when things seem to be really wrong, it winds up getting worse down the road," Malloy concluded. "We must not fail to see the magnitude of this issue. I'm not sure there's ever been a time in the history of this State when so many high-level, gubernatorial appointees, 16, of a sitting governor, all of whom serve at her pleasure, have been caught up in the same scandal. And the issue continues to fester. Bottom line is that we deserve an open inquiry where all of the facts are laid out for everyone to see. That's what open, responsive and accountable government is all about.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5245
