Public Statements
Malloy To Rell: "Studying The Economy Doesnt Create Jobs"
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 15, 2006
Location: Hartford, CT


Malloy To Rell: "Studying The Economy Doesnt Create Jobs"
03.15.2006
Category: Better Government
For Immediate Release
March 15, 2006
Contact:
Chris Cooney
203-918-9387 (mobile)
MALLOY TO RELL: "STUDYING THE ECONOMY DOESN'T CREATE JOBS"
Malloy Files Freedom of Information Request with Governor Rell as Result of Her White Wash of Reports on Southeast CT Economy
Hartford -- Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today took sharp aim at Governor Rell for reports that her office ordered her Commission for the Diversification of Southeastern Connecticut to scrub any dollars from their recommendations for how to pursue economic diversification for the region and protect the submarine base from future closing threats. The commission's four subcommittees have completed draft reports that will be presented to the full commission at the end of this month, after which an interim report will be presented to Governor Rell. Malloy filed a Freedom of Information request, calling upon the Governor to disclose the information contained in the original reports prior to the commission members being told by Governor Rell's office to erase the data.
"I believe the public has the right to know -- without it being filtered by the Rell Administration -- the thinking of the people working on this commission. Governor Rell's Administration has an obligation to provide an open and realistic assessment," Malloy said. "That's why I am filing a Freedom of Information Act request today to compel the Rell Administration to release the recommended dollar amounts. This is reminiscent of Vice President Cheney's private meetings with the oil industry where they discussed the economic future of our country and refused to tell us what they discussed. There's a troubling national trend with Republican leadership and their pattern of withholding information from the public for their own political purposes, and it is growing ever clearer the Governor Rell is following this national Republican trend."
"Southeastern Connecticut is vitally important to the overall economic health of our State," Malloy said. "The fact that Governor Rell is choosing to ponder the problem by forming another study group, and then telling the study group that they can't include any suggestions for investing in the region calls into question her devotion to creating jobs and establishing a long term economic viability plan for Southeastern Connecticut. This is the pattern with the Rell Administration -- try to manage the State with no strategic plan, react to emergencies, issue press releases, form study groups, ignore input. Today's revelations about Governor Rell and Southeastern Connecticut show once again that the Rell Administration is all talk and no action, or worse, all talk and inaction."
Malloy said that his own approach to economic development -- which he recently laid out in his Every Job Matters proposal -- is designed to create 100,000 jobs by 2010. "Governor Rell has blunted dialogue with not only local leaders and officials, but even those she supposedly 'empowered' to create solutions to help Southeastern Connecticut diversify and respond to shifts in the defense industry," Malloy said. "A key part of my jobs proposal is establishing the 'LEADERs' program to provide real collaborative decision-making and inclusion for local and regional leaders in Southeast Connecticut. Local leaders know their region better than anyone and shunning them as Governor Rell has done is insulting, condescending, and hurtful to the region's economic prospects."
"To add insult to injury, Governor Rell has proposed $500 million to eliminate a car tax that will hurt municipal budgets and create zero jobs," said Malloy. "But Governor Rell's spokesperson on Southeastern diversification says, 'There is little room to breathe within the state budget,' so we can't make investments in Southeastern Connecticut. What's more, Governor Rell's 21st Century Jobs proposal consists of only $1.5 million for customized training, $250,000 for apprenticeship program, and a $500,000 cut to CONNSTEP -- a non-profit state-federal partner that helps small business improve their production processes. Governor Rell is saying one thing and doing another, to the detriment of the people she serves. She's chosen an election-year gimmick over real investment in Connecticut's future, and acts as if she had no choice."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5241
