Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Latest Round of Funding to Help Remediate and Revitalize Connecticut Brownfields
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 30, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD) is providing $7.9 million in grants to 14 towns and cities across the state for brownfield remediation and assessment activities. The projects comprise 187 acres of redevelopment.
"Putting brownfield sites back to productive use is an economic win-win for the environment and our economy. The funding announced today will be a great benefit for municipalities as they begin the process of turning these contaminated properties into economic opportunities," Governor Malloy said.
Since 2011, the Malloy administration has allocated more than $173 million in state funding for brownfield remediation and redevelopment in the form of loans and grants to municipalities and developers. For every dollar invested by the state, $5.45 has been or will be invested by non-state partners. Connecticut has been recognized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as one of the most active and innovative states nationwide in the remediation and redevelopment of brownfields. With this new round of projects, Governor Malloy has invested in brownfield projects in 60 different municipalities across Connecticut.
"Under the leadership of Governor Malloy we continue to invest in brownfield redevelopment projects throughout the state," DECD Commissioner Catherine Smith said. "These strategic investments are a big reason why Connecticut is a national leader in the cleanup and assessment of contaminated sites."
"The state's unprecedented investment in the cleanup and redevelopment of brownfields in cities and towns across Connecticut is producing impressive environmental and economic benefits," Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) Commissioner Rob Klee said. "DEEP looks forward to working with the latest grant recipients to assist them in restoring these sites to productive use. The cleanup and redevelopment of these sites will benefit the economy and the environment in the host communities and in Connecticut as a whole."

Source:
