Public Statements
Malloy Meets Colchester Dems
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 11, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Meets Colchester Dems
Democratic Candidate for Governor shares his vision for a better CT
March 11 - More than thirty people gathered in Colchester to hear Democratic candidate for Governor and Mayor of Stamford Dan Malloy's vision for Connecticut. Pat Lagrega's hosted the event. Democratic Town Committee (DTC) Chair John Malsbenden introduced State Representative Linda Orange (Assistant Majority Whip 48th Assembly District) and Malloy to the group of Democrats.
After a brief introduction, the floor was opened for questions that concern local residents.
With the recent 22 percent hike in electric rates, energy was a big concern. Malloy, who is working closely on proposals with Attorney General Richard Blumenthal, told the crowd that he believes the state should license more small environmentally friendly generating facilities to help business manage expenses and increase output.
"The Attorney General's plan for a public power authority is a new strategy to help cut and contain excess costs. We need to make sure there is a market for the energy they produce," said Malloy.
When asked what was more important, manufacturing or service jobs, Malloy answered, "All jobs. I just released the most comprehensive job plan out there -- Every Job Matters."
He then told the story of Clairol, who has a plant in Stamford. "They were going to move jobs out of the City," said Malloy. "We couldn't let that happen, so we became proactive. Through innovative land initiatives, Stamford retained the jobs and Clairol increased their employment numbers. That's what leadership is all about."
Malloy explained the four components of his economic development/job program Every Job Matters. First, the initiative will redesign the State's economic development infrastructure to require accountability and to create true partnership with local and regional leaders. Second, the Blue Ribbon Business plan will reward companies after -- not before -- they produce quality jobs. Third, the wage insurance proposal will help workers affected by outsourcing find work quickly. Fourth, the proposal addresses the need to make college more feasible, more attractive and more affordable for students to attend Connecticut's great public colleges and universities.
"Economic Development is not just about large facilities. It includes everything that affects us - from transportation, to education, to jobs and tax reform," said Malloy.
Marcella Fahey, a former legislator, asked why the state has isolated itself from the public, referring to how little public parking is available at the Capitol or the Legislative Office Building housing State Senate and House of Representative offices. "How can people come and voice their concerns when they can't even find a place to park," questioned Fahey.
"We need openness and responsiveness in State government and that starts with the Executive Branch and the Governor's Office. I want to bring my style of leadership to Hartford using the same tools that I have found to be successful in Stamford. With Mayor Nights, open employee meetings, walking neighborhoods and public input, I have built consensus and fostered teamwork. And if you can't get up there to see me I'll be back here to listen to your concerns and ask your opinions."
"I am ready and battle tested," Malloy said when asked about differences between John DeStefano, Mayor of New Haven, and him. "I am the only candidate that has run for office in a Republican stronghold and won four times. The last time a Republican ran for mayor in New Haven, Eisenhower was president. Our style is completely different. I am not a top down leader, but a consensus builder. Finally our records as mayors of cities of comparable size and opportunity highlight our ability."
"Under my leadership, Stamford has experienced an economic turnaround," Malloy said. 'We have built a strong and vibrant business base, adding 5,000 new jobs and increasing employment by over 9%. The City has seen a 63% reduction in crime and launched the State's first universal pre-school program for four-year olds, regardless of the family's ability to pay. We have opened one of the State's most highly respected senior centers and secured and protected over 250 acres of open space, more than any other municipality in the State. And we have done this while maintaining a AAA bond rating."
Malloy has been traveling across Connecticut meeting with Democratic Town Committee members, elected and community leaders, and young people to engage them in an open dialogue about Connecticut's future.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5249
