Public Statements
The Stamford Advocate - Malloy Unveils Plan To Boost Growth In Jobs
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 10, 2006
Location: Hartford, CT


Malloy Unveils Plan To Boost Growth In Jobs

By Tobin A. Coleman
Staff Writer
Published March 10 2006
HARTFORD -- Calling Gov. M. Jodi Rell's track record on jobs "abysmal", Democratic candidate for governor Dannel Malloy yesterday laid out his plan to create 100,000 new jobs by 2010.
Malloy said the plan would cost about $80 million annually that would be paid for entirely by the new taxes generated by the additional jobs.
Malloy accused Republican Rell of "residing perhaps in a rose garden," after she described the state's job growth numbers as being "on the right track." Newly revised labor statistics released Wednesday by the Department of Labor showed job growth declining since 2004.
"As governor I intend to be held accountable for job production and job growth," Malloy said at a news conference at the state Capitol. "I want to be held accountable by the public." Job growth has become the top issue in this election year. Rell, running for her first full term, proposed a jobs growth plan in her Feb. 8 State of the State address. The other Democratic gubernatorial candidate, New Haven Mayor John DeStefano Jr., proposed one last week. Rell and DeStefano described Malloy's plan yesterday as nothing new.
Malloy's 11-page plan, called "Every Job Matters," has four key components: Leadership on jobs growth from the governor and local leaders; tax credits targeted to "Blue Ribbon" role-model businesses that create high-paying jobs, provide affordable health care and have good employee relations; wage insurance to replace 50 percent of lost wages for workers whose jobs have been outsourced; and higher education programs including cheaper summer semester tuition, $1,000 tuition reimbursements to students who graduate college on time with at least a B+ grade average and incentives for math and science studies.
Malloy said as governor he would lead annual monthly meetings with agency heads and state economic development officials to push for job creation strategies. He would also reorganize the existing handful of agencies that deal with economic development under a new quasi-public organization that would set job creation targets. The wage insurance proposal, the first to be implemented by any state, would target workers who have lost their jobs to outsourcing. Malloy said studies show they earn 13 percent less in the years immediately after losing their jobs. The insurance would pay 50 percent of any difference between their old and new jobs for two years, capped at $10,000. The program would also contain emergency job training credits to retrain older workers for new jobs. Malloy was not specific about how he would pay for the plan. He said it would be foolish to guess what the state's financial picture would look like in July 2007, when his first budget as governor would become effective.
But he would not rule out new taxes, promising to put the plan in the first budget he would propose.
"I don't think they're necessary," Malloy said of new taxes to pay for the plan. "But if you're asking would I spend a buck to create two, I would do it."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.stamfordadvocate.com/news/scn-malloy031006,0,1863445.story
