Public Statements
Malloy Unveils Detailed Jobs Proposal Called "Every Job Matters"
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 9, 2006
Location: Hartford, CT


Malloy Unveils Detailed Jobs Proposal Called "Every Job Matters"
03.09.2006
Category: Jobs
Says Connecticut needs a "new strategy, new leadership"
HARTFORD -- Calling for a "whole new way of doing business," Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today unveiled his second major policy proposal of the 2006 campaign: an economic development and jobs proposal. Last month, Malloy unveiled his "Every Child Matters" proposal, to guarantee health insurance to all of the 71,000 uninsured children living in Connecticut today.
According to Malloy, his "Every Job Matters" package seeks to match the national job creation average by creating 100,000 new jobs in Connecticut by 2010. Malloy said that "Connecticut's abysmal ranking near the bottom of just about every jobs-related report that comes out is due in large part to a failure of leadership, focus, and vision."
"My 'Every Job Matters' proposal represents a unique vision for changing the way Connecticut does business," said Malloy. "The Rowland and Rell administrations have employed a top-down, fly-blind, hope-for-the-best approach. But 'the best' hasn't happened. In fact, we're about the worst when it comes to creating jobs. That's made life hard for too many families, and it needs to change -- now."
As evidence of the failures of the Rowland and Rell administrations, Malloy cited several recent, non-partisan reports in which Connecticut has ranked at or near the bottom nationally. Last summer, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ranked Connecticut last in the nation for job growth and job retention. CFED (www.cfed.org), a Washington-based economic development think tank, ranked Connecticut last in small business assistance and second to last in its long-term employment growth outlook.
Malloy's proposal includes what he called "4 key components":
"First, a strategic leadership component: we redesign our economic development infrastructure to allow accountability and to require true partnership with local and regional leaders; second, a 'Blue Ribbon Business' component, to reward companies after -- not before -- they produce quality jobs, and to allow businesses to share in the prosperity they bring to Connecticut; third, a "Workforce Development" component, the cornerstone of which is a wage insurance proposal to help workers affected by outsourcing find work quickly; and fourth, an education component: a proposal to make it both more feasible and more attractive for students to attend Connecticut's great public colleges and universities, and to guarantee a renewed focus on literacy and math as the building blocks to success."
Malloy said, taken together, these components represent the key elements of a new strategy I'll employ as Governor that will allow us to retain existing jobs, create new ones, and invest in our future economic growth."
Malloy said the twin themes of "accountability and success" were critical in the formulation of his plan.
"There's been almost no accountability since at least 1995," said Malloy. "We give taxpayer dollars to companies that promise to do x, y, or z -- but don't. Then we say we're not sure why. Then we say we can't find out why. Then we spend more money on yet another 'new' strategy, which doesn't end up looking all that different than the last strategy. This cycle of failure needs to be stopped -- now."
"The hallmarks of my plan are simple: meet the national average -- 100,000 jobs by 2010 -- and please, please hold me accountable. Not some political appointee, not some business leader. Me. In the Rowland and Rell administrations, the buck always seems to get passed like a hot potato from one person to the next -- but it never seems to stop at the Governor's desk. I have a different style of leadership: I expect to be held accountable, and I want to be held accountable."
Malloy said that this plan will cost a total of approximately $80 million per year, and that it's "paid for in full" by the anticipated revenue the job growth will create. Malloy added, "We simply can't afford not to invest substantially in the economic future of our state."
Malloy said that his plan doesn't represent "wishful thinking"; instead, he said it represents a "continuation of the success we've had in Stamford."
As evidence, Malloy pointed to the fact that, since 1995, the Stamford labor market has grown by approximately 5,000 jobs.
"I've worked hard to create jobs in Stamford, and we've had a lot of success. I want to translate that into a statewide jobs strategy. We call Stamford 'the city that works' for a reason: because it does work. Because we made it work."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5193
