Public Statements
Malloy Opens Up Shop In Hartford
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 8, 2006
Location: Hartford, CT


Malloy Opens Up Shop In Hartford
03.08.2006
Category: Campaign News
Hartford - Democrats from all over the state today joined Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, to celebrate the opening of his Hartford campaign office.
"As the campaign builds momentum it is important that we have a place in the state's Capitol as a base of operation for the area," Malloy said. "The Malloy for Governor team is spending a lot of time in Hartford and the dozens of surrounding towns that reach into the first, second, third and fifth Congressional districts. Our field operation, including paid and volunteer members, has grown to the point where it warrants and demands this Capitol office. We're very encouraged by the significant momentum that our campaign has picked up, and our new Capitol presence is one more indication of our growing base of support."
During the grand opening, Malloy greeted scores of Democratic supporters who crowded into the headquarters. "I am honored to have you with me today as we celebrate what we've been able to accomplish and to thank you in advance for supporting me in the months to come. We have a lot of work to do to win the Democratic Convention in May, the primary election in August, and the general election in November, but together we will win and go on to make a positive and lasting difference for the people of Connecticut."
The office is in the historic Mary Borden Munsill House at 2 Wethersfield Avenue, a Hartford landmark. It is just blocks from Trinity College, downtown and the Capitol, and adjacent to Mayor Eddie Perez's Southend Urban Renewal Project. With easy access via bus as well as highways, the campaign plans to attract volunteers from local communities and surrounding towns.
The Malloy campaign has a location in Stamford, as well.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=5179
