Public Statements
Malloy Criticizes Rell For Opposing Contracting Reform
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 28, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Criticizes Rell For Opposing Contracting Reform
02.28.2006
Category: Better Government
Calls Rell's statements "inconsistent and disingenuous"
Democratic Candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today said he is "disappointed that Governor Rell is once again opposing the Legislature's attempt to reform contracting procedures," and criticized Governor Rell for being "inconsistent and disingenuous" in her statements on contracting reform. Referring to a letter Rell recently sent to House Speaker Jim Amann and Senate President Don Williams, in which she states that she will oppose the clean contracting bill which will likely be voted on this week, Malloy said "It's now clear that the Governor will oppose any clean contracting bill that attempts to establish standards and protections for the contracting-out of state government services."
Rell has vetoed contracting reform bills twice before, citing concerns regarding the impact of such legislation on non-profit agencies which provide state services, such as group homes and programs for the mentally disabled. Although the bill now before the Legislature exempts such non-profit agencies, Rell has made it clear that she will nonetheless veto the bill a third time.
Although Rell insists that her veto messages and the recent letter have been "clear and consistent," Malloy disagreed: "It's clear now that her concern for the impact on non-profits was a mere pretext for opposing contracting reform. Now that the Legislature has addressed that concern and exempted non-profits from the bill's provisions, the Governor says that she will oppose the reforms anyway. To me, that indicates her previous veto message was disingenuous -- and that's no way to negotiate or lead."
Malloy, who urged Rell to sign the previous contracting reform bill in October of 2005, added that the need for contracting reform has been widely recognized for years. In 2003, a report from the Auditors of Public Accounts stated that "Given the inherent risk that attaches to privatization initiatives originating in the government sector, and the potential they have for dramatically impacting the way government services are delivered to the public, there exists a need for the General Assembly to establish formal standards and procedures..."
"This bill is an attempt to implement those common sense recommendations," said Malloy. "I find her opposition difficult to understand."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4934
