Public Statements
The Norwalk Hour - Hospital Employees Continue Strike In Stamford
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 24, 2006
Location: Stamford, CT


Hospital Employees Continue Strike In Stamford
02.24.2006. Category:
The Norwalk Hour
www.thehour.com
By JIM NASH
Hour Staff Writer
STAMFORD -- Service workers and dietary and nursing assistants at Stamford Hospital and the Tandet Center continued picketing both facilities Thursday over an impasse in contract negotiations. The strikers will be back at their jobs Saturday, according to their union.
The hospital and center remained open for business Thursday and Stamford Hospital sought criminal charges of assault, battery, criminal trespass and harassment against several union leaders and strikers after an early-morning incident at the hospital's loading dock.
No one was injured in the incident, but according to the hospital, a union leader shoved a security guard.
"Our patients and neighbors have been forced to tolerate harassment and constant violations of the city noise ordinances," said Kathleen Silard, senior vice president of operations at Stamford Hospital. "The security and safety of our patients and visitors is paramount."
New England Health Care Employees Union District 1199 represent 62 hospital dietary employees and 109 Tandet nursing assistants and service workers. The three-day walkout began Wednesday after two contract negotiations stalled over issues largely surrounding job security and health care benefits.
Also on Thursday, Stamford Mayor Dannel Malloy was joined by state Sen. Andrew McDonald and the Rev. Johnny Bush held a press conference on the picket line. Malloy also joined a picket line a few months ago at DoubleTree Hotel in Norwalk, marching with union workers who were not hired back under new ownership at the hotel.
Union members have been working without a contract since last September despite the intervention of a federal mediator. The union held a one-day strike in December.
A key component of the negotiations is the pending sale of the Tandet Center to Georgia-based HP Acquisitions, Inc.
The hospital is offering a short-term contract, and Tandet workers will need to negotiate with the new owners after the sale.
Union spokeswoman Deborah Chernoff said nursing assistants and service workers at Tandet could loose their jobs when sale is finalized in a few months.
The union says the hospital is offering no "successorship language" that would guarantee workers their jobs after the takeover. Chernoff said workers at Tandet are, "essentially being abandoned by their current employer and their future employer."
The union contends HP "has made no offers of future employment to current employees, and no commitments with respect to wages, benefits or working conditions once the sale is completed."
Chernoff said AltaCare Corporation, the future operating entity of Tandet for HP, told the union that current employees will have to apply for jobs with the new employer.
Current employees looking to keep their jobs will undergo background checks and drug testing, and offers of employment may not be made to individuals with pending disciplinary or termination actions, according to AltaCare.
Malloy said: "I just think this is a fight that shouldn't be. The union has been there a long time, and both sides should come to the table and reach an agreement. The reality has a lot to do with the nursing home, and the hospital doesn't want to recognize the union."
Malloy said every other nursing home in Stamford is unionized. "Whoever is trying to buy the nursing home is trying to have an unfair advantage in the market" by running a non-union facility, he said.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=4915
