Public Statements
Malloy Questions Why Rell Wont Attend Important Meeting Of Nation's Governors
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 23, 2006
Location: Stamford, CT


Malloy Questions Why Rell Wont Attend Important Meeting Of Nation's Governors
02.23.2006
Category: Better Government
Calls on Rell to address her "top priority," and join other governors in urging President Bush to re-consider his budget
Stamford -- Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today said he is "extremely puzzled and disturbed" by Gov. Rell's apparent refusal to attend an important National Governor's Association (NGA) meeting with President Bush in Washington, D.C., on February 25-28. Malloy urged Rell to "reconsider" her refusal to attend, saying the Governor should "show up and fight for Connecticut."
"Gov. Rell said in her state of the state speech that economic development is her number one priority, and she is the Vice Chairman of the NGA's Economic Development and Commerce Committee," said Malloy. "Here's a chance for her to address her number one priority on behalf of the people of Connecticut with key leaders from around the nation and President Bush, and she turns it down."
"Actions speak louder than words," Malloy said. "In Governor Rell's State of the State address this year, she said, 'Let there be no doubt, our core mission this session is a straightforward and critical one: to stimulate economic growth, retain good jobs, create new and even better jobs.' She now has the opportunity to go to Washington, interact with governors from all over the country and tap their ideas for economic development, meet face to face with the President and make an economic partner out of him and the federal government, and show some national leadership to benefit Connecitcut."
Malloy said that considering Connecticut's "dismal" record of job creation and economic growth over the past decade, "Gov. Rell should be looking everywhere she can for help."
"This is an influential and experienced group of governors that has an unrivaled breadth of experience in economic development, state budget management, and procurement of federal dollars. At a time in our State's history when we are trailing other states badly in job growth, it is essential that Connecticut's Governor takes a leadership role on the national stage and fight for Connecticut jobs."
Malloy also said that the Governor's refusal to attend means she is "wasting taxpayer money."
"To simply say there's a 'travel ban,' or 'we have a short session,' which as best I can tell appears to be the Governor's alternating rationales for not attending meetings in Washington, D.C., is silly. No one is suggesting that she spend as much time out of state as former Gov. Rowland did, but there are times when it's the prudent thing to do. In this case, she's actually costing the state money by not going."
"The State pays $102,000 a year in dues so that the Governor can be a part of this organization, yet she refuses to take an active leadership role and has missed the past two annual meetings," Malloy said. "The NGA will develop state strategies and lobby the President personally for federal dollars for everything from economic development and transportation to education and health care. Connecticut needs a strong voice at that table, and with its Governor holding a leadership position on a key jobs committee, we should be in a strong national position to make a real difference for the people of Connecticut. But you can't win if you don't play -- first you've got to show up."
Finally, Malloy added that as Stamford's Mayor, he's been a part of national organizations similar to the NGA -- and has found them to be an "invaluable resource."
"I've seen how effective strong national associations can be for the people you serve," Malloy added. "I became deeply involved in the US Conference of Mayors and now serve on its board. I am fighting for municipalities in Connecticut and throughout the country on a national stage -- it's about forging relationships with other leaders, sharing what works and what doesn't, and amplifying our voices together to be heard in Washington for the benefit of the people we serve."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4909
