Public Statements
Malloy Releases Youth Development Initiative To Combat Urban Youth Violence
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 13, 2006
Location: Stamford, CT


Malloy Releases Youth Development Initiative To Combat Urban Youth Violence
02.13.2006
Category: Better Government
STAMFORD -- Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today sent a letter to Governor Rell outlining a four-part Connecticut Youth Development Initiative aimed at helping Connecticut's youth grow and prosper, and reduce the level of youth violence in our cities. Malloy sent the overview to Governor Rell in advance of a meeting urban mayors are having with her tomorrow, in an effort to educate the Governor on effective ways the State can help cities support and develop their youth.
"At the municipal level, in many ways we have been fighting against youth violence and for the future of our young people on our own, without a strong partner at the State level," Malloy said. "It takes constant vigilance to effectively support our youth, make them valuable members of the community and give them hope for the future. It starts with a strategy, effective programs and tireless implementation to make a difference. It doesn't happen over night, it doesn't happen with a press release, it doesn't happen with one high profile meeting. It happens by leveraging experience, committing resources and continually working hard for the future of our youth."
"It's also vitally important to point out that in addition to a comprehensive youth development initiative, we must take other steps to send a very clear message that we truly care about our children," Malloy explained. "From my Every Child Matters initiative to provide health care coverage to the 71,000 uninsured children in Connecticut, to the thousands of children who were able to take advantage of Stamford's School Readiness universal pre-kindergarten program regardless of the family's ability to pay, we must be actively and positively engaged in nurturing our children early and often."
To view the entire Connecticut Youth Development Initiative please click here. The letter that Mayor Malloy sent to Governor Rell can be found below.
February 13, 2006
Dear Governor Rell:
I have outlined the Connecticut Youth Development Initiative aimed at helping Connecticut's youth grow and prosper, and reduce the level of youth violence in our cities. I wanted you to have a copy of it given our scheduled meeting tomorrow.
At the municipal level, in many ways we have been fighting against youth violence and for the future of our young people on our own, without a strong partner at the State level. It takes constant vigilance to effectively support our youth, make them valuable members of the community and give them hope for the future. It starts with a strategy, effective programs and tireless implementation to make a difference. My Connecticut Youth Development Initiative is built on four key pillars: (1) community partnerships with faith-based and non-profit organizations; (2) youth employment; (3) mentoring; and (4) juvenile justice (vs. criminal justice). It is a starting point, meant to spark a dialogue for the future of our children and our State.
It's also vitally important to point out that in addition to a comprehensive youth development initiative, there needs to be a body of work that sends the message that we truly care about our youth. From my Every Child Matters initiative to provide health care coverage to the 71,000 uninsured children in Connecticut, to the thousands of children who were able to take advantage of Stamford's School Readiness universal pre-kindergarten program regardless of the family's ability to pay, we must be actively and positively engaged in nurturing our children early and often.
I look forward to discussing this statewide initiative with you tomorrow as we take up the important issue of protecting, nurturing and shaping our young people. Thank you.
Sincerely,
Dan Malloy
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4744
