Public Statements
Latino Rallies Support Malloy For Governor
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 12, 2006
Location: Stamford, CT


Latino Rallies Support Malloy For Governor
02.12.2006
Category: On the Road
Bridgeport and New Haven Latinos throw their support behind Stamford's mayor
STAMFORD - Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor met with local Hispanic supporters in two rallies held in Bridgeport and New Haven, yesterday organized by local activists and the Connecticut Hispanic Caucus (CHDC).
"I'm here to share with you my vision for the future of Connecticut. Better days are ahead of us if we learn, listen and work together," said Malloy. "For too long the Rell administration has put the needs of this community on a back burner. But your issues are no different than the issues that affect all of us - available and affordable health care, especially for our children, a secure job at a decent wage, affordable housing near where we work, or safe schools that provide a quality education."
Organized by the CHDC, the events were held at local restaurants - the Rainbow Restaurant on East Main in Bridgeport and Reina Restaurant on Washington Avenue in New Haven where refreshments were served to enthusiastic crowds. The CHDC is a statewide organization of Hispanic state office-holders and community activists who work to engage Latinos in the political process.
"We have to put the children of Connecticut first and I have two very specific proposals that will directly benefit them and by extension every family in the state," said Malloy. "First is my Every Child Matters, initiative to provide health care coverage under the state's HUSKY program, for every eligible child under the age of 18. It is a moral imperative that we provide access to an attending physician for the more than 70,000 children who qualify but are not insured. I know if can be done because we've made it work in Stamford, enrolling over 2200 children who would otherwise have no health insurance."
"I also consider the preschool education expansion so important that I would reallocate money from elsewhere in the education budget if there was no other way to fund it," said Malloy. "Again, I know it can be done because we've done it in Stamford. Since its launch in 1997, 1000s of four-year old children have taken advantage of our School Readiness pre-kindergarten program that is available to every child - regardless of the family's ability to pay.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4795
