Public Statements
Malloy Faults Rell On Refusal To Address Serious Issues
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 9, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Faults Rell On Refusal To Address Serious Issues
02.09.2006
Category: Better Government
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
February 9, 2006
MALLOY FAULTS RELL ON REFUSAL TO ADDRESS SERIOUS ISSUES
Says tax cuts are a shell game while the real issues of health care and jobs are ignored
Hartford -- Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, responded today to Governor Jodi Rell's address marking the start of the legislative session.
"I'm particularly disappointed that Governor Rell doesn't consider it a priority to guarantee health insurance to the 71,000 children uninsured in Connecticut," said Malloy. "I've proposed a very specific solution to that problem -- the Every Child Matters program. The fact that one of the wealthiest states in the nation allows tens of thousands of children to grow up without health insurance is shameful. I'm sorry that Governor Rell doesn't agree."
Responding to Rell's plan to eliminate the tax on motor vehicles, Malloy said that "Everyone wants to cut taxes -- especially the car tax -- but the Governor is playing a classic shell game: she pays for this so-called 'tax cut' by eliminating the $350 income tax credit homeowners currently receive, and uses casino money which is already used to help cities and towns reduce their property tax burden. To be clear: I'd love to eliminate the car tax, but not if it's just a shell game that raises taxes on homeowners -- which is what this appears to be." Malloy also noted that Governor Rell's proposal "ignores those tax cuts that might stimulate job growth, such as the tax on fleets of commercial vehicles and on manufacturing property."
On the issue of jobs and economic development, Malloy said he was "disappointed that the Governor still doesn't understand the importance of creating a single, coordinated Economic Development agency with a clear mission: to retain and grow jobs. While she adopted my proposal to dissolve the DECD, she didn't take the second, more important step: creating an agency that is empowered to coordinate our economic development efforts effectively."
"In general, the speech was fine -- like all her speeches," said Malloy. "But she's given a lot of speeches since she became Governor, and during that time, tens of thousands of Connecticut residents have lost their health insurance and tens of thousands have lost their jobs. We've done little to address the transportation crisis that chokes Connecticut's economy. 71,000 children live without health insurance. I heard very little today that will change any of that."
Malloy's comments come two days after he released a proposed legislative agenda, in which he called for "significant reform" of the state's economic development infrastructure, tax structure and education funding formula, as well as for an expansion of the state's health insurance pool to small businesses, the full funding of the Transportation Strategy Board's recommendations, and the protection of the state's recently-passed campaign finance reforms.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4729
