Public Statements
Malloy Outlines Issues He Hopes Legislature, Gov. Will Tackle
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 6, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Outlines Issues He Hopes Legislature, Gov. Will Tackle
02.06.2006
Category: Campaign News
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
February 6, 2006
MALLOY OUTLINES ISSUES HE HOPES LEGISLATURE, GOVERNOR WILL TACKLE IN 2006 SESSION
Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today outlined several issues he said he hopes the legislature and Governor will address in advance of the 2006 legislative session, which begins Wednesday. In addition to the Every Child Matters program proposed by Malloy two weeks ago, which would expand healthcare coverage to every child in Connecticut, Malloy's proposed agenda calls for significant reform of the state's economic development infrastructure, as well as the state's tax structure and education funding formula,
"Although it's traditionally been difficult to tackle big problems in short sessions, it's critical that we stay focused on the issues that matter most," said Malloy. "There are countless concerns that need to be addressed in Connecticut, but I've focused on those key areas where I believe are the most critical."
"While I hope that Governor Rell will focus on some of the same critical issues in her budget address on Wednesday," added Malloy, "I have to admit that I'm less than optimistic." "For twelve years, the Rowland and Rell Administrations have consciously and consistently ignored the most pressing problems in Connecticut. That's why 71,000 children and a total of 400,000 Connecticut residents don't have health insurance. That's why we' rank the bottom nationally in job growth. That's why we're facing a transportation crisis in every part of this state. That's why our municipalities are being crushed under the weight of property taxes. We can't ignore the tough issues anymore. That's what my campaign is about, and that's what this proposed agenda is about."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4708
