Public Statements
Dan Malloy: Connecticut's Agenda For 2006
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 6, 2006
Location: Unknown


Dan Malloy: Connecticut's Agenda For 2006
02.06.2006. Category: Better Government
I. Health Care
Insuring all children. Connecticut should immediately commit itself to a simple and achievable goal: making sure that every single one of Connecticut's children has health insurance and access to a treating physician. Last week, I proposed the Every Child Matters program, expanding and enhancing HUSKY to eliminate the existing barriers to coverage. In the wealthiest state in the nation, it is a moral outrage that 71,000 children remain uninsured. If we simply resolve to fix the problem, we can do it -- today -- for a manageable cost.
Expanding the State purchasing pool. A substantial portion of citizens lacking health insurance in Connecticut are employed by small businesses or are self-employed. I propose a simple solution to permit small business owners to provide coverage to themselves and their employees at affordable rates: we should permit them to join the State purchasing pool.
II. Education
Fixing ECS. If Connecticut is to make any real progress in improving achievement across the board -- or closing the tragically wide achievement gap -- Connecticut must embrace fundamental reform of the ECS formula, scrapping the failed system and designing a formula that (a) devotes adequate resources, based on the real costs of educating children, and (b) distributes funds on the basis of need -- not on an incomprehensible and distorted formula. Recent studies commissioned by the Coalition for Justice in Education Funding provide a blueprint for both the level of funding and the formula by which state education money should be distributed. We should not wait for the litigation to run its course. We should take the lead in reforming our broken system today.
Early Childhood Education. In addition to reforming the ECS formula, Connecticut must make a firm and unequivocal commitment to ensuring that every single child in Connecticut has access to early-childhood education. Every child in Connecticut must have the opportunity to attend at least one and at best two years of pre-kindergarten education. The research conducted on the issue of early childhood education could hardly be more compelling. The years from birth to five are the most crucial years in a child's development; years in which the child develops socially, psychologically and intellectually. I urge the legislature to provide the resources necessary at the local level to guarantee at least one year of early childhood education to every child in Connecticut.
III. Jobs
Dissolving DECD and creating a pro-active economic development entity. Connecticut has failed at economic development. We rank at the very bottom in job growth and job retention. We have not yet woken to the fact that we are in a competition for development -- and we are losing. Desperate times call for drastic action, and I propose the following: First, dissolve the DECD. Second, follow the lead of such states as New Jersey, Oregon, Virginia and Florida and create in place of DECD an Economic Development entity overseen by a Board composed of commissioners from the departments of Transportation, Environmental Protection, Labor, Education, and Higher Education, private sector labor unions and gubernatorial appointees -- and designed to be both geographically and racially diverse. The board must be empowered to create and implement a strategic economic development plan for the state and pro-actively recruit and retain businesses. The agency must be required to set benchmarks and be held accountable for the state's progress toward meeting its economic development goals. Working hand in hand with the Economic Development Board would be seven to nine regional economic development districts designed to empower local leaders to access federal development funds directly and to make any and all development decisions consistent with the state plan. This plan may sound radical. It is not. Connecticut is one of only three sates lacking federally recognized regional economic development authorities -- and we lose federal funding as a result.
Protecting Connecticut Jobs and Cleaning Up Contracting Procedures. Governor Rell has now vetoed two bills designed to clean up the State contracting process and guard against irresponsible and unjustified privatization of State functions. Responding to the concerns of not-for-profits troubled by the previous bills, I urge the legislature to send an appropriately revised clean contracting bill to the Governor for her immediate approval.
IV. Tax Reform
Fighting the property tax addiction: A four year plan. I propose that Connecticut set a target for reducing our over-reliance on property taxes, and reach that target within four years. Let's make the target clear, simple and achievable. And let's begin moving towards that target by implementing two specific proposals: First, I propose that all revenue derived from both the State Lottery and the gaming compacts with the Mashantucket Pequot and Mohegan tribes be set aside exclusively and irreversibly for education-related aid to cities and towns. Second, I propose that we adopt a revenue sharing system under which municipalities are permitted to retain some portion of revenues collected from the sales tax, income tax and utility taxes. We can begin today by simply giving municipalities the right to retain a local portion of all taxes collected or generated within their boundaries.
V. Transportation
Adopt and fund the recommendations of the Transportation Strategy Board. The transportation crisis in Connecticut has been studied to death. We do not need additional studies or new ideas: we need leadership and commitment. Connecticut simply will not see progress until we devote the resources required: $5-7 Billion over the next ten years. Transportation reform is a business and economic imperative. Our ability to generate revenue in the future depends on our ability to generate jobs today -- and the transportation crisis is one of the most significant barriers to economic development facing Connecticut today.
VI. Campaign Finance Reform
Protect the historic Campaign Finance Reform Bill. Connecticut's legislature passed a historic campaign finance reform bill: a bill of which we should all be proud. In the coming session, both the executive branch and the legislature may have work to do to protect this landmark bill: the executive branch must vigorously defend the new law in court; the legislature must be mindful of the legal challenges that may prevent the new law from being implemented, and should be prepared to take action to preserve the historic bill.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=4721
