Public Statements
Malloy Calls On Rell To Stand With State Workers
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 30, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy Calls On Rell To Stand With State Workers
01.30.2006
Category: Better Government
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
IN STATE EMPLOYEE LAWSUIT, MALLOY CALLS ON GOVERNOR RELL TO "STAND WITH STATE WORKERS"
Says Governor should settle immediately with state workers
Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today called upon Governor Jodi Rell to "take the side of State workers" and settle the wrongful termination lawsuit brought against the State. The suit was brought on behalf of 3,000 State workers fired by then-Governor Rowland in 2002, when the Rowland Administration laid off the 3,000 workers by executive order and claimed legislative immunity in response to the lawsuit filed by SEBAC--a coalition that represents State employees in their negotiations with the State. SEBAC argues that the workers were unconstitutionally targeted for being union members under contract with the State, a position apparently acknowledged by former Director Marc Ryan in a New York Times interview from 2003: "We did target union workers, because we got no concessions," he said. "Everybody else got a wage freeze." [NY Times, Metro Section, Friday August 8, 2003, pg. B5]
On January 18, 2006, U.S. District Judge Alfred Covello denied the State's motion to dismiss, allowing the case to move forward into the discovery phase.
"This was a clear violation of the workers' First Amendment rights," said Malloy. "Gov. Rell, who is now the defendant in the suit, has a chance to do the right thing, and I urge her to do so -- immediately."
Noting that the discovery process will impose additional costs on taxpayers and "increase the harm done to those who were wrongfully terminated," Malloy called on Governor Rell to "stop spending taxpayer dollars to defend Rowland's wrongful treatment of State workers."
"It's time for Jodi Rell to stand up for those who were unconstitutionally targeted for dismissal. Governor Rell has tried for two years to distance herself from John Rowland," said Malloy. "She now has an opportunity to separate herself in a substantive way from the abusive policies of the previous Administration. Three years of hard-headed obstinacy - at the expense of both the taxpayers and the wronged workers - is enough."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4672
