Public Statements
Malloy For Governor Campaign Pulls Into Southbury
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 30, 2006
Location: Unknown


Malloy For Governor Campaign Pulls Into Southbury
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Democratic Candidate Listens and Shares Vision for Connecticut with 32nd State Senate District Democrats
January 30 -- Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, met Monday evening with chairs and members of the Democratic Town Committees in the 32nd Senate District, including Bethlehem, Bridgewater, Middlebury, Roxbury, Seymour, Southbury, Thomaston, Watertown, Woodbury, and Oxford, to share his vision for Connecticut.
"I have a vision of a world class Connecticut for the 21st Century, where all our communities are allowed to prosper, and where State government is a partner with local government. The truth is, no matter where you go in Connecticut, people want the same thing: secure jobs at a decent wage, smart growth, affordable housing for young families and senior citizens, a quality education system, and access to affordable healthcare," said Malloy. "This means setting priorities that reflect the needs of all our people, young and old, challenging ourselves to plan for the long term, setting goals and holding ourselves accountable for achieving those goals."
Malloy thanked the group for the opportunity to introduce himself and commended them on their dedication to the towns they serve. "It's essential that the needs of communities of every type be supported by policies from Hartford," added Malloy. "Right now, because of our addiction to property taxes and our failure to appreciate the pressures facing cities and towns, communities around the state are forced to compromise their essential character for the sake of additional revenue. It's nearly impossible for towns to say 'no' to over-development. It's time for Connecticut to start sharing revenue more effectively." Malloy also described his recent "Every Child Matters" proposal to expand HUSKY insurance and outreach efforts to guarantee coverage for all of the 71,000 children currently living without health insurance in Connecticut.
After brief opening remarks, Malloy opened up the floor to questions, and invited the DTC members to share the issues most important to them and their community.
Malloy has dedicated more than two decades to public service. He was recently re-elected to an unprecedented fourth term as the Mayor of Stamford, a position he's held since being elected in a landslide victory in 1995. Prior to being elected Mayor, Malloy served on the Boards of Education and Finance. Under his leadership, the City has experienced an economic turnaround, building a strong and vibrant business base and increasing employment by more than 5,000 jobs, has achieved a 63% reduction in crime, launched the first universal pre-school program in the State, maintained a AAA bond rating, opened one of the State's most highly respected senior centers and secured and protected over 250 acres of open space, more than any other municipality in the State.
Dan Malloy has spent the past two years traveling across Connecticut meeting with Democratic Town Committees, elected and community leaders and young people to engage them in an open dialogue about Connecticut's future.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4670
