Public Statements
Every Child Matters
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 26, 2006
Location: Unknown


Every Child Matters
Topic: Health Care
Today in Connecticut 71,000 children lack health care coverage, and that number is growing.
Of the 71,000 uninsured children, 36,000 are children who are currently eligible for HUSKY coverage, but not yet enrolled. The remaining children are in families for whom the cost of HUSKY coverage is prohibitive.
In this, the wealthiest State in the nation, that is a moral crisis that we have an obligation to address. In fact, it borders on being incomprehensible.
What may be even more incomprehensible is why our State appears to be making it increasingly more difficult for these children to gain access to the health care coverage that they need.
Enough is enough.
In July 2001 I launched Every Child Matters (ECM) in Stamford, a program, the first of its kind in Connecticut, which successfully helped 2,254 HUSKY eligible children obtain affordable health care coverage. The program is simple and effective -- ECM assists parents to obtain the health care they are entitled to for their children by tapping into the relationships our public schools have with students and their families in our community.
As Governor, I plan to expand this program statewide, ensuring that every child in Connecticut will be fully covered by health insurance. I also plan to take it one step further by taking advantage of the economies of scale realized by the HUSKY plan to make coverage affordable for every child in the State.
Health care coverage for our children not only makes good policy sense, it makes good financial sense. According to the National Coalition on Healthcare, the uninsured are 30-50% more likely to be hospitalized for an avoidable condition at a cost of approximately $3,300 more per patient than would have been spent had they been insured all along. These unnecessary costs drive-up premiums -- costs which are borne by both our State's employers and employees.
Details of my proposal are provided in the press release you can read here, as well as the briefing document which can be found by clicking here. As always, please feel free to contact me with any questions or comments, either via the askDan option on my website or by calling me at 800-DAN-2006.
I hope you will join me in bringing this issue to the forefront of the public debate. Our children -- all of them -- deserve nothing less.
Posted 01.26.2006 by Dan Malloy
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=blogExcerpts&entryID=803
