Public Statements
Parents Count, Too
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 26, 2006
Location: Unknown


Parents Count, Too
01.26.2006. Category: Health Care
New Haven Independent
by Paul Bass
After a week of sniping, the tenor of the race for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination turned substantive Thursday, as Dan Malloy (shown in file photo) became the first candidate to present a health care plan. He wants to get all 71,000 uninsured children in Connecticut onto the HUSKY rolls. His plan's title: "Every Child Matters." Said the state's leading universal health proponent: That's an OK start, but the parents matter, too.
Malloy unveiled his plan in Hartford. He modeled it after a similar initiative in Illinois, as well as on efforts he has undertaken as Stamford's mayor.
The plan targets two groups of families: those eligible for simply unenrolled in the HUSKY program, which offers health insurance for low-income people; and families earning too little even to afford HUSKY. Malloy's plan would reach out to families through schools and day care centers; and seek to take advantage of federal reimbursements as well as economies of scale in order to keep the state's pricetag to within $2.4 million. He claimed he wouldn't need to raise taxes to fund it. He said the plan could reduce the average monthly cost of health insurance for a familyl of three earning $50,000 a year from the current $442 to $75.
To read the full report Malloy's campaign put together, click here.
To learn more about efforts to bring about universal health care in Connecticut, click here.
"It is in a word 'shameful' that there are approximately 71,000 Connecticut children who don't have access to health care coverage -- in this, the wealthiest State in the wealthiest nation in the world," Malloy said in prepared remarks. "It's something that we have a moral obligation to fix... Over the years, our health care problems have escalated into a crisis, with little to nothing being done to alleviate them. Insuring the 71,000 children in our State who currently lack health care coverage is just a starting point, albeit a critical one. The ultimate goal must be to provide coverage to the 300,000 adults who also lack access to affordable health care as well."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=4655
