Public Statements
The Register Citizen - Malloy Speaks At NCCC
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 13, 2006
Location: Winsted, CT


01/13/2006
Malloy Speaks At NCCC
KARSTEN STRAUSS , Register Citizen Staff
WINSTED -- Democratic gubernatorial candidate and Stamford Mayor Dan Malloy made a speech at Northwestern Connecticut Community College Thursday evening.
The evening was organized by Colebrook Democratic town Chairman Tom Lewis and State Rep. George Wilber, D-63.

Click Here!
"I'm one of the many legislators that have jumped on board and endorsed Dan for governor," Wilber said.
He added that he felt Malloy had a better feel for what was beneficial for the Northwest Corner region.
"You would not have a better partner in state government to work with you on plans that you develop," Malloy said to Northwestern Conn. Chamber of Commerce President JoAnn Ryan after she introduced him. Also in attendance were former Torrington Mayor Owen Quinn, and members of Democratic town committees of the area.
Malloy began his short talk relating stories of his youth and warming up to the crowd.
"You have the obligation to leave the world a better place than when you lived in it," he said his mother had told him.
Malloy's focus shifted quickly to Connecticut and what he said he feels needs to be addressed statewide. He answered questions presented to him by members of the audience.
"The reality is that we're not the state we once were," he said.
Areas that need to be improved include the ability of state residents to retain their jobs and the access of healthcare to young people, he said.
"There are 71,000 children--many of them living in this part of the state" that cannot afford healthcare, he said.
Malloy pointed to what he called a "brain drain," explaining that only 53 percent of high school graduates in Connecticut go to college in the state.
He also urged that the cost of higher education in Connecticut should be reduced.
"These are serious issues that have to be addressed," Malloy said.
Malloy spoke to the woes of those who have lost manufacturing jobs in the state and Northwest Corner, saying that Connecticut has lost more manufacturing jobs in recent years than any New England or Mid-Atlantic state on a per capita-adjusted basis.
"It's not enough to ring your hands when you're the governor," he said.
In answering a question from the audience, Malloy brought up the recent suspension of Rell Chief of Staff Lisa Moody.
Moody allegedly handed out fund-raiser invitations while in the governor's office.
"It took weeks for that story to break," he said. "She knew she was breaking the law."
Malloy said Connecticut needs to overhaul its economic development and realize that it is in a competition economically, citing the opening of insurance businesses in Iowa and South Dakota that threaten the state's stronghold on that industry.
Malloy also spoke out against communities and states being over-reliant on property taxes.
"We've got to break that addiction," he said.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=4507
