Public Statements
Malloy Raises Over $477,000 In Last 3 Months
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 10, 2006
Location: Stamford, CT


Malloy Raises Over $477,000 In Last 3 Months
01.10.2006
Category: Campaign News
For Immediate Release
Malloy Raises Over $477,000 in Last 3 Months
STAMFORD -- Democratic candidate for Governor, Dan Malloy, filed his fourth quarter fundraising report today, showing $477,034 raised and $1,235,196 million retained in cash-on-hand. This represents the best fundraising quarter for the Dan Malloy Campaign, and beats previous records by any Democratic candidate for Governor in this race.
"We have done exceptionally well in what is traditionally considered a very tough quarter because of the holiday season," Malloy said. "My team and I are also very gratified by the geographic breadth of the support. There is no question that it indicates strong and growing momentum for my campaign."
A total of 488 supporters contributed to the Malloy campaign, 384 of which were first time contributors, while 104 renewed their commitment to his candidacy by contributing again. Contributions ranged from $25-$2,500, and almost half of the contributors came from outside Fairfield County.
"It seems that as Dan has the opportunity to spread his message throughout Connecticut, he is meeting with great success. His recent fundraising reflects that," commented campaign manager Chris Cooney. The campaign was also pleased that the overwhelming majority of donations were from all parts of Connecticut, not just Fairfield County. "Again," continued Cooney, "this speaks to the viability of Dan's message and candidacy in our state."
"We continue to work hard on three important fronts -- sharing my vision for Connecticut's future with people across the State, building our base of support among key constituency groups and raising the funds necessary to run a successful and effective campaign," said Malloy. "I am delighted with what we have been able to accomplish."
Malloy added, "I am also pleased that campaign finance reform legislation has been passed, and I think all the people involved in forging that agreement deserve a tremendous amount of credit. While I continue to believe that public financing of elections should have gone into effect immediately and apply to this gubernatorial race, it is a crucial step towards improving accountability and transparency in government. I am also appreciative of my campaign's vigilance in adhering to all the rules and regulations contained in Connecticut Campaign Finance Law."
Dan Malloy has raised a total of $2.2 million in five and a half quarters of active fundraising.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4499
