Public Statements
Malloy's Gubernatorial Campaign Pulls Into Coventry
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 10, 2006
Location: Stamford, CT


Malloy's Gubernatorial Campaign Pulls Into Coventry
Democratic Candidate Listens and Shares Vision for Connecticut
STAMFORD January 10-- Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, Tuesday evening shared his vision for Connecticut and how a Malloy Administration would benefit the community of Coventry, with the members of the Coventry Democratic Town Committee (DTC).
"I have a vision of a world class Connecticut for the 21st Century, where all of our communities prosper with jobs, economic growth and a lifestyle that attracts and retains companies, workers and their families," said Malloy. "This means setting priorities that reflect the needs of all our people, young and old, challenging ourselves to plan for the long term, setting goals and holding ourselves accountable for achieving those goals."
Malloy commended the group of approximately 30 people for their passion and dedication to the future of Coventry and the State. Topics discussed included: transportation issues in Eastern Connecticut, employment, property tax reform, public safety, energy conservation, and smart growth.
"The concerns Coventry has articulated have been echoed across the state," answered Malloy. "As a four-term mayor, I too have faced these issues without support from the current administration. To the extent a municipality can mitigate the action and/or lack of action of state government, Stamford has developed programs to address some of the problems. To be resolved though, they must be confronted and dealt with at the state level. My track record proves I have the experience to meet this challenge."
Dorothy Grady, Chair of the Coventry DTC, said, "I am pleased that the Coventry Democratic Town Committee provided the forum for his visit. The evening event was an opportunity for members of the Coventry community to hear from Dan Malloy, ask questions and learn more about how he'll tackle the problems facing our community and our State."
Malloy invited the Coventry DTC and other members of the community who attended the meeting to participate in an ongoing dialogue for Connecticut's future by visiting his campaign website, www.danmalloy.com, joining in the "talkCT" blog discussion, submitting a question to Ask Dan and inviting him to community events. "It's through listening and learning that a Governor is best prepared to lead and take decisive action that helps to better our communities and our State," said Malloy.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4543
