Public Statements
Malloy Criticizes Gov. Rell's Response To The CL&P Rate Increase
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 29, 2005
Location: Unknown


Malloy Criticizes Gov. Rell's Response To The CL&P Rate Increase
12.29.2005
Category: Better Government
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MALLOY CRITICIZES GOV. RELL'S RESPONSE TO THE CL&P RATE INCREASE

Democratic Gubernatorial Candidate Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today criticized Governor Rell's response to the DPUC's recent approval of the planned Connecticut Light & Power rate increase, and called on both the DPUC and CL&P to produce "clear and concrete evidence" that the 22% rate increase merely covers cost and will result in no additional profit for the power company, as asserted by CL&P.

"Once again, Gov. Rell has responded to failures of her own Administration by issuing a press release," said Malloy. "Gov. Rell has called the DPUC's decision to approve the rate increase 'simply outrageous.' Connecticut needs a governor who can be more than outraged. Connecticut needs a governor who can act. The Governor appoints all members of the DPUC. If she finds their rulings 'outrageous,' as she should, then she should order the commission to revisit the issue, and if they refuse she should ask for resignations; apply pressure; reorganize the DPUC rate approval process; at the very least begin making long-term investment in less volatile and more responsible sources of energy for the future. The bottom line is that, just as when she issued a press release criticizing her own Department of Transportation for dropping the ball on the acquisition of rail cars, Gov. Rell seems to think that scolding her own appointees in public is leadership. We need real leadership, and that means something besides issuing releases and creating taskforces."
Malloy also criticized the Governor's statement that the two-step phase-in "will at least mitigate the impact on businesses and homeowners through the winter." "Rates are going to increase more than 17% in a matter of days," said Malloy. "It strikes me as either disingenuous or totally detached for the Governor to claim that the impact of the increase will be less severe simply because the additional 5% increase won't occur until April. A 17% increase is hardly a gentle rise -- especially when the rate hike comes at the same time as consumers are coping with the alarming rise in home heating oil costs. It also troubles me that the DPUC decision was announced only days before the increase will take effect, and that Gov. Rell seemed surprised by the DPUC decision. When so much is at stake for Connecticut's citizens, economy and industry, it's the Governor's job to be informed and active in the process."
Malloy also called on the DPUC to "produce clear and concrete evidence that the rate increase is entirely justified by rising energy costs. The people of Connecticut deserve proof that the entire 22.4% rate increase is truly unavoidable and justified by rising generation costs. The rate increase will put an incredible burden on citizens and businesses who can least afford it. At the very least, Connecticut deserves a public accounting of the increased costs leading to this decision and a demonstration that the DPUC left no stone unturned in attempting to avoid this disastrous increase."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4449
