Public Statements
Malloy Calls For Legislature To Support Same-Day Voter Registration
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 22, 2005
Location: Stamford, CT


Malloy Calls For Legislature To Support Same-Day Voter Registration
12.22.2005
Category: Better Government
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
DECEMBER 22, 2005

Contact: Chris Cooney
(203) 978-9019 (office)
(203) 918-9387 (cell)
MALLOY CALLS FOR LEGISLATURE TO SUPPORT SAME-DAY VOTER REGISTRATION
STAMFORD - Democratic candidate for Governor, Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today urged the Legislature to pass a bill allowing same-day voter registration in the upcoming 2006 legislative session.
"Now that a ruling has been handed down by United States District Court Judge Mark R. Kravitz rejecting arguments to permit citizens to be able to both register and vote on Election Day, it's time for Connecticut's Legislature to pass a bill making it the law of the State of Connecticut that people be allowed to register to vote on Election Day," said Malloy. "There is one thing I agree with the judge on: this is a matter for the Legislature, not the courts."
"Connecticut is not trying to set a precedent," added Malloy. "There are six states that allow it -- Maine, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Wyoming, Idaho and New Hampshire. And in each of those states, voter turnout is about 10 to 12 percentage points higher than the national average. If we're going to make government work for all the people, we need to make it easier for people to participate in our democracy -- and that begins at the voting booth."
Commenting on past attempts by advocates to introduce legislation on behalf of new voters, Malloy said, "Things have changed since the bill was vetoed by former Governor Rowland in 2003. I agree with the public statements made by Secretary of the State Susan Bysiewicz, who has said that the issue of voter fraud has been addressed with Connecticut's new computerized voter registration database that prevents people from voting in more than one town under the same name."
"This is an incredibly important issue," said Malloy, "and figuring out responsible ways to increase people's participation in our electoral process has long been a goal of mine. People have to believe that they are part of the process -- that their views and positions matter. Same-day registration will clearly make it easier for people to participate in our democracy, and I urge the Legislature to pass a bill making this law in our State."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4444
