Public Statements
Malloy Urges Rell To Take The Initiative
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 16, 2005
Location: Unknown


Malloy Urges Rell To Take The Initiative
12.16.2005
Category: Ethics
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MALLOY SAYS GOV. RELL MUST BE MORE "DIRECT AND FORTHCOMING" AS CHIEF STATE'S ATTORNEY'S OFFICE INVESTIGATES POSSIBLE VIOLATION OF ELECTION LAW IN THE RELL ADMINISTRATION
Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today urged Gov. Rell to be "more direct and forthcoming with the Chief State's Attorney's office," and said the Governor should "direct her staff to do the same," as what Malloy called the "fundraising scandal in the Governor's office" continues to unfold.
Malloy was responding to yesterday's news that the Chief State's Attorney's office has begun interviewing high-ranking members of the Rell Administration, including the Governor's top aide, to determine whether any of them broke any election laws. State law prohibits commissioners and deputy commissioners from soliciting campaign funds under any circumstances. If the Governor's Chief of Staff, Lisa Moody, directed commissioners to solicit campaign funds, she may potentially face charges of criminal conspiracy.
"I believe the Governor should seize the initiative and offer to sit down with the investigators and tell them everything she knows -- and she should urge her Chief of Staff, and anyone else who might be involved in this scandal, to do the same," said Malloy. "And she and whoever else was involved should provide all the information they have, not just what they're asked to provide."
Malloy said that while there are "many questions that need to be answered, he is "deeply concerned" about the lack of information regarding the role played by the Governor's Ethics Czar.
"Did the Governor's chief of staff ever ask the Governor's Ethics Czar whether it was ok for her to hand out fundraising invitations to Gov. Rell's commissioners? That is still one of the key questions. If not, why wasn't she approached? If so, who approached her, what was discussed, and what did the Ethics Czar provide, in terms of direction? If she wasn't approached on such an obvious, ethics-related matter, then it seems to me they were treating her as a figurehead. If she was approached, then we need to know what she said could and couldn't be done. Once we have the answers to those questions, we'll have a better understanding of the chain of events that led to what is apparently a violation of the law, and we'll have a better idea of who should be held accountable."
Malloy, a former prosecutor, said there are "other obvious questions" that need to be answered as well, including, "Who told the Governor's Chief of Staff to give the invitations to Gov. Rell's fundraiser to her commissioners? And when did the Governor really first learn about all of this?"
Malloy also said that he fully expects the Chief State's Attorney's office to conduct a "thorough, fair, and impartial investigation," and is "confident that if any one broke any laws, we'll know it soon enough."
"Last year, I was falsely accused of having done something wrong. When that happened, I seized the initiative and offered an unprecedented level of voluntary cooperation to the Chief State's Attorney's office. As a result, the justice system worked, and the allegations against me were proven to be not true."
"Mr. Morano and his office conduct themselves with the utmost professionalism, and they're thorough and fair. If anyone in the Rell Administration, including the Governor, broke any laws, that will become clear soon enough. If no one did anything wrong, then we'll know that as well. The faster this is resolved, the better it is for Connecticut. But it can only move quickly if the Governor's office seizes the initiative."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4425
