Public Statements
The Stamford Advocate - Democratic Candidates Attack Rell Over Chief Of Staff's Move
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 15, 2005
Location: Unknown


Democratic Candidates Attack Rell Over Chief Of Staff's Move

By Tobin A. Coleman
Staff Writer
Published December 15 2005
Republican Gov. M. Jodi Rell's response to the possible illegal solicitation of campaign contributions by her chief of staff suggests Rell is following in the footsteps of former Gov. John Rowland, Connecticut's leading Democratic candidates for governor said yesterday.
Rell Chief of Staff M. Lisa Moody on Tuesday issued an apology to the state Elections Enforcement Commission after The Hartford Courant reported that she asked Rell's commissioners to attend a Rell re-election fundraiser last week. Moody was in her office and on state time when she did it.
That violates Rell's directive against such activity and her reminder to her staff two months ago that it is illegal for commissioners or deputies to solicit campaign contributions. The Courant reported that Moody also asked the commissioners to distribute the invitations to others.
Stamford Mayor Dannel Malloy and New Haven Mayor John DeStefano, both candidates for the Democratic nomination in next year's governor's race, issued statements yesterday criticizing Rell for not being in control of her office.
Rell's office yesterday said that statements by Moody and Rell on Tuesday stand in reply to the criticism. "I have written to Jeffrey Garfield, the executive director of the state Elections Enforcement Commission, explaining my actions and apologizing if those actions unwittingly contributed to a violation of any state election laws," Moody wrote in a statement released Tuesday. "It is my desire that the commission review this matter at its next meeting. I have also spoken with the governor about this issue and have apologized to her for any action that may reflect poorly on her or her administration."
Malloy issued a statement yesterday calling Moody's actions "part of a disturbing, longtime pattern" that goes back to when Rell was Rowland's lieutenant governor during a time he committed the corrupt acts that resulted in the yearlong federal prison sentence he is serving.
"This latest incident is yet another indication that Jodi Rell is, at best, unbelievably unaware of what's going on around her," Malloy said.
Rell on Tuesday said: "I was disappointed to learn about this matter from my chief of staff. She told me that questions had been raised about possible violations of state election law and office policy. She has apologized and has asked the Elections Enforcement Commission to review this matter as soon as possible and take all appropriate action." Malloy brought up Rell's role in being asked to raise money from lobbyists and contractors for a 1967 Mustang for Rowland's birthday in 1999. He also brought up Rell's involvement in an incident involving stolen military surplus gear found in Rowland's trunk, and later at Rell's house, for which Rowland paid fines for state ethics violations. Rowland pleaded guilty to a corruption charge.
"But Jodi Rell knows nothing about it. For years, news reports indicating that her self-labeled Ôpartner in government,' John Rowland, is violating state ethics laws," Malloy said. "Jodi Rell says nothing to anyone, ever. . . . Holding herself out as a reformer who sets a higher ethical standard than any other public official in the land, it turns out that the person who is her closest adviser and top aide is doing exactly what the governor told her not to do - and potentially violating the law in the process."
Last night Malloy issued a statement saying that Rell's ethics czar, Rachel Rubin, should "conduct an internal investigation into what happened, and who was responsible - and to determine whether or not the ethics czar herself was aware of this apparently improper activity."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.stamfordadvocate.com/news/scn-malloy121505a,0,5296667.story
