Public Statements
Apparent Ethics Violation In Gov. Rell's Office
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 14, 2005
Location: Unknown


Apparent Ethics Violation In Gov. Rell's Office
12.14.2005
Category: Ethics
MALLOY SAYS OF RELL, "HERE WE GO - AGAIN" REFERRING TO APPARENT ETHICS VIOLATION IN GOVERNOR'S OFFICE,
Calling it "part of a disturbing, long-time pattern," Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today said, "For years, unethical and illegal activities have been occurring under Jodi Rell's nose - yet she never seems to know until after the fact. This latest incident is yet another indication that Jodi Rell is, at best, unbelievably unaware of what's going on around her."
Malloy was responding to a news story in this morning's Hartford Courant in which it is reported that Gov. Rell's top aide and closest advisor violated the Governor's self-imposed ethical guidelines by using her state office to ask state commissioners and deputy commissioners to raise funds for Rell's campaign. The news story also makes clear that Rell's aide may have violated state election law, which "prohibits state department heads and deputy department heads from soliciting contributions on behalf of any candidate, whether on state time or otherwise."
"Jodi Rell was once asked to raise money from lobbyists and contractors so John Rowland could have a Mustang for his birthday. She later claimed she didn't raise a dime - yet tens of thousands of dollars appears in the account, the car is bought, and Jodi Rell says nothing, and claims to know nothing. Stolen military surplus gear is found in John Rowland's trunk, and shows up at Jodi Rell's house, but Jodi Rell knows nothing about it. For years, news reports indicating that her self-labeled 'partner in government,' John Rowland, is violating state ethics laws. Jodi Rell says nothing to anyone, ever. After becoming Governor, similarly to what John Rowland used to do, Jodi Rell uses taxpayer funds to promote her image in a mailing her staff calls an 'annual report.' Again, Jodi Rell says nothing. Now, after having held herself out as a reformer who sets a higher ethical standard than any other public official in the land, it turns out that the person who is her closest advisor and top aide is doing exactly what the Governor told her not to do - and potentially violating the law in the process."
"Really, at some point the people of Connecticut have to ask themselves the following question: has Jodi Rell done a great job of pulling the wool over everyone's eyes, does she know more than she lets on, or is she such an ineffective leader that the people around her run amok and she can't do a thing to stop it?"
Malloy added that calling on Gov. Rell to fire her aide is "missing the point."
"Clearly, Gov. Rell's aide shouldn't have done this - that's obvious. But I'm less concerned with whether or not this person is 'fired,' or resigns, than I am with the fact that for more than a decade Jodi Rell has failed to see - or at least has claimed not to see - improper activity all around her. At some point, people should stop allowing the Governor to use the 'I hear nothing, I see nothing, I know nothing" defense, and they should start asking her the tough questions."
"It's incumbent on any executive to establish and enforce ethical standards. It troubles me that Governor Rell has clearly failed to establish a culture of compliance within her own administration."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4416
