Public Statements
Malloy Calls Rell And DeStefano 'Disingenuous' On Campaign Finance Reform
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 9, 2005
Location: Unknown


Malloy Calls Rell And DeStefano 'Disingenuous' On Campaign Finance Reform
12.09.2005
Category: Better Government
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
12.09.2005
Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today criticized Governor Rell and New Haven Mayor John DeStefano for what he called "disingenuous squabbling" over the financing of their gubernatorial campaigns. Earlier today, DeStefano and Rell traded criticisms regarding Rell's apparent willingness to use State party funds coming from contractors and PACs, and DeStefano's heavy reliance on contractor dollars.
"Both Jodi Rell and John DeStefano are being disingenuous," said Malloy. "Governor Rell wants to have her cake and eat it too by refusing 'special interest' money and then accepting money from the State party -- most of which comes from special interests. Meanwhile, John DeStefano is trying to wear a mantle of reform that doesn't fit. As the New Haven Register pointed out today, John rejected a proposed spending cap in 2001 and opposed proposals to implement public financing for the 2006 Governor's race."
Malloy also said that he was "proud to have played an active role in working with the advocates of this bill to try and drum up the support necessary for final passage, and am only sorry that the bill wasn't passed with bipartisan support. While the Governor has now signed the bill, she was nowhere to be seen during the legislative debate and was unable or unwilling to persuade her fellow Republicans to support reform. I'm not sure where John DeStefano was." During the debate on the campaign finance legislation, Malloy was seen at the capitol actively encouraging legislators to vote for the reform bill.
In a Journal Inquirer article published last June, both Mayor Malloy and Secretary of State Susan Bysiewicz, then a candidate for Governor, were quoted as supporting the immediate implementation of public financing for the 2006 campaign, offering to return the money they had raised for the campaign. DeStefano was the only candidate to oppose the immediate implementation of public financing, calling immediate implementation "unfair."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4404
