Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Modernized Symbol and Language to be Phased in on New Reserved Parking Signs
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 29, 2016
Location: Hartford,CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today, joined by disability rights advocates, held a bill signing ceremony to commemorate the passage of a new state law that modernizes the signage used to designate reserved parking spaces for persons with disabilities. The new signage contains a new, modernized symbol as well as more inclusive language that is more active, engaging, and reflective of the diverse community of those who utilize the spaces. Endorsed by advocates internationally and already in use in certain locations throughout the world, the proposal was inspired by a group of Connecticut residents who approached the Governor with the idea.
Under the legislation, which was approved by a large, bipartisan vote in both chambers of the General Assembly, signs with the modernized symbol and language will only be installed when a new accessible parking space is created and needs a sign, or when an old sign becomes damaged or weathered and necessitates replacement. All signs that are currently in use and contain the previously used symbol will remain until in need of replacement. As such, phasing in the revamped symbol and language will come at no additional cost to taxpayers or businesses. The symbol will also begin to be used on license plates and placards, which will be similarly phased in when needed.
"Connecticut for decades has been at the forefront in fighting discrimination against persons with disabilities, and adopting this modernized symbol and updated language is a simple step that can go a long way towards changing attitudes and raising awareness," Governor Malloy said. "This is another way Connecticut is leading, and I am proud to sign this bill into law. I want to thank the residents who approached my office with this proposal and the legislators who voted in favor of this update."
The symbol currently in use is nearly a half-century old and depicts a stationary individual in a wheelchair. The new symbol, known globally as the "Modified International Symbol of Access," places the visual focus from the wheelchair to the individual, who is leaning forward, depicting movement, and suggests the independence and engagement of those with accessibility needs. In addition to adopting the updated symbol, the new signs will remove the out-of-date word "handicapped" and instead will utilize the word "reserved" - a more inclusive term.
"The new symbol further evolves our understanding of disabilities, and it turns our awareness into action," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "The signs are reflective of a more inclusive society, stronger communities, and deeper respect for people living with disabilities. I'm proud that our Governor, Jonathan Slifka, and advocates took action to modernize Connecticut."
Last fall, a campaign entitled "Change the Sign, Change the Attitude," was launched in Connecticut by Stephen Morris, the executive director of Favarh - The Arc of Farmington Valley, to urge officials in the state to adopt the new design. He also created an online petition that generated over 2,000 signatures.
"The signs, known generally as 'handicapped signs,' weren't representative of people with capabilities. The signs also used the word, 'handicapped,' which is demeaning to those who need to use the reserved parking spaces," Morris said. "We're very grateful to Governor Malloy for his support for the modernization and in fact for sponsoring the bill that was approved by the Connecticut legislature. It will go a long way to change the public image of people with accessibility needs, while simultaneously reinforcing that the reserved parking spaces are explicitly for those who need them."
In 2015, the State of New York adopted similar legislation to phase in the modernized symbol, and the City of Phoenix, Arizona has adopted it as well. Showing their support for the modernized symbol, many small and large businesses in Connecticut already voluntarily made this change to the new symbol well before the legislation was even introduced.
"Modernizing the symbol of access is a very important step in the evolution of disability action and disability awareness," Jonathan Slifka, the Governor's Liaison to the Disability Community, said. "For many years, the prevailing attitude towards the disability community was that they were by and large a static and sedentary group. That attitude has evolved over the years to reflect a far more active community, be it physically or otherwise. The modern symbol is a reflection of that both in the symbol itself and the change in language. Furthermore, the changing of the language from 'handicapped' to 'reserved' reflects a more accurate, updated, and accepted understanding of what it means to be an individual with a disability."

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2016/06-2016/Gov__Malloy_Announces_Modernized_Symbol_and_Language_to_be_Phased_in_on_New_Reserved_Parking_Signs/
