Public Statements
Malloy Supports Lawsuit Challenging Education Funding System
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 22, 2005
Location: Unknown


Malloy Supports Lawsuit Challenging Education Funding System
11.22.2005
Category: Education
For Immediate Release
MALLOY SUPPORTS LAWSUIT CHALLENGING EDUCATION FUNDING SYSTEM
Says that reforming the education funding system is an issue of 'fundamental fairness'
Stamford Mayor and Gubernatorial Candidate Dan Malloy joined fellow members of the Connecticut Coalition for Justice in Education Funding [CCJEF] today in filing a lawsuit challenging Connecticut's existing school funding formula as inadequate. Malloy is a founding member of CCJEF coalition, which commissioned a June 2005 cost study demonstrating that 92 of Connecticut's 166 school districts fell short of funding levels deemed to be necessary for providing children with an adequate education, as demanded under Federal and State law.
"The bottom line is that Connecticut's Education Cost Sharing [ECS] Formula should be scrapped and rebuilt," said Malloy, "and the State of Connecticut must finally live up to its obligation and pay its share of our education costs. The existing ECS formula has been deliberately under-funded and arbitrarily capped. This isn't an urban versus suburban issue or a big government versus small government issue, it's an issue of fundamental fairness. Every child in Connecticut deserves the opportunity to get an adequate education. Our constitution demands it."
As stated in a release issued by CCJEF, the complaint filed today alleges that Connecticut's "failure to provide plaintiff schoolchildren in a reasonable opportunity to meet the state's own learning standards has resulted in a system that sets them up for economic, social, and intellectual failure. The complaint further alleges that systemic school funding failure has resulted in constitutional violations that disproportionately impact African-American, Latino, and other minority students."
While the lawsuit does not specify whether additional spending would come from the State or from local government, Malloy emphasized the importance of increased State share of State funding. In an op-ed published in the Hartford Courant last week, Malloy called on the State to immediately assume a minimum of 50% of education costs. "The Rowland and Rell administrations have very deliberately and systemically under-funded local education in the State budget as a means of shifting costs to local government. Quite frankly, that's why we have a property tax crisis in this State. While John Rowland bragged about tax cuts, local government picked up the burden -- and the result is a combination of inadequate education and skyrocketing property tax."
"Connecticut has a moral obligation to provide every child with an adequate education -- regardless of race, income, or geography. We are saying today that Connecticut also has a Constitutional obligation. In the absence of gubernatorial leadership on this issue, the lawsuit filed today calls attention to one of the most significant problems existing in Connecticut today."
Malloy also added that although property tax reform is not part of the lawsuit, it "must be part of the solution."
"The over-reliance on the property tax for the funding of local education is one of the main reasons we have such wide disparities in the resources that are available for our children in different towns. Until and unless we implement real property tax reform, we won't solve the systemic problem we face in trying to fund education fairly and equitably."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4323
