Public Statements
An Interview With Gubernatorial Candidate Dannel Malloy
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 18, 2005
Location: Stamford, CT


An Interview With Gubernatorial Candidate Dannel Malloy
(Stamford-WTNH, Nov. 18, 2005) _ Like New Haven Mayor John DeStefano, Stamford Mayor Dannel Malloy has been re-elected mayor of his city. Like DeStefano, Malloy is criss-crossing the state seeking support for the Democratic nomination for governor.
The City of Stamford has nearly the same number of residents as New Haven. Like New Haven, Stamford has also seen great improvements over the past decade.
Being the mayor here for the past twelve years, Dan Malloy says he is ready to run the state. He also says that many people think it's been easier for him because Stamford is part of the so-called 'Gold Coast,' more affluent. But he says this city has the same problems as New Haven or Hartford.
Twice in his life he has come close to death. Once physical death. In high school he nearly died of complications from a football injury. Last year he nearly died a political death when the chief state's attorney investigated allegations that contractors did work on his home in exchange for work with the city. The allegations proved to be false.
Like DeStefano, Malloy says property tax reform, job growth and transportation are key issues.
"I have to tell you, listening to you, a lot of the accomplishments you've had in this city, and a lot of the goals that you express, are very similar to the guy up the shoreline about an hour, who's also running for governor. What's the difference between you and John DeStefano?"
"I think we have, we have very different styles to tell you the truth. I am not a big city mayor in the traditional sense.
"I believe that leadership needs to be expressed, not directed.
"Stamford has one of the largest Republican parties in the state, one of the largest Democratic parties in the state. I can't dictate to anybody what's going to happen. I have to lead by consensus. I have to show direction, I have to defend my ideas but ultimately, I have to convince people to come along with me."
"You have had one of the biggest tests that I think any candidate's ever had and this investigation that you went through, for which you got a completely clean bill of health, probably been more examined than any candidate for governor or anything else. Did that make you a better candidate, going through that tribulation?"
"It was a very painful experience. It was painful for myself to watch the pain that my wife and my three sons experienced was difficult for me and it caused me, from time to time, to question my commitment to public service.
"I think my approach to it was very different than anyone had ever approached it before. I called the State's Attorney and said I wanted to give my statement, here are all my records, here's everything, I'm available to you one-hundred percent. I did that because I always knew what the outcome would be and I have to say that at the end of the inquiry, and having gone through it my commitment to public service has actually grown, not weakened.
"But it did stall your candidacy for a while, for a period of a lot of months."
"Sure, sure."
"Is that making it a disadvantage now that you're really going head to head with John DeStefano?"
"Sure it does, sure it does. But if you're looking for somebody who has been tested and someone who's prepared to overcome adversity and some who expresses leadership even in the darkest moment, that person's me."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=4308
