Public Statements
The Journal Inquirer - Gubernatorial Hopeful Demands Release Of CDA Bad-Loans Info
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 28, 2005
Location: Unknown


Gubernatorial Hopeful Demands Release Of CDA Bad-Loans Info
10.28.2005. Category: Better Government
Politics is about who gets what.
And today, questions about who defaulted on millions of dollars in loans from the Connecticut Development Authority became an issue in the 2006 contest for governor.

By Don Michak, Journal Inquirer October 28, 2005
Stamford Mayor Dannel P. Malloy, one of two Democrats seeking his party's gubernatorial nomination, demanded today that Gov. M. Jodi Rell order the CDA release the names of companies that have defaulted on loans or had their loans written off as uncollectible.

He said that $12.4 million of taxpayers' money "has been lost in the last four years through bad loans given by the CDA to businesses in the state, yet taxpayers and state policymakers have absolutely no idea where the money went, why it couldn't be collected, or what is being done to protect good money from being thrown after bad loans."
Malloy added that the Republican governor, who confirmed two weeks ago that she would seek election next year, "talks all the time about open, honest, and full disclosure."
"The governor has said that disclosure might need to be weighed against the interests of the businesses and their employees, but that does not serve the interests of the state's economic development policies, or that of the taxpayers who unwittingly shell out millions of dollars to these private corporations," he said.
"If a business takes taxpayer-funded loans from the state, and then for whatever reasons fails to repay those loans, they should expect to be scrutinized -- publicly."
The mayor, in a not-so-subtle jibe at Rell's tenure as lieutenant governor under the now-imprisoned former Gov. John G. Rowland, also said "nondisclosure of information" was the hallmark of the Rowland administration.
"I had hoped that the bad habits of the Rowland administration would disappear when John Rowland disappeared," he said. "Apparently, that's not the case."
Rell spokesman Judd Everhart responded to Malloy's call by reiterating that the governor "generally favors disclosure, because CDA loans are public dollars."
"But if the survival of businesses and the potential loss of jobs are at stake, those and other factors need to be weighed," he added.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpNews&htmlID=4170
