Public Statements
Malloy Calls For Full Disclosure
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 28, 2005
Location: Stamford, CT


Malloy Calls For Full Disclosure
10.28.2005
Category: Ethics
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
OCTOBER 28, 2005
Malloy says "full disclosure, honest analysis" needed to fix the problem
STAMFORD -- Dan Malloy, Stamford Mayor and Democratic candidate for Governor, today called on Governor Rell to order the Connecticut Development Authority (CDA) to release the names of companies that have defaulted on state loans or have had their loans written off as uncollectible by CDA employees and its Board of Directors. Malloy was responding to recent news reports on the issue, which he called "highly disturbing."
"$12.4 million of state taxpayers' money has been lost in the last four years through bad loans given by the CDA to businesses in the state, yet taxpayers and state policymakers have absolutely no idea where the money went, why it couldn't be collected or what is being done to protect good money from being thrown after bad loans," said Malloy.
Referring to the recently-released CERC report on the economy, Malloy said, "Just last week, we heard, again, that the State's lack of a real economic development policy is one of the chief reasons Connecticut's economy is lagging. Now we're hearing that tens of millions of taxpayer dollars are being lost to bad business loans, but the CDA doesn't want to disclose anything other than the amounts lost. Bad loans may equal bad economic policy, and since we don't have the information, how can we be sure that's not the case? How can we make informed economic policy decisions without this information?"
"Governor Rell should order the immediate release of this information. She talks all the time about open, honest and full disclosure -- which we're all for. Well, this is the same thing. If the Governor and the CDA can't or don't want to acknowledge this problem publicly and analyze the bad loan data, how can we ever learn from it and make the policy changes necessary to right Connecticut's economic ship?" asked Malloy. "The Governor has said that disclosure might need to be weighed against the interests of the businesses and their employees, but that does not serve the interests of the state's economic development policies, or that of the taxpayers who unwittingly shell out millions of dollars to these private corporations. If a business takes taxpayer-funded loans from the State, and then for whatever reasons fails to repay those loans, they should expect to be scrutinized -- publicly. I'm not suggesting CDA release proprietary information, but, at the very least, we should be entitled to know the names of those companies who can't meet their financial obligations to the State."
Malloy noted that non-disclosure of information, especially when it came to the CDA and other quasi-public agencies, was a hallmark of the Rowland Administration. "I had hoped that the bad habits of the Rowland Administration would disappear when John Rowland disappeared. Apparently, that's not the case," said Malloy.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4187
