Public Statements
Malloy Says New Study
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 19, 2005
Location: Unknown


Malloy Says New Study
10.19.2005
Category: Economy
Says Gov. Rell has been "in denial about the problem for too long"
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today said that a report by the Connecticut Economic Resources Council [CERC], released early this afternoon, "verifies what I've been saying for a year: Connecticut's economy and its workers are in trouble."
The CERC report states that "the fundamental problem in Connecticut is that there has been no job growth for the past 15 years." The report ranks Connecticut 43rd among the 50 states in overall economic growth, and emphasizes that significant job loss has occurred in sectors where Connecticut is traditionally strong. Between 1990 and 2003, Connecticut lost more than 45 thousand technology jobs, lost nearly 30 thousand aerospace jobs, and saw total non-farm employment decline by 1.5%. The report also reveals a widening gap between Connecticut's most affluent communities and Connecticut's least affluent communities, stating that "The poverty income situation in the poorest towns has deteriorated over the past decade or more, and the gap between Connecticut's most affluent and least affluent communities is steadily widening."
Malloy said that today's report proves "that Gov. Rell has been in denial about our economy and its impact on families for too long." To bolster that assertion, Malloy pointed to remarks Gov. Rell made to members of the Danbury Rotary Club on Oct. 5, 2005, an event at which news reports indicated that Gov. Rell said job growth has picked up in Connecticut and that the State's economy is getting better.
"Less than two weeks ago, Gov. Rell basically said that Connecticut's economy is in great shape," said Malloy. "And last week, when she made her announcement about running for Governor, she accused me of wanting to tear the State down for suggesting that our economy is in trouble and that more people are falling into poverty."
"The reality is, our economy is in trouble, and more people are falling into poverty. Today's report, by the way, is additional evidence - not the first piece of evidence. The FDIC report that came out in July, the US Census Bureau Report that came out in August, and comments made the day of the Connecticut Economy conference in September also should have alerted the Governor to the problem. If you can't acknowledge the problems that exist, then you certainly won't be able to fix them."
"Everyone says Jodi Rell's a nice person - and she is. Everyone knows she's not John Rowland - and she's not. But she just can't seem to get a handle on the nature of the State's problems, and she waits and waits and waits before she acts - this Administration is completely reactionary, when what we need is a Governor who, first and foremost, acknowledges the problems we have, and second, proposes proactive, bold solutions to address them. That's what I've done as Mayor - I've solved problems. And that's what I'll do as Governor."
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4048
