Public Statements
Malloy Says Now That The Gubernatorial Field Is Set, Let's Focus On The Serious Issues Facing Connecticut
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 14, 2005
Location: Hartford, CT


Malloy Says Now That The Gubernatorial Field Is Set, Let's Focus On The Serious Issues Facing Connecticut
10.14.2005
Category: Campaign News
HARTFORD - Democratic candidate for Governor Dan Malloy, Stamford's Mayor, today said that with this week's announcements by Gov. Jodi Rell, who is running for Governor, and Attorney General Richard Blumenthal, who decided not to run for Governor, it's time to "to focus the debate on the issues facing Connecticut."
"Now that we know who's in and who's out, my greatest hope is that everyone will focus less on politics and more on the serious issues facing Connecticut and its people," said Malloy. "The people of this state, their families, state workers - everyone - want and need that debate to happen because the future of this state is very much on the line."
"The Governor insists that everything in Connecticut is great, that all we need to do is stay the course - in fact, that's what she said just a couple of weeks ago in Danbury," said Malloy. "I respectfully disagree. I love this state, but the truth is we are losing ground by every measurable statistic. As mayor, I've solved problems for 10 years - and that's why I'm running for Governor: so I can work with others to solve the very serious problems we all face."
Pointing to several recent reports and other data - including a U.S. Census Bureau Report released in August, 2005, data provided by Connecticut Voices for Children and the Connecticut Health Policy Project, and figures presented at the annual Connecticut Economy conference in September, 2005 - Malloy said that Gov. Rell's "sunny analysis is at odds with the facts."
"It's a statistical fact that Connecticut's families are losing ground economically, they're losing health care coverage, it's harder for them to find good jobs, and it's harder for them to pay for their children's education. We have more children sliding into poverty and more seniors who can't afford prescription drugs. As someone who is focused on solving problems, those are the issues I think about every day, and that's why a substantive, issue-oriented campaign is exactly what this state needs. I welcome Jodi Rell to the race. I look forward to a debate with her that will benefit this state: a conversation about my record of the past 10 years versus her record of the past 10 years, and about the choices we've each made. Perhaps more important, I look forward to a conversation about how each of us plans to address the fact that Connecticut has been losing ground for the past 10 years."
"At the end of that debate - in November, 2006 - I'm confident the people of this state will choose me to be their next Governor because I have a proven track record of solving these types of problems, and that's what the state needs: someone with a vision, someone who can solve problems."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=4018
