Public Statements
Malloy Statement On Secretary Of State's Decision
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 9, 2005
Location: Unknown


Malloy Statement On Secretary Of State's Decision
09.09.2005
Category: Campaign News
Dan Malloy, Mayor of Stamford and Democratic Candidate for Governor, spoke with Secretary of State Susan Bysiewicz yesterday morning, following reports of her decision to withdraw from the Governor's race and seek a third term as Secretary of the State.
"I have tremendous respect for Susan, personally, and for the job she has done as Secretary of the State," Malloy said. "Susan is an exceptional public servant, and I wish her nothing but the best. As I said when we spoke yesterday, I am confident that Susan has a central role to play in leading Connecticut for many years to come."
In the wake of Bysiewicz's announcement, Malloy looked forward to the campaign ahead. "It appears that Connecticut's Democratic Party faces what will be a long and - I hope - substantive two-way primary," Malloy said. "This is our chance to define the Democratic Party as the party of Connecticut's future. It's the chance to take our case to the people of Connecticut, and choose a candidate who will lead our State to a more competitive, fair, and prosperous future.
"Under Governor Rowland and now Governor Rell, Connecticut's middle class has steadily lost ground. Property taxes are a burden too great to bear - for seniors and young families alike. Fewer high school students can afford to attend college in their home state. Fewer Connecticut citizens have health insurance. More are living in poverty. Connecticut is last in the country in job growth. Enough is enough.
"I'm running for Governor because it's time we had a Governor with a real vision that works for all of Connecticut's citizens, with the courage to put forward the right vision, and with the strength, experience, integrity and management skills to see that vision through to fruition."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=3985
