Public Statements
Well Known Democratic Operatives Join Malloy For Governor Team
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 31, 2005
Location: Stamford, CT


Well Known Democratic Operatives Join Malloy For Governor Team
08.31.2005
Category: Campaign News
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Stamford - The Dan Malloy for Governor Campaign announced today that it has retained the services of Global Strategy Group, a nationally-renowned political strategy and polling firm, to serve as its general consultants in the 2006 gubernatorial race.
Headquartered in New York City, with an office in Washington, D.C., Global Strategy Group has had a major statewide presence in Connecticut since 2003, when it opened an office in Hartford.
Global's Connecticut office is led by Roy Occhiogrosso, Duby McDowell, and Kathleen Curry. Occhiogrosso and Curry are both well known, veteran Connecticut Democratic operatives who have worked on numerous political campaigns at the local, state and national levels, and who, together, have more than 30 years of experience; McDowell is a former television journalist who covered state politics and hosted two of Connecticut's most influential television interview shows ("Face the State" and "Connecticut Newsmakers") for more than a decade.
In addition, Betsy O'Neil, of West Hartford, will be working with Global Strategy Group to assist the Malloy campaign. O'Neil is best known as an experienced grassroots organizer who has worked on Democratic campaigns for more than 20 years.
"Speaking for the entire Malloy for Governor team, we are extremely happy that Global Strategy Group will be intimately involved in our campaign," Mayor Dan Malloy said. "They bring to the table a wealth of experience and talent in all facets of electoral politics: communications, field, research, and overall strategy. We've gotten the best of both worlds here: Global is a major national firm with vast political experience; and it has a Connecticut office that is run by operatives who are second to none in terms of understanding how to conduct substantive and effective campaigns in Connecticut."
In addition to assisting the Malloy campaign with overall strategy, communications and field, Global will also be responsible for the research component of the campaign; Jefrey Pollock, Global's President and co-founder, is a nationally-respected pollster who has been advising campaigns at all levels for more than a decade, including several high-profile races in Connecticut.
"Dan's campaign team did a great job in the early stages of this election cycle; we're committed to working as hard as we can to help them take Dan's candidacy to the next level," said Occhiogrosso, who will serve as a Senior Advisor to the campaign. "Most important, for us, Dan's been a great mayor, he has a very clear understanding of the problems Connecticut faces, and he has a vision of where and how he wants to lead this state. He represents the Democratic Party's best chance in 2006, and we think Dan will make a great Governor."
Malloy added, "I've gotten to know the Global team over the past year or so, and it's clear to me that, to a person, they care deeply about the future of our state. Together, they will be instrumental in communicating our message for the future of Connecticut, and helping to guide our campaign to victory in November 2006."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=3631
