Public Statements
Malloy Roars Back
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 7, 2005
Location: Unknown


Malloy Roars Back
07.07.2005
Category: Campaign News
Dear Friends:
As you may remember, last fall I suspended fundraising for my campaign for Governor when I became aware of an inquiry being conducted by the State's Attorney's office. On May 5, 2005, the State's Attorney issued me in writing a full and very public exoneration, for which I am grateful. Following the exoneration, a challenge was issued to my campaign for Governor: Prove you can raise money.
Thanks to the generosity and support of friends like you the Dan Malloy for Governor campaign raised $228,100 -- surpassing all expectations and making us the comeback story of the year. In fact, yesterday, the Hartford Courant ran an article heralding my return to fundraising. This would not have been possible without your help. Thank you.
While fundraising has certainly been a top priority, there are many other accomplishments this quarter of which I am equally as proud. I submitted four op/eds over the past eight weeks on topics such as the potential sub base closing, revitalizing our cities, funding for education and good government, which were published in several of our State's top newspapers. My campaign team and I visited 13 town committees and we are scheduled to appear in 3 more this month. I encourage you to visit my website, www.danmalloy.com, to see when I'll be visiting your community.
I also participated in over 20 media interviews, and met with the editorial boards of four of the leading newspapers, with two more scheduled for July. In my campaign's ongoing effort to open a dialogue with the people of Connecticut, we launched our blog, talkCT at www.danmalloy.com, and I was the first candidate to engage in an innovative live blog interview on connecticutlocalpolitics.blogspot.com. This live online Q&A was very well received, and we saw our own web traffic spike considerably as a result. Going forward, we'll be initiating more creative ways to spark a dialogue about Connecticut's future.
I am enthused, encouraged and raring to go. We have in our grasp the opportunity to bring real and much needed change to Connecticut. Change that will result in leadership driven by a vision, directed by the people and determined to deliver results. Together, I know we can build stronger, prosperous and more livable communities across our State.
Thank you again. And please stay tuned... there is much more to come.
Sincerely,
Dan Malloy
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=3042
