Public Statements
Malloy Says Rell's Statement Misses The Mark
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 29, 2005
Location: Unknown


Malloy Says Rell's Statement Misses The Mark
06.29.2005
Category: Better Government
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
MALLOY SAYS RELL'S STATEMENT ON FIRST YEAR IN OFFICE "MISSES THE MARK"
Mayor Dan Malloy, a candidate for Governor in 2006, today released the following statement in response to Governor Rell's comment reported (in today's Hartford Courant) that, in reviewing her first year in office, "There are no big disappointments."
Said Malloy, "Governor Rell's statement is disappointing. To have been Governor for a full year, and to not have experienced any 'big disappointments' indicates the Governor may well have expectations that are too low. For example, I think it's a big disappointment that the Groton sub base was put on the initial base closure list - though I, along with many others, are doing what we can to get it off that list. I think it's a 'big disappointment' that another year's gone by without property tax reform - we're the 2nd worst state when it comes to per capita property tax burden, and it continues to drive seniors out of their homes, cripple economic development, drive sprawl - and a host of other bad things. I think it's a 'big disappointment' that more than 330,000 people in this, the richest state in the nation, have no health care. And there are other examples."
"To acknowledge that there have been disappointments doesn't mean you're acknowledging failure - nor are you condoning it. But to say you've had no 'big disappointments' is like George W. Bush not being able to acknowledge having made any mistakes in his time in office. It's just not realistic."
"We should aim high - as high as we can. And we should be pleased with the progress we make, and disappointed that we've not made more."
Malloy added, "The only two legislative issues she identified in that interview were failed hangovers from this past legislative session, and she offered nothing new to indicate how she would move them forward - snarled campaign finance reform and an anemic out-of-touch transportation bill that barely begins to address the State's crisis on that front."
"Based on Governor Rell's 'no big disappointments' self-assessment, the people of Connecticut ought to be concerned. Governor Rell may be proving that she is a caretaker rather than a visionary; that she is a temporary healer rather than a leader; that she is a transitional governor with one foot in an embarrassing and troubled Rowland era and the other just trying manage as best she can without a sense of direction."
Finally, said Malloy, "The Governor does, however, make an excellent case for change. It's time for someone who has executive level experience, with proven and quantifiable results, a vision for the future and a roadmap for getting there. In the coming year, my campaign team and I will be thoroughly committed to demonstrating to the people of Connecticut that a Malloy Gubernatorial Administration will be guided by a vision of a 21st Century Connecticut comprised of prosperous and safe communities supported by fiscally sound State policies."
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cmpPress&htmlId=2973
