Public Statements
Keeping The Groton Sub Base Open
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 31, 2005
Location: Unknown


Keeping The Groton Sub Base Open
By Mayor Dan Malloy, Candidate for Governor
May 31, 2005
It's Time to Stand Together . For ninety years, Groton has been the proud home of the Navy's
Submarine Force. But more than tradition is at stake since the Pentagon recommended closing the New
London Sub Base. Our economy, our security, and the livelihood of our fellow citizens have all been put at risk.
As citizens of Connecticut, we have a responsibility to stand together just as we did in 1993, when the base was scheduled for partial closure. This is not the time for criticism and finger-pointing. This is a
time for cooperation, action and leadership.
Closure Would be Devastating. In human terms, the potential cost of closure is heartbreaking.
Closure could result in 31,500 direct and indirect job losses. Military retirees living in Eastern Connecticut would be deprived of the services and support the base provides, including medical care. And while the pain would be most acute in Southeastern Connecticut, the effects would be felt throughout the state. Together, the sub base and the Electric Boat Company contribute $3.3 billion to Connecticut's economy.
Closure Makes No Strategic Military Sense. After seeking the opinions of military experts, it
seems clear to me, as to many, that closing the base makes little strategic sense. Submarines continue to play a vital role in modern warfare, and if the War on Terror has taught any lesson, it is that we must be flexible and prepared for any eventuality. De-emphasizing our submarine capability ignores that lesson.
In addition, ever since the attack at Pearl Harbor devastated the Pacific Fleet, the military has adhered to a policy of not concentrating our assets. If Groton is closed, the Atlantic sub fleet will be concentrated entirely in Norfolk, VA and Kings Bay, GA, and an attack at either facility would cripple the fleet. As 9-11 and the Cole bombing tragically demonstrated, we are not immune from attack.
