Public Statements
Small Business
By: Dan Malloy
Location: Unknown


Small Business
My Vision for Small Business
By Dan Malloy
I have been a strong supporter of Small Business as Mayor of Stamford - and that's a commitment I plan to keep when I am Governor.
Small business is tremendously important to our state. But for the past 12 years, the governor's office has not had a strategy for economic development - Connecticut has consistently failed to invest adequately in the good ideas of the men and women in our communities with the dreams of operating their own businesses.
That's why I started several innovative programs to help small business since I've been Mayor.
路 I began the Mayor's Initiative for Small Business, a partnership between the Stamford Chamber of Commerce, Women's Business Development Center and UCONN's Small Business Development Center. The Initiative assisted small business in accessing capital, developing and improving business plans, provided marketing advice and assistance in managing new technologies as well as how to access procurement opportunities within large corporations as well as government in order to expand their businesses. This initiative was an outgrowth of my leadership within the U.S. Conference of Mayors Small Business Roundtable, which focused on the development of successful strategies for cities to nurture small business growth as fundamental to local economic development.
路 We also created a Small Business Guarantee Fund. Through this special economic development initiative to seed new businesses and entrepreneurship, the City of Stamford guarantees up to 35% of a small working capital loan designed to assist small micro-enterprises (new start ups of less than 5 employees including the owners).
路 Stamford also partnered with Community Economic Development Fund, a non profit financial corporation and established a Stamford loan pool by building a coalition of local banks and targeting the lending to small, minority and women owned businesses in Stamford.
路 And our Enterprise Zone Program, which is consistently one of the top three performers in the state in the number of new businesses, helped with one of the highest levels of activity of the state's 17 zones.
I am very proud of my record of supporting and encouraging small business, and when I am Governor I have a vision to support small business.
My "Every Job Matters" plan for economic revitalization is fresh and forward-looking. It helps the state make better investments in our communities by proactively tapping into the expertise and experience of business leaders in our communities who are most familiar with local economies. And, it recognizes the critical importance small and micro-businesses play in creating jobs.
Under my leadership, the newly created Business Advocate Office will be charged with providing specialized outreach to small and micro-businesses through a network of strategically located Entrepreneurial Assistance Centers. These centers will provide ready access to seed financing, small and micro-business grants, ongoing business and technological expertise, and valuable opportunities for new and experienced entrepreneurs to network and share ideas. In addition, with proactive outreach in areas where residents face the greatest obstacles to starting their own businesses, entrepreneurial centers will provide specialized resources to assist women, minorities, and disabled individuals to overcome barriers to successful business growth.
I will also work to ensure that we have universal health care in Connecticut, so that every man woman and child in our state has access to safe - and affordable - health care. Time and again when I speak with small business owners and the self-employed I hear how hard it is for them to get affordable health insurance - and that for those that do offer it, the costs are one of the greatest burdens to their business. That's why when I am governor we will reduce costs of insurance and expand the pool of affordable health coverage to include small businesses and the self employed.
Clearly Connecticut's economic future, much like its past, will be defined by how well it fosters growth among the state's smallest businesses. I believe Connecticut's best and brightest days are ahead of us - and we can make it a reality of we choose a new vision for tomorrow.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cndIssues&htmlId=6502
