Public Statements
Children: Connecticut Youth Development Initiative
By: Dan Malloy
Location: Unknown


Children: Connecticut Youth Development Initiative
Central to our mission as public servants is protecting, nurturing and shaping our young people - that is the best way to combat youth violence. The secret to success is communication, coordination and compassion. Having a comprehensive and strategically driven youth development initiative gives cities a structure within which to address sudden up ticks in violence, which are always possible. Dealing with these instances requires speed and effectiveness, and that can't happen without structures in place to address the situation on a neighborhood by neighborhood basis. I offer the following initiatives based on many of the programs I've developed with a dedicated team of government, law enforcement, community and faith-based leaders in Stamford.
Organizationally, it is essential that the Connecticut Youth Development Initiative be seen as a high priority. That's why I created the Mayor's Youth Services Bureau and have it reporting directly to me. As Governor, I would do the same thing - create the Governor's Youth Services Bureau, through which statewide coordination would flow. It would be driven by a new Governor's Commission on Youth Development, which would represent State and local government, law enforcement, educators, faith-based and non-profit organizations, and other youth services experts.
In the following proposal, you'll see a youth development program that's built upon four key pillars - (1) community partnerships with faith-based and non-profit organizations; (2) youth employment; (3) mentoring; and (4) juvenile justice (vs. criminal justice).
1. PARTNERSHIPS WITH FAITH-BASED AND COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS
Tremendous positive power already exists in our cities that can be leveraged to help our young people excel. Forging positive alliances with faith-based and community organizations, and local and state government can harness existing resources and become a conduit for future resource allocation in our ongoing effort to nurture, protect and grow our young people in mind, body and soul. Nowhere do communication, coordination and compassion come together more powerfully on behalf of our young people than here. It is in that spirit that I would work to implement three initiatives on a statewide basis that we have implemented in Stamford:
(a) Teaming Up For Youth Initiative
Sponsored by the Mayor's Youth Services Bureau, the initiative provides opportunities for faith-based and youth services organizations to partner. One outcome has been the ability of the service organizations to expand their mentoring programs because of the increased awareness of the need for qualified mentors.
(b) Out of School Time Alliance
Public, private and non-profit out-of-school time providers meet monthly with representatives of the school system to discuss ways to improve services provided to young people in out-of-school time programs. The Alliance improves communication efforts, provides monthly staff development workshops for program directors and staff and strengthens the connection between the school system and the out-of-school time providers.
(c) Focus on Youth Council
The Council acts in an advisory capacity - evaluating current programs as well as identifying trends and/or issues that should be addressed on a community-wide level. The permanent council consists of the Chief of Police, the Director of Youth Development for the Stamford Public Schools, the Director of Public Safety Health and Welfare, and the regional director for the Department of Children and Families. Revolving members include: the Executive Director of a non-profit serving youth, a parent, a student, and a faith-based organization.
2. YOUTH EMPLOYMENT
Giving urban youth an opportunity to experience and participate in earning a living is critical to a healthy understanding of themselves, their community and the importance and freedom in taking responsibility. That's why as Governor I would implement a two-pronged youth employment initiative in our cities:
(a) Inner City Youth Jobs Program
Establish a small pilot program where the State partners with faith-based and non-profit organizations to fund the hiring of inner city youths for various jobs, such as helping seniors, delivering food to the needy, cleaning churches, etc. With good management and monitoring, the State will be able to evaluate the program in one year's time and consider expanding it accordingly.
(b) Work and Learn Program
For children who have historically been unsuccessful in a traditional school setting, this program would provide a hands-on opportunity to learn about a business by creating it from the ground up. Modeled after a successful Stamford program, it would use a team approach which includes a teacher, social worker/youth worker, older youth role model and an entrepreneur. The entrepreneur would teach vocational skills such as guitar making, boat building, culinary expertise, auto mechanics, or newspaper publishing. The first phase would provide the mechanics as well as employment and life skills training necessary to succeed. The next phase would be structured work placement where the young person is given an opportunity to experience work with an adult mentor. The team would be available for additional training or support as needed. The third phase of the program would provide an entry level position that can lead to a career.
3. MENTORING
Lead by example. It's such a simple concept, yet extraordinarily powerful for a young person fighting the additional challenges that can face inner city youth. The right mentor can make all the difference, if only the State would help its urban areas develop and coordinate mentoring programs that bring our youth and our community leaders together. As Governor, I would implement the Connecticut Mentoring Partnership modeled after a program we initiated in Stamford, where the State would work in partnership with city governments to facilitate the creation (or enhancement if one already exists) of a youth mentoring program in each of our urban areas. It would be a partnership between the mayor's office, the public schools and local youth-serving organizations. In Stamford, we are taking a two-pronged approach that could work in other cities -- giving city employees a paid hour each week to mentor young people (in the pilot year approximately 40 mentors were recruited and trained), and tapping into respected community organizations such as the 100 Black Men of Stamford's mentoring program at our high schools, and other faith based organizations.
4. JUVENILE JUSTICE
Sometimes our best efforts to protect, nurture and shape our young people fall short. It's at this critical crossroads that we have a choice to make. Based on my experience as a prosecutor and the results of two key programs we initiated in Stamford, I believe the State should be seeking more ways to intervene in the pipeline that can exist between school and prison.
(a) Community Policing Forum
Community Policing, a collaborative effort between the police and the community, is the most important element in the fight to lower crime and secure a community for the future. And it is especially effective in understanding and preventing juvenile crime. In addition to Stamford, other cities in Connecticut have implemented community policing. I know first hand how important it is for municipal leaders to have an active partner in the Governor's office. As Governor, I would create the Connecticut Community Policing Forum as a way to exchange community policing best practices, and as a way for the State to support community policing initiatives with state and federal dollars.
Community policing has to be more than a government program; it must be a guiding philosophy that seeks to achieve the "livability factor" for the community - preventing crime rather than just waiting for it to happen. The core premise: it should be seen as an investment. Every arrest leads to fewer future crimes. Every intervention with a young person headed for trouble can avoid more serious problems down the road. Solving smaller problems quickly can prevent them from growing into big problems. Putting resources into crime reduction adds value to a community that grows over time.
(b) Juvenile Review Board
The State should work with cities to establish a local juvenile review board to partner with the mayor's office, the Police Department, Juvenile Court and Public Schools. This would be a diversionary program for first time juvenile offenders, similar to what we established in Stamford. Taking an in-depth look at the issues contributing to the young person's arrest, this intervention program's goal would be to help children modify their behavior before they enter the court system. The review board that evaluates each offender would consist of young people from the community (Stamford is the only city in the state to include youth), the police, juvenile probation officers, school personnel, and mental health and substance abuse providers. Needs would be assessed and the youth referred to services that may include an after-school program, mentoring, anger management classes, one-on-one counseling, domestic violence intervention, a community service component, a substance-abuse counselor, and/or a mental health professional.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cndIssues&htmlId=4743
