Public Statements
Every Job Matters (Part 2)
By: Dan Malloy
Location: Unknown


Every Job Matters (Part 2)
II. Growing Better Jobs
Rethinking the way we do business
My Every Job Matters plan will force us to re-think how we do business in this state and it will allow us to focus resources on a key engine of growth - small business. It also addresses the states paltry underinvestment in women and minority-owned businesses through the LEADERS Centers mentioned earlier in this plan. My plan will address the scandalous disregard of the small and minority-owned business set-aside law that would otherwise provide key investments in our neediest
neighborhoods.
It revolutionizes the way we reward companies for creating jobs and ensures that new jobs will come with important benefits and competitive wages. It better connects universities to the workplace and the entrepreneurs who will grow jobs. My EJM plan for growing better jobs begins with a timetested, simple, yet forgotten way that government can encourage desirable results - positive reinforcement.
Governor's "Blue Ribbon Businesses"
As Governor I want to reverse the way we "reward" companies for promising to create jobs - I want to reward them after they've fulfilled their promises, not before. More importantly, I want to recognize companies that offer affordable health care, provide good wages, and are the best possible corporate citizens and role models for other businesses to emulate.
Venture Connecticut will be charged with determining benchmarks with business and Labor leaders for rewarding companies that create good jobs with high quality benefits, including the provision of health insurance. Companies that meet specified growth targets and who prove to be role model employers, will be recognized publicly as Governor's Blue Ribbon Businesses making them eligible to receive special tax credits, R&D bonuses, energy supplements, or other possible benefits.
For example, a company will qualify as a Governor's Blue Ribbon Business if it provides affordable health care, competitive wages, and is in good-standing in its labor relations. Additionally, Blue Ribbon Businesses will qualify for financial rewards for being top corporate citizens.
Here are some potential scenarios:
• Blue Ribbon companies with over 50 employees that grow full-time employment by 50% could qualify for a 10% tax credit.
• Blue Ribbon companies that relocated to Connecticut and exceed job creation pledges by 20% will be entitled to a third of the income tax withholding that would normally be paid to the state for those new positions.
• R&D intensive Blue Ribbon companies that hire 75% of their new employees from Connecticut institutions of higher education could qualify for R&D supplemental grants.
• Blue Ribbon companies that grow jobs, increase productivity, and reduce their energy consumption by 10% could benefit for grants of up to 15% for their energy costs. Under the Rowland and Rell administrations, companies were given taxpayer handouts in exchange for fleeting promises to create jobs. When many of these companies failed to meet job goals and
ran off with our cash, the Rell administration allowed their debt to be written off as a loss to the state, without properly classifying it as a loss to taxpayers. And until I successfully called for the administration to stop withholding information about companies that left the state holding the bag on their bad loans, the process of handing out loans was not only wasteful, but unaccountable - a lethal combination. My Blue Ribbon Business plan reverses the backward incentives that for 12 ineffective
years have been passed off as economic development.
Matching Grants for Small Business Innovation and Research (SBIR):
The federal Department of Defense provides grant funding to small businesses to conduct cuttingedge research and product development. Connecticut's future success depends on our ability to develop the big ideas of our small business entrepreneurs. By providing assistance to companies that meet the Department of Defense's thresholds for innovation and marketability, we can maximize small business opportunities in Connecticut with a reasonable amount of risk. Venture Connecticut together with the LEADERS Centers will work collaboratively to identify eligible recipients and promote economic development from the bottom-up.
"Innovation Connection Centers" for Business and Higher Education Collaboration:
As Governor, I will create Innovation Connection Centers (ICCs). My plan includes $200 million toconstruct high-tech ICC lab space for emerging, research-driven technologies in stem-cell, bioscience, fuel-cell and other sectors where Connecticut can gain enhance its unique advantage. The ICCs will draw public and private universities together with the business community into unique, synergistic collaborations that work to bring more technology-intensive products to market and provide more opportunities to our skilled students to stay here in Connecticut.
I want to replicate the synergy generated by the partnership between UCONN Stamford and GE that spurs innovation in my town. Innovation centers like Stamford's edgelab bring together university expertise, business-driven ideas, and youthful innovation to enhance the products brought to market. Partnerships like this make our state a more attractive and exciting place to do business, potentially improving our ability to recruit more jobs. Most importantly, such collaboration helps to keep young talent here by improving the experiences of students involved and helps make Connecticut more attractive to them when the graduate.
Buy Connecticut First
As part of my Every Job Matters plan, I would work to enact a "Buy Connecticut First" law providing qualified in-state bidders on state contracts preference on state contract awards, if they come within 5% of the lowest qualified bid. This law will allow us to create more jobs here in Connecticut and the small cost of the preference will more than pay for itself in added revenue and economic activity derived from the jobs we save and grow.
Economic Preservation and Connecticut-Grown
In Connecticut, our efforts to grow jobs by investing in innovative small businesses must also extend to our agri-business sector. In the farthest reaches of the state, niche farming and innovative agricultural techniques - along with larger agribusiness ventures - offer a way to grow jobs, while preserving the character of many of Connecticut's traditional communities.
My economic development plan expands upon a number of legislative proposals to expand farming in Connecticut. These include:
• Creating Agricultural Innovation and Entrepreneurial Centers (AGGIE) - AGGIE centers
- agriculturally-specific and LEADER-organized entrepreneurial assistance centers - will provide expertise, financial resources, and links to federal and state programs available to small agribusiness entrepreneurs.
• Connecticut-grown - I support legislative proposals to expand the Department of Agriculture's farm-to-schools efforts by linking nutritious Connecticut-grown products to public school cafeterias. My plan also provides incentives to connect Connecticut-grown produce to our public universities, hospitals, government agencies, and governmentsponsored food programs, like WIC and meals on wheels.
III. Workforce Investment
A more responsive and integrated rapid reemployment and job training infrastructure
Emergency Workforce Training Credits:
My administration will aggressively seek to retain and recruit jobs. However, it will still unfortunately be the case that jobs will sometimes move elsewhere. If and when that happens, and I'll fight it tooth and nail every time, Connecticut needs to do a better job of quickly connecting dislocated workers to the training and services that will help them turn a setback for them into a step forward for everyone.
As Governor, I will work to establish emergency training credits that help dislocated workers immediately begin the process of acquiring skills to help them obtain employment in Connecticut's most promising industries. Workers who are identified through the State's rapid response teams (a program that responds to impending and actual mass layoffs) will be eligible for training credits redeemable at any accredited degree-granting institution in the state. Our rapid response teams are simply overwhelmed and we need to provide them with the resources to reach more workers who need them.
Customized and Incumbent Worker Training
To better protect against jobs leaving our state, a Malloy administration will partner with business and labor, and educational facilities and training centers to establish a true state-of-the-art customized job training program statewide. For business in Connecticut to compete with businesses elsewhere, we need to do more to level the playing field. Job training under the Rell and Rowland administrations has been haphazard and inconsistent. And, that just won't do. I will implement a customized job training program that gives Connecticut a real edge over our competitors worldwide and I will invest in incumbent worker training programs that provide timely training for workers to improve their skills.
Wage Insurance
I am confident that my economic action plan will restore Connecticut's competitiveness. Unfortunately some jobs will leave Connecticut - either for other states, or other countries. I am also confident that major layoff events like those about to occur alter this month - when on March 31st, 150 machinists at the Winchester gun manufacturing plant in New Haven and 180 union workers at Electric Boat will lose their jobs - will be fewer and farther between under a Malloy administration.
Nevertheless, our state needs better tools to help our friends and neighbors whose jobs are outsourced. It is time for us to establish a wage insurance plan that encourages dislocated workers to find new jobs more quickly and to fill skilled jobs most in need of workers. Workers whose jobs are outsourced make an average of 13% less in their new jobs than in their previous ones. My wage insurance program would provide workers whose jobs have been outsourced with supplemental insurance to cover 50% of workers' lost wages.
For example, if a worker makes $17 an hour in a job after losing a $24 an hour job to outsourcing, wage insurance would pay the worker an extra $3.50 an hour. Workers who made less than $60,000 a year in their outsourced job would be eligible and total payments would be capped at $10,000 for two years - enough time for workers to gain added experience and training, making them more valuable to employers.
To pay for this, I will establish a Worker Trust Fund and use the proceeds from the fund to cover claims. I also believe that we can leverage the State's purchasing power to negotiate a costreducing partnership with the private insurance market to help provide wage insurance to Connecticut's workers.
This plan also saves money. Because my wage insurance plan provides an incentive for unemployed workers to get back to work, job seekers will spend less time on unemployment - saving our unemployment insurance fund countless dollars.
IV. Education
Investing in our future
No economic revitalization strategy would be complete without recognizing the longer-term fuel that will power our economy and our communities for years to come - education. 100% of Connecticut's future is in the hands of the small portion of the population under the age of 21. If young graduates from Connecticut cannot compete for the jobs of the future, then guess what? Connecticut can't compete, either. My economic recovery plan recognizes the long-term investments in education
necessary to ensure that Connecticut's next generation is its best generation.
Higher Education
Increasing Access and Affordability
Connecticut must better control tuition prices if higher education if we want our colleges and universities to be accessible to Connecticut's young adults and attractive for out-of-state students. We must establish incentives that will encourage higher education institutions to: • Freeze Tuition - across the board by restoring higher education's share of our state budget to the levels before the Rowland and Rell administrations; • Institute Seasonal Pricing - to encourage more students to take summer and winter semester courses - potentially reducing the number of years to graduation, and increasing the number of spaces available at our schools; • Offer Tuition Rebates - to create capacity and make it easier for others to gain access,
any student that graduates in 4 years or less with a B+ or better will be eligible for a $1,000 rebate on tuition, • Cut UCONN Branch Campus Tuition - to recognize the vastly different resources and facilities compared the to flagship Storrs campus, and
• Recruit High Quality School Teachers - by creating a "Teach for Connecticut" student loan reimbursement program modeled on our successful Minority Teacher Recruitment program to attract highly skilled graduates to obtain certification and teach in critical shortage areas.
Moving toward Universal Degrees
I can remember when a High School diploma was the gateway to a decent job and way of life. Today the gateway is a college degree - times have changed, but our State's level of college attainment has not kept pace. We must set the goal of making a college degree as universal as a high school diploma. Better connecting our high schools to our community-colleges is one effective way to transition more high school students into higher education.
As Governor, I will work to build better connections between high-schools and colleges to ensure more opportunities for students to transition into higher education by:
• Offering guaranteed admission - to state colleges or universities for students in the top 20% of their class - this sends a signal to all children that college CAN be an option if they work hard at school,
• Creating a Community-College outreach program - to provide on-site college credit courses to students in their neighborhood schools.
• Providing "First-in-Family" scholarships - to students who are the first member of their family to attend college.
Restoring our State Commitment to Higher Education
We must also reverse disinvestment in higher education that has been a stalwart of the Rowland and Rell administrations. Since 2001, the State's investment in higher education has gone from 4.5% of the state budget to 3.9% for FY06 and FY07. As Governor, I will propose a law requiring the state to restore its commitment to higher education and set as a goal, increasing higher education funding to 4.5% of the state budget by 2010 and 6% by 2015.
Next Generation Education
The world - and Connecticut - is changing ever more rapidly. The next generation to graduate from our high schools will need to master literacy earlier in order to master higher levels of math, science and technology by graduation. With young adults in New Delhi competing for the same jobs as young adults in New Haven, students' future opportunities will depend on their educational attainment. Every year, students will simply have more to accomplish by 12th grade than the students before.
I have a plan for enhancing education for the next generation to graduate. As Governor, my Next Generation strategy for primary and secondary education will:
• Institute a Literacy Campaign Literacy and reading serve as the building blocks to math, science, and our escalating
dependence on our ability to communicate across the globe. My plan, which is inspired by the successful Hartford area program called Readers as Leaders, addresses declining literacy and ensures children master reading and communication skills earlier in their schooling.
• Institute A Math, Science, and Technology Campaign Math proficiency is an increasingly critical building block to opportunities in the sciences and technologically intensive companies that and are the most important ingredient in the State's
recipe for prosperity. My Math, Science, and Technology plan will encourage more high school students to:
• Graduate with advanced math skills
• Enroll in college math and science courses before graduating
• Participate in innovative partnerships with businesses that promote hands-on math and science learning
The Cost of Every Job Matters I estimate the cost for instituting my Every Job Matters plan to be $290 million, including revenue reductions from tax-credit incentives and changes to our annual commitment to funding job creation. I also plan to use state bonding prudently and only for investments like high-tech lab space and energy enhancements that provide a long-term payoff. I think we need to be more sensible with our bonding and end the construction of convention centers and ballparks that have been passed off as economic development initiatives.
The added revenue associated with 100,000 new jobs is about $190 million - more than enough to pay for the operating expenses associated with implementing Every Job Matters. No one really knows right now whether our state budget will be in the red or black for FY08 - the first budget year of a Malloy administration. Promises made by candidates that use surplus dollars are simply inconceivable since today's surplus will soon be appropriated by the legislature as part of the budget process. Our investment in job creation should not be predicated on whether the state is running a surplus. Our commitment should be part of our annual budget and be permanent. As we have learned over the past 12 years, sacrificing our commitment to job creation costs us all in the long run.
http://images1.istandfor.com/images/FE/chain165siteType8/site121/client/EveryJobMatters.pdf
