Public Statements
Every Job Matters (Part 1)
By: Dan Malloy
Location: Unknown


Every Job Matters (Part 1)
A Strategy for Revitalizing Connecticut's Economy
It is shameful that Connecticut is ranked dead-last in job growth by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, ranked last in small business assistance and second to last in its long-term employment growth outlook by CFED, a Washington-based economic development think tank. We need to pursue the right ideas that will set us on the right course. We need a fresh start. My Every Job Matters plan has a clear attainable goal: to create 100,000 jobs by 2010. The added revenue associated with 100,000 new jobs is about $190 million - more than enough to pay for the operating expenses associated with implementing Every Job Matters.
Key Highlights of Every Job Matters include:
I. Strategic Leadership - Adding accountability and reaching out to local leaders
My plan establishes a strong, pro-active business development and job creation strategy that is anchored by a streamlined structure and real benchmarks and goals that the Governor must deliver - as Governor, the buck stops with me; no excuses, just results. My plan empowers Local Economic Development and Regional Solutions or "LEADERS" at every level of decision making on issues involving job growth and business development. And, as Governor I will hold annual statewide and local
jobs summits to chart our course and steer us in the right direction.
II. Growing Better Jobs - "Blue Ribbon Businesses"
It's time we rethink how we do business. As Governor, I will establish a first-ever Blue Ribbon Business designation for role-model employers that provide affordable health care insurance, competitive wages, meet job growth targets, and are in good-standing in their labor relations. In addition to public recognition, Blue Ribbon Businesses will be eligible for special tax-credits, R&D bonuses, and other benefits.
III. Workforce Investment -"Wage Insurance" for outsourced jobs
The cornerstone of my workforce investment strategy is making Connecticut the first state to institute its own wage insurance program. Workers whose jobs are outsourced make an average of 13% less in their new jobs than in their previous ones. For workers in Connecticut making an average salary of $40,000 in their old jobs, that 13% figure means they'd make $5,200 less in their new jobs. My wage insurance program would provide workers whose jobs have been outsourced with supplemental insurance to cover 50% of that difference. Every Job Matters also provides for a more responsive and integrated rapid reemployment and job training infrastructure through the provision of emergency training credits.
IV. Education - Restoring higher education funding and literacy and math mastery
EJM Invests in our future by improving higher education access and affordability. It restores Connecticut's commitment to higher education funding, and takes a common-sense approach to pricing at our state colleges and universities. It connects high school students to college and provides incentives for students to be the first in their family to attend college. It also focuses on literacy in the early years to establish the building blocks to math and science in later school years.
Every Job Matters
Initiatives for Revitalizing Connecticut's Economy
My Every Job Matters plan for creating 100,000 jobs by 2010 represents a unique vision for changing the way Connecticut does business. Connecticut's top-down and flying-blind approach to job growth in this state must end. As your Governor, I will present a comprehensive road map for job creation and work every day to recruit and retain good jobs for Connecticut's workers.
For the past 12 years, we've been taken for a ride. The Rell/Rowland Administration has promised high-rollers for Bridgeport and the Patriots for Hartford and called it economic development. Rell/Rowland Administration has made excuses for job losses of big businesses while overlooking the dreams of the many small and minority-owned businesses that are poised to drive our future prosperity. Since 1992, we have shown no net job growth and, if we continue on the same path, we'll have a tomorrow that's no better than today.
Over the past 2 years, Governor Rell has watched the sun go down on the Rowland era, but has provided no vision for a new day. My Every Job Matters plan for economic revitalization is fresh and forward-looking. It provides a vision for tomorrow and a path for getting us there. My plan begins with leadership.
I. Strategic Leadership
A strong, pro-active business development and job creation strategy Establish "Venture Connecticut" My Every Job Matters plan revolutionizes our economic development efforts by creating an efficient, effective, transparent, and accountable non-profit organization called Venture Connecticut. Venture Connecticut will be designed to carry-out an unprecedented comprehensive and coordinated job creation strategy for the State. Under the direction of the Governor, it will absorb and improve the operations of the Connecticut Development Authority, Connecticut Innovations, Inc., and other job creation functions (see diagram on next page). Just as businesses have to rapidly adapt to shifts in the world economy, so too do our business outreach programs. Venture Connecticut will enable Connecticut to more nimbly compete in the international market for jobs and businesses. This proposal requires no layoffs of any kind for any state workers.
Venture Connecticut would be led by the Governor and overseen by a board appointed by the Governor consisting of business leaders, labor leaders, recruitment specialists, education officials, and local and regional leaders. Most important, it will include the commissioners and heads of the departments of education, environmental protection, higher education, labor, transportation, housing and community development, and workforce competitiveness to ensure better coordination of state
services for job creation. Its board would be empowered to create and implement a strategic economic development and job creation plan for the state and pro-actively recruit, retain, and attend to businesses and Connecticut's workforce.
Venture Connecticut would also be held accountable for meeting benchmarks showing where Connecticut stands compared to other key states and global regions and those indicating state goals in creating jobs and business opportunities. It would be held to the highest standards of transparency and openness to ensure our investments are made wisely and shine under welcomed public scrutiny. This, in and of itself, would be a new, welcome addition to the State's economic development strategy: it's called ‘accountability.' And it's desperately needed. As Governor, I would also re-focus the mission of the Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD). In addition to administering existing community development and affordable housing initiatives, the re-focused agency would be expanded to address the rising costs of housing,
encourage home ownership, oversee the establishment of housing trust funds, and expand affordable housing options through inclusionary zoning and other strategies.
With the economic development functions transferred to Venture Connecticut, the re-tooled DECD will be called the Department of Housing and Community Affairs. Hardworking men and women who are the backbone of state government will welcome this plan - it doesn't eliminate jobs and provides a framework for better services to all of our communities.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Empowering "LEADERS"
For the last 12 years, Rell/Rowland Administration has used an ineffective one-size-fits-all approach to economic development, which suggests that what is good for Waterbury is good for Waterford. I hear the same complaints in every part of Connecticut: state government does not treat local leaders and communities as partners. My approach is different.
My plan empowers Local Economic Development and Regional Solutions, or "LEADERS," at every level of decision-making on issues involving job growth and business development. Each area of the State has its own competitive advantages - and the State should serve as a mutual partner in helping each reach its goals and not act as an overprotective parent in its dealings with local Working hand-in-hand with Venture Connecticut, existing regional economic development entities will assist in creating the statewide comprehensive economic development plan that will be developed by a Malloy Administration. Venture Connecticut will also work with regional entities to be recognized by the federal government and directly access federal development funds. In fact, Connecticut is one of only three states lacking federally-recognized, regional economic development entities and not only do we lose federal funding as a result, we lose critical input that would help our state do a better job of growing and retaining jobs.
By inviting collaboration, leaders from the regional districts will have an important role in linking locally-developed Comprehensive Economic Development Strategies (also known as CEDS) to the statewide plan and where possible, to the strategies of other regions in the state. The collaborative LEADERS approach recognizes the excellent and important work already being done by local leaders around the state and helps us all pursue a more coordinated and responsive strategy for our future.
LEADERS Entrepreneurial Assistance Centers
Connecticut already invests millions of dollars in larger and relatively less-risky business projects. It fails, however, to invest adequately in the good ideas of the men and women in our communities with the dreams of operating their own businesses. And, when it comes to assisting people of color, the administration's record, especially with respect to the State's set-aside program that reserves funds minority owned business, has been poor.
In partnership with regional economic development districts, LEADERS will assist in establishing strategically located Entrepreneurial Assistance Centers to provide better access to financing, small and micro-business grants, business and technological expertise, and valuable business leader-toentrepreneur networking. In addition, with proactive outreach in urban neighborhoods where residents face the greatest obstacles to starting their own businesses, LEADERS centers will provide specialized resources to assist women, minorities, and disabled individuals to overcome barriers to successful business growth.
Establish a "Connecticut Economic Scorecard"
For too long, Connecticut's efforts at economic growth have been haphazard, disjointed, and misguided if guided at all. We have lacked direction, in part, because we have no process for analyzing our success or failure. I believe good data fuels good decision-making and produces results through better accountability. We need a data-driven scorecard that helps us assess we are relative to where we want to be.
We've built convention centers and ballparks - and we've called it ‘economic development.' That's like calling Chef Boyardee a cook. Our leaders have even chased after a football team, as if making one of America's wealthiest men even wealthier would ‘save' our state from the economic abyss it's become. For 15 years we've played for the economic development prize with no game plan - except an occasional Hail Mary in the final seconds. And, as with most Hail Mary passes, the crowd yells,
screams, oohs and ahhs…and then leaves, disappointed. We lost to the Patriots and did no better than a tie when the submarine base remained, but thousands of base jobs did not. We can and must do better.
How can we score more jobs for our workers when we have no game plan?
Under my administration, Connecticut will have an economic game plan that uses hard data to identify the key sectors and industries we should be pursuing to maximize our potential for growing higher paying jobs. Venture Connecticut will be charged with carrying out the game plan and will be held accountable. Let me be clear: as Governor of the State and the CEO of our economic development strategy, the buck will stop at my desk - unlike either the Rowland or Rell administrations, where the buck stops somewhere else…or nowhere at all. Connecticut doesn't need any more excuses for the loss of jobs; it needs a proactive plan, and it needs an attentive leader who not only will be held accountable for the State's performance, but who wants to be held accountable for the State's performance.
Here's another good question: How can Connecticut excel in the economic development game when it never even knows the score? Yes, it's a rhetorical question.
As Governor, I will require a Connecticut Economic Progress Scorecard. The scorecard will show for everyone to see the progress the State is making toward meeting economic development goals that measure how well we have done in growing higher paying jobs across sectors, increasing the number of new business start-ups, accessing private and federal sources of investment capital, taking patents to market, increasing small business employment, attracting R&D intensity, and our
performance on a number of other critical measures. The scorecard will also show Connecticut's progress compared to other states and key competitor regions across the globe.
By systematically measuring our progress, we will know the challenges we face and be able to learn from our successes. This alone will make decision-making infinitely better than it is today under the current administration. And, to reiterate, these are the standards by which a Governor should be judged and held accountable.
Looking at it another way…if you can't and/or won't acknowledge the problem, how can you fix it?
Yes - it's another rhetorical question.
Host Annual Statewide and Regional Summits on Economic Progress Every October, I will convene an economic summit with business, education, and governmental leaders to ensure that we continually review and retool our strategies to address the scorecard results. In addition to the annual statewide summit, I will work with the local leaders who participate in my LEADERS program to organize economic summits specific to our regional economies. My series of summits will improve the direction of Venture Connecticut and help us steer our economic ship in the right direction.
http://images1.istandfor.com/images/FE/chain165siteType8/site121/client/EveryJobMatters.pdf
