Public Statements
Energy: Dan Malloy's Energy Plan
By: Dan Malloy
Location: Unknown


Energy: Dan Malloy's Energy Plan

Failure to deal with our energy crisis costs us jobs and damages our environment.
When I am elected Governor, I will confront the energy issue head on. As I successfully did in Stamford, I will focus on Clean and Lean energy to make Connecticut a better and more affordable place to raise a family and grow jobs.
Under Governor Rell, we have had no leadership on energy policy, just rhetoric and inaction - inaction that each year costs ratepayers $200 million in federal congestion penalties and hundreds of millions more in inefficient use of increasingly costly electricity.
As Governor, I will institute real conservation efforts, work to expand the use of cleaner and more efficient energy sources, and commit to achieving the "20% by 2020" goal of ensuring that at least 20% of the energy Connecticut consumes be generated from renewable sources by the year 2020.
As Mayor of Stamford, I instituted an energy conservation plan that has both helped the environment and passed cost savings on to taxpayers. In 2005, Stamford earned one of six "Clean Air-Cool Planet Climate Champion Awards" for our innovative energy efficient emissions reduction plan and saved more than $1.1 million in energy costs since instituting an action plan to reduce global warming emissions by 20% in publicly-operated facilities. We can do that in every city in Connecticut with the right leadership.
As Governor, I will tap into expertise in our State Agencies to refocus our energy experts on the goal of reducing costs for residential and business customers. We have energy expertise at the Governor's Office of Policy and Management and the Department of Utility Control, but leadership, as the record clearly, indicates has not been particularly adept at using our expertise to keep energy prices down.
As Governor, I will replace the energy policy leadership and ensure coordination of our energy expertise, without creating costly new State Agencies whose mission could conflict with those already in existence - we don't need to reshuffle the deck chairs as the Governor proposed to do. We need action and results - we need leadership.
My administration will address the energy crisis head on. As Governor, I will:
1. Address high cost of electricity - As Governor, I will immediately work to bring Connecticut's electricity energy prices to within the national average. Connecticut's average retail price of electricity ranks us 5th highest in the 50 states plus Washington, D.C. The national average is 8.41 cents per kilowatt-hour and Connecticut is paying 14.03 cents per kilowatt-hour. This is unacceptable.
If Connecticut is to be first again in competitiveness, we must confront and solve the energy crisis that is contributing to the loss of jobs to other states. Franklin Mushroom farm is just one example of a company that could not keep pace with our State's energy costs. Their move made sense. The kilowatt-hour rate companies pay in Connecticut is 14.03 compared to Pennsylvania, where Franklin Farms will likely pay only 8.37 cents per kilowatt-hour. Recently, some Pfizer operations left Connecticut for Michigan where the kilowatt-hour rate is only 7.96 cents. The submarine industry compares rates to Virginia and Georgia, where rates of 6.68 cents and 7.46 cents respectively are significantly less than Connecticut. Perhaps most striking is what has happened to the insurance industry, once one of our signature industries has moved to the Midwest. Des Moines, Iowa is now the industry center. Insurance companies are now also based in South Dakota. It's not surprising that the rate in Iowa is 6.58 cents and the rate in South Dakota is 6.4 cents. We don't want any of the small businesses that fuel our economy to be the next to jump ship. We can start reversing this trend by fostering more in-state energy production and improving the supply side of the equation.
2. Institute a State Clean Energy Conservation Plan - We can also help to reduce costs by addressing the demand side of the energy equation as well. My administration will develop and adhere to a comprehensive State clean energy conservation plan and, where appropriate, tie State funding to compliance with the plan. This plan will evaluate the feasibility, costs, and benefits of pursuing specific conservation measures and propose common-sense reforms like requiring utility companies to provide both residential and commercial customers with comparative data on energy use on a square foot basis so that customers can compare their usage to similar ratepayers.
As Mayor, I instituted Stamford's energy conservation plan, which has helped the environment and passed cost savings on to taxpayers. Stamford's energy conservation strategies have included the first solar-based energy system installed by a municipality under the Connecticut Clean Energy Fund, recycling initiatives that not only provide for a cleaner city, but also increase revenue to the City by $2 million a year, and upgrades to our sewage treatment plant that go a long way toward improving the waters of Long Island Sound - projects that were completed on time and under budget.
I want to take and expand my successful conservation strategies statewide. Last year Stamford earned one of six "Clean Air - Cool Planet Climate Champion Awards" for our innovative energy-efficient emissions reduction plan and we saved more than $1.1 million in energy costs since instituting an action plan to reduce global warming emissions by 20% in our publicly-operated facilities.
3. Commit to On-site Generation and Renewable Energy Sources - As Governor, I will provide funding for innovative energy solutions that help Connecticut get its energy from cleaner sources and sources independent from the grid. Stamford's already been a leader here - it has the first solar-based energy system installed by a municipality under the Connecticut Clean Energy Fund and, under my leadership, Stamford is working to add two more systems.
As Governor, I will create tax incentives to install clean on-site energy generation systems in denser areas where consumption is higher. As noted below, these incentives will particularly target fuel cell and other alternative fuel technologies that can generate new high-paid jobs for Connecticut residents. Areas like the planned Utopia Studios attraction in Preston, the Blue Back Square housing and retail development under construction in West Hartford, and State governmental facilities like those concentrated around the Capitol in Hartford could be converted to alternative energies to reduce congestion, reduce reliance on the regional grid, and support locally grown industries.
I will also propose legislation requiring that by the year 2020, at least 20% of the energy Connecticut consumes be generated from renewable sources. Committing to achieving a "20% by 20" renewable energy goal will go a long way to reducing costs while also improving our environment and Connecticut's quality of life.
4. Partner with the Connecticut Fuel Cell Industry - Fuel cells provide a promising clean energy source. We need to invest in the fuel cell industry and offer our State a chance to be a global leader in this industry. Do it here, and the world will continue to be our customer.
It starts with investing in these technologies and using our state clean energy fund for clean energy - and not diverting those resources to other purposes as happens now.
To encourage the growth of this industry and achieve environmental benefits, we should help our state market this home grown industry by converting large state office buildings and facilities to fuel cell technology. We should also examine hospitals and help them develop a more modern system. We should begin to convert our own high-use facilities to cleaner technology - while at the same time showcasing our industry to the world.
5. Increase Competition - Negotiate and contract with sources of clean, alternative energy systems to both increase generation and reduce congestion charges by supplying energy to local and state governments, key geographic areas, and industries critical to job growth and where the greatest improvements in energy efficiency can be made. By competing in the market as a supplier, the State can leverage its purchasing power to help drive prices down.
6. Provide Energy Generation, Conservation, and Relief Funding - The FY06 unallocated surplus is estimated to be about $200 million. As Governor, my first budget would commit unallocated surplus to providing energy cost relief. It will also earmark higher than budgeted petroleum gross receipts tax revenues to addressing our energy crisis. Specifically, I will:
a. Provide immediate ratepayer relief by instituting strategies like extending Operation Fuel to summer electricity bills - heat waves can be as deadly to elderly and vulnerable populations and we should do more to ensure everyone in Connecticut can get the power they need to get relief from unbearable heat.
b. Provide funding for energy conservation projects identified in the State's energy conservation plan that will be developed during my administration.
c. Put aside about $30 million for residential fuel efficiency projects, including incentives for alternative energy projects like solar and wind to supplement Clean Energy Fund projects and an additional $30 million for low-interest loans to businesses for improving their fuel efficiency and incentives for developers to adopt environmentally-friendly green building standards that will help communities be more clean and more efficient.
d. Provide $80 million in grants and revolving loans for the installation of on-site, distributive generation systems in targeted areas such as where State or municipal office buildings are concentrated or for new housing developments.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cndIssues&htmlId=6606
