Public Statements
Taxes: Dan Malloy's Tax Plan: Phase I
By: Dan Malloy
Location: Unknown


Taxes: Dan Malloy's Tax Plan: Phase I
Connecticut needs a more equitable, progressive system of taxation that fairly funds education, generates job growth, and encourages business development by reducing burdensome and disparate property taxes across the State.
As Governor, I will initiate long overdue comprehensive tax reform for our State. Establishing comprehensive tax reform is a multi-year endeavor that I will begin pursuing immediately upon taking office. In my first budget, I will introduce a number of changes to our existing tax policy that will ease the reliance on property taxes by:
1) Vastly improving State funding for education;
2) Providing real tax relief for elderly residents;
3) Instituting a more progressive tax structure.
Phase I of my plan provides $735 million of property tax relief, and with it, the capacity for comprehensive reform.
In Phase II, my administration will begin the multi-year process of enacting structural tax reform that will make Connecticut a better and more affordable place to live, work, and raise a family.
Our outdated property tax system increasingly forces communities across the State to make development decisions that run counter to the character of their communities and contrary to the long term interests of their residents. It chases businesses from our doors and our shores. It pushes seniors from their homes and communities in which they've lived all their lives. It makes the possibility of the American Dream a homeownership nightmare. And, it provides the best educational opportunities to the few at the expense of everyone else.
The main reason? The costs of providing a quality education have simply outgrown our antiquated property tax system, which was developed when land intensive farming was Connecticut's primary economic engine. Reform starts with fixing education funding to relieve property taxes and finally meet our State's constitutional obligation to provide equitable educational opportunity. Reform can only be completed with the commitment of a Governor to end our over reliance on local property taxation.
As Governor, I am committed to this goal for our State. Here's how we will accomplish it:
Phase I - Phase I of my plan provides $735 million of property tax relief, and with it, the capacity for comprehensive reform that will begin with Phase II.
1) Funding Education - My tax reform plan recognizes that the largest driver of local tax increases is the rising costs associated with guaranteeing that our children have the best educational opportunities available.
To provide relief to taxpayers and enact Phase I of my plan for structural tax reform, my first budget as Governor will dedicate $545 million in new education aid to towns and cities. I will do this by dedicating and setting aside State casino, lottery, and other gaming revenues - revenues that are currently deposited in the General Fund - solely for providing more State educational aid to municipalities. To replace these revenues in the General Fund, I will also include progressive changes to the income tax and the elimination of special interest tax breaks. Phase 1 of my plan provides property tax relief and capacity for structural reform by making the State's share of educational costs fairer.
First, we must remove the cap on ECS increases that has unfairly limited the amount of State funding that municipalities deserve and is due to them according to the formula. The cost of ending this cap is $52 million.
Second, my budget will increase the State per pupil education grant, otherwise referred to as the ECS formula's "foundation level," by about 25% - taking it from $5,891 to $7,350. I will also tie this per pupil amount to the Consumer Price Index to ensure it will be adjusted for inflation and that it would continue to help all communities receive more aid that they rightly deserve. This change alone will put $400 million more into municipal coffers.
Third, we must address increasing special education costs that unpredictably burden local budgets. I will lower the threshold at which the State picks up the tab for costly special education students. Currently, the State reimburses towns for their special education costs 4.5 times the districts' per pupil expenditures. My plan provides $93 million to reduce this threshold to 2 times local per pupil costs.

2) Senior Property Tax Relief - My plan also adds a $500 refundable income tax credit to the existing $500 property tax credit to help provide relief to more elderly residents from rising housing costs. This credit will be available to seniors earning less than $74,000 - regardless of whether they own or rent - and to lower- income veterans and individuals with disabilities. This additional tax relief of $190 million targets those most burdened by property tax increases and will help many residents remain in the communities that they have long called their home.
3) A More Progressive Tax System - To pay for Phase I of my reform plan, I will fight to enact a more progressive tax structure and repeal tax breaks for special interests. These two provisions will increase revenues to the State by at least $735 million and help create capacity for more comprehensive reform in Phase II.
In my first budget proposal, I will immediately call for an income tax increase of 1% (from 5% to 6%) for joint filers making over $1,000,000, heads of households making over $792,000, and singles making over $531,500. This progressive change will increase revenues by about $200 million.
My Administration will also prioritize the more than $620 million in tax breaks given to special interests and end those that do not bring a commensurate benefit to the State. I believe there is at least $535 million in unnecessary tax breaks, the proceeds of which would be redirected to make Connecticut a better place to live and more affordable place to do business.
Together, these sources of revenue will replace the General Fund gaming revenue my budget will set aside in a special account specifically for supplemental education funding.
Phase II - Property tax relief established in Phase I of my reform plan will provide capacity in the tax system to proceed into Phase II. In Phase II, my administration will conduct a comprehensive evaluation of tax strategies currently used across the nation to reform our system, allowing us to learn from other states' successes, and failures, too. To that end, my administration will review strategies including, but not limited to, the following:
* Joining with a number of other states that allow municipalities to tax different types of property at different rates, particularly low and moderate income housing, housing for the elderly, and housing for individuals with disabilities, as done in Minnesota.
* Allowing buildings to be taxed at a different rate than land as done in Pennsylvania to encourage smart growth, reduce blight, and encourage property improvements.
* Permitting cities and towns to further diversify their revenue sources by levying limited sales and use taxes, as done in Nevada to pay for open space and parks.

* Instituting revenue sharing and permitting a portion of taxes generated in a municipality to remain there - flexible changes that could allow cities and towns to share in the revenue generated from utility, cable, and sales taxes.
* Expanding income tax credits, providing homestead exemptions, or instituting property tax rebates as done in Kansas, Minnesota, New York, South Carolina and Wisconsin.
* And, although Phase I of my plan dedicates gaming revenues for education, we should not discount strategies to shift the funding of education to other revenue sources that enable us to further reduce our reliance on local property taxes.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cndIssues&htmlId=6634
