Public Statements
Dan Malloy
By: Dan Malloy
Location: Unknown


Dan Malloy
Candidate Responses to LWVCT Questions for Candidates for Gubernatorial Candidates - Primary Election 2006
Note that there is a 75-word limit for each question.
Biography
In 1995, Dan Malloy ran for Mayor of Stamford with the slogan, "Our best days are ahead." Since then, Dan has created Connecticut's first universal pre-K program, helped thousands of children access healthcare through his nationally-recognized "Every Child Matters" program, and helped turn his hometown into one of America's safest and most livable cities. His simple recipe: recognize that affordable housing, safe streets, and strong schools form the best foundation for economic prosperity.
Issues Questions
1. What are the two most important issues facing Connecticut today, and how would you address them?
Economic stagnation - thwarts investment in the things that matter most: affordable healthcare, universal pre-K, and sensible transit systems. We need a comprehensive approach to economic development, like my "Every Job Matters" plan.
2. Connecticut has some of the worst air quality in the country, with vehicle emissions as the largest contributor to the problem. Diesel engines are especially polluting, and they are in use on our roads for up to 30 years. What measures and funding mechanisms would you support to reduce diesel emissions from current vehicles and equipment?
Let's look to the future and embrace the production of hydrogen fuel cells and bio-fuel. Connecticut is poised to become a global leader in the development of alternative fuels. But much could and should be done to reduce emissions now. We should pursue initiatives such as limiting lengthy diesel engine idling times, rewarding the use of clean diesel equipment when awarding construction contracts, and retrofitting older vehicles with cleaner burning engines.
3. What is your position on state aid for public elementary and secondary education? Please comment specifically on the current level of aid provided, how it is allocated, and how it is financed.
The Educational Cost Sharing formula must be revised and fully funded. This formula has been so distorted by underfunding, arbitrary caps, and endless political tinkering that it does little to achieve the original goal: to equalize educational opportunity and tax burdens. It is critical that the state bear a larger portion of education expenditures. I am proud to have been an early and active member of the Connecticut Coalition for Justice in Education Funding.
http://www.lwvct.org/06-primary-vg/Malloy.htm
