Public Statements
Issue Position: Public Safety
Issue Position
By: Dan Malloy
Location: Unknown

As Mayor, I made public safety one of Stamford's highest priorities. Under my leadership, Stamford invested $17 million to upgrade the post 9-11 emergency communication system. We were awarded $200,000 in US Department of Education funding for school-based emergency planning and $1.2 million in Homeland Security funds to increase emergency preparedness among Stamford's first responders. Stamford was also cited by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for its excellent flood levy preparedness.
Proven Results
Because of the leadership I provided in Stamford, the city is increasingly prepared for emergencies. With a 63% reduction in crime, Stamford is also a much safer city today than it was I took office in 1995.
In fact, Stamford has become the safest city in Connecticut and improved from 44th to 4th safest in America. During that time, the crime rate declined from 5,645 per 100,000 residents to 1,848 - less than a third of what it once was.
These facts are a direct result of a successful strategy of fighting crime in Stamford. As a former Assistant District Attorney, I fostered collaboration with the police department, community leaders, and other stakeholders to make Stamford a better place to live, work, raise a family, and do business. As Governor, I will do the same for Connecticut.
Setting Priorities
"Job One" for our next Governor is creating jobs and we can't do so without safe and secure communities to attract employers and their workers. As Governor, I will enhance public safety by investing in the following priorities:
1. Putting More Cops on the Streets
Our State and municipal police forces have become increasingly understaffed and the number of State Troopers is currently 55 short of the 1,248 mandated level. We must re-invest in the State's commitment to community policing and ensure that Connecticut meets and exceeds statutorily required State Police staffing levels.
2. Removing Illegal Guns
Too often news reports lead with a story reminding us of threat of gun violence. As I did in Stamford, I will work collaboratively with local leaders and police forces to develop creative solutions for reducing illegal gun activity and the threat it poses. I will also seek to enhance the state's gun trafficking task force and partner with the federal government to trace guns seized in a crime.
3. Focusing on Prevention
As Mayor, I created Stamford's Youth Development Initiative, which helped to prevent crime, reduce gang activity, and address recidivism. The initiative fostered community partnerships with faith-based and other community organizations that have a successful track record of helping young adults make better decisions. My Youth Development Initiative provided enriching opportunities after school and other times when juvenile crime otherwise peaked. And, the Inner City Youth Jobs Pilot and Work and Learn programs I instituted provided positive youth development activities with life-long benefits. I believe this model could be used statewide to strengthen communities across the State and prevent costly youthful incarcerations.
Doing More
From my experience as a prosecutor, I believe that we can do more to intervene in the unfortunate pipeline some young adults follow from school to prison. As Governor, I will consider strategies such as Community Policing Forums and the highly successful Juvenile Review Boards, which are partnerships among local police, schools, and social service specialists to help divert first-time youthful offenders from the criminal justice system.
As Governor, I will be guided by the traditional model of justice - if you commit a crime, you pay the penalty. But, I will also be guided by the principle that those who served their time are entitled to a second chance. For the non-violent offenders who have successfully paid their debt to society, my administration will expand programs that can integrate non-violent offenders back into their communities by providing job experiences, expanded services, and pro-active career training - all at a significant savings to the State.
Vigilance, Collaboration, Understanding
The issue of crime doesn't rise to the top of the list in public opinion polls the way it did a few years ago. But for victims of crime and their families, it's the most important issue there is.
I helped make Stamford a safer place to live by being vigilant, by working with our police force and community leaders, and by understanding that if you don't feel safe in your home, on your street, in your school, in your place of worship, and in your place of work, very little else matters.

Source:
