Public Statements
Property Taxes
By: Dan Malloy
Location: Unknown


Property Taxes
Vision

Connecticut needs a more equitable, progressive system of taxation that fairly funds education, allows communities to make smart land-use decisions, generates job growth, encourages business development, and makes the dream of home ownership a reality for more of our citizens.
Problems

Why is it that increasingly, cities and towns across Connecticut are often forced into development decisions that run contrary to the character of their community, and long-term interests?
Why is it that some school systems, albeit a small handful, have all the resources their children need to get a first-class education, while others are reliant on their teachers to purchase basic school supplies?
Why are our State's seniors being forced out of the homes and communities in which they've lived all their lives and our middle-income families prevented from fulfilling the American dream of home ownership?
Why are businesses finding it increasingly difficult to remain competitive and hire qualified employees in a State known for its ingenuity, work ethic and educational excellence and achievement?
It is because our system of property taxation in Connecticut is failing us - it is antiquated, inequitable and burdensome. In fact, next to New Jersey, Connecticut has the most onerous property tax system in the U.S.
The property tax is at the heart of many of our State's problems, from education funding, home ownership, sprawl and urban decay to business development and job growth, just to name a few. According to a U.S. Census Bureau report, property taxes make up about 89% of the budgets of our local towns, as compared to the national average of 45%.
Our over reliance on property taxes is forcing people out of their homes. It is forcing communities to abandon the charm of local Mom-and-Pop shops for the ubiquitous strip mall. It is driving businesses, and employees, out of our State. In fact, according to the 2005 Survey of Connecticut Businesses, over half the respondents said lowering the cost of doing business in the State should be the top priority of State government. Additionally, 39% of respondents said that the state could improve their company's competitiveness by reducing taxes and offering tax credits. At the same time, employers are finding it increasingly challenging to fill jobs that are traditionally held by middle-income wage earners.
It is costing us our communities. It is compromising our schools. It is losing us jobs. It's time to break our dependence on property taxes.
Solutions

As Mayor, I'm proud of my record on property taxes. Under my administration, Stamford's property taxes have been held to an average annual increase of 2.68% over 10 years - below the rate of inflation.
Tax reform will be one of my chief priorities as Governor. I will set a goal for reducing our reliance on the property tax. As Governor, I will support the elimination of the tax on manufacturing property, so long as the State - and not municipalities and homeowners - makes up the difference.
Additionally, I believe we can institute smarter revenue sharing and enable cities and towns to share in the revenue generated from utility, cable, and sales taxes.
I will also work to end inefficient corporate tax loopholes that unfairly, and potentially unconstitutionally, reward some businesses at the expense of others. These loopholes cost the State hundreds of millions of tax dollars that could instead be used to reduce taxes and create a fairer, more predictable system as a whole.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cndIssues&htmlId=4640
