Public Statements
Ethics
By: Dan Malloy
Location: Unknown


Ethics

Vision
Connecticut's State government can be worthy of its people's trust when led by a Governor who does the right thing - sets the highest ethical standards, holds their Administration accountable and responsible to those standards and takes full responsibility when these standards are not met -- rather than simply just talking about it.
Problems
o Connecticut has had more than its share of political corruption, with bribery, taking of illegal campaign contributions and other unethical practices. Even after our previous Governor was imprisoned, we learned of unauthorized payments to State agency "consultants" and questionable sweetheart loans and giveaways to friends of the Administration.
o Most recently, Governor Rell's Administration has come under investigation for possible criminal and civil violations of campaign finance laws, and her campaign has refused calls to publicly disclose donors to a fundraiser that has landed her chief of staff and numerous members of her administration in hot water. This environment undermines confidence in our democracy and offends every law-abiding citizen and every public official who plays by the rules. And we wonder why voter turnout is so low, especially when compared with turnout in other countries.
o For all her talk, Governor Rell's actions do not reflect her rhetoric. Governor Rell has claimed a more open government. Yet, she was unwilling to disclose details to the public regarding $12.4 million of State taxpayers' money that had been given away over the last four years through bad loans to businesses in the State - until I called her on it. Days later she responded to my call and asked the Connecticut Development Authority to finally release the information the public wanted to know. On another front, Governor Rell claims that she meets with no lobbyists, but she continues to allow her name to be used to solicit their contributions. And she claims her policy decisions aren't influenced by lobbyists, but then she vetoes a school nutrition bill that had widespread support from medical and nutritional experts, and politicians of both parties; the chief and in some ways only opposition to the bill in Connecticut was led by a lobbyist known to be personally close to the Governor.
Solutions

As Mayor of Stamford, I run an open city government. I require the highest ethical standards from my employees. We regularly assess our policies and procedures to ensure we're adhering to the most stringent and fair standards and practices when it comes to contracts and procurement. In Stamford, I instituted open contracting standards that require a bidding process, period. In fact, even my political foes - who tried desperately to tarnish my reputation in the media - recognize that there have been no unethical practices under my watch, after I received a complete clean bill of health from the Chief State's Attorneys Office.
As Governor, I will bring the highest, toughest ethical standards to Hartford. I will always be straight with the people of Connecticut, no matter the consequences, and I will certainly not say one thing and do another.
Specifically:
1. Immediately issue an Executive Order requiring all State Commissioners to adhere to a comprehensive Code of Ethics.
2. Introduce a contracting reform package that clearly stipulates the procedures for bidding and awarding of all State contracts and requires a regular assessment of the practices to make changes when and where necessary to protect Connecticut residents and the public trust.
3. Proactively support and ultimately sign a campaign finance law that includes public financing of campaigns that can stand up to a constitutional challenge.
The past decade has been, unfortunately, filled with more corruption in Connecticut than most people can bear to even think about. We have watched elected officials marched off to jail, we've watched them resign in disgrace. It will be awhile, again, unfortunately, before we're able to restore public confidence in our government. But, from the day I take office in January, 2007, I'll work to make sure the people of Connecticut know that, finally, a new, better day has dawned in State government.
Enough is enough.
http://www.danmalloy.com/main.cfm?actionId=globalShowStaticContent&screenKey=cndIssues&htmlId=4537
