Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Davis-Standard Expanding Manufacturing Facility in Pawcatuck
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 22, 2016
Location: Hartford,CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that Davis-Standard, LLC, the leading manufacturer of extrusion machinery in the country, is expanding its primary facility at its headquarters in Pawcatuck, in a plan that includes adding 15,000 square feet of manufacturing space and over 30 jobs in the next two years to its largest global site, which currently employs over 400 people.
The facility will house the manufacturing and precision machining of advanced multi-layer blown film dies. It also enables Davis-Standard to move all blown film manufacturing for its Gloucester Engineering product line from Gloucester, Massachusetts, to Pawcatuck. The addition is slated for completion later this fall.
"Davis-Standard has long been one of southeast Connecticut's largest employers and we are excited to see the growth of their global headquarters here in our state and the creation of new manufacturing jobs that come with it," Governor Malloy said. "Manufacturing is central to our success and a driving force of Connecticut's economy, and our state is committed to supporting this important sector and the growth of its workforce. We are excited to have Davis-Standard as a proud Connecticut-based international business."
"As the largest extrusion machinery manufacturer in North America, this expansion is a necessity for our business," Jim Murphy, Davis-Standard President and CEO, said. "Last fall we acquired Gloucester Engineering, which greatly strengthened our blown film product line through resources in sales, engineering and service. Bringing Gloucester's manufacturing capabilities to our Connecticut site makes sense for several reasons. One of those reasons is to integrate technology; together we are now the largest manufacturer of seven to 11-layer blown film dies. These dies are used for making highly technical multi-layer films used in packaging and pharmaceutical applications. To that regard, this expansion aligns with our mission of offering customers excellent quality, value and customer service. The larger facility will allow us to do that."
Davis-Standard has operated in Southeast Connecticut since 1848 and is one of the oldest and largest employers in the southeast Connecticut and southwest Rhode Island region. The expansion of the Pawcatuck site reinforces the company's commitment to the local region. Through its long-standing position as a market leader, it is considered the "Center for Excellence" for Connecticut's extrusion technology sector. In addition to the Pawcatuck facility, Davis-Standard has manufacturing facilities and subsidiaries in the U.S., Europe and Asia.
The Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD) is supporting the expansion with a series of grants totaling $1,312,050 that will be provided as the company reaches certain job milestones. The funding requires approval from the State Bond Commission.
"This funding will help Davis-Standard expand its operations and bring new jobs to our state, and is the latest example of how DECD's assistance programs are strengthening our manufacturing sector," DECD Commissioner Catherine Smith said.
"It is so satisfying to work with the Governor, DECD Commissioner Catherine Smith, and the Town of Stonington to assist a global leader like Davis-Standard to expand operations in our area," State Representative Diana Urban (D-North Stonington, Stonington) said. "Davis-Standard has a long-standing history of employment and profitability that is both unique and valuable to our local economy - their contribution to our economic web is immense."
"The leadership of Governor Malloy and DECD Commissioner Catherine H. Smith was critical to getting the funding to support this expansion," Stonington First Selectman Rob Simmons stated, "and we are very excited about bringing new high quality manufacturing jobs to this great Connecticut company."
Davis‐Standard systems encompass over ten product lines to support manufacturing applications and customers within every major industry. This includes the agriculture, automotive, construction, healthcare, energy, electronics, food and beverage packaging, and retail industries, among others. The company has manufacturing and technical facilities in the United States, as well as subsidiaries with facilities in China, Germany and the United Kingdom.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2016/06-2016/Gov__Malloy_Announces_Davis-Standard_Expanding_Manufacturing_Facility_in_Pawcatuck/
