Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Plan to Remove Traffic Signals on Route 9 in Middletown, Reconfigure Highway to Improve Traffic Flow
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 21, 2016
Location: Hartford,CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and the Connecticut Department of Transportation (CTDOT) today announced the details of an innovative solution to resolve several long-standing traffic issues along Route 9 in Middletown to help improve traffic flow. The plans include raising the highway, removing the two traffic signals that are now on the road, reconfiguring entrance and exit ramps, and creating a bicycle and pedestrian bridge connecting downtown Middletown and the park along the Connecticut River.
"The traffic signals on Route 9 in Middletown for decades have been a source of major frustration, not to mention significant congestion. We're doing something about it. I want to thank the DOT for its work on this," said Governor Malloy. "Transportation is holding back our economy and our ability to grow jobs. We want a best-in-class transit system for Connecticut, and we are moving forward with projects and plans that will improve lives and draw businesses. These are the kinds of investments to modernize our infrastructure that will advance our economy."
"Our engineers have come up with innovative concepts to address complex issues that have confounded drivers for decades," CTDOT Commissioner James P. Redeker said. "Everyone - drivers, pedestrians, and the business community - wins. We will be refining plans over the coming months and years, and we welcome community involvement and input. But from the reaction so far, people are excited about these proposals."
The traffic signals that are on the highway were installed in the late 1950s
The plans, which are still in the conceptual stage, call for Route 9 southbound to be raised to cross the existing intersections at Hartford Avenue/St. John's Square and Washington Street via two new bridges. There will also be relatively minor changes in access involving the removal of the existing Exit 16 northbound off-ramp onto Hartford Avenue/St. John's Square and the existing Exit 15 southbound off-ramp onto Washington Street. Route 9 Southbound traffic will enter the City of Middletown using Exit 16 (Hartford Avenue/St. John's Square) and/or Exit 14 (deKoven Drive) and northbound traffic will use Exit 15 (Washington Street). Consolidating these exit ramps and raising Route 9 Southbound eliminates all the conflicting movements at the two intersections and allows the signals on Route 9 to be removed. Traffic operations at Washington Street and deKoven Drive will also be improved by installing a roundabout allowing traffic to flow freely without a signal.
Improvements will be included along Main Street to address additional traffic that is expected due to the traffic pattern changes associated with the work on Route 9. Sidewalk "bump-outs" will be installed at all the crosswalks to extend the existing sidewalks out to the edge of the existing angled parking along Main Street. This improvement will shorten the crossing distance for pedestrians, creating a safer crossing while still accommodating all existing movements by all vehicle types, including trucks. The bump-outs also allow the pedestrian signal phase timing to be shortened so additional green time can be allocated to Main Street, thereby improving traffic flow despite the additional traffic volume using Main Street.
Finally, a connection for pedestrians and bicyclists between downtown Middletown and the park along the Connecticut River will be provided by installing a new pedestrian bridge over Route 9 and deKoven Drive. This new bridge will be aligned and connected with the existing Riverview Plaza walkway providing an attractive direct connection between Main Street and the riverfront.
"This will fundamentally alter, for the better, the quality of life and the economy in Middletown for generations to come," Middletown Mayor Daniel T. Drew said. "It will mean that downtown Middletown will be easier to access for the city and the entire region."
"The traffic signals on Route 9 have been an issue in Middlesex County since I first started at the chamber in 1983," Larry McHugh, President of the Middlesex County Chamber of Commerce said. "This is the first plan that I have seen that protects access to downtown Middletown while addressing the massive backups and safety issues that occur on both Route 9 north and south. The chamber looks forward to being a constructive partner throughout the public engagement process, and I applaud the Department of Transportation for its vision and approach to this project."
The engineering design for this project is just being initiated and is expected to be completed in 2020. Construction would begin in 2021 and be completed in 2023. The project is expected to cost about $75 million - with funding based on an 80 percent federal and 20 percent state split.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2016/06-2016/Gov__Malloy_Announces_Plan_to_Remove_Traffic_Signals_on_Route_9_in_Middletown,_Reconfigure_Highway_to_Improve_Traffic_Flow/
