Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces State Begins Zika Awareness Campaign at Bradley International Airport
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 16, 2016
Location: Windsor Locks, CT

With the summer travel season kicking into high gear over the next several weeks, Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman, and other state officials today announced that a Zika education and warning campaign will soon be underway at Bradley International Airport. The campaign, a joint effort between the state Department of Public Health (DPH), Connecticut Airport Authority (CAA), federal Transportation Security Administration (TSA), and JetBlue, will focus on passengers traveling to and from San Juan, Puerto Rico on JetBlue's two daily flights, but will also be seen by other travelers who may be connecting through other airports on their way to areas in the Caribbean, or Central/South America currently affected by Zika virus.
Starting tomorrow, posters in both English and Spanish will be placed on the jet bridges for the flights to San Juan. The posters warn travelers to the American Tropics of the risk for mosquito-borne diseases, including Zika, and advise steps to avoid mosquito bites. Other posters focus on travelers returning from the American Tropics, providing information on symptoms to watch for and advise seeking treatment if symptoms arise. Posters will also be displayed on the JetBlue baggage carousel with advice for returning travelers. DPH has also produced a wallet-sized, fold out pamphlet with Zika information that will be handed out to passengers boarding the JetBlue flights to San Juan. The TSA will begin showing a series of public service announcements (PSAs) on Zika virus featuring Lt. Governor Wyman and DPH Commissioner Dr. Raul Pino on the video monitors in the TSA passenger screening areas. As with all the materials at the airport, the PSAs are in English and Spanish.
"We continue to remain vigilant. That's why our agencies are working so closely together on this critical issue. We want everyone to enjoy their summer travels and have fun vacations, but we also want to make sure travelers remain educated on Zika and do what they can to avoid harm," Governor Malloy said. "It's our obligation to protect residents, and this information outreach campaign is another proactive effort."

Source:
