Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Reminds Residents That Atlantic Hurricane Season Begins June 1
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 1, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and state emergency management officials are reminding Connecticut residents that as the first day of the 2017 Atlantic Hurricane Season begins on June 1, it is always important to have preparations in place should any severe weather potentially impact the region. The Atlantic hurricane season runs from June 1 to November 30, with the principal threat period for Connecticut occurring from mid-August to mid-October.
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Atlantic hurricane season forecast for 2017 is predicting an above average season with 11 to 17 named storms, 5 to 9 hurricanes, and 1 to 4 major hurricanes.
"One single hurricane or tropical storm can have a lasting impact," Governor Malloy said. "We urge all residents to take three simple preparedness steps: get a kit, make a plan, and stay informed. These three steps will help to ready everyone for any weather emergency you may encounter."
"Now is also the time to become acquainted with the weather hazards to which your community may be prone, such as storm surges, areas that flood, and road or bridge closures," Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection Commissioner Dora B. Schriro said. "If a storm is approaching your area, monitor weather reports carefully and follow all of the instructions provided by public safety officials."
The following list offers preparedness tips for residents:
Recommended Items to Include in a Basic Emergency Supply Kit
One gallon of water per person per day for at least three days, for drinking and sanitation
At least a three-day supply of non-perishable food
Battery-powered or hand crank radio and a NOAA Weather Radio with tone alert and extra batteries for both
Flashlight and extra batteries
First aid kit
A whistle to signal for help
Garbage bags and plastic ties for personal sanitation
Wrench or pliers to turn off utilities
A manual can opener for food (if kit contains canned food)
Local maps
Cell phone with chargers, inverter or solar charger
Food and litter requirements for any pets
Medicine or any special need items, including diapers for infants
Family Emergency Plan
Identify an out-of- town contact. It may be easier to make a long-distance phone call than to call across town, so an out-of-town contact may be in a better position to communicate among separated family members.
Be sure every member of your family knows the phone number and has a cell phone, coins, or a prepaid phone card to call the emergency contact. If you have a cell phone, program that person(s) as "ICE" (In Case of Emergency) in your phone. If you are in an accident, emergency personnel will often check your ICE listings in order to get a hold of someone you know. Make sure to tell your family and friends that you've listed them as emergency contacts.
Teach family members how to use text messaging. Text messages can often get around network disruptions when a phone call might not be able to get through, and it uses less battery life. Plan ahead and pre-set a family group text conversation in your phones.
Subscribe to alert services. Go to www.ct.gov/ctalert to register for emergency alerts.
Protecting Your Possessions
It is important to review your insurance policies yearly and especially prior to the start of hurricane season.
Review your policy with an agent, or contact the Connecticut Insurance Department to understand what is covered and what your coverage limits are to ensure you are receiving adequate protection.
Keep your policies and insurance contact information in a safe place.
Make an inventory of your possessions should your property be damaged and you have to make a claim.
Connecticut residents are also encouraged to download the state's emergency preparedness app for smart phone and tablet devices. The app is available free of charge and can be downloaded in the Apple iTunes store and the Google Play store by searching "CT Prepares."

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2017/06-2017/Gov-Malloy-Reminds-Residents-That-Atlantic-Hurricane-Season-Begins-June-1
