Public Statements
Gov. Malloy & Lt. Gov. Wyman Statements on President Trump's Decision to Withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement
Statement
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: June 1, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman today released the following statements regarding President Trump's decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement:
Governor Malloy said, "Withdrawing the United States from the Paris Agreement is a grave mistake -- and it is our future generations who will pay the price. Our nation has a proud history of leading by example and we do not cower from the hard work of making the world a safer place. History will judge this presidential administration harshly for its collective failure to address one of the most pressing global issues of our lifetime. For our part, in Connecticut we will continue building on our efforts to address climate change with common sense, practical initiatives that will help to build and grow our economy. Unfortunately, we lack a strong partner at the federal level as we go about this incredibly important work."
Last month, Governor Malloy and eleven other U.S. governors wrote a letter to President Trump urging him not to pull out of the agreement.
Lt. Governor Wyman said, "The Paris Climate Accord is a covenant, a promise to our children and those who come after, a treaty signed by nearly every other nation in the world, and a bond that connects us to fellow human beings wherever they are on the globe. The United States has done the unthinkable and broken that promise. In doing so, we compromise human health and the health of the planet. The agricultural, economic, and human repercussions will be felt in the years to come. The disgrace to the Trump Administration is immediate."

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2017/06-2017/Gov-Malloy-and-Lt-Gov-Wyman-Statements-on-Trumps-Decision-to-Withdraw-from-the-Paris-Agreement
