Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Forms Working Group to Improve the Processing of Evidence in Sexual Assault Cases
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 15, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he has formed a working group aimed at examining and limiting barriers for submitting sexual assault evidence to the Connecticut Forensic Science Laboratory. With the goal of helping local and state law enforcement work hand-in-hand, the working group will make recommendations to standardize and facilitate the transfer, tracking, and testing of evidence kits as well as address issues around victim notification.
"This is about doing the right thing. This working group will help provide recommendations on how the state can best and most efficiently handle these sensitive cases," said Governor Malloy. "Last year, we passed legislation that established clear timelines in handling sexual assault evidence, and we've made significant progress to test kits that went untested for years. Convening this working group will improve how we handle these kits going forward, and how all levels of government can work together to respond to victims."
"I applaud the members of the working group for lending their expertise and time to this important issue," said Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman. "It will strengthen partnerships among those who work in law enforcement, directly with victims, and in the court system, and it will identify where we can improve our processes. Testing these kits is critical to getting perpetrators off the streets."
The state has made substantial progress testing sexual assault kits that had previously gone untested for years. In 2013, there were over 2,000 sexual assault kits in various states of analysis, while in 2015, there were approximately just 50 such kits being tested and reviewed.
In 2015, the Commission on the Standardization of the Collection of Evidence in Sexual Assault Investigations determined that there were 879 unprocessed kits at local law enforcement departments across the state. To date, 659 of those kits have been sent to the Connecticut Forensic Science Laboratory for testing, with the remainder queued up to be transported.
"This a simple matter of justice that deserves our state's attention. We owe it to sexual assault survivors whose kits have languished to test each and every one," said Laura Cordes, the Executive Director of the Connecticut Alliance to End Sexual Violence, who has also been appointed to serve as chair of the working group. "The Governor's working group will be key to moving these cases forward and to improving the utilization of vital evidence in sexual assault investigations."
Last year, Governor Malloy signed into law Public Act 15-207, which requires sexual assault evidence kits to be sent to the state crime lab within ten days of collection and processed within 60 days. Kits are now held for five years for victims who do not want to immediately make a report to the police and initially submit anonymous evidence kits.
Connecticut is one of only a handful of states that have completed a statewide inventory of the number of sexual assault evidence kits in police custody and established timelines for processing evidence from sex crimes.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2016/03-2016/Gov__Malloy_Forms_Working_Group_to_Improve_the_Processing_of_Evidence_in_Sexual_Assault_Cases/
