Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Connecticut Receives Federal Certification of Effectively Eliminating Veteran Homelessness
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 18, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the federal government has certified Connecticut as having effectively ended homelessness among veterans. Just the second state in the nation to accomplish the milestone, Connecticut has implemented a comprehensive, unprecedented system to target homelessness among veterans.
Ending homelessness among veterans has been a major goal of Governor Malloy, who in 2014 signed up Connecticut as one of the first states to join a national initiative that sought to secure commitments from communities across the country to end veteran homelessness by the end of 2015. This federal certification comes after Governor Malloy and U.S. Veterans Affairs Secretary MacDonald announced last fall that Connecticut had become the first state in the country to end chronic homelessness among veterans.
"This milestone is a major one - we have been a national leader on so many issues and today is yet another reflection. We have a responsibility to take care of our veterans, to ensure that veterans have access to housing, quality health care, education, and career opportunities. We're proud to have achieved this ambitious goal," Governor Malloy said. "Just a few years ago, there was no Department of Housing in Connecticut. Today, we're being recognized for reaching the high goals that we've set. We've built the infrastructure, through a network of partnerships and investments, to the point at which our housing and supports delivers a home to every veteran in our state. I am incredibly proud of our federal and state agencies, our nonprofits, and our community providers on the frontlines. But we will not stop here - we will keep working to end chronic homelessness in Connecticut by the end of this year."
In a letter to the Governor, First Lady Michelle Obama, who has spearheaded the Mayors Challenge to End Veteran Homelessness, congratulated the State of Connecticut on the accomplishment.
"As we discussed at the President's State of the Union Address, I want to thank you and the people of Connecticut for your determined efforts on behalf of our military families," the First Lady wrote. "I am so proud of your state's commitment and resolve to reach this milestone, and I am grateful for all you have done for America's heroes."
The designation comes after an extensive review by the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness (USICH), in coordination with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the U.S. Department of Veteran's Affairs (VA).
Last August, Connecticut made history when it became the first state in the nation certified by the group as having eliminated chronic homelessness among veterans. Chronic homelessness is defined as an individual with a disability who has been homeless for a period of at least one year or has had three or more episodes of homelessness that total one year. Today's announcement means the state has effectively eliminated homelessness among all veterans.
Through a partnership of local, state, and federal organizations, Connecticut has created a system that works to prevent homelessness among veterans and ensures that when there is a new episode of homelessness, it is brief and non-recurring.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2016/02-2016/Gov__Malloy_Announces_Connecticut_Receives_Federal_Certification_of_Effectively_Eliminating_Veteran_Homelessness/
