Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Signs Onto 17-State Accord for a New Energy Future
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 16, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today joined with a bipartisan group of 17 governors to announce the Governors' Accord for a New Energy Future - a joint commitment to take action to promote clean energy, clean transportation choices and a modern electrical grid.
The accord provides participating governors - a bipartisan coalition together representing 127 million Americans - with a platform through which their states will collaborate, learn from one another, and leverage partnerships in energy planning and policymaking.
"Advancing clean energy is about advancing our future," Governor Malloy said. "In Connecticut, we have coupled a forward-thinking vision with first-in-the-nation initiatives that dramatically reduce carbon emissions. We believe that economic growth and environmental protection aren't mutually exclusive, but can happen in concert - we can indeed create good paying jobs, lower electricity bills for residents, and embrace greener, cleaner forms of energy. These are critical issues for our nation, and the world we leave for future generations tomorrow hinges on our actions today. I am glad to join my fellow governors in supporting this agreement."
Democratic and Republican signatories to the accord commit that their states will continue to diversify energy generation and expand clean energy sources, modernize energy infrastructure, and encourage clean transportation options. The seventeen participating governors represent states that vary considerably in their energy mix and policy portfolios. However, these governors have committed to working together to make transformational policy changes to secure a stronger energy future for their states and the nation.
"American prosperity has always depended on embracing new ideas and technologies," the Governors' Accord for a New Energy Future states. "Embracing new energy solutions allows us to expand our economy while protecting the health of our communities and natural resources. These improvements will help secure a safe and prosperous future for our country. We recognize that now is the time to embrace a bold vision of the nation's energy future, and to do so, states are once again poised to lead."






Source:
