Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Connecticut's Preparation and Response Plan for the Zika Virus
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 11, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Following a meeting at Connecticut's Emergency Operations Center and joined by agency commissioners, Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced details about the state's cross-functional, cross-department coordination to respond to the Zika virus. To ensure the safety of Connecticut residents, the Governor and state agencies are proactively planning now for any contingencies that may arise.
"The more planning and preparation we do now, the more successful we'll be in our response, if needed, later. We've developed a road map for a coordinated response by state agencies to any potential threat posed by Zika," Governor Malloy said. "We're working cross-functionally, across agencies, to ensure that we are being proactive and to ensure that we are as prepared as we possibly can be. It's our obligation to protect residents, and we will be ready with a coordinated response if it's required."
The Zika virus is spread to people predominantly through mosquito bites, and travelers to affected regions are at risk of contracting the virus primarily from infected Aedes aegypti mosquitoes, which are found in tropical climates. While illness is usually mild and severe cases requiring hospitalization are uncommon, there is a possible link between Zika virus infection in pregnant women and subsequent birth defects. For this reason, pregnant women in particular are advised to postpone travel to areas affected by Zika virus.
The Department of Public Health, which will take the lead on our response, will be able to test for the virus, here in Connecticut, by the end of February. As such, DPH will not have to send samples out of state, which will speed response time. As testing becomes available at public health, hospital and commercial laboratories and more is learned about transmission and the spectrum of illnesses caused by Zika viruses testing protocols will be modified. As of Feb 15th, Commissioner of DPH is making Zika a reportable disease in the State of Connecticut.
The Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station will be monitoring our mosquito population across the state, with a network of 91 fixed mosquito-trapping stations located in 72 municipalities. Traps will be attended by staff every 10 days at each site, while weekly test results regarding the mosquito population will be reported to the Department of Public Health.
To date, no cases of Zika virus associated disease have been identified among Connecticut residents and the state does not have the mosquitos that carry the virus. Health officials said that no locally mosquito-transmitted Zika cases have been reported in the continental United States, but cases have been reported in returning travelers. However, with the recent outbreaks in the Americas, the number of Zika cases among travelers visiting or returning to the United States will likely increase. These imported cases may result in local spread of the virus in some areas of the United States.
The most common symptoms of Zika virus disease are fever, rash, joint pain, and conjunctivitis. However, one in five cases will show no symptoms. The illness is usually mild with symptoms lasting from several days to a week. Infection is thought to provide lifelong immunity.
Connecticut's Zika response plan focuses on surveillance, prevention and mosquito management activities. Additional key points include:
Public education on how to prevent becoming infected with Zika virus
Clinician outreach regarding what is known about the health consequences of infection
Laboratory testing of pregnant women who have travelled to areas where Zika virus is circulating is currently available by the Federal Centers for Disease Prevention and Control and will become available at the State Public Health Laboratory
Surveillance for Zika virus associated illnesses in humans including birth defects
Mosquito surveillance for the presence of Aedes albopictus, a species related to Aedes aegypti which is not present in Connecticut
Mosquito management focused on source reduction especially in communities where Aedes albopictus has been identified during prior mosquito seasons
"In the months ahead, the Department of Public Health will work with the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection, the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station and the Mosquito Management program in a coordinated response to the Zika virus," DPH Acting Commissioner Dr. Raul Pino said. "We also will partner with local health and health care professionals to assist us in this effort."
"DEEP will continue to work closely with DPH and CAES to make certain all necessary and effective steps are taken to safeguard the health and wellbeing of Connecticut's residents," DEEP Commissioner Robert Klee said. "We will also be reaching out to municipal officials to communicate the importance of eliminating potential breeding grounds for any mosquitoes. These breeding grounds can be created by the buildup of even small amounts of standing water in discarded tires and anything else that can serve as a container in backyards, vacant lots, and public places. Unfortunately, rising temperatures and other changes in our weather we will see as a result of climate change increases the likelihood of topical mosquito-borne diseases gaining a foothold in Connecticut, so it is critical for us to continue building on effective strategies we have put in place to control these insects and to increase public awareness of this challenge."
DPH reminds pregnant women in any trimester to consider postponing travel to the areas where Zika virus transmission is ongoing. Pregnant women and women trying to become pregnant who do travel to one of these areas should talk to their doctor or other healthcare provider first and strictly follow steps to avoid mosquito bites during the trip.
Travelers can protect themselves from this and other mosquito borne disease by taking simple steps to prevent bites. When traveling to countries where Zika virus (see map) or other viruses spread by mosquitoes have been reported, use insect repellent, wear long sleeves and pants, and stay in places with air conditioning or that use window and door screens.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2016/02-2016/Gov__Malloy_Announces_Connecticut_s_Preparation_and_Response_Plan_for_the_Zika_Virus/
