Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces State Grants to Assist Fifteen Small Towns with Capital Improvement Projects
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 11, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that fifteen towns throughout Connecticut have been approved to receive funding under the state's Small Town Economic Assistance Program (STEAP), which assists smaller communities with infrastructure and capital improvement projects. The grants announced today are the first of several rounds anticipated to be announced during this year.
"By partnering with our smaller towns, we can support local projects that improve centers of commerce, transportation infrastructure, and town facilities, to make our state stronger and more competitive, all while improving quality of life," Governor Malloy said.
"These investments mean smaller towns can undertake important improvement projects," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "Upgrading housing and roads, revitalizing centers of commerce, and other projects help these towns maintain critical services for residents."
Since 2011, small towns have received $70 million in funds under the program.
The STEAP grants announced today include:
Barkhamsted - $500,000 for reconstruction of Park Road. The funding will allow Barkhamsted to repair a total of 2.6 miles of Park Road including the vital rural connection between Route 181 and Route 20 in West Hartland. The work will leverage a prior DOT investment to repair compounded storm damage, uneven surfaces and potholes. The project will benefit commuters in the local community by creating a safer road with improved access.
Bozrah - $500,000 for the wastewater collection system. The funding will be utilized to provide detailed engineering and design work for sanitary sewer collection system within the current industrial park and the village district in the Town of Bozrah. Project will also run north to the Town of Franklin and ultimately connect to the Norwich Public Utilities system at the southern boundary of Franklin. The availability of wastewater treatment capacity can significantly improve the development potential and employment possibilities in the local community.
Brookfield - $500,000 for streetscape improvements for Brookfield Four Corners. The project will benefit the community by creating a walkable, bike friendly downtown district based on the Brookfield Revitalization Plan. This district has been the focus of an incentive housing overlay zone aimed at stimulating mixed use development to bring back vitality to a vulnerable portion of the town. The residential development will bring nearly 80 new affordable residential units to the project area and, along with the STEAP granted streetscape, support the new 'downtown.'
Colebrook - $465,025 for Prock Hill Road. This project will support the reclaim, reconstruction and repaving of the main thoroughfare to YMCA Hideaway Ranch Camp and Camp Jewell, which also serves as Nature's Classroom. Prock Hill Road sustains heavy bus traffic twelve months per year due to camp traffic and also serves as the largest employer for Colebrook residents. The project will benefit the local community with safer access and egress for children from around the state.
Glastonbury - $320,000 for the construction of a Facilities Maintenance Division Operations Building. The project involves construction of a new 4,000+sf building to meet town needs by creating an Emergency Preparedness Center and Facilities Operations and Maintenance Center. The project scope includes the construction of the building, access drive, parking, lighting, landscaping, signage, energy efficiency, emergency power, life safety code and other related construction work. The project will benefit the community by improving response to emergency conditions and creating proper storage, care, repair and access to vital supplies and equipment.
Greenwich - $246,096 for domestic abuse services at the Greenwich YWCA. The Greenwich YWCA Capital Infrastructure Preservation Project consists of replacing two roof sections, repairing or replacing HVAC and boiler pump equipment, security lighting and renovations to bathroom spaces to make them more conducive to usage by very young children. The purpose of this Capital Infrastructure Preservation Project is to ensure that the Greenwich YWCA can continue to treat the thousands of domestic violence victims who call on their two, 24/7 hotlines and seek counseling, life-saving safety planning, shelter and criminal and court services annually.
Griswold - $370,000 for the Jewett City Main Street Historical Period Lighting Project. The funds are being utilized to complete the construction and installation of the Phase II Jewett City Main Street Historical Period Lighting Project. The historic lighting will compliment prior elements of the revitalization efforts such as curb lines, crosswalks, sidewalks, trash receptacles, planters and benches. This project will benefit the local community by reinforcing the economic vitality of Main Street for the existing property owners and business owners, and encourage existing businesses to reinvest into Main Street properties, and attract new businesses to a reborn, vibrant Main Street.
Madison - $500,000 for the Strong Center at the Surf Club. The Strong Center at the Surf Club project consists of the complete renovation of the existing Town of Madison Strong Field complex. Phases I and II of the project have been completed. The funds granted in this phase will be used for construction of an entry plaza and field house, restroom and concession buildings. The fully renovated facility will provide a venue for both athletic events and cultural events including outdoor concerts and theater.
Marlborough - $500,000 for phase two of the Town Center Water System. The project will aid in economic development of town center by increasing daily water storage by 30,000 gallons to meet potential commercial demand. Increased capacity will reduce the cost to new business by eliminating the need to develop wells and provide safe, reliable clean water to remove the uncertainty of water supply for future economic growth.
Newtown - $500,000 for Fairfield Hills Streetscape. The funds will be utilized for the design and construction of infrastructure and streetscape elements at the main entrance to the Fairfield Hills Campus entrance and down the streets of campus. The town of Newtown is focusing on the revitalization of the property in an effort to increase its economic vitality. The infrastructure and streetscape improvements will support the reuse of this area and will be consistent with the integrated campus design.
Trumbull - $299,000 for infrastructure improvements for the Kennedy Center. The funds will allow the engineering design and construction for refurbishment or replacement of parking lots, sidewalks, curbs and landscape at 39 Lindeman Dr. and 2440 Reservoir Avenue in Trumbull. These properties are located on the Kennedy Center campus which serves over 2,000 individuals with disabilities each year. The project will benefit the local community by supporting a comprehensive program of services offered to people with special needs from birth to senior years.
Montville - $475,000 for the transfer station. The project proposes upgrades to the Montville Transfer Station to support the aggressive recycling program along with collection of solid municipal waste at the current facility. The upgrades will make it possible for the town to fully comply with current standards and make the necessary environmental, safety and accessibility improvements. The additional benefits to the local community will include improved traffic flow better organization and improved access and egress.
New Fairfield - $499,960.75 for pedestrian walkways. The funding will serve to complete the final phase of the streetscape improvements projects by continuing to extend the decorative walks, plantings, street lighting and improved connections to the retail and business centers of downtown New Fairfield. The local community will benefit from this project with increased safe pedestrian access between the Town Hall Center, retail shopping centers, office buildings and green spaces downtown.
Seymour - $200,000 for phase five of the sidewalk replacement project. This funding leverages previous investments to continue the construction and replacement of sidewalks in a more densely populated section of town including many multi-family homes. The project will benefit the local community by creating better pedestrian access to several modes of public transportation and connections to local parks and recreation.
Willington - $500,000 for drainage improvements and resurfacing of Turnpike Road. The project will include resurfacing and drainage work on sections of the 2.71 heavily traveled miles of Turnpike Road in Willington. Due to the age and lack of modern drainage Turnpike Road has deteriorated as a result of the compounding damage of each winter storm. Drainage and resurfacing will bring safer, more reliable access to thousands of residents and commuters seeking to connect to I84 and the FedEx Distribution Center located in the town of Willington.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2016/02-2016/Gov__Malloy_Announces_State_Grants_to_Assist_Fifteen_Small_Towns_with_Capital_Improvement_Projects/
