Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces $8.7 Million for Brownfield Redevelopment in 16 Municipalities
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 10, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that 16 municipalities across Connecticut are being awarded $8.7 million in state grants that will help the communities revitalize and remediate specific properties so they can be put back into productive use and attract new development that will benefit each town and city.
"In a new economic reality, transforming and remediating sites is so important. We're on the cutting edge of taking otherwise unusable property and transforming it into new space for businesses and residents. These strategic investments help towns and cities take abandoned, blighted, and vacant properties, and bring them back to life in order to spur new investments, new development, and new jobs for those in the communities," Governor Malloy said. "Since 2012, we've committed more than $150 million to investigate, clean up, and revitalize hundreds acres of property in communities in every corner of our state. It's an extraordinary amount - and it's all designed to ensure that we are building for the future."
The grants come under the Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development's (DECD) Brownfield Remediation Program. Under today's round of allocations, a total of $7 million will go towards the cleanup and redevelopment of five former industrial sites, while $1.7 million will be put towards the assessment of twelve other sites around the state.
"Cleaning up toxic and blighted properties is integral to creating attractive, livable communities," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "These investments mean healthier cities and towns, but they also attract activity and help build neighborhoods, adding commerce, housing, retail, and greenspace. This funding is an important part of strengthening and expanding our economy, and inspiring smart growth."
"DECD, through its brownfield remediation and redevelopment programs, works closely with cities and towns to help them properly plan for, and take full advantage of, future economic opportunities that brownfields present," DECD Commissioner Catherine Smith said. "This round of funding will provide financial support for 17 projects across our state that encompass 190 acres of redevelopment."
"Investing in the cleanup of Brownfields in Connecticut facilitates the conversion of degraded properties that pose a risk to human health and the environment to opportunities for reuse and redevelopment," Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection Commissioner Robert Klee said. "This investment makes good sense, as brownfields are typically located near existing transportation, water, sewer and other infrastructure and their redevelopment will lessen pressure on open space and other environmentally-sensitive areas."
"Governor Malloy has made Connecticut a national leader in brownfield redevelopment, with unprecedented investment in projects throughout the state. Working with our partners in cities and towns, state funding is acting as a catalyst to attract private investment to these formerly dormant sites, resulting in new jobs and revitalized communities," DECD Deputy Commissioner Tim Sullivan said. "With this new round of funding, we are also excited to be partnering with several communities that have not previously received DECD brownfield funding."

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2016/02-2016/Gov__Malloy_Announces_$8_7_Million_for_Brownfield_Redevelopment_in_16_Municipalities/
