Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Introduces 'An Act Decreasing Wait Times at the DMV'
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 9, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he has introduced legislation aimed at reducing wait times experienced at the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) by enacting several measures into state statute that will streamline services for customers.
"We know that the way government does business in this new economic reality must change, that the customer - our neighbors and residents - must come first. Long wait times experienced by customers at the DMV is simply unacceptable, and that's why we're outlining commonsense proposals to lower them. This enhanced flexibility best serves the customer, allows private contractors to conduct most routine motor vehicle transactions, and most importantly, decreases wait times at the DMV. Connecticut state government needs to be flexible and find ways to improve customer service in a cost-effective manner, and with this series of proposals, we're doing just that," Governor Malloy said. "The DMV is going through a massive shift that should have happened decades ago. Transitions in an agency of this size and importance are always difficult and always see challenges - that's probably why no one took on these massive issues before our administration. It's clearly our hope that Republicans and Democrats can come together and agree to lower the wait times."
The legislation contains three main components.
First, it will allow the state to enter into contracts with private contractors, such as AAA, to provide vehicle registration services. Currently, AAA only provides non-commercial driver's license services.
Second, the legislation will postpone the issuance of vessel titles until December 31, 2018. That step will free up more backroom staff resources to address the immediate issue of reducing wait times in branches, as well as limit additional traffic in the immediate future within DMV branch offices.
Finally, the legislation eliminates the ban on registering vehicles that have delinquent property taxes and parking tickets. Under current law, the DMV is prohibited from renewing a vehicle registration for an applicant and from registering any other motor vehicle, snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle or vessel for the applicant if the department has not received notification from any city, town, borough, or taxing district of outstanding tax payments or delinquent parking tickets. This will address a substantial portion of the wait times by customers, many of which are attributable to multiple visits by those who are denied a registration until local taxes or parking tickets are paid. By removing this prohibition, it is expected that the number of customers having to make duplicative trips to branch offices will be minimized, and as such, contribute to reduced wait times and an enhanced customer experience.
The Governor's legislation is House Bill 5055 - An Act Decreasing Wait Times at the Department of Motor Vehicles. It is currently pending in the Transportation Committee.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2016/02-2016/Gov__Malloy_Introduces__An_Act_Decreasing_Wait_Times_at_the_DMV_/
