Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Renews Calls to Constitutionally Protect Transportation Funds
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 1, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today joined a group of transportation advocates and state and local officials at the site of the train station located in downtown Meriden, where he renewed his calls to adopt a constitutional amendment to protect revenue that goes into the Special Transportation Fund. That amendment would ensure that once funds become a dedicated investment by going into the fund, that they can never be removed.
"Our infrastructure is deteriorating - we all agree. It's time to step up and act, and we can do that with a constitutional lockbox. We've presented a bold vision for the future, but having a promise to taxpayers is critical," Governor Malloy said. "The people of Connecticut need to know that money dedicated for transportation will be used on transportation, and that future legislatures will not be able to use it for other purposes. Our economy depends on making major upgrades to our transportation infrastructure, and our residents deserve nothing less than a best-in-class system that attracts business, spurs growth, and creates jobs."
"Instituting a stable, consistent transportation funding structure is critical to Connecticut's future," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "Modernizing transportation - investment in roads and bridges, expanding mass transit and bike/pedestrian options, and better connecting transit networks - these are all part of a much larger strategy to make Connecticut more competitive. A transportation lockbox helps us meet our broader goals to increase efficiency in commerce and industry, it will save thousands of driver hours, and it makes our state more attractive to businesses and the workforce."
The downtown Meriden train station is located at the midpoint of the Hartford Line - the commuter rail service that is currently under development, which will run along the I-91 corridor connecting New Haven to Hartford and further north into Springfield. Expected to launch service no later than January 2018, it is one of several projects currently under development as part of Governor Malloy's statewide "Let's Go CT" initiative, which is making unprecedented investments to upgrade and modernize the state's entire transportation infrastructure - including highways, bridges, roads, rail, buses, walkways and bikeways - with an eye towards attracting businesses, growing jobs, and providing residents with a best-in-class system.

Source:
