Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces State's Use of Lean Tools Makes Government More Responsive and Efficient
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 26, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that over forty state agencies have become more cost-effective and efficient in the past year thanks to a program he initiated in 2013. The program, LeanCT, has improved service delivery and saved taxpayers money. The changes are detailed in the 2015 report to OPM Secretary Ben Barnes by LeanCT Program Director Alison Fisher.
The report includes many examples of improved performance and collaboration across state government, both by individual agencies and agencies working together. Examples include:
The Department of Developmental Services' Eligibility Unit has greatly improved response time and quality service to people seeking eligibility determination. The unit's weekly call volume was reduced by 74% and the percentage of complete application packets received was increased to 78% through Lean. These efficiencies allow staff to focus more of their time on the people they serve.
The Department of Energy and Environmental Protection reduced, from 60 days to 10 days (83%), the average time to complete waste water discharge inspection reports, providing the opportunity for prompt, effective compliance.
Veterans receiving services from the community re-entry program are being served 74% faster on average, due to a Lean effort involving the Department of Labor and the Department of Social Services.
State employees procure information technology "contractual purchases" 67% faster on average, due to a partnership between the Department of Administrative Services and the Office of Policy and Management.
"Just as businesses and families must adapt to changing times, so should government. State government is about 1,000 positions smaller than when we took office. As that's happening, our workforce is becoming more efficient with important management techniques. And all of this is an effort to change the way government works," Governor Malloy said. "The economy is changing, businesses are adapting, and government must too. The results of LeanCT are encouraging, and we hope this progress continues as we work toward the goal of making our government work better, faster, and smarter."
"Governor Malloy is committed to improving the way state government works for its citizens," Secretary Barnes said. "Lean brings state employees together to find ways to make government more cost-effective and responsive. Having a coordinator who is implementing Lean across state agencies has been crucial. The report shows we're making progress - and we won't stop until Connecticut has the best service-delivery in the nation."
"Lean is a philosophy and a way of doing business. State agency staff use Lean tools to evaluate and improve the services they deliver every day," Fisher said. "Our goal is that it not be a one-time effort, but part of the culture of continuous improvement we are building here in Connecticut."
In March 2013, Governor Malloy directed all state agencies to engage in the Lean process in an effort to help frontline workers and management find savings. Fisher was appointed Connecticut's statewide Lean coordinator and implemented the program. Using the "Lean" process, state agencies conduct in-depth evaluations of their activities to identify steps that can be eliminated, areas that overlap, and processing times that can be reduced.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2016/01-2016/Gov__Malloy_Announces_State_s_Use_of_Lean_Tools_Makes_Government_More_Responsive_and_Efficient/
