Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Correctional Facility in Niantic to Close as Result of Declining Prison Population
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 6, 2016
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that as a result of the continuing decline in the state's prison population, the Connecticut Department of Correction (DOC) will close the Niantic Annex at the York Correctional Institution effective January 9, 2016. The closure will save taxpayers approximately $7.6 million per fiscal year. With crime at a 48-year low - dropping significantly each year - and recidivism down dramatically, the DOC currently has enough empty beds to relocate the offenders who are currently located in the Niantic Annex to other facilities within the state.
"We are doing critical work with Second Chance Society, innovating like never before and being smart - not just tough - in our approach. Crime is down to a nearly 50-year low. Our prison population is dropping. Recidivism has been lowered. And all of that means that we can be strategic with our resources," Governor Malloy said. "We are making real progress in Connecticut to change lives and break that cycle of poverty, crime and prison that has impacted far too many people. Violent criminals are serving longer sentences, while we're tailoring our approach with non-violent offenders. This closing is a reflection of a paradigmatic change in approach from policies that simply didn't work in the past. It's going to save taxpayer dollars - and it's the right thing to do."
Opened in 2011, the Niantic Annex began housing inmates from the J.B. Gates Correctional Institution, which was closed that same year. At its peak, the Niantic Annex temporarily housed as many as 585 inmates. It currently houses 44.
"I am confident that this downward trend in the prison population will continue," DOC Commissioner Scott Semple said. "The agency will continue to work with Governor Malloy, state legislators, and key stakeholders to help support successful reintegration of offenders back into their communities - resulting in not only safer communities, but further savings of taxpayer dollars."

Source:
