Public Statements
Letter to Mitch McConnell, Senate Majority Leader and Paul Ryan, Speaker of the House - Drug Abuse
Letter
By: Maggie Hassan Dan Malloy Peter Shumlin Paul LePage Gina Raimondo Charlie Baker
Date: Dec. 15, 2015
Location: Burlington, VT

Dear Senate Majority Leader McConnell and House Speaker Paul Ryan,
In order to help address the nation's opiate addiction epidemic, we ask that Congress approve legislation to expand the types of qualifying practitioners who can prescribe Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT), such as buprenorphine.
As you are aware, federal law must change to expand the definition of "qualifying practitioner." Specifically, one correction would need to be made, allowing for nurse practitioners and physician assistants to prescribe MAT drugs under the supervision of qualified physicians.
Nurse practitioners can prescribe addictive narcotics for pain, but under the Drug Treatment Act of 2000 are barred from prescribing MAT drugs designed to break addiction to those deadly narcotics and heroin.
Nationally, 53 percent of primary care physicians work with nurse practitioners or physician assistants. By ignoring this important and successful partnership in the treatment of addiction, we significantly limit access to MAT. Building on this strong partnership between physician and non-physician providers is vital in expanding access to effective treatment.
The need has never been greater, as the number of people seeking treatment is continuing to grow.
In Vermont alone, as of August 2015, more than 2,804 people are in treatment in the state's opiate treatment centers, up from 1,704 in January 2014. The waiting list for services is 427 and remains unacceptably high. The number of people seeking treatment continues to overwhelm the capacity of our system, despite the rapid service expansion spurred by the recognition of this crisis. If we had the opportunity to add to our workforce, a significant pressure would be relieved. There are simply not enough physicians to respond to the escalating demand.

Source:
