Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Connecticut Receives Millions in "Second Chance Act' Grants for Crime Reduction Initiatives
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 14, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State of Connecticut has been awarded over $2.3 million in grants from the United States Department of Justice under the federal Second Chance Act that will help bolster one of the state's criminal justice efforts. The grants, awarded to both the Department of Corrections, the City of New Haven, and a variety of non-profit organizations, will support a wide range of efforts to reduce recidivism and help turn offenders into productive members of society.
The federal grants will directly support the Governor's Second Chance Society crime reduction initiative, which he signed into law this summer. They specifically focus on reducing recidivism by improving programing, implementing juvenile justice reforms, supporting strategic planning, and developing new strategies.
"In Connecticut, we are working to break a cycle of crime and poverty that has persistent for too long. Our efforts are about lowering crime, benefitting the economy, and transforming lives and communities. Crime is already at a nearly 50-year low - and we're working to drive it down even further," Governor Malloy said. "The Second Chance Society is not just about being tough on crime, but smart on crime. We're fundamentally changing the way we approach criminal justice in Connecticut, and these grants will no doubt help. I would like to thank Connecticut's Congressional delegation for their work on helping secure these dollars, as well as the Department of Justice and Attorney General Loretta Lynch."
Last month, the FBI released statistics showing that in 2014, Connecticut had the fourth largest drop in violent crime of any state in the nation - a 9.7% decline over the prior year. That is on top of a 10.1% decrease the state experienced in 2013.
The Governor said that a broad coalition of public safety and criminal justice professionals working cohesively, along with nonprofits and community groups focused on prevention and rehabilitation, are helping the state make extraordinary strides at reducing crime in the state.
"This major federal investment is an endorsement of the powerful work Connecticut is doing to develop strategies, programs and policies to drive down recidivism and end the cycle of incarceration," Senator Richard Blumenthal said. "The goals of criminal justice are only truly served when offenders who have served their time are able to successfully transition back into their communities and families in a way that lowers the risk that they will commit another crime. That means providing services to both children and their incarcerated parents, providing meaningful employment and housing assistance, and developing a structure for sentencing and incarceration that promotes rehabilitation over punishment alone. Connecticut's Second Chance Society initiative is leading the nation in building a criminal justice system that recognizes the need to hold law-breakers accountable while also making sure they, their families and communities have access to the services they need to reduce the risk of future criminal behavior."

Source:
