Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces State Grants to Assist Thirteen Small Towns with Capital Improvement Projects
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 6, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Malloy Press Release Masthead
Tuesday, October 06, 2015
Gov. Malloy Announces State Grants to Assist Thirteen Small Towns with Capital Improvement Projects
Total in STEAP Grant Awards Rises to $80 Million Since 2011
(HARTFORD, CT) - Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that, in the third installment of several rounds of grants this year, thirteen towns throughout Connecticut have been approved to receive funding under the state's Small Town Economic Assistance Program (STEAP), which assists with infrastructure improvement projects.
"By partnering with our smaller communities, our state can assist towns with infrastructure projects that will help them grow, remain competitive, attract businesses, and bring added value to residents for years to come," Governor Malloy said. "These STEAP grants allow us to get funding directly to municipalities to complete projects that make Connecticut a better place to work and live."
So far this year, Governor Malloy announced two rounds of STEAP grants - the first in March and the second in April. Over the course of the administration, Governor Malloy has allocated $80 million in STEAP funding for towns across the state.
The grants announced today are:
Chaplin - $200,000 to contribute to the ongoing effort to rehabilitate the Darling Pond Dam. Darling Pond is an integral part of community life within Garrison Recreation Park. Upon completion, the Dam will ensure that various habitats of different species are protected from devastation in the case of damaging floods. Plans for the Dam will also prevent flooding on various hiking trails and Route 198 emergency access for fire and rescue operations.
Clinton - $500,000 to upgrade facilities at the thirty-two year old Ethel Peters Recreation Complex. Upgrades include a new artificial turf field to replace the existing football field, both men's and women's lacrosse and soccer fields. Renovations to the existing concession and lavatory building will bring the structure up to code, and include new team rooms for players and coaches to use during sporting events. These necessary upgrades will provide maintenance relief to local public works and allow for a wider range of events to be held on complex grounds.
East Lyme - $500,000 for the extension of water and sewer mains and construction of public restrooms along the pedestrian way that connects Cini and McCook Point Parks and the Hole-in-the-Wall Beach with downtown Niantic's Main Street. The extension of water and sewer mains will provide resources to operate new public restroom facilities and encourage an estimated 70,000-80,000 users per year. This enhancement will add greatly to the experience of visitors and encourage greater economic vitality in the downtown Niantic area.
Fairfield - $500,000 for updates to the historic Burr Mansion in Fairfield Center. Updates include essential safety, code and ADA access improvements that will ensure every community member can enjoy the various activities and services offered at Burr Mansion. The current structure, rich with history and culture, serves as both an educational and social center and also houses some of the community's most active social service agencies.
Hartland - $450,000 for the complete replacement of the Peck Orchard Road Bridge. The bridge currently provides commuter access to drivers during peak travel time, including a significant amount of those who commute from Massachusetts into Connecticut. The project will provide increased safety for both visitors and residents and is consistent with the Town's plan of Conservation and Development that includes a goal of safe and well-maintained transportation infrastructure.
Monroe - $500,000 to build a headquarters for the volunteer emergency medical service of Monroe. The Monroe EMS, previously housed temporarily within the Fire Department complex, provides an invaluable service to citizens of the town and grown to need a dedicated space. The new headquarters will include adequate garages for emergency vehicles, storage for equipment, training facilities and sleeping quarters.
Montville - $475,000 for improvements to the Montville Transfer Station. The Town has an aggressive recycling policy that encourages environmentally conscious practices throughout the community. The current transfer station requires updates in order to bring the site up to code compliance which will in turn improve the safety and functionality of the site. Improved access and usability will ensure the towns current practices remain mindful and effective.
North Branford - $290,000 for the renovation of five existing tennis courts and two basketball courts at the North Branford Intermediate School and High School campus. The proposed all-weather, multi-purpose courts are an essential part to the success of the High School's Tennis Team and offer increased opportunity for community members to engage and stay active.
North Haven - $500,000 to demolish and replace the existing Vanacore Field House. The Field House serves as a meeting space for various high school sporting events including football, lacrosse and track. The new facilities will include functioning concessions, restrooms and dedicated meeting rooms for both home and visiting sports teams. The visitor bleachers and chain link fence will also be repaired to ensure the safety of spectators.
Orange - $300,000 to reconstruct the main point of access to Fred Wolfe Park. The Park serves as a central public location for various sporting events and already houses several lacrosse and soccer fields. Improvements to the new entrance are a part of a larger, comprehensive revitalization plan for the 67-acre park. By investing in new roadway construction and aesthetic improvements, the community can anticipate more opportunities for beneficial recreational events and community-wide engagement.
Prospect - $125,000 to repair existing sidewalks and install new sidewalks along Center Street and Columbia Avenue. These streets are main access points for Town Hall as well as other municipal facilities. The new sidewalks will extend the full length of the roadway to provide safe traveling spaces for runners, walkers and students of nearby schools. The project will also bring the area up to ADA code and add attractive streetscape elements.
Somers - $165,000 for the repair and repaving of the Somers Police Station Parking lot located on Main Street. The project requires the lowering of the parking lot to alleviate an existing awkward and unsafe entrance to the Police Station. This improvement will also eliminate the need for stairs and more adequately accommodate the needs of handicapped citizens. Correction of the sloped pavement will reduce flooding of the parking lot during heavy rains.
Watertown - $200,000 to replace the roof and preform a door enlargement at the Watertown Volunteer Fire Department Company No. 2 facility. This project will not only prevent continued leakage within the facility, but will accommodate newly manufactured aerial fire trucks. These improvements will ensure the safety and integrity of the existing infrastructure that both the Fire Company and the citizenry rely on for quick emergency response and efficiency.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2015/10-2015/Gov__Malloy_Announces_State_Grants_to_Assist_Thirteen_Small_Towns_with_Capital_Improvement_Projects/
