Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: New Data Shows Connecticut Saw Fourth Largest Violent Crime Drop in the Nation
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 28, 2015
Location: Middletown, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today joined state public safety officials at the headquarters of the Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection (DESPP) in Middletown to announce new 2014 crime numbers, which reflected the fourth largest drop in violent crime nationwide over the year prior. The FBI's annual crime report shows that overall crime in Connecticut continued to drop in 2014, including a 9.7 percent decrease in violent crime.
The nearly double digit violent crime decrease for 2014 builds upon a drop the state experienced in the prior year, which showed that violent crime in 2013 decreased 10.1 percent over the year prior.
"To our police officers, to our public safety officials, thank you. Thank you for all the work you do each and every day in our communities. We are making extraordinary strides in Connecticut, with crime at almost a 50-year low and violent crime dropping dramatically each year. We're being smart on crime - and it's working," Governor Malloy said. "Over the last four years, we have delivered precipitous crime drops in Connecticut. We've implemented sweeping reforms, and we've enacted smart criminal justice policies. But we also must look at this issue through a holistic lens. The extraordinary investments in housing we've made, the initiatives to eliminate homelessness, all the work done by our partners to end addiction and give people a second chance - all of it plays a role in reducing crime. The kind of clear, measurable progress is a credit to the many dedicated police, prosecutors, judicial officials, probation, parole, and corrections officers, crime lab technicians, and the many nonprofits and community groups focused on prevention and rehabilitation. This is great news for communities throughout the state."
"I applaud Governor Malloy's leadership in building safer communities across Connecticut," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "Strong partnerships are key to strong neighborhoods. A smarter, more strategic approach to crime reduction, investments in crime prevention, and better coordination between local, state, and federal resources have made a big difference in safety and quality of life in Connecticut."
Notable statistics in the FBI's annual report for 2014 include:
In states with a population of more than 1.3 million people, Connecticut saw the biggest drop in violent crime of any state in the nation.
Violent crime in Connecticut during 2014 decreased an overall 9.7 percent, which includes a 5.5 percent decrease in murders, a 12.2 percent decrease in rape, an 11 percent decrease in robberies, and an 8.4% decrease in aggravated assaults.
Although violent crimes have largely held steady in Connecticut since 2000, the state has experienced a 15 percent drop over the last two years alone.
Nonviolent property crimes have also decreased in the state during 2014, including a 7.6 percent drop in burglaries, a 2.1 percent drop in larcenies, and a 2.1 percent drop in motor vehicle thefts.
The total number of index crimes reported for Connecticut in 2014 is the lowest total since 1967.
Seventeen states experienced an increase in violent crime over the last year.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2015/09-2015/Gov__Malloy__New_Data_Shows_Connecticut_Saw_Fourth_Largest_Violent_Crime_Drop_in_the_Nation/
