Public Statements
Congressional Delegation & Malloy Announce Federal Grants To Upgrade State's Unemployment Computer System, Continue Fraud Prevention Program
Press Release
By: John Larson Joe Courtney Rosa DeLauro Elizabeth Esty Jim Himes Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 24, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

The members of Connecticut's Congressional delegation and Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the Connecticut Department of Labor (CTDOL) has been awarded over $2.6 million in grants from the U.S. Department of Labor (USDOL) - $2.1 million of which will be used to replace its outdated unemployment insurance computer system, while the remainder will be used to continue a successful fraud prevention partnership program.
"Upgrading our information technology systems to function more efficiently and effectively no doubt boost our efforts to reduce costs, recover improper payments, and ensure payments for those who are in need of these services," Malloy said. "Our state has one of the best track records in the nation when it comes to preventing unemployment insurance fraud, in part due to our successful "Chasing Cheaters' campaign to identify and prosecute individuals who are committing this type of fraud. I thank Secretary Perez and the U.S. Department of Labor for this grant that will help our state modernize these crucial services."
"Unemployment insurance is a critical safety net that helps keep workers and their families financially afloat while they search for new work," the members of Connecticut's Congressional delegation said in a joint statement. "This $2.6 million federal investment will help ensure that unemployment insurance is disbursed quickly, efficiently, and only to those truly eligible to receive this vital assistance. We welcome the United States Department of Labor's investment and applaud the state for their commitment to strengthening this important program."
The grant will gives Connecticut the opportunity to join an existing multi-state partnership with Maine, Rhode Island, and Mississippi to upgrade the current mainframe systems now in use. The states, working as a consortium, will develop a new system that in the future will replace outdated mainframes with new systems that provide more online capabilities.

Source:
