Public Statements
CT Delegation & Malloy: CT Awarded Grant To Advance Economic Development Plans Across The Hartford Rail Line Corridor
Statement
By: John Larson Rosa DeLauro Dan Malloy Richard Blumenthal Joe Courtney Jim Himes Elizabeth Esty Chris Murphy
Date: Sept. 15, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

The members of Connecticut's Congressional delegation and Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State of Connecticut has been awarded $700,000 grant from the Federal Transit Administration to conduct a study of transit-oriented development (TOD) opportunities in the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield rail corridor, also known as the Hartford Line. The federal funding will be matched by $200,000 in state funds.
"Investment in transit is about more than transportation -- it is about growing jobs and strengthening our local economy," the members of Connecticut's Congressional delegation said in a joint statement. "The Hartford Line will unlock new economic development possibilities up and down the corridor, connecting commuters to newly accessible employers, and creating prime, new sites for transit-oriented housing and business development. This grant provides important planning funds to ensure Connecticut is making the most of this powerful opportunity, and we look forward to continuing to support the Hartford Line and the growth that it brings."
"We are working to transform how we travel, to boost efficiency, grow our economy, and build a Connecticut for the future. The economic opportunities across the Hartford Line corridor -- from New Haven, through Hartford, and extending to our northern border -- are exceptional. This grant will help us identify the projects that will give the biggest bang for our buck," Malloy said. "Investments in transit are investments in growing our economy and expanding jobs. The significant interest in new development around our CTfastrak bus stations is what we're hoping to -- and going to -- replicate around the Hartford Line, because the same potential exists to connect people, their employers, and their communities."
Connecticut was selected on a competitive basis through the United States Department of Transportation's Transit-Oriented Development Pilot Planning Program. The Connecticut Department of Transportation (CTDOT) will receive funding to advance TOD at four new stations -- in North Haven, Newington, West Hartford and Enfield -- as well as the two stations that will be relocated in Windsor and Windsor Locks. This grant will guide CTDOT and its partners toward the implementation of a corridor strategy for TOD to increase ridership, enhance affordable housing opportunities, create mixed-use development to activate station areas, and link people to jobs through multimodal transportation connections along the entire corridor.

Source:
