Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Pharmaceutical Company Opening Manufacturing Facility in Windsor That Will Create 361 New Jobs
Press Release
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: May 9, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that SCA Pharmaceuticals, an Arkansas-based company, has decided to establish a presence in Connecticut through the creation of a new 90,000 square-foot manufacturing facility in Windsor, where the company has plans to create approximately 361 new jobs over the next four years.
SCA manufactures injectable pharmaceuticals in ready-to-administer dosages for use at hospitals and healthcare facilities. The company helps healthcare facilities increase efficiencies and reduce costs while improving patient care.
"The commitment from SCA Pharmaceuticals to choose Connecticut for its expansion reinforces how our strategic location and world-class workforce makes our state a great place for businesses that are looking to bring their operations to the east coast," Governor Malloy said. "This is an important sector of our economy, and we are thrilled that this company is adding hundreds of good, high-quality jobs in our state."
Dr. Gene Graves, CEO of SCA, said, "Connecticut represents an ideal location for SCA, driven by its incredible workforce and myriad of transportation options."
SCA is leasing a facility at 755 Rainbow Road in Windsor. The state, through the Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD), will support the project with an $8.5 million loan for leasehold improvements and the purchase of machinery and equipment. The funding will require approval from the state Bond Commission.
"For the past six years, Connecticut has made major investments in manufacturing, bioscience, and workforce development," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "These investments position us to attract new business and development, grow jobs, and further establish Connecticut as a global competitor in bioscience and healthcare. I welcome SCA Pharmaceuticals to the state."
"The decision of SCA Pharmaceuticals to expand its operations into Connecticut is another example of how we are successfully attracting new jobs and capital investment to our state," DECD Commissioner Catherine Smith said. "It also underscores the importance of Bradley International Airport to our economy, as the company chose a location in close proximity so it could get its products to customers quickly and easily."
Charles Gray, Chairman of the Connecticut Airport Authority's Board of Directors, said, "The Connecticut Airport Authority recognizes the value of Bradley International Airport as an economic driver for our state, and we are thrilled that SCA factored the importance of a vibrant airport such as Bradley into their decision to expand here. This is precisely why we've been working so hard to increase flights, destinations, and carriers. We will continue focusing our efforts on utilizing our state's airports as valued resources that help grow jobs and increase business activity in Connecticut."
SCA employs 210 people at its Little Rock, Arkansas facility.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2017/05-2017/Gov-Malloy-Announces-Pharmaceutical-Company-Opening-Manufacturing-Facility-in-Windsor
