Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Encourages Consumers to Support Connecticut Grown Products
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 5, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today visited the North End Farmers' Market in Hartford, where he held an event to promote Connecticut Grown products and encouraged residents to purchase locally-grown, healthy food at their neighborhood farmers' markets.
"Many low-income residents who live in urban areas frequently have difficulty finding quality, nutritious fruits and vegetables in their neighborhoods. It's important to remind residents about all the options available and the growing number of farmers' markets in communities throughout the state - including urban neighborhoods - that now have the ability to accept SNAP food-assistance benefits as payment," Governor Malloy said. "We can get healthy food to everyone, and we can also do it while supporting Connecticut farmers, our local agricultural industry, and Connecticut Grown products."
"Farmers' markets are a great celebration of our rich farming heritage, and an opportunity to meet the generations of farm families who put food on our tables," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "During the summer when children are home from school and food costs rise, it's especially important to expand access to fresh fruits and produce. I applaud continued efforts to make Connecticut Grown produce more widely available for all residents."
Connecticut Department of Agriculture Commissioner Steven K. Reviczky noted that a partnership with the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) helps provide the technology for farmers' markets to accept payment from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). The use of mobile devices along with card readers and other equipment and software helps farmers accept the Electronic Benefit Transfer card from SNAP as payment for their products. In addition, this technology also provides farmers with the ability to accept credit and debit cards as payment.

Source:
