Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State Receives $8.2 Million Grant to Bolster Second Chance Society Efforts
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 31, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Malloy today announced that the Connecticut Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services (DMHAS) has been awarded a $8,240,940 federal grant over five years that will support Connecticut's Second Chance Society initiatives by enhancing ongoing efforts to prevent alcohol and drug abuse.
Earlier this month, the Governor signed into law the "Second Chance Society" initiative, which is designed to continue the progress being made in reducing the state's dropping crime rate, which is at a 48-year low, as well as ensuring nonviolent offenders are successfully reintegrated into society and become productive workers in Connecticut's economy. While "Second Chance" encompasses more resources for ex-offenders, elimination of mandatory minimums for simple possession, and a realignment of Connecticut's corrections strategy, the initiative also includes efforts to reduce and prevent addiction, treating it as disease rather than a crime worthy of lifetime punishment.
"Second Chance is not about one set of issues - it's a recognition that many challenges are intertwined. From crime, to overly-harsh prison sentences, to addiction, to job creation - all must be considered together. That's just what Second Chance does, and this grant will no doubt help with those efforts," Governor Malloy said. "Crime is dropping, recidivism is being reduced significantly, and we're ending a cycle of permanent punishment. Concentrating on efforts to end substance abuse will have a real, positive impact on lives and neighborhoods, allowing law enforcement to channel efforts where they're most needed. We must do what we can to help people overcome addiction, receive treatment, and become productive members of society. That's why Connecticut is thankful to have received this grant."
This is the second time Connecticut has been awarded funding under the federal Partnership for Success grant from the U.S. Department of Health & Human Service's Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
The grant will fund community-level agencies in medium and large-sized urban areas with a high rate of alcohol and other drug use that demonstrate a need to improve their substance abuse prevention strategies. Projects will aim to reduce alcohol and drug abuse by adolescents and young adults, and the grant award will be used to specifically focus on the reduction of disparities in substance use risk and consequences. That means communities that are faced with especially high challenges in terms of resources, infrastructure, population, diversity and severity of substance use-related problems will be examined.
"The work that will be conducted with these grant dollars will build on significant reductions in underage drinking and its negative impacts, including motor vehicle crashes and risky behaviors," DMHAS Commissioner Miriam Delphin-Rittmon said. "Connecticut survey data shows that prevention strategies are working to reduce underage drinking and a continued emphasis on prevention will maintain the downward trend in substance abuse by young people."
To implement the grant, eleven community coalitions will be selected through a competitive process. Community coalition awards will be based on the ability to address youth alcohol use and prescription drug abuse/misuse with a focus on reducing health disparities. Coalitions will receive training and technical assistance from existing state resources to strengthen their prevention services. A State Epidemiological and Outcomes Workgroup (SEOW) will to review and analyze behavioral health data and use the results to guide decision making. Researchers at the University of Connecticut Health Center will be responsible for the grant evaluation.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2015/07-2015/Gov__Malloy__State_Receives_$8_2_Million_Grant_to_Bolster_Second_Chance_Society_Efforts/
