Public Statements
Gov. Malloy and Commissioner Ayala Announce Major Computer System Upgrades Coming to DMV
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 22, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) Commissioner Andres Ayala, Jr., today announced that major customer service improvements, including the addition of new online services, will require DMV to close its offices - except for licensing services - from Tuesday, August 11 through Saturday, August 15, 2015. The department's offices will reopen for all transactions on Tuesday, August 18, 2015.
These improvements come as the DMV undertakes a major upgrade of its complex and outdated computer systems, which will modernize how residents interact and receive services from the agency. With the coming upgrades, Connecticut residents will now be able to complete many functions that previously required an in-person visit over the internet.
"This computer modernization project will significantly change how customers do business with the DMV by making more services available over the internet and ultimately making it more convenient for the residents of our state," Governor Malloy said. "This will be the first upgrade of the Connecticut DMV's computer system in nearly a half century. It will allow customers to conduct more routine business online, easing the burden on DMV offices and staff to provide better, faster service to Connecticut drivers."
To help ease the effects of the shutdown and bringing up a new system, beginning August 11, Governor Malloy and Commissioner Ayala have ordered that the expiration date of all driver's licenses, ID cards or vehicle registrations will be extended through October 10, 2015, and renewals can be done without a late fee until that date.
The agency's shutdown will allow for the integration of databases and the transfer of technology from one system to the next, as well as the testing of various components of the system to ensure they work as designed. This cannot be done while the agency conducts transactions and needs to be done during the business work day.
Commissioner Ayala explained that this major change aims to make the DMV easier for customers, and allow them to avoid coming into the DMV offices in person.
"Customers will soon be able to ask themselves, 'Do I really need to visit a DMV office?' They will be able to get out of line and go online for many more services," Commissioner Ayala said.
He cautioned, however, that in the days preceding and following the shutdown, customers should anticipate longer than usual lines at DMV.
"As we gear up, we expect heavier than usual business. During this period, we kindly ask customers to also use AAA offices, if possible, for license and ID renewals. Once we open back up, we also encourage them to use our new online services. This will help reduce unnecessary waits at a DMV office," Commissioner Ayala added.
Although extensions have been given for the credentials and registrations DMV issues, emissions test due dates have not been extended, and all compliance issues remain unaffected by the extension. All customers who take advantage of the registration extension must maintain insurance coverage on their vehicles.
AAA offices will also be open during the DMV shutdown period for license and ID card renewals.
The DMV is also launching a radio, television and digital advertising campaign called "Gear Up," beginning today, to make customers aware of the shutdown. The advertising will also inform customers of the new online services.
Beginning August 17, DMV on its website (ct.gov/dmv) will offer the following new online services:
* Improving the existing online registration renewal program
* Online checking for items, such as unpaid property taxes, lack of insurance, delinquent parking violations, which can hold up a registration renewal and cause repeat trips to DMV
* Reprinting a registration certificate from a home or other computer
* Canceling a registration online
* Ordering online special plates, such as vanity plates
* Ordering online replacements for damaged plates
* Providing customers with an option for DMV to contact them either by mail or e-mail
As DMV rolls out the new system, which involves converting millions of vehicle and customer records across several DMV databases, the agency advises customers to check the DMV website (ct.gov/dmv) for updates.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2015/07-2015/Gov__Malloy_and_Commissioner_Ayala_Announce_Major_Computer_System_Upgrades_Coming_to_DMV/
