Public Statements
Connecticut's Aerospace and Shipbuilding Industry Receives Federal Designation to Accelerate Resurgence of Manufacturing Oppurtunites
Press Release
By: Jim Himes Elizabeth Esty Rosa DeLauro Dan Malloy Joe Courtney Richard Blumenthal Chris Murphy John Larson
Date: July 8, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

FE Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State of Connecticut has successfully been designated by the Obama Administration under the Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership (IMCP) initiative. With this designation, Connecticut will receive coordinated support from eleven federal agencies with access to more than $1 billion in federal funding dedicated to economic development and the resurgence of manufacturing in the United States. Connecticut is one of 12 applicants to earn the designation.
IMCP is a federal program designed to strengthen manufacturing capabilities nationwide by supporting states with long-term economic development strategies.
"This federal designation recognizes -- and strengthens -- Connecticut's leadership position in advanced manufacturing, specifically in our aerospace and shipbuilding industries," Governor Malloy said. "With this designation and the federal funds supporting economic development programs in manufacturing, the state can accelerate and enhance our initiatives to boost innovation, worker skills, supply chain capabilities, infrastructure investment and job creation."
Connecticut was chosen largely based on the strength of its aerospace and defense shipbuilding industries for more than 100 years. Homegrown companies such as Pratt & Whitney and Electric Boat have helped contribute to the development of these industries, and today there is strong industry collaboration that will be a key to future economic and job growth. Leveraging the strong capabilities of our universities and entities like CCAT, the smaller supply chain companies that reside in the state also are seeing tremendous benefits from locating in the state.

Source:
