Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Major Improvements in Downtown Meriden Will Encourage Economic and Transit-Oriented Development While Improving Quality of Life for Residents
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 8, 2015
Location: Meriden, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today joined state and local officials and private developers to break ground on the construction of a mixed-use residential and retail complex and parking garage on Colony Street in Meriden as part of a larger plan to establish a Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) district in connection with the city's new Intermodal Transit Center.
The construction of the new mixed-use complex and garage is a collaborative effort between the Connecticut Department of Transportation (CTDOT), Meriden Housing Authority (MHA) and the Connecticut-based Westmount Development Group. It is expected to generate $36.67 million in regional economic activity and create 259 new jobs.
"With this investment, we are revitalizing an area of downtown Meriden that will be a catalyst for further growth and private investment and will connect residents to increased transit opportunities, increased economic activity, and increased job opportunities," Governor Malloy said. "The commuter rail line that we are creating from New Haven to Hartford and ultimately to Springfield will connect our cities up and down the I-91 corridor, building transit corridors that will transform Connecticut and our economy - and this location in Meriden will be a key hub of that activity. There is no doubt that transportation and Connecticut's economic future are tied together. By investing in our transportation system, we are investing in our economic future and the future of our towns and cities."
The Colony Street complex will support the affordable housing and redevelopment goals of the City of Meriden while also stimulating economic activity in the area within a half-mile of the new Meriden Intermodal Center, which is being built in preparation for an anticipated expansion in transit passenger service with the completion of the "Hartford Line" - a 62-mile commuter rail corridor between New Haven and Springfield.
MHA and Westmount are overseeing work on the mixed-income apartment and commercial complex, and are partnering with CTDOT for the construction of a 275-space parking garage that will dedicate 225 spaces to commuter parkers. The new 71,000 square foot complex will contain 63 apartments and more than 11,000 gross square feet of commercial/retail space.
The Colony Street joint development project is part of Meriden's larger plans to create a TOD district in the city's downtown area in order to address outdated transportation deficiencies, encourage additional economic development, make the infrastructure more pedestrian friendly, and increase access to employment, education and housing, leading to additional economic development.
Meriden's new Intermodal Center will contribute to the revitalization of the city's downtown area by offering a new station that was designed to accommodate the expanded functions and space requirements associated with the enhanced passenger rail service on the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield rail corridor. The City of Meriden was identified as a key hub for enhanced passenger rail service along the line, which will lead to an increase in ridership and intermodal transportation options, improvements to the state's passenger rail system, the creation of more livable and sustainable communities, and additional economic development in the areas along the new rail corridor.
While Amtrak operates six trains daily that stop in Meriden, the new Hartford Line will provide more frequent, convenient and faster passenger rail service between New Haven, Hartford, and Springfield by increasing the number of round trip trains from six daily Amtrak intercity and regional trains to a total of 17 round trip trains a day to Hartford, and 12 trains per day to Springfield (i.e. every 30 minutes during peak rush hours and every 60 minutes on off‐peak times). As a result of the expanded passenger rail service provided by the new rail service, CTDOT anticipates TOD projects in many towns along the 62-mile rail corridor.
Since 2011, the Malloy administration has allocated over $19 million to Meriden for flood control, housing, and redevelopment efforts - including the Colony Street complex/project - aimed at facilitating TOD around the Meriden Intermodal Center.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2015/07-2015/Gov__Malloy__Major_Improvements_in_Downtown_Meriden_Will_Encourage_Economic_and_Transit-Oriented_Development_While_Improving_Quality_of_Life_for_Residents/
