Public Statements
Gov. Malloy, Sen. Blumenthal, Sen. Murphy, Congressional Delegation Praise Final BIA Ruling
Statement
By: Richard Blumenthal Chris Murphy Dan Malloy
Date: June 29, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal, U.S. Senator Chris Murphy and the Connecticut Congressional delegation today praised the new Bureau of Indian Affairs rules regarding tribal recognition.
"While we are still analyzing the fine print, the final rule announced today represents a big victory for the State of Connecticut. Thanks to the sustained and coordinated advocacy by our office, Senators Blumenthal and Murphy, our entire Congressional delegation, as well as localities and interested third parties in our state, significant changes have been made in this final rule." Governor Malloy said. "These changes ensure that previously denied tribal groups in Connecticut will not get another bite at the apple, and that any future petitioners will not be advantaged because the core criteria the federal government employs to recognize a tribe has not changed. I would like to thank President Obama and Vice President Biden for heeding our concerns."
Senator Blumenthal, Senator Murphy and the Connecticut Congressional delegation released the following statement.
"We are pleased that the Bureau of Indian Affairs heeded and heard our concerns and reversed deeply problematic language that would have eviscerated four decades of existing administrative procedures and principles. Most notably, the BIA has reversed course on its initial plan to allow a second bite at the apple for previously denied petitioners. That severely flawed proposal would have forced residents, communities and the state to re-litigate petitions already dismissed with substantial evidence and review-causing needless uncertainty for landowners whose properties may have been claimed as reservation land. We appreciate that the BIA listened to our concerns and those of communities across Connecticut to issue a final rule that improves the transparency and timeliness of the federal acknowledgement process."

Source:
