Public Statements
Gov. Malloy, Lt. Gov. Wyman, State Officials Applaud Supreme Court Decision on King v. Burwell
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 25, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Lieutenant Governor Nancy Wyman, Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Connecticut Department of Insurance Commissioner Katharine L. Wade, and Access Health CEO Jim Wadleigh issued the following statements on today's Supreme Court decision regarding King v. Burwell.
The 6-3 decision validated that under the Affordable Care Act, federal subsidies are to be granted to all enrollees irrespective of if their state uses a state-based marketplace or a federally facilitated marketplace.
Lt. Governor Wyman, Chair of the Board of Access Health CT, said, "This is a good decision for Connecticut and the nation-I applaud the Supreme Court on this verdict. The Governor and I established the state healthcare marketplace to ensure a broad insurance pool, to keep costs down, and to expand access to care for all of our residents-critical for strong communities and a strong economy. Today's SCOTUS decision reinforces the commitment we made to our citizens several years ago-and ensures that residents in states throughout the country also have access to quality healthcare. Connecticut has taken a leadership role on the implementation of the Affordable Care Act, and I'm proud that in 2016 we will be the first state to operate a self-sustaining budget. But, most important are the 594,000 Connecticut enrollees who can now afford to see a doctor and get the care they need to live full, productive lives."
Governor Malloy said, "This decision is no doubt a validation of what we all know to be true - people deserve quality, affordable health care. And now the Supreme Court has once again ruled against those who for years have sought to fight an expansion of coverage to millions of Americans. Today reminds us why we're so proud to have built the best exchange in the nation. Unlike some other states, we embraced the Affordable Care Act, celebrated healthcare reform, and stood for progress by helping insure over 250,000 Connecticut residents. As a result, we built a system in Access Health CT that states across the country are trying to mirror. We could not be more thrilled that the Supreme Court today has stood up for common sense, and we look forward to continuing our work with other states who seek to model their exchanges on Connecticut's best-in-the-nation system."
Connecticut Insurance Department Commissioner Katharine Wade said, "Subsidies have been an essential component of the ACA. By preserving them this ruling has helped ensure continued availability and affordability of health insurance. Consumers will have choices at competitive prices from a robust market in Connecticut and across the nation."
Access Health CEO Jim Wadleigh said, "We are glad to see that the Supreme Court has decided to uphold the Affordable Care Act. Working with the Lt. Governor, the Board, and the Access Health CT team, we have been able to provide Connecticut residents with quality, affordable healthcare coverage. While a different decision would not have directly impacted Connecticut, it would have negatively impacted millions of people across the country and added confusion here in Connecticut. Now that this ruling has been issued, we look forward to continuing our work for the people of Connecticut.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2015/06-2015/Gov__Malloy,_Lt__Gov__Wyman,_State_Officials_Applaud_Supreme_Court_Decision_on_King_v__Burwell/
