Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State Homelessness Dropping Due to Rapid Results Efforts
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 24, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today praised the efforts of rapid results teams from across the state who participated in 100-day challenges to end homelessness in five different regions of Connecticut. The reductions are part of the state's efforts to end homelessness among veterans by the end of 2015 and chronically homeless individuals by the end of 2016.
The rapid results teams consisted of a coordinated effort between more than 140 agencies and providers and impacted 85% of the state's homeless population. The Connecticut Coalition to End Homelessness and Journey Home of Hartford were the project leaders.
"We've set high goals - and we're working to achieve them. We are no doubt making progress on reducing chronic homelessness and ending it entirely among veterans. I am very grateful for the efforts of the agencies and organizations who have been partnering together with the state to tackle this critical issue," Governor Malloy said. "Make no doubt about it - these efforts launched over the last few months are making a big impact in Connecticut, with results like we've never seen before. Ensuring the availability of housing to veterans and chronically homeless individuals is the right thing to do - and the smart thing to do."
These efforts are part of Connecticut's work to end homelessness among veterans by the end of 2015, and chronic homelessness by the end of 2016. Earlier this year, Governor Malloy announced that Connecticut was one of several states selected for Zero:2016, a national initiative organized by the nonprofit Community Solutions and dedicated to ending veteran and chronic homelessness within the next two years. At the same time, the Governor announced an expansion of existing permanent housing subsidies meant to help the state move toward that goal.
"Ending homelessness is critical to building stronger communities throughout the state," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "I applaud Governor Malloy, the Connecticut Department of Housing, and all of our partners on this work to ensure housing and support resources for our most vulnerable residents. These numbers represent the men, women, and families that can now contribute to our neighborhoods, our workforce, and our economy."
The results of the 100-day challenges include:
More than 180 highly vulnerable and homeless individuals housed in New Haven
More than 120 individuals and families in Fairfield County housed and another 80 matched to housing
More than 50 chronically homeless individuals in Greater Hartford housed and another 46 matched to housing
More than 60 individuals in New London County housed
Nearly 50 individuals and families in Windham County housed
Only 18 of the 71 communities involved in Zero:2016 are on track to meet the goals, and Connecticut is the only state in this small group, in large part because of the progress generated through the 100-Day challenges. In the last four month, providers across Connecticut have housed 371 Veterans and 229 individuals experiencing chronic homelessness.
In May, a report was released by the Connecticut Coalition to End Homelessness indicating that due to these recent initiatives, the total homeless population in Connecticut is down to historic lows.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2015/06-2015/Gov__Malloy__State_Homelessness_Dropping_Due_to_Rapid_Results_Efforts/
