Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces I-95 Expansion Project in Norwalk Nearing Completion
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 17, 2015
Location: Norwalk, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the I-95 expansion project in Norwalk is close to complete, with the new northbound lane already open and the new southbound lane scheduled to open next month.
The project, which began in 2012, will eliminate traffic by delivering an additional operating lane in each direction of the highway between Exits 14 and 15. The expansion gives drivers space and time to adjust their speeds outside of the main traffic flow as they transition to or from the interchange ramps. The short distance between the ramps, combined with volume of approximately 140,000 vehicles per day, has resulted in frequent delays and impacted safety.
On the whole, Connecticut residents spend more than 40 hours per year - a full work-week - in congestion. Connecticut loses billions of dollars in economic productivity per year as a result. This project, as well as those in the Governor's long-term vision for a best-in-class transportation system, aim to ameliorate those problems.
"This is just another way we're working to transform our transportation system. For years, this section of I-95 in Norwalk was the cause of a major bottleneck resulting in pervasive gridlock that slowed commerce and lowered quality of life. Today, I am proud to announce that our efforts to expand this area of the highway are nearing completion," Governor Malloy said. "Every individual project is just another step towards delivering a best-in-class transportation system - and we are moving forward like never before. With the new northbound lane already open and the southbound lane scheduled to open in just a couple of weeks, these steps reflect progress that will impact tens of thousands of people on a daily basis. Our economy is dependent upon a transit system that can efficiently move people and goods in our state, and these kinds of investments to improve our infrastructure are ones that will advance our economy and grow jobs."
The new 2,300-foot southbound lane begins at the Route 7 southbound on-ramp to I-95 (Exit 15) and extends to the Route 1 exit (Exit 14). The new northbound lane is approximately 2,100 feet in length. The project also realigned the Exit 14 ramp to Route 1 (Connecticut Avenue).
"Every day, more than 140,000 commuters, truckers and motorists travel this stretch of I-95 - often in bumper-to-bumper traffic," Senate Majority Leader Bob Duff (D-Norwalk) said. "Improving our transportation network is critically important to our economic future and our quality of life. This project will help alleviate traffic, make our roads safer, and improve the lives of Fairfield County residents and drivers using our roads."
"This is a great example of the investments we are making around our state to improve traffic flow and enhance safety," Connecticut Department of Transportation (DOT) Commissioner James P. Redeker said. "I-95 is an economic lifeline across southern Connecticut, carrying commuters, tourists and truck-hauled freight in and through Connecticut. This project will go a long way toward improving the flow of traffic in this busy corridor."
As part of the $45 million project, three bridges at Taylor Avenue, Cedar Street and Fairfield Avenue, each carrying local streets over I-95, have been reconstructed to span the new auxiliary lanes and increase vertical clearances over the highway.
The project includes the addition of left-turn lanes at four upgraded, signalized intersections on Route 1 to improve traffic efficiency. New curbing and seven-foot-wide sidewalks have been installed along both sides. As a result of community input, the sideway along the north side of Route 1 to Scribner Avenue has been extended. In addition, a new drainage system will alleviate flooding, reduce the peak discharges at the nearby Norwalk River outfall, and improve overall storm water quality.
The DOT has worked to ensure that the design is compatible with other City of Norwalk projects, such as the Cedar Street Streetscape Project, the new fire station, and the West Avenue roadway improvements.
The work is being completed by O&G Industries of Torrington under contract with the DOT, and has created or sustained about 80 jobs.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2015/06-2015/Gov__Malloy_Announces_I-95_Expansion_Project_in_Norwalk_Nearing_Completion/
