Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces New Support for Connecticut's Manufacturing Industry Workforce
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 10, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced the creation of a two-year, $7 million Incumbent Worker Training Program through the Manufacturing Innovation Fund.
"This targeted training program will support the efforts of advanced manufacturing companies in training their existing workforce in the next generation of skills needed to meet emerging market demands," Governor Malloy said. "With a state-of-the-art workforce, Connecticut businesses will continue to bring technological innovation to the market, increasing productivity and growing market share, sales revenue, and profitability."
A matching fund program, the incumbent worker training program requires companies to contribute at least one dollar for every dollar of program funding offered. Grants range from $5,000 to $100,000 per calendar year. The program will enable Connecticut manufacturers to send existing employees to a third party vendor, such as a community college, industry or trade group, or another training provider in order to enhance or upgrade their skills. By participating in this program, manufacturers and the state will be investing in their workforce and ensuring that their employees have the necessary math, science, technical and industry specific skills necessary to compete in today's manufacturing field.
The Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD) will fund the program as part of the Connecticut Manufacturing Innovation Fund, a $30 million fund created to strengthen the competitiveness of Connecticut's diverse manufacturing base.
"Under the direction of our board, which is largely comprised of industry leaders, we developed this important new program in partnership with the Connecticut Department of Labor. The program targets a paramount need identified by the business community: ensuring our existing workforce has the skills to compete globally," DECD Commissioner Catherine Smith said. "We very much value the input we have received from our board and manufacturers in the state. By focusing on their greatest needs, we hope to propel the success of the industry and keep Connecticut in the sights of advanced manufacturers worldwide."

Source:
