Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces CTfastrak to Expand East of the River Into East Hartford and Manchester
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 8, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today joined elected officials from the Greater Hartford region to announce that the adopted FY 2016/2017 biennial budget includes funding to expand CTfastrak east of the Connecticut River into East Hartford and Manchester. The bus rapid transit system currently has ten stations along the 9.4 mile bus-only roadway, which extends between New Britain, Newington, West Hartford and Hartford, partly along abandoned rail line and existing Amtrak rail line.
Expanding the state's only bus rapid transit service east of the river will utilize $6.5 million in anticipated bonding as part of the five-year ramp-up plan of the Governor's major statewide initiative to modernize Connecticut's transportation system.
"The early success that we are seeing with CTfastrak indicates that Connecticut residents are embracing new ways to travel. In addition, stations along the bus-only roadway are spurring transit-oriented development, bringing new life to local neighborhoods and businesses to make our region a more appealing destination to live and work," Governor Malloy said. "If we want to continue to advance our state and meet the challenges of the 21st Century, we need to continue providing opportunities for growth, and that is why we are going to expand CTfastrak service east of the river into Manchester. East-of-river service would extend access to Pratt & Whitney and Goodwin College, in addition to many of the other large businesses in those towns. Expanded service is another step in the right direction in transforming our infrastructure and making Connecticut's transportation system best-in-class."
Expanded service into East Hartford and Manchester, and possibly additional towns, would utilize the existing HOV lanes on I-84.
"A reliable public transportation system plays a critical role in economic development, job creation, and quality of life. Extending the line provides reliable transportation and job access for residents from New Britain to Manchester and all points in between," East Hartford Mayor Marcia Leclerc said. "The expansion will connect employees to over 150,000 jobs within the rapid transit corridor as well as provide easier access to educational institutions, entertainment centers, and businesses while spurring transit-oriented development across the capital region."
CTfastrak, which began service during the last week of March, averaged 14,500 daily commuters during the month of May. Prior to its launch, the CTtransit buses serving the area averaged 8,000 daily riders. In the coming weeks, the system is anticipated to celebrate its 500,000th rider.
"Extending CTfastrak to Manchester links 150,000 employees on the corridor and circulators. Linking jobs by modern rapid transit and building development around the rapid transit stations is crucial for our region's economic future," said Lyle Wray, Executive Director of the Capitol Region Council of Governments.
The CTfastrak system provides direct service to and from Waterbury, Cheshire, Southington, Bristol, Plainville, New Britain, Newington, West Hartford, Hartford, East Hartford and Manchester with routes that take advantage of the bus-only CTfastrak roadway. It provides a one-seat, no-transfer ride to many major regional employment, shopping and healthcare destinations as well as connections to the New Haven Line-Waterbury branch rail in Waterbury and Amtrak service in Hartford. A new 4.5 multi-use trail was built paralleling the CTfastrak bus-only roadway from New Britain to Newington Junction.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2015/06-2015/Gov__Malloy_Announces_CTfastrak_to_Expand_East_of_the_River_Into_East_Hartford_and_Manchester/
