Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Connecticut Ranked Tenth Healthiest State for Seniors
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 5, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman, Department of Public Health Commissioner Dr. Jewel Mullen, and Department on Aging Commissioner Elizabeth Ritter today announced that a new report ranks Connecticut as the tenth healthiest state for seniors, rising from twelfth place last year, according to the third edition of United Health Foundation's America's Health Rankings 2015 Senior Report.
"This is yet another example of why Connecticut is such a great place to live, work, raise a family, and retire. We're one of the healthiest states in the nation, we have one if the most educated workforces, and more. This report is another validation of our efforts to make Connecticut all that it can be," Governor Malloy said.
Connecticut ranked among the top ten states in 16 of 44 overall measurements that included behaviors, community and environment, policy, clinical care, and outcomes. Connecticut's strengths include a high percentage of dental visits, a low percentage of seniors living in poverty, and low geriatrician shortfall. Challenges included a high prevalence of chronic drinking, high percentage of low-care nursing home residents, and an increase in food insecurity among adults aged 60 and older.
"Connecticut has prioritized senior care initiatives to improve quality of life, access to programs and services, and supportive healthcare options," Lt. Governor Wyman said. "By establishing the Department on Aging, expanding the Renter's Rebate, and making a significant investment in housing, Governor Malloy and our state agencies improved resources for seniors and their families. Our eldest residents are essential to strong communities."
"The senior report helps us assess the status of senior health and build awareness of the breadth of issues facing older adults, and by extension, our communities," Dr. Mullen said. "The data in the senior report can prompt individuals, communities, and organizations to confront many unmet needs of older adults, and help foster collaboration among a broad range of disciplines to promote healthy aging."
"This report gives us a great picture of our successes, but even more importantly, it gives us a clear indication of where we need to focus our attention and do a better job," Commissioner Ritter said. "The degree to which we attend to these challenges will determine the health and welfare of our rapidly growing senior population."
Dr. Mullen, who serves as the current president of the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials, made promoting healthy aging her President's Challenge for 2014-15. This challenge, titled Living Longer Better, aims to galvanize support for state health officials, their public health teams, state and local experts in aging and a broad network of partners, to implement evidence-based strategies for increasing the number of older adults who are living well in our communities.
Dr. Mullen said that projected doubling of the number of adults aged 65 and older within the next few decades requires that public health leaders focus on the needs of older adults as they plan and implement population health-improvement initiatives.
"An older society presents opportunities as well as challenges," she noted. "By focusing on prevention and investing our public health resources with seniors in mind, we can help ensure that we not only are living longer, but living longer better."

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2015/06-2015/Gov__Malloy__Connecticut_Ranked_Tenth_Healthiest_State_for_Seniors/
