Public Statements
Gov. Malloy and Lt. Gov. Wyman Applaud House Passage of Bill Protecting Youth from the Destructive Practice of Conversion Therapy
Statement
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: May 2, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman are applauding the Connecticut House of Representatives for overwhelmingly voting today to adopt legislation that will protect LGBTQ youth in the state from the destructive practice of conversion therapy. The so-called treatment, which seeks to change a person's sexual orientation or gender identity, has been discredited by nearly every credible medical and psychiatric group in the country and oftentimes includes destructive practices that are harmful to children, including electric shock therapy.
"As we all know, there is no medical evidence that supports this so-called therapy and, in fact, it often has damaging effects on those individuals who undergo it, many of whom are minors who were forced into the practice by a family that has rejected who they are," Governor Malloy said. "The framing of sexual orientation as an illness or condition requiring correction is as destructive as it is uninformed. I applaud the overwhelming, bipartisan group of legislators in the House who voted today to protect youths from this cruel practice and I urge the Senate to swiftly adopt it in concurrence so I can sign it into law."
"In passing this legislation, Connecticut has sent another strong message that we will protect our LGBTQ residents from discrimination in all its forms," Lt. Governor Wyman said. "The House has done the right thing in ensuring LGBTQ youth are safe from treatment that can have profound -- and lifelong -- negative impacts. We are a state that celebrates all our young people -- gay, straight, transgender, or questioning. I thank House leadership, and members, for taking this action today."
The legislation is House Bill 6695, An Act Concerning the Protection of Youth from Conversion Therapy. It was approved in the House by a bipartisan vote of 141-8 and will next move to the State Senate for consideration.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/en/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2017/05-2017/Gov-Malloy-and-Lt-Gov-Wyman-Applaud-House-Passage-of-Bill-Protecting-Youth-from-Conversion-Therapy
