Public Statements
Joint Statement on Budget Agreement
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 31, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Senate President Martin Looney, House Speaker Brendan Sharkey, House Majority Leader Joe Aresimowicz, and Senate Majority Leader Bob Duff announced that they have reached an agreement on a biennium budget. The package takes Connecticut into the future by funding transportation, providing important property tax relief, and funding vital programs.
"A brighter tomorrow will start with this budget today. This agreement will help Connecticut now and in the long-run - it helps transform our transportation infrastructure as we aim for a best-in-class system. It supports our schools, supports the middle class, and supports vital programs for those who need it most. Most importantly, it helps us build a Connecticut for the long-term, making our state an even greater place to live, work, and raise a family," Governor Malloy said.
"This budget meets the State's obligations and provides historic property tax relief for the people of Connecticut," said Senate President Martin M. Looney (D-New Haven). "After years of acknowledging the need to change our Payment in Lieu of Taxes program, this year, we delivered revolutionary changes by taking into account the relative need for assistance based on the percentage of tax exempt property in each municipality. We also begin to provide substantial relief for car owners and high mill rate municipalities on their car tax."
"This budget has major property tax relief for Connecticut's families by sharing sales tax revenue with local communities." said Senate Majority Leader Bob Duff (D-Norwalk). "Additionally, this budget supports our people, our business sector and makes significant long term investments in our transportation system."
"This budget protects hard-working, middle-class families by providing property tax relief through additional aid to our communities, and funds vital services people rely on every day by asking the wealthy and corporations to pay a little bit more. The legislature worked closely with the governor to finalize a budget that represents the wide ranging priorities of our diverse state, and sets us on a path that encourages continued economic growth. Concerns over some provisions in earlier versions of the budget were heard and reflected in the final deliberations," said Speaker of the House Brendan Sharkey (D-Hamden).
"This is a balanced, responsible budget that protects middle-class taxpayers and restores the funding for services on which hard-working Connecticut families depend," said House Majority Leader Joe Aresimowicz (D-Berlin, Southington). "We made sure to listen to what was important to Connecticut residents and were successful in restoring critical funding to the people that need it most."

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Departments_and_Agencies/Office_of_the_Governor/Press_Room/Press_Releases/2015/05-2015/Joint_Statement_on_Budget_Agreement/
