Public Statements
Gov. Malloy, Lt. Gov. Wyman and Education Commissioner Wentzell Celebrate National Teacher Appreciation Day
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 5, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman and Education Commissioner Dianna Wentzell today released the following statements in honor of National Teacher Appreciation Day:

Governor Malloy said, "Our teachers devote their lives today to delivering brighter futures tomorrow for our children. In and out of the classroom, our teachers work around the clock and make extraordinary sacrifices so that our kids can succeed. They are truly heroes to our state. Connecticut is preparing children for college and careers like never before, and it's our educators who are at the forefront of that effort. From working towards universal access to pre-K to our record high graduation rates, we have no doubt made strides at the state level. But they're only possible because of our educators in the classrooms. Teachers deserve to be supported and their extraordinary contributions every day need to be valued because they're doing incredible work today to build brighter tomorrow for Connecticut and its families."

Lt. Governor Wyman said, "We all have a teacher that inspired us and pushed us to be better students and citizens. Every child needs an education if they are going to succeed, but they also need mentors and role models and adults who will invest time and energy in their lives. I'm grateful that so many teachers manage to do all of these things for our young people. They are helping us build strong communities, an engaged citizenry, and the next generation of leaders."

Commissioner Wentzell said, "Teachers help develop the leaders of tomorrow, inspire next-generation inventors, and nurture informed and active community members. They are modern day heroes who give their all each day in their classrooms so that their students can succeed. We celebrate and thank all teachers who answer the call to help our students achieve their maximum potential. We honor their commitment to our students' lifelong success by ensuring that teacher perspective and input is valued and ensuring that teachers feel fully supported in their efforts on behalf of our students."

Source:
