Public Statements
Gov. Malloy & Lt. Gov. Wyman: U.S. Supreme Court Should Stand Up For Equality
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 28, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman released the following statements as the U.S. Supreme Court hears oral arguments today in the Obergefell v. Hodges landmark case on marriage equality:

Governor Malloy said, "If we are to progress as a society and deliver a brighter tomorrow for Americans, we need to stand up for action and make smart decisions today. In 2008, the Connecticut Supreme Court recognized that tolerating inequality is antithetical to enshrining a right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Marriage is not something to be celebrated in one state but rendered unlawful in another.

"We are now at a pivotal point -- we can choose to move forward, stand up for progress, and ensure gay and lesbian couples enjoy the same rights and opportunities that my wife and I do. Or, we could go backwards. As the United States Supreme Court hears arguments over this landmark case, it is my hope that the day when all couples can be treated equally under the law across the nation, no matter their sexual orientation, is upon us. Some have called these decisions difficult, but recognizing the right to marry is necessary to protect American values in the long-term. Ultimately, this is simply about who we are, and what kind of future we want to deliver for generations in the long-run."

Lt. Governor Wyman said, "The strength of our communities is driven by the men, women, and families who are investing in our neighborhoods; serving on local boards; and are engaged, productive citizens. What goes hand-in-hand with the marriage covenant is fundamental -- the rights and responsibilities of a shared life that should be available to all of our citizens irrespective of their sexual orientation. Ensuring marriage equality is paramount to creating strong, thriving communities for all families."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=564838
