Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State Receives Emergency Management Accreditation
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 27, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that for the first time, the State of Connecticut has received full accreditation from the Emergency Management Accreditation Program (EMAP). EMAP is a set of 64 standards by which programs that apply for accreditation are evaluated. The state's emergency management program met all 64 standards.

"This is a significant achievement for our state emergency management program -- this accreditation certifies that Connecticut stands ready to respond to any disaster or emergency," said Governor Malloy. "I would like to recognize the Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection and thank everyone in the Division of Emergency Management and Homeland Security for all of their hard work towards this accreditation."

"It is thanks to Governor Malloy's focus on thorough preparation, his strong leadership during crises, and the consistent after-incident review process that Connecticut has seen such improvement in our handling of disaster. This accreditation is a valuable measure of our readiness, but even more importantly, it speaks to our commitment to keep our residents safe," said Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman. "I applaud the Governor and Connecticut's emergency management team on this accreditation."

The EMAP process forms the foundation of the nation's emergency preparedness system. It evaluates emergency management programs on compliance with requirements in 16 areas, including planning; resource management; training; exercises, evaluations and corrective actions; and communications and warnings. Accreditation is valid for five years. Throughout the five years, the state is periodically reassessed to ensure it maintains compliance with EMAP standards. Currently, EMAP is the only national accreditation process for emergency management programs with 32 states having received full accreditation.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=564786
