Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Hails House Passage Of Long Island Sound 'Blue Plan' Legislation
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 22, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy is applauding the Connecticut House of Representatives today for approving legislation he sponsored that will create the Long Island Sound Blue Plan -- an effort that will result in the development of a coordinated strategy on behalf of the state in regards to any potential future use of the Sound's waters and submerged lands.

"To build a brighter tomorrow, we need to make smart choices on the environment today. The Long Island Sound is critical for Connecticut's economy and the millions of people who rely on its resources, and that's why this legislation is so important," said Governor Malloy. "Action now means protecting our vital coastline tomorrow, allowing comprehensive and regional planning of the Sound for the long-term. There is a pressing need for us to act, and I would like to thank the House of Representatives, and notably the advocacy of Environment Committee Co-Chair James Albis, for approving it today."

The House vote, which was held on Earth Day, was approved unanimously, 146 to 0.

"I am glad that my colleagues recognize the great need for a responsible plan for Long Island Sound's future," said State Representative James Albis (D-East Haven), Co-Chair of the Environment Committee. "It is critically important that the state act now and arrive at a plan for protecting one of Connecticut's most viable economic resources to ensure the stewardship of Long Island Sound. As both the representative of a town on the Sound's coast and as the co-chair of the Environment Committee, I am thrilled that this bill is one step closer to being law. I am grateful for the support from both sides of the aisle on this proposal and I look forward to a vote on the bill in the State Senate."

The legislation, House Bill 6839 -- An Act Concerning a Long Island Sound Blue Plan and Resource and Use Inventory, next moves to the State Senate for consideration.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=564576
