Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Connecticut Receives $700k To Combat Veteran Homelessness
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 20, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has awarded Connecticut nearly $700,000 in federal funding to support Connecticut's efforts to help end veteran homelessness.

"To build an economy for the future, we need to make smart choices on housing. Our nation's veterans, whether they are just returning home or have been out for years, deserve access to quality housing, good healthcare, and career opportunities," Governor Malloy said. "We have done more on housing over the past several years than Connecticut has done in decades -- and it's because we're building a brighter tomorrow by making smart choices today. We have an opportunity to make a significant impact to improve the lives of those who have given so much for their country, and I am confident that we can reach our goal of ending chronic homelessness among veterans."

"This funding will help Connecticut expand our housing options for veterans, and help hundreds of service members rebuild their lives and rejoin their communities," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "I applaud HUD, Governor Malloy, and the Connecticut Department of Housing for their tireless commitment to veterans. Strong partnerships throughout all levels of government are critical if we are to end homelessness -- and strong communities depend upon our success."

Last year, Governor Malloy joined the Obama Administration's goal of ending homelessness among veterans by the end of 2015. In January, Governor Malloy announced that the state was chosen to join the Zero:2016 initiative -- a national effort to combat veteran homelessness.

"These federal vouchers are an important part of our mission to end chronic veteran homelessness in Connecticut," Connecticut Department of Housing Commissioner Evonne Klein said. "We are excited for our continued partnership with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and are appreciative for these additional housing vouchers. Our veterans are an important part of our community, and it's important to recognize their individual needs and help those who have fallen on hard times to get back on their feet. These vouchers will help us to accomplish just that."

"As we well know, our veterans and their families face significant challenges every day, including homelessness," Connecticut Department of Veterans' Affairs Commissioner Sean Connolly said. "This grant for additional vouchers will go along toward serving the great veterans of the State of Connecticut and their families. Those who have selflessly served our state and nation deserve no less. Veterans always!"

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=564386
