Public Statements
Gov. Malloy & Lt. Gov. Wyman Statements On Equal Pay Day
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 14, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman today released the following statements to recognize National Equal Pay Day.

Governor Malloy said, "If we want to build an economy for the future that delivers success now and in the long run, we must address the gender wage gap. It negatively impacts our nation's economy, puts a burden on households, and most of all, is morally wrong. No one should work full time and not get the wage they deserve and have earned. In Connecticut, we are working every day towards that end. We have increased the minimum wage, were the first-in-the-nation to pass paid sick leave, and had the most successful implementation of the Affordable Care Act, helping over 250,000 Connecticut families get health insurance. This year, we have introduced legislation to change Connecticut's pay secrecy laws, a practice that ultimately perpetuates income discrimination and allows the gender wage gap to persist. Women deserve the same pay for the same work -- and that's why we're standing up for real action on this issue."

Lt. Governor Wyman said, "Equal Pay Day reminds us that closing the wage gap isn't just fair, it is imperative to the financial security of Connecticut families. Pay secrecy allows the wage gap to flourish, putting women and minorities at an immediate economic disadvantage and lowering future earnings potential. I urge the General Assembly to put an end to pay secrecy and help us address wage discrimination."

This legislative session, the Governor introduced a proposal on pay equity (House Bill 6850, An Act Concerning Pay Equity and Fairness) designed to narrow the gender wage gap among Connecticut's workforce by halting "pay secrecy" -- a practice among employers that frequently hinders pay discrimination from being pinpointed. The bill was unanimously approved by the Labor and Public Employees Committee last month and is currently pending on the House calendar.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=564010
