Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces New Competitive Funding Round To Support The Development Of Affordable Housing Throughout The State
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 13, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that another round of funding under the state's Competitive Housing Assistance for Multifamily Properties (CHAMP) program has opened, creating additional opportunities for affordable housing development in the state. Applications for this round -- the seventh since Governor Malloy took office in 2011 -- are due to the Connecticut Department of Housing by June 10, 2015.

"To build a Connecticut for the future, delivering stable and affordable places to live is critical -- the wellbeing of our communities depends on it," Governor Malloy said. "This funding round includes a focus on two very specific populations -- veterans and those with disabilities -- helping to bring us closer towards our goals of ending veteran homelessness by the end of 2015 and chronic homelessness by the end of 2016. When we expand housing opportunities to those who need them, we become a stronger state with a more robust economy, now and in the long-term."

"Ensuring every Connecticut resident has access to safe, quality, and affordable housing has been our mission since Governor Malloy first created our agency in 2013," Department of Housing Commissioner Evonne Klein said. "This CHAMP funding rounds allow us to serve the specific needs of our communities with a particular focus on our most vulnerable residents. These are the people who make up our towns and neighborhoods, and it is critical that we build affordable housing that can serve these diverse populations."

These competitive awards require applicants to submit affordable housing development proposals with a specific set of criteria, based on the needs and current trends the department is seeing across the state. Successful applicants for CHAMP 7 awards will be required to include at least one handicap accessible unit, with an understanding that this unit will remain a fully accessible handicapped unit and not just an adaptable one. This new requirement will also be applicable to all rehabilitation projects where such actions are feasible within the design constraints of existing buildings. Developments will also be required to provide a veteran's preference for at least two units in their proposals.

Information on this round of CHAMP funding is outlined in greater detail in the Department of Housing's Notice of Funding Availability. Further information can be obtained by visiting the department's website or calling 860-270-8262.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=563980
