Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Victory Parade And Rally Honoring UConn Women's Basketball To Be Held This Sunday, April 12 In Hartford
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 9, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the Hartford Business Improvement District, the City of Hartford and the State of Connecticut will host a victory parade and rally in downtown Hartford on Sunday, April 12, 2015 to congratulate the UConn Women's Basketball team for winning the 2015 NCAA Basketball National Championship.

The parade begins at 3:00 p.m. at the State Capitol building and will be followed by a victory rally on Trumbull Street, directly in front of the XL Center at approximately 3:30 p.m.

Parade and rally organizers are relying on private donations to finance the festivities.

"The UConn Women's Basketball team, led by Head Coach Geno Auriemma, has for the third year in a row shown the nation that the spirit and strength of college basketball resides in Connecticut," Governor Malloy said. "On Sunday, let's show the team how proud we are of their success by honoring them with a victory celebration they will remember for a lifetime."

The Governor specifically thanked the Hartford Business Improvement District for once again hosting this event, organizing its sponsors, and giving the residents of Connecticut an opportunity to celebrate another national championship from our state.

Organizers continue to rely on private funds to support the parade and the rally. This event is produced by the Hartford Business Improvement District, in collaboration with the City of Hartford and the State of Connecticut, and a number of civic and business organizations. Businesses may choose from several sponsorship levels ranging from $10,000 to $2,500 or less. To discuss parade sponsorship opportunities, quickly contact Michael Zaleski at the Hartford Business Improvement District at 860-728-2274 or email mzaleski@hartfordbid.com.

The parade route will begin at the State Capitol building on the corner of Trinity Street and Elm Street. It will then proceed down Elm Street moving alongside Bushnell Park, turn north up Trumbull Street, and end at the XL Center, where the rally will be held.

Source:
