Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Third Round Of Non-Profit Grants To Help Providers Enhance Services
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 9, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that a third round of grants is opening under the state's Nonprofit Grant Program -- a state bond pool specifically designated for nonprofit community-based organizations that provide direct health and human services for state agency clients through contracts or agreements with state agencies.

The program, created by the Governor in 2013, helps nonprofit providers that do business with the state invest in projects that will achieve new efficiencies so they can enhance the delivery of services.

"Connecticut's nonprofit organizations serve every resident of Connecticut and play a substantial role in maintaining our safety net. Partnering with our nonprofit organizations is a smart fiscal investment to ensure that these agencies can continue to provide services while doing so in an efficient, cost-effective way," Governor Malloy said. "By supporting capital purchases that enhance service delivery, efficiency and effectiveness and addressing health, safety and accessibility issues, nonprofit agencies can focus on what they do best -- getting services to those who need them most."

Under legislation adopted during the 2013 and 2014 legislative sessions, the State Bond Commission is authorized to issue up to $70 million in bonding to support eligible projects, which are dependent upon the review and approval of the Office of Policy and Management (OPM). The Request for Applications under this third round of grants is for $30 million. The prior two rounds were for $40 million total.

Applications for this third round must be received by June 26, 2015. Guidelines and application instructions can be found online.

The first round of Nonprofit Grant Program funding in the amount of $20 million was approved by the State Bond Commission on January 9, 2014 with awards announced on March 6, 2014. The second round, also for $20 million, was approved by the State Bond Commission on January 12, 2015 with awards announced on January 23, 2015.

Examples of eligible projects for round three funding include:

Facility alterations, renovations, improvement, additions and new construction
Property acquisition
Improvements related to health, safety and compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act
Energy conservation, improvements or projects
Information technology projects, including encryption or client confidentiality systems
Technology that promotes client independence
Generators
Acquisition and upgrades to electronic health or medical records and other health information technology systems
Purchase of vehicles

There are two pools for grant awards:

Up to $12.5 million may be reserved for projects requesting funding in an amount greater than $1.0 million, but no more than $3.0 million; however, applications for these awards must include supplemental matching funds equal to at least 25% of the Nonprofit Grant Program award. Matching funds may not include other state funds or the inclusion of provider non-cash in-kind contributions.
For the remaining funds, grant awards will be limited to no more than $1.0 million for any award or nonprofit provider per year. $35,000 minimum cost per project.

Eligible applicants are qualified health and human services organizations that are exempt under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or any subsequent corresponding internal revenue code of the United States, as amended from time to time, that have contracts or agreements with state agencies, including the Court Support Services Division of the Judicial Branch, to provide direct health and human services to agency clients and populations in Connecticut.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=563812
