Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: President Obama Approves Major Disaster Declaration
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 8, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that his request for a major disaster declaration with snow assistance for federal aid in connection with the January blizzard has been approved by President Barack Obama.

This federal aid will provide financial assistance to Connecticut state agencies as well as municipalities in New London, Windham, and Tolland Counties, and also the Mohegan and Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nations, to help pay for eligible costs incurred as a result of the storm. The reimbursement rate is 75 percent.

"We had extraordinary weather this winter -- and through smart decisions, we got through it. We're pleased that we were successful in our application. This declaration will provide much needed financial assistance to the state and to the municipalities hardest hit by the January blizzard," Governor Malloy said. "I would like to thank President Obama for his continued support during the devastating storms Connecticut has encountered over the last few years. I also would like to thank Connecticut's Congressional delegation for their advocacy and support in securing this declaration. Time and again, the President and our federal partners have shown support for Connecticut after extreme weather events."

Lt. Governor Wyman said, "I want to thank our federal partners at FEMA for their assistance. This storm is long since over, but in Tolland county and many other communities throughout the state, rebuilding is still underway. Governor Malloy's advocacy has ensured the funding that is critical to restoration."

All counties and the Mohegan and Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nations in Connecticut are also eligible to apply for assistance under the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, which provides assistance for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property from natural hazards.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=563764
