Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Lifts Ban On State-Funded Travel To Indiana
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 4, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that, following the passage of an amended religious freedom recognition act, he would lift the ban on state-funded travel between Connecticut and Indiana. The adjusted legislation now provides protections to LGBTQ individuals, and as such, falls outside the scope of the Executive Order issued earlier this week.
Governor Malloy said, "Today I am lifting the ban on state funded travel to Indiana, because I believe the change enacted by the Indiana legislature sufficiently clarifies, in our interpretation, that the law cannot be used to invite discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity.
"Unlike Connecticut -- which has been a national leader in LGBTQ protections -- this is the first time that Indiana has codified any protections for individuals based upon their sexual orientation or gender identity. While the law even in its amended version remains divisive, I believe it is a step in the right direction.
"In 2015, we cannot, and should not, tolerate laws that open the door to discrimination against citizens. We need to actively stand up to them -- and that's what we did this week. We are gratified that several other states, businesses, trade organizations, and so many stood with us, and we are pleased that numerous states besides Indiana have sought or are seeking changes in their laws with the specific aim of preventing discrimination.
"We will continue to monitor other states that enact reforms similar to the original Indiana RFRA, because discrimination in any form is unacceptable. We cannot watch states pass laws that seek to turn back the clock either on Connecticut residents, or our fellow Americans. We have an obligation to do what's right, and to protect against discrimination whenever and wherever we see it."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=563490
