Public Statements
Gov. Malloy And Local Officials Commemorate Start Of I-84 Waterbury Widening Project
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 1, 2015
Location: Waterbury, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today joined Connecticut Department of Transportation Commissioner James P. Redeker and other local officials for a groundbreaking ceremony in Waterbury to mark the start of the widening of Interstate 84 in the city between the areas of Washington Street and Pierpont Road. The project, which begins work this week, will see the creation of an additional, third lane on the highway in each direction.

"Our economic growth is directly tied to our transportation system, and if we want to develop our state and meet the challenges of the 21st Century, we need a modernized, best-in-class infrastructure for our residents. This widening project will decrease traffic congestion, improve traffic operations, and increase safety," Governor Malloy said. "This project on I-84 in Waterbury is critical for the future development of this region of the state as we continue our efforts to keep Connecticut moving forward."

During the widening, two lanes will remain open at all times during morning and evening peak travel hours.

The reconstructed section of I-84 will have a 12-foot wide right shoulder, three 12-foot wide travel lanes, and a 12-foot wide left shoulder in each direction of travel, separated by a 10-foot wide concrete barrier section. Additionally, a 12-foot auxiliary lane will be provided on I-84 westbound between the on-ramp from Harpers Ferry Road and the off-ramp to Hamilton Avenue.

Other improvements include the construction of a new frontage road on the north side of I-84, referred to as Plank Road East, and will be constructed parallel to I-84 between Scott Road and Harpers Ferry Road. Improvements are also being completed on Hamilton Avenue, Harpers Ferry Road, Scott Road, Reidville Drive, Plank Road, Plank Road East and East Main Street.

The project is scheduled for completion in June 2020.

A website for the project has been created at www.i-84waterbury.com and will be regularly updated with construction alerts, project news, project plan details, lane closure information, and public information notices. Additionally, information will be available on Facebook at www.facebook.com/i84waterbury.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=563364
