Public Statements
MSNBC "Hardball with Chris Matthews" - Transcript: Discriminatory Laws
Interview
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 31, 2015
Location: Unknown

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
MATTHEWS: Anyway, and other states are ratcheting up the pressure.
Connecticut governor Dan Malloy signed an executive order banning state-
backed travel to the state of Indiana. And here`s Governor Malloy laying
into Pence this morning on "MORNING JOE."
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. DAN MALLOY (D), CONNECTICUT: The reality is, the governor is not a
stupid man, but he`s done stupid things. And when you see a bigot, you
have to call them on it. They knew what they were doing. And what they
were doing was deciding that they were going to make it legal for people to
refuse to serve gay men and women.
And if Indiana wants to make this right with the rest of the world, they
need to pass laws that say you cannot discriminate based on someone`s
sexual orientation.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MATTHEWS: Joining me right now is Connecticut governor Dan Malloy, and
former RNC chair Michael Steele is also with me.
And late today, by the way, the legislature down in Arkansas passed a
similar religious protection bill, and the CEO of Walmart is urging
Republican governor Asa Hutchison to veto it. But Hutchison says he`s
going to sign it.
Governor, do you believe that Mike Pence is a bigot?
MALLOY: I think --
(CROSSTALK)
MATTHEWS: -- in that statement.
MALLOY: Yes, I think he`s done bigoted things. Listen, you know, at the
top of the show here, or this section, he talked about how tough the last
few days have been. Imagine if you were gay in Indiana over the last
month. On February 23rd, in a debate at the state senate, an offer was
made to amend this statute that said simply that we would respect our civil
rights laws as they exist in Indiana and we would respect local laws as
they exist in Indiana.
That amendment, offered by a Democrat, lost 40 to 10. Imagine if you were a
gay man, or a gay woman, or if you were the mother or father of a gay man
or a gay woman. Imagine how tough your month has been, not just the last
couple of days, since that disastrous show that he did on Sunday, since the
disastrous legislation that he signed.
You know, when you do a bigoted thing, you`re going to get called on it.
And, quite frankly, Republicans have not covered themselves in any glory.
We have a whole bunch of candidates for president who have gone to defend
this guy, but now he said, well, maybe we do need to clarify it.
Well, hey, Jeb Bush, what were you thinking about? Cruz, what were you
thinking about? Rubio, what were you thinking about? Do you really want
to condemn gay people to second-class citizenship in America today, this
year?
MATTHEWS: Michael?
MICHAEL STEELE, MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST: I cannot disagree with Governor
Malloy. He just needs to bring the crazy down a little on this. I think
the hyperbole, calling people bigoted, when you know that that is not the
case, I think the governor stated very clearly --
(CROSSTALK)
MALLOY: wait a minute. I`m going to stop you right there.
(CROSSTALK)
STEELE: No, you`re going to let me finish. You`re going to let me finish
my point.
(CROSSTALK)
MALLOY: When you walk like a duck and you quack like a duck, you`re a
duck.
(CROSSTALK)
STEELE: Sir, I let you do your rant. I let you do your rant
uninterrupted. And you`re going to let me bring some clarity and some
common sense to the conversation.
MALLOY: Common sense.
STEELE: The reality of it is -- the reality of it is that there`s nothing
bigoted in this law, there`s nothing bigoted about the governor who signed
this law, and there`s nothing discriminatory about this law.
This law is based on past, present federal law; 31 states have it. The
difference between what Bill Clinton signed and what the governors -- what
the legislature signed today is now, because of Hobby Lobby, you have this
corporate aspect of this being corporations essentially being treated as
people under the protections.
The governor -- the governor has promised a fix. Let`s see what that fix
is. I suspect that fix will either address either a nondiscriminatory law
-- nondiscrimination law, in which makes very clear, as the governor stated
today, that gay and lesbian individuals will not be discriminated under law
in the state of Indiana, or something close to that.
MATTHEWS: Let me go back to some things that clarify.
(CROSSTALK)
MATTHEWS: Governor, just a second. Governor, I have to moderate this.
Number one, I watched the Sunday show with George Stephanopoulos. And I
thought he did a good job of getting it clear. The governor was asked by
George at least once, would you support legislation to prevent people from
being bigoted, to say, if you`re gay, you`re not getting in my hotel,
you`re not getting in my bakery, you`re not -- I`m not going to help you
with the wedding?
STEELE: Right.
MATTHEWS: And he said no.
STEELE: All right.
MATTHEWS: So he clarified his view. Even though the legislation is murky,
he`s clear on this. And I believe he said it again today. It`s not on my
agenda.
Why isn`t it?
STEELE: Well, I don`t know why. It should be on his agenda, because this
contributes to the noise around this bill and around this legislation.
MATTHEWS: But he may disagree with you on the issue. How do you know he
does -- how do you know he supports equal public accommodations access?
(CROSSTALK)
STEELE: Pardon me?
MATTHEWS: Do you know he if supports equal access to public
accommodations, regardless of sexual orientation?
STEELE: I`m sure he does. I`m sure he does. I`m sure he does.
MATTHEWS: But he won`t say so.
STEELE: Absolutely. I`m sure he does. I`m sure he does.
MATTHEWS: Well, Governor, I think you have a point. I don`t know about
calling him bigoted or whatever. He`s clearly politically wanting to
identify with that particular point of view. I mean, he`s had an
opportunity for a week to clarify himself.
(CROSSTALK)
STEELE: You don`t get to pick and choose.
MATTHEWS: OK.
(CROSSTALK)
MATTHEWS: Governor, isn`t it true that a lot of states that have passed
this have also got legislation protecting the rights of people regardless
of their sexual identity or orientation? That`s already on the books to
protect them. That`s not the case in Indiana.
Your thoughts.
MALLOY: I think Mr. Steele is too good a person to be an apologist for
this legislation.
And, clearly, if you read the history of this legislation, and how it was
attempted to be amended, so that laws that were already in place would be
applied, Indianapolis had already said we`re not going to discriminate.
Why would you pass a state law that trumps the local law? Why would you
vote that amendment down 40-10?
What senators on the Republican side did the governor actually call to say,
hey, we have got to be fair and honest, and treat our citizens equally?
Give us a list of who you called, Governor, and tell us --
(CROSSTALK)
MATTHEWS: OK. Let`s get the answer to that question. That`s a good
question. That`s a good question.
Why -- I don`t want to spend time. You guys are here live. I`m not going
to play tape. But Rubio, and Jeb Bush, and Cruz and Walker, Governor
Walker, have all said they`re with this legislation that he signed this
week that has been criticized as being anti-gay. Why are they all taking
that position?
STEELE: Because the law on its face is not. It`s how you`re deciding to
interpret the law.
You`re -- show me the language in this law where it sets out that says that
we are going to discriminate against gay and lesbian individuals? That
language isn`t in the law. This is verbatim, except for, again, the Hobby
Lobby --
MATTHEWS: But doesn`t it give a business the opportunity to go to court
and say, for our religious, the religion of our corporation, that we can go
then -- we can go to court and say we`re not going to serve people of this
background?
(CROSSTALK)
STEELE: Unlike the RFRA law in Connecticut, the federal law and the
Indiana law requires a substantial burden be placed on the government to
show that the --
(CROSSTALK)
MATTHEWS: Isn`t access to public accommodations, isn`t that a compelling
public interest? You have got to believe in a compelling public interest
for public accommodations.
STEELE: Of course it`s a compelling public interest, Chris, but I`m just
saying you`re jumping to a conclusion that the law is discriminatory, where
in fact there`s nothing in the law that says that.
There`s no --
(CROSSTALK)
MATTHEWS: Last word to the governor. Last word to the governor.
STEELE: Where is the governor?
MALLOY: I have a copy of the amendment that was offered. And it simply
said, "This chapter does not apply to Indiana civil rights law or any state
law or local ordinance that prohibits discrimination on the base of sexual
orientation."
And it was defeated in the Senate on February 23, with the support of the
governor, 40-10. That`s evidence number one.
I used to be a prosecutor. I tried 23 felony cases. I had convictions in
22. Let me assure you I could get a conviction in this one.
(LAUGHTER)
MATTHEWS: So, how do you respond to that, that the governor had an
opportunity to take a stand against discrimination and chose the other
side?
STEELE: Because the governor did -- the governor`s reading of this law and
the legislative intent of the law was not to discriminate.
So, they didn`t need to carve out that exception. Clearly, they now think
that they do. And the governor is going to go back with the legislators.
Majority leaders both in the House and Senate have said they are going to
redo the bill. So, let`s see what they do.
(CROSSTALK)
MALLOY: He didn`t --
(CROSSTALK)
MALLOY: -- that on Sunday.
MATTHEWS: I think he was trying -- the governor, I think he was -- the
governor of Indiana was trying to score points, as so many Republicans are
trying to do, with the hard right. He thought --
(CROSSTALK)
MATTHEWS: Did you see who was standing there with him?
STEELE: Nuns.
MATTHEWS: Yes, and --
(CROSSTALK)
MATTHEWS: No, because they`re opposed to gay rights.
MALLOY: There you go.
MATTHEWS: Because that`s why they`re there.
Thank you.
(CROSSTALK)
MATTHEWS: Well, let me know. All those people, you`re in that picture.
Let me know if you`re up for public access to public accommodations on the
part of gay people. Let me know, if you`re a Hoosier.
Anyway, thank you, Governor Dan.
Not everybody, just Hoosiers.
MALLOY: Thank you.
MATTHEWS: Anyway, thank you, Governor Dan Malloy.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.nbcnews.com/id/57193137/ns/msnbc-hardball_with_chris_matthews/#.VksbI-L_ST8
