Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Names Panel To Examine Funding Options For Modernizing Connecticut's Transportation Infrastructure
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 31, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he is forming a panel charged with analyzing and recommending options the state can utilize to finance a transformation of Connecticut's transportation infrastructure over the next 30 years and beyond.

"We need to transform our infrastructure to be competitive, attract business, and grow jobs. I am creating this panel to pinpoint ways to make our transportation vision over the next 30 years and beyond possible," Governor Malloy said. "We all agree the residents of our state deserve a best-in-class transportation system that makes our communities a vibrant place to live and work, one conducive to economic growth and development. What we need now is a cohesive, coordinated strategy -- a system that can withstand the needs of these improvements over the long term. We need to make the smart decisions today so that we can build a brighter tomorrow."

The Governor's Transportation Finance Panel is a nonpartisan working group comprised of experts in transportation, finance, and economic development.

Its members will include:

Cameron Staples (Chair): President and CEO, New England Association of Schools and Colleges; Former Co-Chair of the Finance, Revenue and Bonding Committee, Connecticut General Assembly
Beth Osborne: Senior Policy Advisor, Transportation for America; Former Acting Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy, U.S. Department of Transportation
William Bonvillian: Director, Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Washington, D.C. Office
Joan Carty: President and CEO, Housing Development Fund
Bert Hunter: Chief Investment Officer, Connecticut Green Bank
Oz Griebel: President and CEO, MetroHartford Alliance
Paul Timpanelli: President and CEO, Bridgeport Regional Business Council
Stanley Mickus: Marketing and Public Affairs, Cross Sound Ferry Services
Emil Frankel: Consultant on transportation policy; Former Commissioner, Connecticut Department of Transportation (1991-1995); Former Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy, U.S. Department of Transportation (2002-2005)

Earlier this year, Governor Malloy announced a two-part transportation plan consisting of a five-year ramp-up that utilizes $10 billion capital funding, and leads up to a 30-year vision utilizing $100 billion in funding.

"With Let's Go CT, we now have a clear vision for rebuilding Connecticut's entire transportation infrastructure," Department of Transportation Commissioner James P. Redeker said. "Now, we need to make the tough decisions on funding our future. The Governor has assembled a thoughtful, balanced team and I look forward to working with them."

The panel will begin meeting in April and is expected to conclude by the end of the summer. It will be staffed under the leadership of Office of Policy and Management Under Secretary for Transportation Policy and Planning Garrett Eucalitto, who will collaborate with the commissioners of the Department of Transportation, the Department of Motor Vehicles, the Department of Revenue Services, and the Secretary of the Office of Policy and Management.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=563272
