Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Funds To Support Affordable Housing Throughout The State
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 26, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Department of Housing (DOH) Commissioner and Connecticut Housing Finance Authority (CHFA) Board Chairman Evonne M. Klein today announced investments of more than $60 million in funding for 14 affordable housing projects across the state. The projects will build and rehabilitate 851 affordable apartments and 246 market-rate units.

"We have done more in affordable housing over the past several years than Connecticut has in decades -- and this is yet another step in that direction. As we make smart investments today for a brighter Connecticut tomorrow, affordable housing is an integral part," Governor Malloy said. "These units will help hundreds of families, support municipalities, attract talented workers, contribute to our economic growth, and create the communities that will be more competitive in today's business climate. It's progress for Connecticut."

The projects announced today competed successfully in either the sixth round of the state's Competitive Housing Assistance for Multifamily Properties (CHAMP) initiative or the federal 9% LIHTC round. Investments include more than $60 million in state capital funding, a projected $84.6 million in federal 4% and 9% LIHTC credit equity, and $19.4 million in permanent CHFA tax exempt bond financing. CHAMP, administered by DOH, helps owners and developers of multifamily rental developments to expand or rehabilitate affordable and supportive housing.

"The investments the Governor is announcing today include over $250 million in total development costs, leveraging nearly three and a half times the amount of DOH's investment. The total development cost of the projects includes private commercial lending, private equity, tax-exempt and taxable bond financing and other sources," Commissioner Klein said. "By collaborating with our partners, we are finding creative, innovative ways to help communities deal with one of their most pressing needs, and that's a shortage of affordable housing options."

CHFA administers the LIHTC program, which is a federal tax incentive program designed to stimulate private investment in affordable housing. Under the program, developers can obtain equity financing to acquire, rehabilitate and/or construct new low- or moderate-income housing through the allocation of federal tax credits that may be sold to corporations or investor groups.

Source:
