Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: With Launch Of CTfastrak This Weekend, CTtransit Bus Service Will Now Operate On Sundays In Bristol, New Britain, And Waterbury
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 26, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Connecticut Department of Transportation (CTDOT) Commissioner James P. Redeker today announced that CTtransit bus service will now offer new Sunday service in Bristol, New Britain and Waterbury, beginning this Sunday, March 29, 2015. The additional service, which will also run on all major holidays -- including the upcoming Easter holiday on Sunday, April 5, 2015 -- coincides with the launch of the CTfastrak bus rapid transit system this weekend.

"We are working to transform our transportation infrastructure, and seven-day-a-week bus service for Bristol, New Britain and Waterbury -- coupled with the new CTfastrak system -- is a step in that direction," Governor Malloy said. "Improved transportation today is a catalyst for growth tomorrow. As we improve quality of life for residents, we're laying the foundation for long-term, sustainable economic activity in these municipalities."

"By offering service every day with practical hours and trip frequency, we are making transit a more viable option for everyone," Commissioner Redeker said. "Our goal is to make Connecticut world class in terms of transit service."

CTtransit service hours in Hartford, New Britain, Bristol and Waterbury on Sundays and holidays are from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Most, but not all routes operate on Sundays. Riders should call 860-525-9181 or visit www.cttransit.com for trip planning.

All bus routes on CTfastrak will operate free of charge for the first nine days of service beginning Saturday, March 28 through April 5, 2015. Regular fares will still be required on all CTtransit buses during this fare-free time on CTfastrak.

Beginning on Saturday, March 28, the CTfastrak system will provide direct service to and from Waterbury, Cheshire, Southington, Bristol, Plainville, New Britain, Newington, West Hartford, Hartford and Manchester with routes that take advantage of the bus-only CTfastrak roadway. The CTfastrak system will provide a one-seat, no-transfer ride to many major regional employment, shopping and healthcare destinations as well as connections to the New Haven Line-Waterbury branch rail in Waterbury and Amtrak service in Hartford.

For information about CTfastrak, visit www.ctfastrak.com, connect via Facebook at www.facebook.com/CTfastrak or Twitter at @ctfastrak. Route timetables are available at www.cttransit.com under the "Schedules/CTfastrak" tab.

CTtransit is the state-owned bus transit system serving the Greater Hartford, New Haven, Stamford, Waterbury, New Britain, Meriden, Bristol, and Wallingford areas. For information on the service, including schedules, route and fare information, please visit www.cttransit.com.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=563042
