Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces State's Toolkit for Families Concerned about Immigration Enforcement is Now Available in Nine Languages
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 24, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the state toolkit he released last month that provides user-friendly, step-by-step resources and forms for parents and guardians who have concerns about immigration enforcement and its potential impact on the custody of their children is now available to download in nine languages: Arabic, English, French, Haitian Creole, Mandarin, Polish, Portuguese, Spanish, and Vietnamese.
The state's Family Preparedness Plan is designed to provide information on steps people can take on their own to ensure that their children -- who themselves may be United States citizens -- remain in safe custody with a "standby guardian" of their own choosing should the child's parents or guardians be detained or deported. Having parents designate a standby guardian also prevents these children from being placed in state care.
It can be downloaded online in all nine languages through the Governor's website by visiting http://portal.ct.gov/FamilyPreparedness.
"We want to make sure that people have a plan in place should immigration action separate their families," Governor Malloy said. "I strongly encourage anyone with these kinds of concerns to utilize this toolkit, fill out the forms, and store them in a safe location."
There is no cost to fill out any of the forms contained in this toolkit and they may be completed without the involvement of attorneys or any court. The guide also includes information on where to find immigration legal assistance, and guidance on how to avoid immigration scams.
It has been distributed to a number of partnering organizations throughout Connecticut, including town governments, school districts, libraries, legal services organizations, and the United Way 2-1-1. Other groups are encouraged to download it and share it with interested parties who may find it useful.

Source:
