Public Statements
Gov. Malloy On Committee Approval Of Legislation Protecting State Transportation Funds
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 18, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy released the following statement regarding the bipartisan vote this afternoon by the General Assembly's Transportation Committee in support of legislation he introduced creating a transportation funding "lockbox":

"If we are going to make the type of investments necessary for building a stronger and better transportation system in Connecticut, we must have a covenant with our citizens that ensure any money raised for transportation will only be spent on transportation. If we don't have that agreement up front, we'll never gain the trust necessary for getting this done. And we can't afford a piecemeal approach -- any funding mechanism to fund transportation must be comprehensive in nature.

"In the coming days, I plan to appoint my Governor's Commission to put forward a menu of options to fund our thirty-year vision for a best-in-class transportation system.

"To continue thriving and growing as a state, to attract new companies and more jobs, and improve our quality of life, we must make essential investments in our transportation system. If we want to make our state an even better place to live, work, and raise a family, we need to move our infrastructure into the 21st Century. For too long, this state delayed necessary action -- and it has no doubt hindered our ability to grow.

"With this legislation, we will ensure that every single dollar raised for transportation is spent on transportation, now and into the future. I want to thank the committee to their bipartisan approval of our bill, and I look forward to its swift approval through both chambers, so that I can sign it into law and we can create a best-in-class transportation system for Connecticut."

The two pieces of legislation approved by the committee today are House Bill 6857, An Act Protecting Transportation Funds, and House Joint Resolution 63, Resolution Proposing a Constitutional Amendment to Protect Transportation Funds.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=562618
