Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Graduation Rates Continue To Climb
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 18, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, joined by Interim Commissioner of Education Dianna R. Wentzell, today announced that graduation rates continue to climb as persistent graduation gaps continue to close. In 2014, the statewide graduation rate increased 1.5 points to 87.0 percent--up for a total 5.2 points since 2010.

"A high school diploma sets students on a path towards brighter futures and lifelong success. With graduation rates rising and hard-to-close gaps declining, we are improving lives -- now and in the long-term. We have supported our students, teachers, and schools, and we're seeing the benefits," Governor Malloy said. "When it comes to our schools, we're making smart decisions today for a brighter tomorrow. I would like to thank those who helped make these impressive results possible -- all of our teachers, principals, educators, and superintendents."

In 2014, black, Hispanic, and free-or-reduced-price-lunch-eligible students continued to substantially outpace the statewide average yearly increase at 2.9 points, 3.8 points, and 3.8 points, respectively. Over the last four years, graduation rates increased by nearly 10 points for black students, by 10 points for Hispanic students, and by 13.2 points for low-income students.

"Graduation from high school is a culmination of years of hard work, growth, and development," said Interim Commissioner Wentzell. "Connecticut students and teachers continue to reach higher, push forward, and, as a result, graduation rates continue to increase and gaps are closing."

Through the Alliance District program, the State provides increased funding tied to greater accountability for the 30 lowest performing school districts. During the past three years, over $250 million has been invested into the Alliance Districts to help them strengthen their schools and improve outcomes for students.

The Educational Reform Districts[1], a subset of the Alliance Districts and among the 10 lowest performing in the state, showed a 2.5-point gain as compared with 2013. New Haven Public Schools, an educational reform district, increased 13 points since 2010 to a 75.5 percent graduation rate in 2014.

"New Haven's graduation rate has risen for the sixth year in a row, a testament to the hard work and collaboration of the many partners who work inside and outside the classroom to keep our students on the path to success. At New Haven Academy and across the district, students are engaged in their own futures," said New Haven Superintendent Garth Harries. "I thank Governor Malloy, Mayor Harp and all the educators, parents and partners who continue to play a role in preparing our students for success in college, career and life."

Schools and districts across the state continued to improve and strengthen supports for all students. In Fairfield, graduation rates increased 1.2 points in 2014 to 93.8 percent.

"I am pleased that the hard work of our high school teachers, guidance counselors and school leaders has led to an increase in our four-year graduation rate," said Superintendent David Title. "In partnership with parents and students, our staff is dedicated to ensuring that every student in Fairfield meets our high standards for graduation."

Graduation rates are calculated according to the Adjusted Cohort Graduation Rate method, which the National Governors Association developed and is considered to be the most precise method. These rates represent the percentage of first-time ninth-grade students who graduated with a regular high school diploma in four years or less. It is based on individual student-level data, excludes ninth-grade repeaters, late graduates, and accounts for transfers in and out of the graduating class over the four-year period.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=562568
