Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State Offers Advice to Homeowners During this Season's Snow Thaw
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 10, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today said that with winter weather appearing to finally loosen its grip on Connecticut and warmer temperatures steadily approaching, homeowners should caution themselves and keep an eye on indoor leaking as the deep snow pack on roofs and surrounding building foundations begins to melt.

The state's consumer protection and insurance agencies are encouraging consumers to proactively conduct research now for qualified, registered home repair contractors who can be called upon in the event that problems occur, and to also review their homeowners' policy in the event they need to make a claim.

"It has been and continues to be a difficult winter," Governor Malloy said. "Leaks may occur, and as snow melts, residents should take the time to review their policies now so they understand their options in the event of a claim later. As always, do research on the companies you hire to do work on your home."

"When there's a problem inside your home, you want it fixed quickly, so do your homework now," Department of Consumer Protection Commissioner Jonathan A. Harris said. "Don't wait until there's a problem and then react. Steer clear of any contractors who go door-to-door, call, post notices on bulletin boards or utility poles, or advertise online unless you check them out thoroughly first. Act now to avoid being scammed or taken advantage."

"The damage from ice dams and leaking roofs may result in an increase in insurance claims over the next several weeks and some homeowners may be making a claim for the first time," Connecticut Insurance Department Acting Commissioner Anne Melissa Dowling said. "Consumers should take the time to discuss their coverage with their agent or company to understand their policy protections. The Insurance Department strongly encourages homeowners to contact the Department with any questions regarding their policy, coverage or the claims process."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=562068
