Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: New Round of Funding will Help Clean up and Reactivate Connecticut Brownfields
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 4, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced the Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD) is now accepting applications for a new round of grant funding of up to $7.5 million that will be awarded to help remediate and redevelop brownfield sites throughout the state. A total of $6.5 million will be earmarked for remediation projects and $1 million will be earmarked for assessment projects.

"With the right investment, state and local governments can work together to restore blighted properties that can bolster our economy and add to our quality of life," said Governor Malloy. "When we clean up these sites and repurpose them, we can turn what was once an eyesore into a community asset that can help revitalize a neighborhood and spark economic growth."

"This funding demonstrates our continued commitment to Connecticut cities and towns, and our economic development," said Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman. "Beyond the clear benefits of removing toxins and poisons from our environment, brownfield remediation is another partnership between state government and local communities that improves the quality of life for residents, creates jobs, and restores land to viability."

Since 2011, the Malloy administration has allocated nearly more than $110 million in state funding for brownfield remediation and redevelopment in the form of loans and grants to municipalities and developers. For every dollar invested by the state, $3.43 has been or will be invested by non-state partners. By comparison, since 1995, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has invested $190 million nationally for brownfield cleanup. In August, DECD awarded $27 million to 20 remediation and redevelopment projects, which was the largest round of brownfield remediation investments ever made in the state's history.

The funding announced today will be made available under the Connecticut Brownfield Remediation Program. Eligible applicants for grant funding include municipalities and economic development agencies. Grant applicants can request funding of up to $2 million for remediation projects and up to $200,000 for assessment projects.

Awards may be used for a range of brownfield assessment, remediation and redevelopment activities, including abatement, demolition, site investigation and assessment, groundwater monitoring, installation of institutional controls, and professional services fees associated with redevelopment including attorney's fees, and planning, design and consulting fees.

"As Connecticut's economy continues to grow and add new jobs, we have seen a significant increase in interest in brownfield redevelopment from businesses and developers that are eager to reactivate sites with great infrastructure and transportation resources, such as brownfields," said DECD Commissioner Catherine H. Smith. "With targeted public investment in remediation and assessment, we believe we can convert more brownfields into economic assets."

"Cleaning up and redeveloping brownfields is a win for the environment and for the economy," said Robert J. Klee, Commissioner of Energy and Environmental Protection. "Redeveloping brownfields transforms these sites from an environmental and economic burden to an asset to local communities and the whole state. Brownfield locations are also the wise choice for development and growth, as these properties and the surrounding areas have had significant infrastructure investments in water, sewer, transportation, and energy. This enhances local economies and helps to reduce the pressure to develop open space."

"Under Governor Malloy's leadership and in partnership with the General Assembly, Connecticut is becoming a national leader in the remediation and redevelopment of brownfields," said DECD Deputy Commissioner Tim Sullivan. "Across the state, long-stuck sites are being brought back to productive reuse, and we look forward to making additional investments in the projects that will seek funding in this new application round."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=561852
