Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Selects Lt. Colonel Sean Connolly as Veterans' Affairs Commissioner
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 26, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he is nominating Lt. Colonel Sean Connolly of Hebron to serve as Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Veterans' Affairs.

Connolly currently works with Pratt & Whitney as the Global Ethics and Compliance Officer. He is also a Lt. Colonel in the U.S. Army Reserve, currently serving with the 655th Regional Support Group headquartered at Westover Air Reserve Base.

"Connecticut has over 270,000 veterans and active duty military personnel residing in our state, and whether they are currently serving, just returned from deployment, or finished their service years ago, they deserve our support and commitment through each step of their lives. State government has a responsibility to meet this obligation and ensure that Connecticut's veterans have access to the resources and tools they need," Governor Malloy said. "Lt. Colonel Connolly's personal experience serving in the military, in addition to his work in the private sector, gives him a unique familiarity with the needs of the men and women who make up our armed forces, and I am excited that he is now bringing this service to state government."

"While Connecticut's Department of Veterans' Affairs is a strong advocate on behalf of our military families, for so many service men and women it's also a critical link to key housing, employment, and health services," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "I want to thank Acting Commissioner Perkins for all he's done for our veterans. Connecticut has been fortunate to have experienced leadership in the department -- men and women who first served their country and then went on to serve the state. Lt. Colonel Connolly's expertise will be a tremendous asset to our veterans and the State of Connecticut, and we thank him for his service and welcome him in this new role."

Prior to joining Pratt & Whitney, Connolly was a senior associate at Greenberg Traurig, LLP in Washington, DC as a member of the Government Contracts and Homeland Security Practice Groups. He also previously served on active duty for over seven years as an Army Judge Advocate in a variety of positions, most recently as a Trial Attorney with the Contract and Fiscal Law Division of the U.S. Army Legal Services Agency, litigating government contract disputes, defending bid protests, and advising on procurement fraud actions.

In addition, he served as an assistant legal advisor and executive officer for the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Office of the Appointing Authority for Military Commissions, where he advised the appointing authority and general counsel of the Department of Defense on legal and procedural issues.

A veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom, Connolly served as a prosecutor and brigade legal advisor with the 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault) at Fort Campbell, Kentucky, and in Kuwait and Iraq, where he was responsible for trying all courts-martial, non-judicial punishment, elimination boards, and administrative separation actions within two brigades, as well as advising on operational and administrative law matters.

"As a veteran myself, who continues to wear the uniform in the Army Reserve, I am deeply humbled and grateful for this chance to serve the veterans of the State of Connecticut," Connolly said. "Our veterans and their families face significant challenges against homelessness, physical and mental health concerns, finding and transitioning to good civilian jobs, and getting the support they so deeply deserve. Working together, we will build a world-class Veterans' Affairs program. Those who have selflessly served our state and nation deserve no less."

Connolly taught as an adjunct lecturer at the Catholic University of America, Columbus School of Law, and served as a law clerk to the Honorable H.F. "Sparky" Gierke in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces. He served as an elected member of the National Board of Directors of the Federal Bar Association from 2006 to 2011, and was also President of the Pentagon Chapter of the Federal Bar Association from 2004 to 2005. He now serves as an appointed member of the Federal Bar Association's National Council.

He received his undergraduate degree from Bryant University, cum laude, and his juris doctor from the Catholic University of America, Columbus School of Law. He is admitted to the bars of Connecticut, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Army Court of Criminal Appeals, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, and the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. He is also a member of American Legion, Post 95 in Hebron, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Post 8776 in Hebron, the 101st Airborne Division Association, the Association of the United States Army, and the Army Aviation Association of America.

His military awards and decorations include the Bronze Star Medal, the Meritorious Service Medal (three awards), the Joint Service Commendation Medal, the Army Commendation Medal (two awards), the Army Achievement Medal (two awards), the Iraqi Campaign Medal, and the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal. He is also entitled to wear the Air Assault Badge and the Office of the Secretary of Defense Identification Badge.

He is married to Carol A. Connolly, Esq., and they have two children, Sean and Brendan.

Connolly begins his service as Commissioner on March 16 and will succeed Linda Schwartz, who resigned as the head of the department last fall after being appointed by President Obama to serve in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Deputy Commissioner Joseph Perkins has been serving as Acting Commissioner on an interim basis since that time.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=561516
