Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Island to Launch Multi-state Clean Energy Initiative
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 25, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced today that Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Island have initiated a coordinated process that will lead to a three-state Request for Proposals (RFP) for clean energy resources.

"By working together with neighboring states we can make the most efficient use of our resources to attract new clean energy projects at the lowest possible cost for ratepayers while advancing our interests in reducing emissions of greenhouse gases," said Governor Malloy. "The joint procurement process opens the possibility of procuring large-scale projects and transmission to deliver clean energy on a scale that no single state could secure on its own."

Other goals include diversifying the fuel mix in New England and helping to address winter reliability issues.

The three states took the first step in the procurement process by formally releasing a draft RFP for a 30-day comment period. The comment period will end on March 27, 2015. After considering the comments, the states will issue the final RFP this spring.

The RFP will seek bids on new Class I Renewable Energy projects -- which include wind, solar, small hydro, biomass and fuel cells - of at least 20 megawatts (MW) and large-scale hydro power projects that were constructed after January 1, 2003.

The draft RFP seeks to allow the states to consider projects for the delivery of clean energy through: 1) traditional power purchase agreements that do not require transmission upgrades, 2) purchase power agreements that require transmission, and/or 3) transmission projects containing clean energy delivery commitments, but without any associated power purchase agreements. The RFP invites bids for projects that deliver firm incremental clean energy over new or existing transmission projects of up to the equivalent of 500 MW of wind for Connecticut.

The State of Connecticut has the ability to participate in this multi-state initiative as a result of the Governor's Comprehensive Energy Strategy, which the General Assembly approved in 2013.

Source:
