Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Appoints Jorge Perez to Serve as Commissioner of the Department of Banking
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 13, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he is selecting Jorge Perez of New Haven to serve as Commissioner of the Department of Banking.

With over 25 years of experience working in the banking industry, Perez currently serves as Vice President Senior Commercial Loan Officer with Liberty Bank. Prior to that, he worked at Sovereign Bank New England as the Vice President Community Banking Manager of the New Haven Exchange Branch.

"Jorge has many years of service in the banking community, in addition to the years of service he has provided to his home community in New Haven," Governor Malloy said. "The Department of Banking serves a critical service to the people of Connecticut, ensuring that consumers can have confidence in financial institutions and receive the protections to which they are entitled. I look forward to having Jorge serve in this capacity on behalf of the state and continue the important work of this agency."

"I am humbled and honored for the opportunity to be appointed as the next banking commissioner of this great state," Perez said. "I'm thankful and grateful to Governor Malloy for his confidence and look forward to working with the staff to continue serving the residents and the financial services industry in Connecticut."

In addition to his work at Liberty Bank, Perez also has served on the Board of Aldermen for the City of New Haven since 1987 representing the 5th ward in the Hill neighborhood. He currently serves as the Board's President.

Perez has also served as a member on the Boards of Community Action Agency and Habitat for Humanity -- serving as Treasurer for both institutions -- the Board of Directors of the Connecticut Housing Finance Authority, and the Board of Directors of the Hill Development Corporation of New Haven, where he served as Chairman of the Special Projects Committee.

The Department of Banking is responsible for protecting users of financial services from unlawful or improper practices by requiring that regulated entities and individuals adhere to the law, assuring the safety and soundness of state chartered banks and credit unions, educating and communicating with the public and other stakeholders, and promoting cost-efficient and effective regulation.

Perez will begin the position on March 13. He will succeed Howard Pitkin, who retired from the position in January.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=560806
