Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Releases Second Installment of Town Aid Road Funding for Cities and Towns Statewide
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 11, 2015
Location: Waterbury, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced the release of the second of two $30 million installments of Town Aid Road funding for cities and towns across Connecticut -- a total of $60 million statewide. After funding fluctuated between $12.5 million and $30 million for years, Governor Malloy doubled Town Aid Road to provide more support for municipalities to improve their local transportation systems. The announcement was made at the City of Waterbury's public works facility with Mayor Neil M. O'Leary and Department of Transportation Commissioner James P. Redeker.

"As we have an adult dialogue on transportation and work to build a 21st Century system, I've backed up my words with real specifics and real action. When I present my budget next week, I'll propose a transformative plan for our infrastructure that makes Connecticut best-in-class," said Governor Malloy. "Today's funding release is important -- as we have faced a series of intense winter storms, this infusion of dollars will help cities and towns move forward. I'm proud to have doubled Town Aid Road funds, and I look forward to supporting our municipalities even further after we propose our transformational plan next week."

"Municipalities can use these funds for a variety of purposes," Commissioner Redeker explained, "including construction or maintenance of highways and bridges, snow removal, the trimming and removal of trees, the installation of traffic signs and signals and for providing and operating essential public transportation services and related facilities."

"These funds are absolutely vital for the City of Waterbury," Mayor O'Leary said. "They allow us to fund critical improvements to keep our local roadways safe. This past year this has included numerous drainage, traffic signal repair and replacement as well as crosswalk construction projects. Most importantly, we have utilized this support to purchase the sand and salt we have needed for the 28 winter events so far this year that have required our public road crews to be deployed."

The grant amount allocated to each municipality is based on several factors including population, miles of improved roads, and miles of unimproved roads. TAR funding can be used for a wide range of purposes including local-road-related: construction or maintenance of highways and bridges, snow removal, the trimming and removal of trees, the installation of traffic signs and signals and for providing and operating essential public transportation services and related facilities. The first installment of Town Aid Road funding for this fiscal year was available in July 2014.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=560744
