Public Statements
Gov. Malloy & Lt. Gov. Wyman Praise Final Legislative Passage of a Constitutional Amendment Creating a Transportation Lockbox
Statement
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: June 7, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman are enthusiastically applauding the Connecticut State Senate for voting today to give final legislative passage on a resolution that will create an amendment in the state constitution to guarantee that funding set aside for transportation is used for transportation projects.
Today's legislative approval means that the question on whether to adopt the constitutional amendment will next go to the voters in a referendum that will be held during the next statewide election in November 2018. Once approved by the voters, it will be ratified into the state constitution.
Governor Malloy said, "The residents of Connecticut deserve a modernized, best-in-class transportation system that promotes growth, attracts businesses, delivers jobs, and makes our state an even more desirable place to live and work. For too long, our state languished in the upkeep of our transportation infrastructure at the expense of businesses, our economy, and our quality of life. We must think big on transportation -- there are billions of dollars at stake in productivity, commerce, and economic activity. I think the people of our state agree that protecting transportation funding in a lockbox that cannot be raided and used for any other purpose is the right step forward for our state. I want to thank the members of the General Assembly for their forward-thinking vision in approving this constitutional amendment to help Connecticut move forward to improve our infrastructure. I also want to particularly acknowledge State Representative Tony Guerrera and the leadership in the House and the Senate for their collective efforts in approving this amendment and getting it to the voters."
Lt. Governor Wyman said, "Stable, consistent transportation funding means improved roads, public transit, and bike/ped options. A transportation lockbox will help us advance our broader goals to increase efficiency in commerce, strengthen industry, and attract a younger workforce. It will also save thousands of driver hours and help reduce pollution, including the health and climate consequences of carbon emissions. I applaud Governor Malloy's leadership and the legislature for moving this forward."
The legislation is House Joint Resolution 100, Resolution Approving a State Constitutional Amendment to Protect Transportation Funds. It was adopted by the House of Representatives yesterday.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/en/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2017/06-2017/Gov-Malloy-and-Lt-Gov-Wyman-Praise-Final-Passage-of-an-Amendment-Creating-a-Transportation-Lockbox
