Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Winter Storm to Impact the State Through Monday
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 8, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

With another winter storm bearing down on the state, Governor Dannel P. Malloy is urging everyone to take it slow and allow for extra time to get to and from destinations on Monday, February 9, 2015.
Nonessential state employees are to report to work at their normally scheduled time on Monday. Nonessential state employees can use personal and vacation time if they are unable to report to work or need to report late.
"We continue to be in a stormy weather pattern, and since this is winter in New England, we must all be prepared to deal with these types of storms. DOT trucks will be treating the roads through the entire storm so we can keep the state open for business," Governor Malloy said. "Driving conditions will not be optimal tomorrow, but roads will be passable. If you must drive, take it slow and give yourself extra time to get to and from your destinations."
The Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection's Division of Emergency Management and Homeland Security will continue to monitor conditions across the state during the duration of the storm and is ready to quickly coordinate any assistance, provide updates if the forecast changes, and assist municipalities as needed.
Snowfall of varying intensities is forecasted to continue throughout the day and evening on Monday, impacting both the morning and evening commutes. Total snowfall is currently forecast to range from 2 to 4" in Southern CT, 4 to 8" in Central CT up to 8 to 10" in Northern CT, with some higher amounts possible in the NW Hills. The timing on the snowfall can be modified based on changing weather forecasts.
The National Weather Service has issued Winter Storm Warnings for Litchfield, Hartford, Tolland, and Windham Counties and Winter Weather Advisories for Fairfield, New Haven, Middlesex, and New London Counties.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=560566
