Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Successful Crime Reduction Policies Must Include Making Ex-Offenders Productive Members of Society
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 4, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today met with community leaders and city officials in Hartford for a roundtable discussion on the "Second Chance Society" initiatives he unveiled during a policy speech yesterday, and highlighted one specific initiative in his comprehensive package that he said is one of the most effective ways to reduce crime while helping former offenders re-enter society: expanding education and employment opportunities.

"If we want to have a successful, cohesive criminal justice strategy that focuses on preventing re-entry, we must have the resources and tools available to ensure that ex-offenders can become productive members of society upon their eventual release," Governor Malloy said. "By expanding education opportunities and connecting this population with employers in need of workers, we can make a real impact that drives our crime rate even lower and prevents recidivism."

As part of his overall "Second Chance Society" initiatives, the Governor is ordering the expansion of the state's Integrated Basic Education and Skills Training (I-BEST), which is currently a pilot program administered by the Connecticut Department of Labor (CTDOL) located in the Hartford region that is based upon the State of Washington's nationally recognized model. An evidence-based program, it provides vocational skills training and adult basic education including adult literacy.

While learning vocational skills and adult literacy, participants are trained by employers to learn skills required for a specific job, which eventually leads to full-time employment with the employer from whom they are receiving training. I-BEST is market-focused to meet specific employer needs.

"Those utilizing I-BEST will receive the literacy skills and training that they need while they gain real life experience on the job. This intensive training will ultimately help them obtain full-time employment," Governor Malloy said.

Through the program's expansion, CTDOL will partner with the Connecticut Department of Correction to specifically target ex-offenders who are reintegrating into society. CTDOL will work with local employers, Workforce Investment Boards, the State Department of Education, adult education providers, philanthropic organizations, and other community and nonprofit organizations to create a successful network to support the program.

As the program continues its development, the Governor said he would like to see it expanded to other urban areas in the state.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=560372
