Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Reminds Residents to Have a Plan in Place for Safe Driving on Super Bowl Sunday
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 30, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy is urging drivers in Connecticut who will be celebrating this weekend's Super Bowl to have a plan in place to get home safely, as well as take extra precautions when getting behind the wheel.

During and after the game, Connecticut State Police will be attentive to roads and highways across the state for the possibility of drunk drivers. As always, Troopers will aggressively enforce all motor vehicle laws.

"Many of us are excited to have a local team in the big game and we want everyone to enjoy themselves, but that cannot and should not come at the expense of public safety. If you are going to consume alcohol, have a plan to get home and stick to that plan," said Governor Malloy. "Don't put your life and the lives of others in danger. Have a plan, identify a designated driver, drink responsibly, and never let a friend drive drunk. Enjoy Super Bowl Sunday -- but please, be smart about getting to and from your home."

Connecticut State Police officials warn Super Bowl Sunday has been one of the most dangerous days on the roads and highways of our state due to impaired, driving-related accidents.

"The designation of a sober driver is the best way to ensure everyone on the road remains safe and sound. Impaired drivers are subject to arrest, fines, jail time, and other penalties," noted Dora B. Schriro, Commissioner of the Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection. "Designating a sober driver will help ensure that a day meant for friends and celebrations will be a win for everyone."

"Our Troopers will be on the roads, ensuring the safety of all drivers," said State Police Colonel Brian Meraviglia. "We urge motorists to use caution and obey all traffic laws."

In 2014 during Super Bowl Sunday, State Troopers arrested seven drivers for DUI, issued 212 tickets for speeding, and 414 tickets for hazardous moving violations.

The Connecticut State Police also remind residents that in Connecticut, football pools are legal, as long as all of the money taken in for the pool is given back to the winners participating in the pool. No percentage or cut can be taken by the person organizing the pool for their time and/or expense of running the pool. In addition, no betting pools of any kind can be run in any establishment or bar selling alcohol.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=560196
