Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Funding for Repairs and Construction at Hammonasset State Park
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 30, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State Bond Commission has approved more than $9.9 million for repairs and construction at Hammonasset State Park in Madison that will be used to construct a new bathhouse to replace two buildings that were significantly damaged and subsequently demolished following Tropical Storm Irene and to replace the Meigs Point Nature Center.

"Hammonasset Beach State Park is Connecticut's most popular state park with approximately two million visitors enjoying this beautiful destination every year," Governor Malloy said. "Last year, we had the opportunity to celebrate 100 years of the Connecticut State Parks system, and as we move into the second century, it is important that we continue to invest in their maintenance and construction. We need to invest so we can enjoy our parks now and in the long term."

"We are grateful to the continued support of Governor Malloy and the legislature in providing the necessary funding to keep our state parks and forests in excellent condition," Department of Energy and Environmental Protection Commissioner Robert Klee said. "We are also fortunate to have an excellent and enthusiastic Friends of Hammonasset Group that is invaluable in helping us maintain Hammonasset."

State Senator Ted Kennedy, Jr. said, "The projects approved today will help ensure that Hammonasset Beach State Park remains a place thousands of families visit each year. Hammonasset draws visitors from around the country and the world, and it is important that we continue to support it. The Meigs Point Nature Center has enriched the educations of schoolchildren throughout our state, and I look forward to seeing the work of Ranger Russ and the Friends of Hammonasset continue in the new facility."

Construction at Hammonasset will include the following:

$7,515,790 for constructing a single building complex to replace two buildings that had to be demolished after suffering significant damage during Tropical Storm Irene. The complex will include a men's and women's toilet building, a new concession area, and Environmental Conservation Police/First Aid office, and a storage building for lifeguard equipment.
$2,389,451 for replacing the old Meigs Point Nature Center with a new facility. The old facility has been deemed to small and impractical to meet expanded programs and public needs. The new Nature Center will be able to accommodate larger school groups and will also be more energy efficient.

The funding is being made available as part of the state's ongoing commitment to improving and maintaining Connecticut's system of 109 state parks and 32 state forests. It is estimated by the Office of Policy and Management that 208 jobs will be created or sustained through these two projects.

Source:
