Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces $5.1M in Funds to Enhance Connecticut's Power Grid
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 30, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced that the state Bond Commission today approved $5.1 million for the creation of two microgrid projects in Bridgeport and Milford that will help keep critical buildings and facilities powered even when the electric grid goes down.

In July 2013, nine microgrid projects in Bridgeport, Fairfield, Groton, Hartford, Middletown, Storrs, Windham, and Woodbridge were awarded $18 million as part of the first round of grants under DEEP's Microgrid Program. One of those nine projects at Wesleyan University in Middletown is already operational. The remaining projects are in various stages of development.

Each microgrid project is designed to provide power for government services and businesses that are critical during extreme weather events, such as police, fire, emergency response teams, shelters, dining facilities, state and town emergency response centers, grocery stores, and gas stations.

The funding comes as part of the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection's (DEEP) innovative Microgrid Program, which was created by legislation Governor Malloy signed in 2013 and designed to increase public safety and quality-of-life for Connecticut residents during electric grid outage situations caused by natural disasters or other emergency situations.

"Just this week, our state was hit with another severe weather event that threatened our electric grid. While we were fortunate to experience relatively few outages during this most recent weather event, we must be prepared to provide critical support and services to our residents when the lights do go out -- and microgrid projects can help us do just that," Governor Malloy said. "Microgrids are an essential part of our strategy to make certain that we can better withstand the type of catastrophic storms we have experienced in recent years, and the extended loss of power that accompanies them."

Microgrids provide electricity to critical facilities and town centers on a 24/7 daily basis and include a system to isolate the microgrid so it can provide power even when there is a large-scale outage.

"These microgrid projects in Bridgeport and Milford, in addition to the other projects previously approved, will improve public health and safety by allowing for the continuation of municipal services and giving residents a place to seek shelter and stay warm and dry," said DEEP Commissioner Robert Klee. "Microgrids are a key part of our efforts to build and harden the resiliency of our state."

The two projects approved by the Bond Commission today are:

Bridgeport -- Power will be provided to University of Bridgeport campus buildings including a dining hall, recreation center, student center, police station and two residence halls. The DEEP microgrid grant will provide almost $2.2 million in funding for eligible design, engineering and interconnection infrastructure costs. The microgrid will be powered by a 1.4MW fuel cell. The UB buildings will be available to serve city residents during a power outage or emergency. The on-campus facilities can provide shelter to about 2,700 residents and the dining hall can provide food service to residents as well as emergency responders. This project is a logical companion to a Bridgeport microgrid project funded in a first round of grants, which will provide power largely for critical city services.

Milford -- Power will be provided to the Parsons Government Center, middle school, senior center, senior housing and city hall. The middle school and senior center will be available as shelters for residents during a power outage. The DEEP microgrid grant will provide about $2.9 million in funding for eligible design, engineering and interconnection infrastructure costs. The microgrid will be powered by (2) 148kW natural gas CHP units, 120kW of PV and a 100kW battery energy storage system.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=560180
