Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Encourages Residents To Be Prepared and Take Necessary Precautions for Possible Blizzard Conditions
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 25, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

With the latest forecast calling for blizzard conditions across parts of the state, Governor Dannel P. Malloy is asking residents to be prepared and take the necessary precautions for a significant snowstorm that will impact the state Monday evening through Tuesday.
"Although storms can be unpredictable, this storm has the potential to have a significant impact on the state and we need to be prepared," Governor Malloy said. "Just as the state is monitoring and preparing, the public should do the same."
"The Division of Emergency Management and Homeland Security (DEMHS) is monitoring this storm very closely and is prepared to coordinate any potential state response," Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection Commissioner Dora B. Schriro said.
DEMHS is also participating in National Weather Service conference calls to get the latest information on the storms track and is sending out regular updates to all municipalities and tribal nations.
The Connecticut Department of Transportation will have its entire fleet of snow plows, including 12 loader-mounted snow blowers, prepared to deploy. The residual road treatment from the previous weekend storm will help in the efforts to pretreat the roads.
Governor Malloy will be providing the state with additional updates as conditions warrant.
In order to be prepared for any type of emergency situation, the Governor encourages residents to have an emergency supply kit and follow some basic preparedness tips.
Items to be included in the kit:
One gallon of bottled water per person per day for at least three days, for drinking and sanitation
At least a three-day supply of non-perishable food for you and your pet
A three-day supply of prescription medication
Bttery-powered or hand crank radio and a NOAA Weather Radio with tone alert and extra batteries for both
Flashlight and extra batteries
First aid kit
A whistle to signal for help
Moist towelettes
Plastic trash bags and ties for personal sanitation
Wrench or pliers to turn off utilities
Manual can opener
Local maps
Cell phone with chargers, inverter or solar charger
Extra fuel (stored in a safe container) for the power generator
Additional preparedness tips:
In the event emergency travel is necessary, fill up your car with gas, check oil and windshield fluid levels
Sign up for emergency alerts at www.ctalert.gov
And always, check on your neighbor

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=559932
