Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Nominates Scott Semple as Commissioner of the Department of Correction
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 21, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he is nominating Scott Semple to serve as Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Correction (DOC). Semple has been serving as Acting Commissioner of the agency since August 2014 following the retirement of James E. Dzurenda from the position.

"Scott has extensive experience and knowledge of the inner workings of the Connecticut Department of Correction, including a number of years serving as a frontline correction officer, gaining a broad familiarity on best practices in handling offenders and finding ways to reduce recidivism," Governor Malloy said. "In particular, it should be noted that he has been heavily involved with enhancing the model of supervision and treatment for the mental health population. He is very well respected among his colleagues, and I am proud to nominate him as the agency's permanent commissioner."

Semple began his work with the DOC in 1988 as a frontline correction officer at the high-security Cheshire Correctional Institution. Since then, he has entered into a number of different positions within the department, eventually in 2009 becoming Warden of Garner Correctional Institution, which specializes in treatment for adult male offenders with significant mental health issues, and then was promoted in 2013 as Deputy Commissioner of Operations and Rehabilitative Services.

"I am humbled by this tremendous opportunity, and am truly grateful to Governor Malloy and Lieutenant Governor Wyman for placing their trust in me to lead the Department of Correction into the future," Commissioner Semple said. "The State of Connecticut has made great strides in helping offenders successfully reintegrate into society and become productive citizens. I am eager to work with the Governor, legislators and all stakeholders to continue to build on our progress."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=559728
