Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: New Haven "Boulevard' Project Highlights Bike/Pedestrian Commitment
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 20, 2015
Location: New Haven, CT

An innovative downtown development project in New Haven highlights the importance of incorporating two critical modes of urban transportation -- walking and bicycling -- Governor Dannel P. Malloy said today.

Governor Malloy and the Connecticut Department of Transportation have been committed to improving pedestrian access and bikeways across Connecticut:

There are 1,995 miles of trails and bike paths in Connecticut
CTDOT is committed to completing the East Coast Greenway through Connecticut. This is a national effort to connect Florida to Maine for non-motorized transportation users
Every new CTDOT project includes "context sensitive" design that includes planning for bike and pedestrian accommodations
CTDOT has a "Complete Streets" policy, designed to take all modes of transportation into account for urban and local roadways (bikes and pedestrians are prohibited on interstate highways)
All of the state's buses, commuter trains and ferries accommodate bicycles
Connecticut has a "3 foot law" that requires motorists to allow at least 3 feet clearance around cyclists

The Boulevard Project, also known as the Route 34 Downtown Crossing Project, will include new, realigned and widened streets and intersections, traffic signals, park-like landscaping and lanes for bicycles and pedestrians. The first phase was begun in 2013 with a $16 million TIGER* grant won by the City of New Haven and should be completed later this year. The second phase is now under design.

"Today we are highlighting a project that will help transform downtown New Haven increasing safety for pedestrians and bikers," Governor Malloy said. "This project can serve as an example for other downtown transportation efforts to make our cities more pedestrian and bike friendly so families can live in Connecticut with a car or without one. As we work to transform our state's transportation network, pedestrian and bikeway access has to be part of the conversation especially for urban and town center projects."

Connecticut Department of Transportation Commissioner James P. Redeker, whose agency is overseeing the New Haven project, said the city/state project has ushered in a new era of cooperative partnering and also includes private development along North Frontage Road (now Martin Luther King Boulevard) and South Frontage Road.

Phase Two of the project, expected to cost about $33 million, includes reconnecting the section of Orange Street that was severed by Route 34, extending the regional bike system and providing bike lanes along existing city streets, improving pedestrian access between the former New haven Coliseum site and Union Station, incorporating additional traffic calming measures along Route 34 between the I-91/95 interchange and Orange Street, and storm-water improvements to address flooding concerns along the corridor.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=559626
