Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Funds for Small, Innovative Housing Developments
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 16, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Department of Housing (DOH) Commissioner Evonne Klein today announced $9,555,585 in loans for the creation or rehabilitation of affordable housing units in small multifamily rental and homeownership developments across the state.

The funding aims to expand affordable housing opportunities by fostering innovative approaches in design, location, construction costs, operating costs, environmental sustainability, affordability, or support services. Developments that could serve as a model and be replicated on a larger scale were especially encouraged.

"We've already accomplished more in the past four years on housing than had been done in decades. The question now is, how do we raise the bar again to have a both short and long-run impact? Investments in safe, affordable housing undoubtedly pay long-term dividends, promoting healthier lives, stronger communities, and a more vibrant economy," said Governor Malloy. "This financial assistance -- encouraging innovation -- is a terrific way to ensure the state is meeting the urgent need for more housing options with unique, well-designed, sustainable, and cost-effective units."

"This funding was intended for smaller projects with total development costs of no more than $6 million and we limited our financial assistance to no more $2 million to ensure applicants leverage state assistance with substantial financial and/or in-kind resources from other sources, particularly private sources of debt and equity," said Commissioner Evonne Klein.

Earlier this week the state bond commission also approved $39.5 million in funding for the preservation and creation of over 1,000 units of housing across the state. Funding commitments by the Malloy administration are at the highest levels since 1989. Total funding, which now exceeds $400 million, is assisting in the preservation and creation of over 7,000 units of housing.

Source:
