Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Gold Star Bridge Illustrates Needs for Renewed Investment
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 15, 2015
Location: New London, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, using the 70-year-old, one-mile long Gold Star Bridge on I-95 as a backdrop, today highlighted the importance of long-term planning and investment in all modes of Connecticut's transportation infrastructure.

The Gold Star Bridge, spanning the Thames River between Groton and New London, is, at more than 5,900 feet, the longest bridge in Connecticut. The northbound bridge, which once carried I-95 traffic in both directions, opened in 1943. Thirty years later, a new southbound-only bridge was erected alongside the old one, which now carries northbound traffic exclusively. Combined, the two bridges carry about 100,000 vehicles per day.

"Today, both of these structures need work -- and a lot of it," said the Governor, standing on a state boat launch beneath the massive steel-truss bridges. "We can't afford to wait any longer to fix our aging bridges and infrastructure. But the conversation we are having with the people of Connecticut isn't just about band aids to our transportation network but transforming our roads, our bridges, our transit and other infrastructure to meet the needs of a 21st century economy. We simply cannot afford to defer that conversation any longer or the investments we need to make in our roads and bridges, rails and bus systems."

The northbound bridge is rated in poor condition and, while safe for travel, is "structurally deficient." The various deficiencies on this bridge include rehabilitation/replacement of the existing bridge deck, structural steel repairs, spot painting, replacement/rehabilitation of the existing bearings, replacement of the bituminous surface, and the replacement of existing sign supports.

In addition to the bridge work, Connecticut Department of Transportation Commissioner James P. Redeker said his agency (CTDOT) is developing plans for adding a new lane in each direction on I-95 through Southeastern Connecticut, including the critical junction of I-95 and I-395. This is part of the Governor's long-range vision to ultimately widen I-95 from the New York border to the Rhode Island border.

Governor Malloy will unveil his vision in detail in an address to the Connecticut General Assembly next month.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=559518
