Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Nominates Betsy Ritter to Serve as Commissioner of the Department on Aging
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 14, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he is nominating Elizabeth "Betsy" Ritter of Waterford to serve as Commissioner of the State Department on Aging (SDA).

Ritter most recently served five terms as State Representative for the 38th Assembly District of Waterford and Montville. During this time, she served in a leadership capacity as Deputy Speaker of the House, and she also served four years as co-chair of the Public Health committee.

"As a lawmaker, Betsy directed many of her efforts to the areas of public health and human services, specifically focusing a great deal on bringing affordable health care to the uninsured and underinsured," Governor Malloy said. "Our state has a growing senior population, and it is our obligation to ensure that this community receives the support they need to live with dignity, security and independence. I look forward to having Betsy serve in this capacity, and am confident that she will have an impact on our efforts to enhance the quality of life for present and future generations of older adults."

"Connecticut is committed to ensuring our seniors have access to support services, assistance navigating state and federal programs, and a clear path to the resources that will help them live healthy, fulfilled lives," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "Through the Department on Aging, Governor Malloy has made navigating these complex systems easier for our older residents. Betsy is a strong addition to the department's team and will be a tireless advocate for seniors."

"I am honored at the opportunity to serve the people of the State of Connecticut as Commissioner of the Department on Aging," Ritter said. "Our senior population is growing, and Governor Malloy has been a steadfast advocate for this agency and its mission. Now more than ever, it is important to understand and anticipate the growing needs of our seniors, and I am looking forward to continuing the work begun by Commissioner Prague to lead the agency."

Prior to becoming a state lawmaker, Ritter served for a number years on the municipal level for the Town of Waterford, and she also worked for ten years in hospital accounting and financial management.

The mission of SDA is to empower older adults to live full independent lives, and to provide leadership on aging issues on behalf of older adults, families, caregivers, and advocates. Created in 2013, the agency was formed through the consolidation of several relevant state offices, including the DSS State Unit on Aging and the Office of Long Term Care Ombudsman.

Ritter will succeed Edith Prague, who retired from the position last summer.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=559452
