Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces New M-8 Rail Cars for Metro-North New Canaan Branch
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 13, 2015
Location: Stamford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced today new M-8 cars have begun operating on the New Canaan Branch Line. The improvement will affect the 7:32 a.m. and the 7:58 a.m. departures from New Canaan and the 5:13 p.m. and 5:29 p.m. departure from Grand Central.

"Today's announcement is an important step toward improving the safety and enhancing the experience for Metro North commuters as well as bringing our transportation network into the 21st Century," Governor Malloy said. "It is also part of the ongoing dialogue we need to have with Connecticut residents about how we can transform our roads, our rail, and our infrastructure to meet the demands of our changing and evolving economy."

"We are making great strides on the New Canaan branch -- delivering to our customers what we promised: better and more reliable service," said CTDOT Commissioner James P. Redeker. "These top-of-the-line M-8 cars have been very well received by everyone and I am pleased to see them going into service on this key branch of the New Haven Line."

The new rail cars will help meet the increasing demands on the New Canaan Branch of the New Haven line. According to a study by (CTDOT) the projected effect will be a 44 percent increase in ridership at the New Canaan Branch over the next 15 years.

Currently nearly all New Haven Line trains are operating with the M-8s. Rail cars for the New Haven Line will continue to be delivered with all 380 electric cars accepted with the first two of 25 new, single, non-powered cars already in service today at the New Canaan Branch. An estimated 94 percent of the main line electric trains are M-8s and 100 percent of the regularly scheduled weekend main line electric trains are M-8s.

The original 380 order of M-8 cars operate in "married pairs," but the 25 option cars ordered from Kawasaki Rail Car Inc. in 2011 operate individually. This variation allows for an odd number of M-8 cars in a train consist.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=559384
