Public Statements
Gov. Malloy, Bond Commission Approve Design of Rail Stations on Hartford and New Haven Lines
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 12, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced today that $5.75 million approved this morning by the State Bond Commission will be used to advance design plans and address environmental issues for new railroad stations on the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield Line (NHHS) and the New Haven Line. The funding will be combined with another $4 million in previously approved funding.

Now branded as the "Hartford Line," the new NHHS line stations will be in Enfield, West Hartford, Newington and North Haven. Also included are enhancements to existing stations in Windsor Locks and Windsor, and a location study for a future Hamden station. On the New Haven Line, new stations will be added in Orange and Bridgeport (to be known as Barnum Station, a second station in the Park City), plus enhancements to the existing Merritt Seven Station on the Danbury Branch of the New Haven Line.

"Creating a commuter rail line along the I-91 corridor is part of our transformative transportation vision for Connecticut," Governor Malloy said. "This bond authorization will give this important project needed momentum. Completing environmental work and design is what will propel the projects toward reality. This $365 million project will improve the quality of intercity service along the corridor and enhance regional rail connections."

In partnership with the Malloy administration, the Connecticut Department of Transportation (CTDOT) is expanding passenger service along the 62-mile corridor between New Haven and Springfield. CTDOT anticipates much transit-oriented development in the corridor as a result of the more robust service.

CTDOT Commissioner James P. Redeker said that Connecticut will add 22 trains per day to the 12 trains that Amtrak currently operates and added, "This project will make rail travel far more attractive and competitive in the corridor."

Source:
