Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State Severe Weather Protocol Extended Through Sunday
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 9, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced he is extending the state's Severe Cold Weather Protocol through Sunday morning, January 11th as dangerously cold temperatures and wind chills continue to affect the state.

"With forecasted overnight lows in the single digits and below zero wind chills, I have directed the state Sever Weather Protocol be kept in place through Sunday morning," said Governor Malloy. "We must continue to protect the most vulnerable members of our state's population during these severe cold weather outbreaks. I urge anyone in need of shelter to call 2-1-1 and continue to encourage local communities to consider opening warming centers or other facilities to help people in need."

While activated, the Protocol directs the Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection (DESPP), the Department of Social Services (DSS), the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services (DMHAS), and the Department of Housing (DOH) to coordinate with 2-1-1 and Connecticut's network of shelters to ensure that the state's most vulnerable population are protected from the severe cold weather.

Under the state's Severe Cold Weather Protocol, DESPP's Division of Emergency Management and Homeland Security activates its WebEOC communications network -- an internet-based system that allows local, regional and state emergency management officials and first responders to share up-to-date information about a variety of situations and conditions. The system is used to monitor capacity at shelters across the state, enabling 2-1-1 to act as a clearinghouse to assist in finding shelter space for those who need it. Local officials, working through WebEOC, can alert 2-1-1 and the state when they open temporary shelters or warming centers.

DSS and DOH coordinate with 2-1-1 and the Connecticut Coalition to End Homelessness, as well as working with existing vendors to resolve transportation issues for people needing shelter during the period of severe cold.

DMHAS has teams who specialize in working with homeless people to locate those who are at risk, spread the word about the 2-1-1 system, and encourage everyone to take advantage of the safety of shelters. DMHAS also works with shelters to assess and meet the needs of individual clients.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=559246
