Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Says Funds to Finalize Purchase of the Preserve on Agenda For Bond Commission
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 9, 2015
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today said that $2 million in funding to help finalize and secure the purchase of the valuable shoreline property known as The Preserve is expected to be approved when the State Bond Commission meets Monday.

"Last spring, we promised that the State of Connecticut would be an active partner in providing funding needed to purchase The Preserve, and we are ready to fulfill that commitment," Governor Malloy said. "The permanent protection of The Preserve has been a goal of the land conservation community across our state for more than 15 years, and working together with the Trust for Public Land, and the towns of Old Saybrook, Essex, and Westbrook, we will now make that happen."

The Trust for Public Land, a leader in the effort to protect The Preserve, reached an agreement with River Sound Development LLC to purchase the property in July 2013 for $8.09 million. TPL's intent was to seek partners and raise funds for the purchase, and to then transfer the property to conservation partners, including the State of Connecticut's Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP), the Town of Old Saybrook, and the Essex Land Trust, which will manage the land.

In announcing the arrangement in April, Governor Malloy said the state would contribute funds through the State Bond Commission, as well as $1.4 million in federal funds. Since that announcement, DEEP has secured a $1.4 million grant from a National Park Service through the Land and Water Conservation Fund.

"This critical conservation project is happening thanks to the great support from Connecticut's conservation community and our conservation-minded citizens and leaders," said DEEP Commissioner Robert Klee. "Protecting this property ensures that critical habitats and wildlife will be protected, our water supplies will be safeguarded, and excellent recreational opportunities will be available."

In addition, voters in Old Saybrook authorized the town to provide $3 million in funding for the purchase of the portion of The Preserve located in Old Saybrook and a small piece in Westbrook.

"We look forward to closing on this property and partnering with the State on the preservation of this important piece of property," said Old Saybrook First Selectman Carl P. Fortuna, Jr. "We will be adding great environmental and recreational value to the region with this purchase, which the Town has been championing for over 15 years."

The Trust for Public Land is raising the final portion of funding for the purchase -- estimated at $1.2 million -- from private sources.

The Essex Land Trust, with the help of a $471,250 open space grant from DEEP, is purchasing the 70 acres of land in Essex that is a portion of The Preserve.

Following action by the State Bond Commission and the conclusion of the TPL fund raising campaign, a closing will be scheduled to purchase the property and turn it over to DEEP.

In the 2014 session of the General Assembly, action was taken to approve a proposal from Governor Malloy authorizing the transfer of most of the lands included in The Preserve to the state and the Town of Old Saybrook for joint ownership and management of these critical lands.

"Residents of Old Saybrook have a strong interest in protecting this property and demonstrated that by making funds available to help us accomplish this goal," Governor Malloy said. "The agreement we have put in place with Old Saybrook allows for a positive and productive partnership between the state and the town that will provide lasting benefits for everyone."

Other parties that strongly supported the purchase and protection of The Preserve include the Connecticut Fund for the Environment/Save the Sound, The Nature Conservancy, Audubon Connecticut, The Alliance for Sound Area Planning, and the Old Saybrook Land Trust.

Monday's meeting of the State Bond Commission will begin at 10:30 a.m. in Room 1E of the Legislative Office Building in Hartford.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=559154
