Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Reminds Residents that a Minimum Wage Increase Takes Effect on January 1, 2015
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 30, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy is reminding residents that Connecticut's minimum wage is scheduled to increase effective January 1, 2015 from the current rate of $8.70 an hour to $9.15 per hour.

The increase is the result of a new law Governor Malloy signed earlier this year that requires a series of modest increases through 2017. Following this week's increase, there are two more scheduled under the adopted law: it will rise to $9.60 on January 1, 2016, and then to $10.10 on January 1, 2017.

"Connecticut was the first state in the nation to commit to increasing the minimum wage to $10.10 per hour because we want to make sure that no one who works full time lives in poverty," Governor Malloy said. "This latest increase is just one more part of a phased-in series of gradual increases for hard-working men and women, many of whom are supporting their families and who will put this increase directly into Connecticut's economy."

Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said, "For the 125,000 Connecticut women who earn at or just above the minimum wage, this increase is critical -- it will help support families and improve women's future economic security. I applaud Governor Malloy and the legislature for their leadership on this issue. Raising the minimum wage will ensure fewer low-wage workers live in poverty and it will improve the state's economic health."

"Our state is taking the right step in its efforts to provide a better wage for lower-income workers," Connecticut Labor Commissioner Sharon M. Palmer said. "This phased-in increase will help families support themselves, and in turn will help grow Connecticut's economy."

Under Section 31-60 of the Connecticut General Statutes, the Connecticut minimum wage rates for service employees, specifically restaurant waitpersons or bartenders, are determined by using a formula that takes tip deductions into account. The rates can be found on the Connecticut Department of Labor's website at www.ct.gov/dol or by contacting the Labor Department's Division of Wage and Workplace Standards at 860-263-6790.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=558638
