Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Eight Schools and School Districts Awarded New Arts in Education Grants
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 18, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, joined by State Department of Education (SDE) Commissioner Stefan Pryor and Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD) Commissioner Catherine Smith, today announced the awardees of a new Arts in Education grant program designed to strengthen arts instruction by facilitating partnerships between schools and artists and arts organizations. In August, Governor Malloy announced the grant program, making a total of $250,000 available with individual awards up to a maximum of $50,000.

"This program expands the way the arts and humanities are taught in schools and school districts across Connecticut by giving our students access to a learning environment outside of the traditional academic setting," said Governor Malloy. "By focusing on all aspects of a student's educations, we can ensure our children gain the skills and knowledge to develop into successful young men and women."

The Arts in Education grant program is part of a multi-agency partnership between SDE, DECD's Connecticut Office of the Arts (COA), and the Connecticut Arts Council. Of the 82 schools and school districts that applied for the grant, eight schools will receive Arts in Education grants.

"The arts are an essential component of a well-rounded education," Commissioner of Education Stefan Pryor said. "The demand for these grants was high and we were thrilled to receive so many thoughtful applications. Through partnerships with local and statewide arts organizations and institutions, schools will be able to offer stronger arts programming that will enhance our youngsters' learning experiences."

"The arts are an integral part of creating -- and sustaining -- vibrant communities," said Commissioner of DECD Catherine Smith. "These investments will energize students and connect them to partners in the arts community in new and exciting ways."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=558282
