Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Statement on Final Passage of the National Defense Authorization Act
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 12, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today released the following statement after final congressional passage of the 2015 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA).

"I applaud passage of the 2015 National Defense Authorization Act and thank the members of our congressional delegation that worked so hard to pass a bill of critical importance to our nation and the State of Connecticut. I particularly want to thank Senator Blumenthal and Representative Courtney who serve on the respective Senate and House Armed Services Committees and played key roles drafting and passing this vital legislation.

"In particular, this NDAA establishes a National Commission on the Future of the Army and preserves Army National Guard combat aviation, personnel and force structure, which was a matter of great concern to all Governors. Preserving the current structure of the Guard and establishing a commission has been a particular focus for those of us serving on the Council of Governors. The Commission will provide an independent strategic review of Army force structure, and prevent cuts that would strip states of the critical personnel and equipment governors rely on during times of public emergency.

"The NDAA also authorizes crucial investments in our national security, including continued procurement of various weapons systems that are built in Connecticut and contribute to the Connecticut economy. Passage of this bill removes uncertainty from these major defense acquisition programs and enables our defense industries to make capital investments and hire essential people to produce those products required by the nation's national security strategy.

"In addition, this bill includes a federal lands package that designates Hartford's Coltsville as a U.S. National Park. I particularly want to commend Representative Larson and our Senators for their leadership in this achievement."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=557994
