Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Statewide Graduation Rates Increase for Sixth Year in a Row, Reach Record High
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 10, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and State Department of Education (SDE) Commissioner Dianna Wentzell today announced that graduation rates in the state reached an all-time high during the 2016 school year, hitting 87.4 percent, and that graduation gaps continue to close. Connecticut students continue to graduate high school within four years at a significantly higher rate than the national average of 83.2 percent.
Also on the rise is the graduate rate for schools that participate in Connecticut's Alliance District program. The graduation rates for the Alliance District schools reached 78.3 percent in 2016, up from 71.2 percent in 2011. The state's ten highest-need Opportunity District schools saw an even more dramatic increase over the past six years of over nine points, up to 73.0 percent in 2016.
"Connecticut is graduating more students than ever before and sending bright, talented young people into the world to make a big impact," Governor Malloy said. "I could not be more proud of our hard-working students -- the future is bright for our state. We need to continue making progress for all students, and that means keeping a laser-sharp focus on preparing all children for success in college and the workforce."
"The fact that Connecticut's graduation rate continues to rise means we are moving closer to our goal of ensuring every student has the tools and knowledge to succeed in college, career, and life," Commissioner Wentzell said. "I am inspired by the hard work and dedication our students invest in their education, and I look forward to following their future successes. I also want to congratulate our teachers, principals, superintendents, parents, and community partners for helping Connecticut students succeed and prepare for the challenges beyond high school."









Source:
