Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Dedicates the Summer of 2015 to Recognizing the US Coast Guard in Connecticut
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy Nancy Wyman
Date: Dec. 5, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he is designating the summer of 2015 as Connecticut's Coast Guard Summer in celebration of the 225th anniversary of the founding of the United States Coast Guard (USCG), the USCG Academy's 100 years at its current location in New London, and the City of New London's anticipated recognition as an official Coast Guard City®. As part of Connecticut's Coast Guard Summer, which will run from July 10 through September 12, 2015, several major event organizers in New London will choose themes to commemorate USCG for its service to the region and nation.

"The longtime presence of the U.S. Coast Guard in New London not only represents our state's rich maritime heritage but has also led to a strong partnership with the state that has driven economic development, tourism and industry for the region," said Governor Malloy. "We are proud that the academy and our newest national landmark -- the National Coast Guard Museum -- call Connecticut home and chose the summer of 2015 to celebrate that partnership while honoring the important role the men and women of the Coast Guard have played throughout our country's history."

In a letter to the Commandant of the USCG, Admiral Paul F. Zukunft, Governor Malloy requested that Admiral Zukunft consider coordinating USCG's participation in Connecticut's Coast Guard Summer, including sending additional USCG ships, aircraft, personnel and static displays and scheduling port visits to New London. The Connecticut Office of Military Affairs will be organizing state agency support for the project and will work with the City of New London and representatives of the USCG to assist in their planning and coordination.

"The Coast Guard is integral to ensuring the safety and security of our waterways, and we are so grateful for their service," said Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman. "Coast Guard Summer is a great way to honor the Coast Guard legacy, highlight the positive impact they continue to have on the state, and give our young people a sense of the tradition and history imbued by generations of Coast Guardsmen."

"I thank Governor Malloy for honoring both New London and the United States Coast Guard with this designation," said New London Mayor Daryl Finizio. "As home city to the United States Coast Guard Academy, the U.S. Barque Eagle, the Coast Guard Station New London, and as future home of the United States Coast Guard Museum, New London has a strong partnership with the United States Coast Guard. This is the perfect way to celebrate the Coast Guard's 225th birthday."

From July 10-12, New London will dedicate its annual Sailfest, street festival, 5K road race, maritime gatherings and fireworks display to USCG. The City of New London is currently in the process of planning a series of other events leading up to the Connecticut Maritime Heritage Festival, scheduled for September 10-12, that will highlight USCG's unique relationship with the city and state. It is anticipated that New London will soon be recognized as an official Coast Guard City®, a designation that reflects a community's support for the Coast Guard men and women and their families stationed in the area.

New London is home to Connecticut College, Mitchell College and fascinating historical sites and recreational facilities such as Nathan Hale Schoolhouse, U.S. Custom House & Museum and Fort Trumbull State Park and Ocean Beach Park. In addition, City Pier at Waterfront Park is the homeport to the Coast Guard's tall ship Barque EAGLE and, adjacent to the pier and Union station, will serve as the future home of the National Coast Guard Museum.

Source:
