Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: First Significant Snowfall of the Season Forecasted; Commuters and Motorists Urged to Take Weather into Travel Consideration
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 25, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today urged commuters and travelers to take the first significant snowstorm of the season into consideration as they make travel plans for the Thanksgiving holiday. The National Weather Service has issued Winter Storm Watches and Warnings for most of the state from Wednesday morning through Thanksgiving morning.

"Although this does not appear to be a major storm, it does have the potential to produce moderate snowfall and create hazardous driving conditions during the busiest travel day of the year," said Governor Malloy. "I am asking everyone who must travel to use caution to ensure that you get to your destination safely. If it's possible for you to leave on Tuesday instead of Wednesday, I would urge you to do so."

Governor Malloy was briefed earlier today by key agency officials on the state's preparations and posture leading up to tomorrow's storm. The Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection's (DESPP) Division of Emergency Management and Homeland Security (DEMHS) will continue to monitor the storm's progress and is ready to coordinate any response or assistance that may be necessary.

Governor Malloy also announced that the Connecticut State Police will implement Operation C.A.R.E (Combined Accident Reduction Effort), which will start tonight, November 25, at midnight and will run until December 1 at midnight. Operation C.A.R.E. is an important part of the state's highway safety plan meant to enhance public safety, enforcement and visibility on state roads and highways during the peak holiday travel season.

"I am also asking all Connecticut residents to be a part of the public safety solution this holiday season," said Governor Malloy. "I urge residents to use extra caution while out on the road, meaning don't follow too closely to the vehicle in front of you, slow down, don't use your cell phone while driving, and if you drink, please don't drive. If you see a driver that you believe to be driving impaired, please call 9-1-1 immediately."

A Division of DESPP, the Connecticut State Police will patrol roads and highways across the state and will focus on drunk drivers and aggressive and unsafe drivers. They will supplement normal routine patrol personnel with additional Troopers and conduct sobriety checkpoints and roving DUI patrols during Operation C.A.R.E.. Troopers will also be conducting safety spot checks at all sobriety checkpoints to further enhance the safety of our roadways.

"Thanksgiving eve and day are the busiest traffic days of the year," said DESPP Commissioner Dora B. Schriro. "As law enforcement does it's part in keeping our roads and highways safe, we ask you to do yours by exercising caution and driving safely. Working together, we can keep everyone traveling our roads and highways safe through these preventive enforcement initiatives."

The following are enforcement statistics that resulted from the 2013 Operation C.A.R.E. campaign:

Speeding: 1,134
Seatbelt: 170
DWI: 43
Hazardous moving violations: 2,548
Accidents: 562
Accidents w/ injuries: 92
Fatalities: 1

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=557130
