Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Invites Public to Annual Holiday Open House at the Governor's Residence
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 21, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and First Lady Cathy Malloy are inviting Connecticut residents to attend the annual holiday open house of the Governor's Residence, located at 990 Prospect Avenue in Hartford, which will be decorated for the season and open to the public for tours. This year's holiday open house will be held:

Friday, December 5, 2014 from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
Saturday, December 6, 2014 from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
Sunday, December 7, 2014 from 12:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.

"Each year, Cathy and I look forward to this event because it gives us an opportunity to continue a longstanding Connecticut tradition and greet Connecticut families during this festive time of year," Governor Malloy said. "We are also proud to showcase not only our own family's personal collection of Christmas decorations, but also the seasonal agricultural decorations that have been generously donated by local growers and small businesses. The Governor's Residence truly belongs to the people, and we encourage everyone to visit and join us in the holiday spirit."

There is no admittance fee and tickets are not needed, however the Connecticut National Guard will be accepting charitable donations for Operation ELF, an annual initiative of the Connecticut National Guard that assists the families of soldiers and airmen who are deployed during the holidays and provides a wide range of support to military families throughout the year. In addition to monetary donations, suggested donations include grocery store gift cards, gas gift cards, department store gift cards, and gift cards for home essential services, such as heating oil, maintenance services, and snow removal. These gifts are distributed by the Connecticut National Guard Service Member and Family Support Center and are used to assist military families throughout the year.

Tours will be aided by about 30 volunteer docents, some of whom have volunteered for over 20 years. The Residence, which is ADA accessible, will display six decorated Christmas trees, in addition to other holiday decorations. Also on display will be four gingerbread houses donated by the Pond House Café in Hartford's Elizabeth Park, Carol Murdock of Classic Cakes in West Hartford, Max Downtown in Hartford, and Taste by Spellbound in Avon. Santa will also be on hand for most of the weekend.

Live entertainment will be performed by the following:

Friday, December 5, 2014
10:00 a.m. -- Coast Guard Choir

Saturday, December 6, 2014
10:00 a.m. -- Emmanuel Christian Academy
11:30 a.m. -- Charter Oak Flutes
12:30 p.m. -- Summer Solstice, string quartet
2:00 p.m. -- Conard Solo Choir, West Hartford

Sunday, December 7, 2014
12:00 p.m. -- Fairfield University Sweet Harmony, with the Bensonians
1:00 p.m. -- Choraliers from Hall High School, West Hartford
2:00 p.m. -- Erin Vivero, "On the List" Flute Ensemble
3:00 p.m. -- Newington High School Chamber Choir

This is the 24th year that the holiday decorations, including wreaths, Christmas trees and seasonal plants, have been donated to the Residence at no cost to the state. This year, those generous donations come from the Connecticut Greenhouse Growers Association and its member growers: Casertano Greenhouses & Farms, CK Greenhouses, Geremia Greenhouse, Karabin Farms, Kurt Weiss/Angel Plants, Kurtz Farm, Michael's Greenhouses, and Vaiuso Farms. The Christmas trees have been generously donated by Terry Jones from Jones Family Farms in Shelton.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=556998
