Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State Workforce Training Program Continues Helping Small Businesses Train New Employees and Create Jobs
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 20, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the state's Subsidized Training and Employment Program known as "Step Up," which was enacted in 2012 in an effort to help small businesses in Connecticut create new jobs by assisting with workforce training, is continuing its efforts to expand its job creation goals, resulting in nearly 700 companies creating 2,743 new jobs in the state since its launch.

"Step Up is an important initiative we launched that is targeted at creating new jobs for unemployed workers, many of whom are well-educated and skilled but may need new training for specific positions," Governor Malloy said. "By collaborating with small businesses -- which account for 94% of Connecticut's employers -- we are helping these companies grow and in turn this program is strengthening our local economy."

Created as a result of the overwhelmingly supported 2011 bipartisan job creation legislation, Step Up provides either a wage subsidy or training grant of up to $12,500 to eligible small employers with a workforce of 100 or less for the first six months that an employee is hired. Qualified participants are typically residents who may have some of the necessary job qualifications but who still require on-the-job training to meet the needs of the company.

With an average starting wage at just under $16 an hour, the program has generated jobs in marketing, accounting, technology, sales, information technology and manufacturing, with positions including project engineers, graphic designers, solar installers, accountants, engine builders and operations directors.

To discuss the program's latest statistics, Governor Malloy today visited Hemingways LLC, a Hartford company founded in 1998 that distributes dairy products to local retailers. Since the spring of this year, the company has grown from four to 17 employees, with five of them hired through Step Up. The company is currently in the process of hiring an additional five employees through the program and will soon grow to 22 employees.

"Growing jobs continues to be a priority for our state and Step Up has proven to be a valuable catalyst in providing employment to over 2,700 people -- in careers ranging from project engineers and welders to accountants and customer service," Connecticut Department of Labor Deputy Commissioner Dennis Murphy said. "With each additional job created, Step Up brings new opportunities for growth in Connecticut and getting its residents back to work."

Following its launch, a second component of the program was initiated to specifically target unemployed U.S. military veterans by providing a wage subsidy to companies of any size that hire a qualifying veteran. The Unemployed Armed Forces Member Step Up Program is open to any unemployed veteran with an honorable discharge.

To date, the veterans' component of the program has helped 187 employers create 284 new jobs.

Employers interested in participating in either the original Step Up incentives of in the Step Up for Vets program can find additional information online by visiting the Department of Labor's Step Up website at www.StepCT.com.

Source:
