Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Additional Funds for New Elementary School in Newtown
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 19, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced that the State Bond Commission today voted to approve a $5 million grant for the Town of Newtown to finance ongoing planning and design costs for a new Sandy Hook Elementary School.

"The State of Connecticut joins the people of Newtown in their resolve to move forward despite the most challenging of circumstances," said Governor Malloy. "This project is a necessary part of the recovery process, and will continue to be a priority even after students are attending classes in their new school."

During the 2013 legislative session, the Governor and the General Assembly agreed to authorize up to $50 million for a replacement school to be built at the site of the former Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown after town residents voted to demolish the old school. The Commission previously allocated $7,450,000 in Urban Act and grant-in-aid funds for the project.

Governor Malloy directed the Office of Policy and Management (OPM) and the Department of Administrative Services (DAS) to work with town officials to make bond funds available for the replacement school. The project is being managed by the town.

"The action of the Bonding Commission today serves to remind us in Newtown and all through the state of the generosity and support of the Governor's Office and of virtually every state office and legislator," said First Selectman Pat Llodra. "The new Sandy Hook School will become a reality in 2016 because of that generosity. We are humbled and thankful for the continuing kindness of our state partners."

Architectural plans for abatement and demolition of the former Sandy Hook School were approved to go to bid by DAS in October 2013 and demolition was completed in November 2013. Architectural plans for construction of the new school were approved last week. Newtown will be posting bid notices shortly and anticipates breaking ground in March 2015.

The current bond commission request is for design and pre-construction services. Earlier funding went to abatement and demolition. There will be funding requests throughout the course of the construction project.

DAS is working with Newtown's project management team to develop anticipated quarterly cash flows for the project. The anticipated needs will then be translated into periodic requests for allocations from the State Bond Commission.

The new school will be all-new construction and will be approximately 87,000 square feet of space in a two-story structure. It will feature 23 classrooms for pre-kindergarten through fourth grade. There will be dedicated spaces for music, art, a library, computer education, a cafeteria with kitchen and a gymnasium. It will be a fully accessible building for persons with disabilities and fully compliant with all current building codes and standards. It will be on a reconfigured site of the former school, located at 12 Dickinson Drive, Newtown.

The first phase of the project involved the abatement of hazardous materials in the old school building and demolition of the building. This was completed in November 2013. Clearing of the site and preparation for the construction phase commenced this month.

The new school is slated to be ready for occupancy for the start of school in the fall of 2016.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=556800
