Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Connecticut DOT Sends Equipment and Personnel to Assist Buffalo with Snow Clean-Up
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 19, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced today that the Connecticut Department of Transportation (ConnDOT) is sending equipment and personnel to assist in the clean-up of the historic snowfalls in Buffalo, New York, where accumulations have topped five feet, with more snow in the forecast.

"This early and massive snowfall has paralyzed much of New York and, while we can, we should help our neighbors to the west," said Governor Malloy. "It is reassuring that we have cooperative, reciprocal arrangements in times of need, similar to what we try to do with major power outages and even fires and other emergencies in the region. Connecticut is well prepared in case of a heavy snow storm, but I am pleased that we can make these resources available to the State of New York."

ConnDOT is sending three jumbo snowblowers to New York along with plow trucks and other equipment, including 22 ConnDOT staff maintainers -- enough to operate the equipment around the clock. The snowblowers are mounted on traditional loaders and, when in operation, are followed by plow trucks to assist in clearing roads. Connecticut purchased 12 of the large snowblowers in October 2013. They can move 1,500 tons of snow per hour.

The equipment is being offered for use in New York under the regional Emergency Management Assistance Compact. The trucks hauling the equipment will leave Connecticut early on the morning of Thursday, November 20, and should be in the Buffalo area by noon and will remain there until at least Monday, November 24.
Governor Malloy reported that Connecticut is well-prepared for the onslaught of winter, with 632 snowplow trucks ready to go and ample supplies of salt and the liquid salt-brine material used to pre-treat roads and bridges before a storm (some of which has already been used this fall). ConnDOT also has some 200 private snow-plow contractors on call in the event they are needed to augment state forces and averages about $30 million a year for winter storm activity.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=556828
