Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces $4M Grant to Enhance Health and Wellness of New Haven Children
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 18, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the Department of Children and Families (DCF), with support from the Department of Public Health (DPH), is receiving a $4 million federal grant to promote the wellness of young children from birth to eight years old in New Haven.

The five-year grant for Elm City Project Launch (ECPL) will address the physical, social, emotional, cognitive and behavioral aspects of child development. A major objective of this grant is to strengthen and enhance the partnership between physical health and mental health systems at the federal, state and local levels. Connecticut's Elm City Project Launch will use a public health approach to promote children's health and wellness with efforts that promote prevention, early identification and intervention.

"It is vitally important that we target resources on our youngest children in order to have the largest impact on the trajectory of their lives," Governor Malloy said. "This new federally-funded project is strategically focused on interventions that will help Elm City children who need help during their earliest years."

This initiative supports the design, implementation and evaluation of an integrated and collaborative health and mental health service system for children from birth to eight-years old and their families. New Haven was selected because it has many distinct services for young children and families. The goal of the initiative is to improve coordination and integration of service delivery, make access to services more consistent, and enhance awareness and knowledge about programs and services for young children.

"For far too many children across Connecticut and the country, unmet physical, social, emotional and behavioral needs stand in the way of success in the classroom," U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal said. "I applaud the Department of Children and Families and the City of New Haven for their deep commitment to the wellbeing of all children and look forward to continued federal support for this vital project."

"Kids' brains get hard wired in the first decade of life, and that's why we need to invest in kids' development early on," said U.S. Senator Chris Murphy. "Today's grant signifies the federal government's commitment to New Haven's kids, and I look forward to seeing how this funding makes an impact on their lives."

"Elm City Project is a great example of the innovative work that can be done when we combine forces on the federal, state and local levels," said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. "I know from watching my own grandchildren that early, constructive experiences are essential--and supportive environments critical--to positive long term outcomes for children. I applaud the work everyone has done to make Elm City Project a reality and look forward to seeing everyone's hard work pay off for future New Haven residents."

DCF Commissioner Joette Katz said the project runs parallel with the direction the Department is taking with the new behavioral health plan being presented to the Legislature in October as required under a law passed in the wake of the Newtown tragedy.

"New Haven has a variety of services and programs for children currently available," Commissioner Katz said. "By improving the coordination of these services and alleviating barriers to access, we can provide a connected and effective network of support for children and families. This project will make those connections for families at pediatric offices and schools -- places where kids and families already go -- in order to make accessing services and supports as easy and effective as possible."

"Mental and physical health are closely connected, with many chronic diseases such as diabetes, heart disease, and cancer linked to mental health disorders," said DPH Commissioner Dr. Jewel Mullen. "By helping existing programs take a comprehensive view of health, the Elm City Project Launch moves us closer to our goal of improving overall health through access to quality behavioral health services that include screening, early intervention, prevention, and treatment. These services, which will also be available to pregnant women, will promote the overall health of children and their families."

ECPL will focus on:

-Strengthening integration of physical and mental health services by embedding care coordination and clinical services in pediatric practices to ensure early screenings and assessment, triage, service referral and case management for maternal and young children's needs;
-Embedding Early Childhood Consultation Partnership (ECCP) consultants in New Haven schools to focus on early identification, staff development and triage (grades pre-k through age eight);
-Promoting system collaboration by establishing a Young Child Wellness Council (YCWC) to convene service providers to build an integrated and seamless service system for young children and families; and
-Building capacity/knowledge for medical, mental health and educational practitioners around best practices linked to improved health and well-being outcomes for young children and their families.

Long-term outcomes expected of the project include improved early access to services for children and families, increased screening and early identification, enhanced knowledge and capacity within the child service system, and increased public awareness about issues that impact well-being for children from birth to age eight and their families.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=556776
