Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Metro-North Still Has a Long Way to Go to Meet Customer Needs
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 17, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

In response to the release of Metro-North Railroad's 2014 Customer Satisfaction Survey, which reported that overall customer satisfaction with Metro-North has dropped by 20 points to just 73 percent over the last year, Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Connecticut Department of Transportation (ConnDOT) Commissioner James P. Redeker issued the following statements:

"Metro-North customers were right to express deep dissatisfaction with levels of service after the particularly difficult year the railroad has had," said Governor Malloy. "Our commuters have a right to expect a culture of safety and on-time performance levels of 95 percent or better. It is clear that Metro-North has a long way to go. Recent positive indicators for reliability have not been sustained, and service is clearly unacceptable for New Haven Line customers. I look forward to Metro-North's delivery of a comprehensive review of performance and an action plan to bring the New Haven Line into respectable and sustained reliability by December 1."

"A 20-point drop in customer satisfaction with Metro-North performance is a lot more than a wake-up call for a railroad that has struggled for many months with very big issues and challenges," said ConnDOT Commissioner Redeker. "We have been working closely with President Joe Giulietti and his top leadership team to instill a safety culture in Metro-North, and we will re-double our efforts to identify a remedial action plan for service reliability that our customers deserve."

In a letter to Metro-North, Commissioner Redeker requested that the railroad to deliver a complete assessment of every cause for failed train performance and an action plan to bring on-time performance to a minimum of 95 percent. Commissioner Redeker has asked Metro-North to deliver the assessment and plan to him by December 1, 2014.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=556714
