Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Bonding for Expansion of Technical High Schools' Manufacturing Programs
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 17, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that State Bond Commission on Wednesday will vote to approve $5 million for the continued expansion of the Connecticut Technical High School System's (CTHSS) manufacturing programs, as well as funds for a new extended-hours program.

"Expanding the technical high schools' manufacturing programs is a smart investment that will provide state-of-the-art training for students and provide Connecticut employers with highly skilled workers," Governor Malloy said. "Students will be better prepared for careers or to continue their studies in college as a result of these improvements."

"This investment will deliver essential support to our technical high school system so that we can continue to provide an outstanding future-focused education to our students," Education Commissioner Stefan Pryor said. "We are grateful to Governor Malloy and to the Bond Commission for their previous investments and look forward to their renewed support."

"Students in our manufacturing cluster receive the technical skills and training necessary to operate complex machines and produce high-quality products," said CTHSS Superintendent Dr. Nivea Torres. "Today's manufacturing jobs require specialized computer training and Connecticut's educational system is prepared to train young people to enter this exciting field."

The funds are requested to finance the purchase and installation of equipment and machinery, alterations and improvements to buildings and grounds, and computer and technology upgrades.

Another $434,000 is sought for extending school hours at A.I. Prince Tech in Hartford and Eli Whitney Tech in Hamden to allow expansion of weatherization, carpentry, gas pipeline, cement masonry, and manufacturing programs.

The State Bond Commission is scheduled to vote on the items at its November 19, 2014, meeting at 10:30 a.m. in Room 1E of the Legislative Office Building in Hartford.

Source:
