Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Additional Parking in Downtown Milford Will Increase Economic Activity, Train Ridership and Quality of Life for Residents
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 14, 2014
Location: Milford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State Bond Commission at its next meeting will vote on nearly $5 million to support Phase I of the "Downtown Milford Parking Addition." The project entails the City of Milford purchasing approximately 2.2 acres of property to create additional parking in the city's downtown area to alleviate parking shortages for the rail station, courthouse and local businesses. The additional parking area will be built next to the Milford train station which serves the New Haven Line and is used by about 5,000 riders daily.

"Over the last four years, we have worked with municipal partners to advance transit-oriented development projects in order to lay the foundation for long-term sustainable economic growth in towns across the state and ensure these are livable, walkable communities for employees and employers alike," said Governor Malloy. "We are investing in this important project because demand for parking in vibrant downtown Milford far outweighs the supply. Once complete, additional parking will get more people visiting the downtown area and riding the train which will mean an increase in economic activity, less traffic congestion and an overall improvement in residents' quality of life."

Since taking office, Governor Malloy has implemented a coordinated strategy, guided by the Office of Policy and Management and the Governor's Transit Oriented Development Working Group, to encourage TOD investment while assisting municipal partners and strengthening local infrastructure and economies. Governor Malloy's strategy supports various projects around the state that invest in the development of new housing, retail and commercial office space near transit hubs to encourage the use of mass transit, reduce reliance on driving, and foster more dense, liveable, walkable communities.

"From our initial discussions with Mayor Blake and Representative Maroney the importance of parking was clear, both for increased use of mass transit and the development of Milford," said Office of Policy and Management Secretary Ben Barnes. "We're glad to have this partnership with the entire Milford delegation."

"The fact that Milford's popular train station, harbor boat ramp, shops and restaurants, green, courthouse, and other government and recreational amenities are situated in such close proximity to one another means that those wishing to visit our fantastic downtown are competing for limited parking," said Milford Mayor Ben Blake. "With this funding, we will be able to acquire new parking sites that will serve residents and visitors while supporting smart regional growth. I am grateful for the Governor's strategic investment in our community."

"Milford residents and visitors both have known for a long time that parking downtown has been a road block to a vibrant city center," said State Senator Gayle Slossberg (D-14). "The addition of easy access parking will alleviate congestion and provide relief to residents and commuters alike."

"This investment from the state will immediately address parking needs downtown, improving access and convenience for local residents," said State Rep. James Maroney (D-119). "This project will bring jobs and businesses to the heart of Milford and make our city center an even more wonderful place to visit. I want to thank Governor Malloy and Mayor Blake for their vision and for their support, both of which have made this project possible."

"This project will enhance the vitality of Downtown Milford and is the result of cooperative efforts on the part of Mayor Ben Blake, our legislative delegation and the Malloy Administration," said State Rep. Paul Davis (D-117). "Thanks are extended to Governor Malloy for his personal interest and support of Milford's economic growth and development."

"This is a much needed investment to continue the economic development and growth in Milford's downtown area," said State Rep. Kim Rose (D-118). "I'd like to thank Governor Malloy for sharing our vision in this project."

In April, Governor Malloy announced the creation of a $15 million Transit Oriented Development Pre-Development and Acquisition Fund to provide financing that will encourage developers to carry out transit oriented development in communities with station stops along the CTFastrak and New Haven-Hartford-Springfield (NHHS) transit corridors.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=556608
