Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Amtrak Will Allow Riders to Continue to Cross Honor Tickets for Certain Shore Line East Trains
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 12, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Connecticut Department of Transportation (CTDOT) Commissioner James P. Redeker today announced that Amtrak had reversed its decision to stop cross-honoring Shore Line East tickets on certain Amtrak trains. Amtrak will allow Shore Line East multi-ride customers to continue to Cross Honor on Amtrak Train 174 and Train 190, which became effective on Monday, November 10th.

"Since taking office, we have made investments to improve reliability and expand service on Shore Line East and residents have responded by using this rail line more and more," said Governor Malloy. "Amtrak's decision to cross honor these tickets fits right in with our ongoing efforts to increase ridership on Shore Line East by making this commuter line a more convenient, attractive alternative to driving."

Originally, Amtrak, which operates Shore Line East service between New Haven and New London, had said it would stop cross-honoring Shore Line East tickets on two Amtrak trains:

Amtrak Train 174
Departs - New Haven 8:37 a.m.
Old Saybrook 9:06 a.m.
New London 9:26 a.m.

Amtrak Train 190
Departs - New Haven 3:44 p.m.
Old Saybrook 4:15 p.m.
New London 4:35 p.m.

"When I learned of this decision, I immediately informed Amtrak that it was unacceptable for the many customers who ride these trains on a daily basis," Commissioner Redeker said. "Thankfully, they immediately reconsidered and reversed the decision, which was to have taken effect today and so, no commuters were inconvenienced."

Shore Line East stations are in New Haven, Branford, Guilford, Madison, Clinton, Westbrook, Old Saybrook and New London. Ridership in 2013 was up 5 percent over 2012 levels. In September, ridership was up 5 percent compared with September 2013. Additional information is available at www.shorelineeast.com.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=556510
