Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: More Than 6,200 Residents Have Applied for the Connecticut Veterans ID
Press Release
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 11, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced today that more than 6,270 Connecticut veterans have applied to participate in the Connecticut's Veterans' ID program, a joint initiative between the Department of Motor Vehicles' (DMV) and Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA) that gives veterans an option to place an American Flag symbol on a state-issued license or identity card to designate his or her veteran's status.

The insignia is designed to help businesses and service providers establish eligibility for various discounts, programs, and services available to veterans. To date, more than 3,700 veterans have obtained the flag symbol on their license or ID card, and nearly 2,600 applicants have been approved for the program and now need to visit a DMV or AAA office to receive the insignia on their license.

"The state's Veterans' ID program uses the same process to verify a veteran's status as would be required if he or she applied for a federal ID card, meaning that all businesses, healthcare providers and education and work training programs that offer services and benefits to veterans should treat this ID as an official verification credential," said Governor Malloy. "We want to ensure that the brave men and women who have selflessly served our nation can have their veteran's status verified with a simple check of their driver's license, making the process of accessing veterans' benefits, health care and education as easy and convenient as possible."

In 2011, Governor Malloy signed legislation that requires the DMV commissioner to include a person's status as a veteran, if applicable, on his or her state driver's license or identity card. DMV and AAA offices began issuing Veterans' ID last year so that businesses that offer veterans discounts and other services can refer to the flag symbol on drivers' licenses and ID cards as sufficient identification for veteran status. The program also extends a free lifetime pass for state parks, forests, and recreational facilities to any resident who is a disabled wartime veteran, as defined under state or federal law.

"This program is an important part of our overall effort to improve opportunity and the quality of life for our veterans," said Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman. "It's one way to make things just a little easier for our military men and women -- allow veterans to qualify for assistance, obtain discounts, and take advantage of the programs that recognize their service and sacrifice. We are grateful for all they have done for our state and our nation."

In order to obtain a Connecticut Veterans' ID, an applicant must request to have his or her veteran's status verified through the DVA by submitting DD Form 214 Discharge Papers and Separation Documents, which DVA must validate no later than 30 days after receiving the request. Once DVA verifies that the requestor is a veteran, DVA will electronically notify the DMV commissioner of the person's request and its verification prior to the driver's license or ID card being issued.

"DMV is honored to offer this important designation to people who have served our country," said DMV Commissioner Melody A. Currey. "It allows them to display with pride that they are a veteran and obtain any courtesies offered to them by businesses."

"The DVA is privileged to be taking part in the Governor's initiative to assist veterans in obtaining discounts from various programs and services that are available to veterans," said DVA Commissioner Joseph Perkins. "To date, the DVA has verified over 6,000 eligible veterans for the American flag to be placed on their driver's license."

Connecticut Veterans' ID applicants must submit a completed application and proof of honorable discharge, such as a DD-214, to the state DVA at least 30 days prior to visiting a DMV or AAA office. The application can be downloaded online by clicking the "Application for Veteran's Flag" link on the DVA's website at www.ct.gov/ctva. The flag symbol will be added to veteran's license or ID card at no additional cost at renewal time or when it is first issued. Veterans can also request a flag symbol by mailing an application and additional documentation to the state Department of Veterans' Affairs at:

CT Department of Veterans' Affairs
Attn: Veterans Flag on Drivers' License or ID Card
287 West Street
Rocky Hill, CT 06067

DMV also offers a flag for the license plates for honorably discharged veterans or the surviving spouse of such veteran as well as active duty members of the military. A "Gold Star Family" plate is available for immediate family members of service members who have died in the line of duty. By law, immediate family members include a spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, child, grandmother or grandfather. There also are a number of other military and veteran style plates available. More information can be found at http://ct.gov/dmv and http://1.usa.gov/1zdndzc.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=556486
