Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Reminds Metro-North Riders that Full Half-Hourly Service for New Haven Line Weekend Trains Begins Today
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 9, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy reminded residents that, beginning today, off-peak weekday and weekend trains on the New Haven Line will run every half-hour between New Haven and New York City.

"For the first time ever, Metro-North will run New Haven Line trains to New York City around the clock on the weekends and during off-peak hours," said Governor Malloy. "This schedule enhancement is a perfect example of the type improvements we promised Connecticut riders when we committed to ensuring more frequent, reliable and convenient service on the New Haven Line."

Three new midday trains will depart from New Haven on weekdays at 11:25 a.m., 12:25 p.m. and 1:25 p.m. Four new trains will depart from Grand Central Terminal at 9:34 a.m., 10:34 a.m., 11:34 a.m. (which will replace the 11:34 a.m. express to Stamford), and 12:34 p.m. Midday weekend service will also be enhanced as follows:

-Saturday: new trains depart New Haven at 2:25 p.m., 3:25 p.m., and 6:25 p.m.; new trains depart New York at 10:34 a.m., 11:34 a.m. 12:34 p.m., 1:34 p.m., 2:34 p.m., and 10:34 p.m.
-Sunday: new trains depart New Haven at 2:25 p.m., 3:25 p.m., and 7:25 p.m.; new trains depart New York at 11:34 a.m., 12:34 p.m., 1:34 p.m., 2:34 p.m., and 10:34 p.m.

"A modern and efficient transportation network is one of the key components of a competitive business climate, and more frequent service between New Haven and New York, along with other upgrades to the Metro-North system, will add more options for business travelers and improve service along the critical New Haven line," said Joe Brennan, Executive Vice President of CBIA.

Metro-North operates the New Haven Line and its three branches -- to New Canaan, Danbury and Waterbury -- under contract to the Connecticut Department of Transportation (ConnDOT). In February, when the new Metro-North President Joseph Giulietti began, Governor Malloy outlined his expectations and priorities for improved service and performance for Connecticut's commuter lines. Governor Malloy and ConnDOT Commissioner James Redeker have since been in active discussions with Mr. Giulietti as Metro-North works to implement improvements that include the appointment of Mike Donnarumma as District Superintendent on the New Haven Line and consumer advocate for the Waterbury Branch. In the last four years, the state has invested almost $11 million in Waterbury Branch-specific projects to restore the line to a state-of-good repair.

"Knowing that a train will be available at least every half hour will make it much easier for customers -- whether heading to New York for work or pleasure -- to plan their travel," said ConnDOT Commissioner Redeker. "I want to commend our partners at Metro-North for delivering on their commitment to full half-hourly service between New York and New Haven."

On Saturday and Sunday nights, a new 10:10 p.m. train will depart Waterbury; this is two hours later than the current last train. In addition, one new train will depart Grand Central at 10:04 p.m. and Bridgeport at 11:41 p.m. -- one hour later than the current last train headed to Waterbury. New Haven Line and Waterbury Branch schedules will also be improved to address crowding on key weekday and weekend trains.

The New Haven Line is the busiest single commuter rail line in the United States and provided a record-breaking 39 million customer trips in 2013. More information on the schedule enhancements is available at www.mta.info/mnr.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=556412
