Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State Troopers Now Trained and Equipped with Narcan to Help Save Lives of Overdose Victims
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 30, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that as the result of the passage of a new state law earlier this year, all Connecticut State Police Troopers have recently completed training providing them with the skills needed to administer Naloxone Hydrochloride, commonly known as Narcan. The medication is used to help save lives by reversing the effects of overdosing on opioids, including street drugs such as heroin, or prescription painkillers such as Oxycontin.

State Troopers are now equipped with the medication, which came to the aid of one recently-trained Trooper on Wednesday who saved the life of a man in Griswold who was experiencing an overdose on an opiate-based narcotic. The Governor is congratulating Trooper Steven Gardner for his quick, life-saving action.

"We must continue to do everything in our power to combat drug abuse and remove every potential barrier to Narcan use," said Governor Malloy. "Earlier this year, I signed legislation granting civil and criminal liability protection to bystanders who administer Narcan in good faith to someone who has overdosed. Training and equipping our Troopers, Police Officers, Firefighters and other first responders with Narcan is the next common-sense step in our efforts to reduce overdoses resulting from heroin and prescription drug overdoses. The need for this action was demonstrated just yesterday, when a State Trooper administered this medication in Griswold, saving a man's life. I want to thank Trooper Gardner for his quick action and dedication to public safety."

The Connecticut Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection (DESPP) also recently provided training classes on the administration of this medication to local fire and police departments across the state.

Opioid overdoses are a rising public health concern. In Connecticut, on average, one person dies every day from an opioid overdose. Narcan can reverse an opioid overdose in a few minutes. First responders are frequently first on the scene of an overdose. The ability to administer Narcan while waiting for emergency medical services may be critical in saving a life.

"The Connecticut State Police and our fellow first responders experience first-hand the devastating effects of illicit drugs on individuals and families, and now, we can do something about it," said DESPP Commissioner Dora B. Schriro. "This initiative gives State Troopers and others on the front line the tools and training to help prevent drug overdoses and save lives."

The effort to provide State Troopers with Narcan has been a collaborative task between the Governor's Office and several state agencies including DESPP, the state Department of Public Health (DPH), the state Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services (DMHAS) and the state Department of Correction (DOC).

Connecticut has been actively involved in efforts to combat deaths from overdoses, including rapidly linking opiate addicted individuals to medication-assisted treatment like Methadone, redoubling efforts to educate the public on the dangers of prescription drugs and heroin, and implementing widespread drug take-back days and prescription drug drop boxes to safely dispose of unneeded medication.

"I am grateful that the strong partnerships of Connecticut's state agencies have come through again to provide this additional safety net for those struggling with addiction" said DMHAS Commissioner Pat Rehmer. "I am continually impressed by our state's commitment to addressing addiction and promoting recovery."

"Equipping first responders with Narcan is another progressive step towards stemming this public health crisis," said DPH Commissioner Jewel Mullen. "An opioid overdose that is stopped by a State Trooper intervening with Narcan may be the beginning of a path to addiction treatment and recovery."

In May, Governor Malloy signed into law Public Act 14-61, authorizing anyone to administer an opioid antagonist such as Narcan to a person he or she believes, in good faith, is experiencing an opioid-related drug overdose. Under prior law, only licensed health care practitioners were allowed to administer the medication without being civilly or criminally liable for the action.

In October 2012, Governor Malloy signed Public Act 12-159, allowing prescribers to provide Narcan prescriptions to individuals in close contact with a person struggling with opioid addiction.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=555918
