Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Over $4.7 Million for Before- and After-School Programs Across the State
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 29, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that nearly $4 million in funding for before and after-school programs in low-performing, high-poverty schools are being awarded around the state, in addition to over $800,000 in grants for expanded learning time.

"Setting our students on a path to success sometimes requires providing extra support outside of the typical school day," Governor Malloy said. "Quality after-school programs provide an important opportunity to deliver extra help to our students who need it."

In thirteen towns across the state, 26 public and private organizations shared $3.9 million in grants to support the creation of community learning centers that provide academic enrichment opportunities during non-school hours for children, particularly students who attend low-performing schools serving economically disadvantaged students. The grants were awarded as part of the federal 21st Century Community Learning Centers program, which supports both expanded learning time initiatives and high-quality before or after-school programs.

Seven schools -- three in Meriden, two in New London, and one each in Windham and East Hartford -- received grants to add 300 or more hours of instruction through a longer school day, longer week, or longer school year.

"High quality after-school programs have the potential to help improve academic achievement while also broadening horizons for our students," said State Department of Education Commissioner Stefan Pryor. "Through these programs, students can access extra help on homework assignments, participate in arts activities, or take part in a community service project."

The before and after-school programs help students meet state and local standards in core academic subjects, such as reading and math; offer students a broad array of enrichment activities that can complement their regular academic programs; and offer literacy and other educational services to the families of participating children. Centers provide a range of high-quality services to support student learning and development, including tutoring and mentoring, homework help, academic enrichment (such as hands-on science or technology programs), community service opportunities, as well as music, arts, sports, health and cultural activities. At the same time, centers help working parents by providing a safe environment for students when school is not in session.

Through the 21st Century Community Learning Centers program, several schools are partnering with community agencies to provide student supports. Hartford, Bridgeport, New Haven, and other cities, as well as private organizations, such as the YMCA and Catholic Charities, received grants ranging from about $53,550 to $180,000.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=555858
