Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Three New Train Stations as Part of NHHS Rail Program
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 24, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and the Connecticut Department of Transportation (ConnDOT) today announced the start of construction for new train stations in Wallingford, Meriden and Berlin as part of the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield (NHHS) Rail Program. Governor Malloy also unveiled the logo for the new commuter service, which will be branded the "Hartford Line," and will be prominently displayed at all Hartford Line stations and in marketing materials.

"This is a major milestone for NHHS as it enters the construction phase at stations in Wallingford, Meriden and Berlin," said Governor Malloy. "The NHHS Rail Program will not only offer more frequent, convenient and faster passenger rail service, but it will also cultivate significant benefits to communities along the rail line, including local economic and transit-oriented development activities at and around these stations, with the ultimate goal of increasing municipal revenue, creating jobs and improving the quality of life for residents and increasing our competitiveness as a state."

Station construction in Wallingford, Meriden and Berlin is scheduled to begin this fall and will be completed by the launch of enhanced rail service in late 2016. Improvements at these stations include high-level platforms (both sides of the track), overhead pedestrian bridge with new elevators and stair towers on both sides of the track to connect the two platforms, platform snow melt systems, electric vehicle charging stations, ticket vending machines and passenger information display systems, PA and high-resolution video surveillance systems, increased parking capacity and roadway access improvements, improved accessibility for the mobility impaired/ADA compliant and bicycle racks.

"The renovation and expansion of Berlin's train station will greatly help to revitalize the downtown area," said House Majority Leader Joe Aresimowicz (D-30). "I'm pleased to serve with a Governor who understands the need for economic development to reenergize our aging downtowns throughout the state."

"A new train station is a vital piece of our community's ongoing downtown revitalization," said State Senator Danté Bartolomeo (D-13). "Improving rail access to New Haven, Hartford, and Springfield will help draw commuters and their families to Meriden, helping to attract local businesses. I am enthusiastic about how this new station will play into the many exciting changes that I and the rest of Meriden's legislative delegation have worked to bring about and am hopeful that we still have some time to address the issue of bathroom facilities."

"I thank Governor Malloy for his support of this construction project that will ease the burden on our overcrowded highways," said State Rep. Emil Altobello (D-82). "Providing crucial transportation alternatives is key to the revitalization of these municipalities."

"This investment in providing additional transportation options is welcomed with open arms," said State Rep. Cathy Abercrombie (D-83). "This project will have a positive impact on decreasing congestion on our roads and easing the daily drive for commuters."

"We have been waiting for construction to get started and are extremely excited to see it underway," said State Rep. Hilda Santiago (D-84). "Not only will it help to generate jobs and economic development, but it will help reduce the carbon footprint of vehicles on our state's highways."

"This is a major investment in the economic future of towns in our area," said State Rep. Mary Mushinsky (D-85). "I thank Governor Malloy for his steadfast support of commuter rail service, which will revitalize the heart of Wallingford."

"I look forward to the upcoming improvements at the Wallingford train station and hope this revitalization creates a better opportunity for locals to travel and draws visitors to our downtown area - supporting our local small businesses," said State Rep. Vincent Candelora (R-86).

Funded through the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act (PRIIA) and State of Connecticut bonds proceeds, the NHHS Rail Program will provide significant new regional passenger rail service options as a key component of a robust and vibrant multi-modal regional transportation system. The station construction contract was awarded to Judlau Construction of New York at a value of $58.8 million.

"Today's good news about the contract award, coupled with unveiling of the Hartford Line brand, solidifies our State's commitment to expanding state and regional passenger rail service," said ConnDOT Commissioner James Redeker. "Once the new Hartford Line service is launched, the frequency of weekday round trip trains will increase from 6 to 17 trains between New Haven and Hartford with up to 12 trains continuing north to Springfield, Massachusetts. This will greatly enhance travel options between these communities and will serve as the backbone for regional rail service within and beyond New England."

Scheduled to launch in late 2016, the enhanced rail service between New Haven and Springfield, with portions of the line from New Haven to Windsor, will be double tracked, and will provide faster, frequent and more reliable passenger service both locally and regionally.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=555606
