Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State Launches Ebola Information Website
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 22, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State of Connecticut has launched a website to keep residents informed regarding the Ebola virus. There will also be a hyperlink to www.ct.gov/ebola on the homepages of all state agencies.

"Many residents have questions and concerns. For that reason, we felt it was important to create a localized site where information will be updated on an ongoing basis," said Governor Malloy. "While there are no cases of Ebola in Connecticut, we are taking safety measures to prevent the spread of this virus should someone in our state become sick with Ebola. Our health officials and Unified Command Team have been meeting to prepare for a potential case here in Connecticut."

"While a widespread outbreak of Ebola in our country remains unlikely, we still want residents to have information they need to understand how Connecticut is preparing," said Department of Public Health Commissioner Dr. Jewel Mullen. "This site provides people with access to timely and accurate information about Ebola and the work the state and its partners are doing to protect Connecticut."

The site provides risk information about Ebola virus infection, a map of the West African countries affected by Ebola, and information about actions the state of Connecticut is taking to prevent the spread of the virus should someone in Connecticut become sick with Ebola. The site provides links to additional resources and information from the CDC and other partners.

The site also includes resources for health care providers, including new guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on the use of personal protective equipment by health care personnel.

Over the past several weeks, Governor Malloy has taken several preventive measures to help prevent the spread of Ebola in Connecticut.

-The Governor signed an executive order to grant authority to Public Health Commissioner Jewel Mullen to quarantine an individual or group of individuals who have or may have been exposed to the disease.

-Department of Public Health is ensuring hospital and health system readiness to detect, protect and treat patients infected with Ebola.

-Governor Malloy convened a Unified Command Team (UCT) to ensure statewide coordination in the ongoing emergency management efforts and to provide clear communication to the public.

-Most recently, the UCT is in the process of conducting a review of municipal and state agency inventories of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).

The United Way's 211 is also a resource equipped to handle inquiries concerning Ebola on its website at www.211ct.org, or by calling 2-1-1.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=555472
