Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Immediate Action Plan to Address Youth Behavioral Health Needs
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 8, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced immediate action he will take to improve the behavioral health system for children in Connecticut. The Governor's action plan is intended to provide immediate relief to the Connecticut children and families who have to navigate the children's mental health system.

"DCF's plan for meeting the mental, emotional, and behavioral health needs of Connecticut's children is comprehensive, well thought-out, and includes input from those who know what our system really needs -- the providers who serve children and the children and families themselves." Governor Malloy said. "No child in mental health crisis should have to wait days to get access to the treatment they need. That is why I am announcing a series of strategies that share the same goals as the comprehensive DCF plan, and can be implemented immediately. We cannot delay taking these first steps which will spur the changes we want to see with the ongoing implementation of DCF's comprehensive plan."

In line with national trends, Connecticut emergency departments have seen annual increases in the number of youth with behavioral health issues. These increases, partnered with seasonal patterns of increased utilization, are leading to emergency department discharge delays. The Governor's immediate action plan will increase capacity in the system, including addressing the unique treatment needs of children with autism spectrum disorder and behavioral health challenges.

In addition, Public Act 13-178 required the Department of Children and Families (DCF) to develop a comprehensive, integrated plan to meet the mental, emotional, and behavioral health needs of all children in Connecticut. DCF's plan includes recommendations that will fundamentally reform Connecticut's behavioral health system over a number of years.

The Governor's plan includes implementation of a package of initiatives funded with both existing and new or reallocated resources. Governor Malloy announced that he will:

Build capacity to address increased needs by:

-Increasing crisis stabilization and respite bed capacity for both DCF and non-DCF youth by repurposing existing vacant DCF Safe Home beds and increasing clinical staffing, with an additional $1 million in annualized funding;
-Incentivizing additional Psychiatric Residential Treatment Facility (PRTF) capacity by offering a higher statewide Medicaid rate of $465/day, with $1.6 million in existing FY 15 funding;
-Expanding community-based clinical services and in-home alternatives that will assist in keeping children in their home and out of higher levels of care with $2 million in existing FY 15 funding;
-Posting Emergency Mobile Psychiatric Services (EMPS) staff in emergency departments through funding from the FFY 15 Community Mental Health Services Block Grant; and
-Partnering with the Office of the Healthcare Advocate to enhance access to behavioral health treatment for commercially-insurance populations.

Address the unique treatment needs of youth with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and behavioral health challenges by:

-Providing specialized supplemental services for children with Autism Spectrum Disorder and developing an RFP for up to three specialized inpatient beds for individuals experiencing the most acute and complex ASD and co-occurring psychiatric disorders, with $1 million in existing FY 15 funding;
-Providing in-home supports for high need children with ASD to divert them from inpatient and other residential settings with $300,000 of existing FY 15 funding; and
-Ensuring Medicaid coverage for the treatment of children under 21 with ASD.

In addition to these immediate action steps, the Governor will also consider creating community-based Behavioral Assessment Centers (BHAC) as alternatives to care in hospital emergency departments and enhancing EMPS by adding more clinicians and extending hours of service.

"This new initiative will be a major advancement in the state's ability to handle the treatment of children who are living with mental health issues," said Sen. Danté Bartolomeo, co-chair of the Legislature's Children's Committee. "Through legislation passed by the Children's Committee we have taken steps to identify and treat children at an earlier age, regardless of the type of insurance coverage they have. This new initiative will help ensure there are beds available in treatment facilities, and support teams who can work with families and patients who want to receive treatment at home. It is critical to the treatment of any child that their family be as involved as possible, and I am happy to see that this plan does just that."

"I am happy to hear that Governor Malloy is listening to what the communities are saying regarding the mental health needs of children and families in crisis," said Rep. Toni Walker, co-chair of the Appropriations Committee. "This plan is a positive step forward in creating a mental health system that works."

"I'm very encouraged that Governor Malloy is looking at options to reduce the strain that our emergency rooms are under, and that our families are under, regarding mental health treatment for our children," said Sen. Beth Bye, co-chair of the Appropriations Committee. "Right now there is a lack of appropriate services available for them."

"As the House Chair of the Committee on Children I am thrilled that Gov. Malloy is being bold in bringing issues raised in PA 13-178, An Act Concerning The Mental Emotional and Behavioral Health of Youths, to fruition," said Rep. Diana Urban, co-chair of the Legislature's Children's Committee. "His initiatives will give families the tools to cope with the stress and frustration of looking for help for their children with mental health challenges. It is a huge step forward in the well-being of Connecticut's children and families."

Department of Children and Families Commissioner Joette Katz said that the plan announced by the Governor reflects the fact that the best way to respond to children in crisis is to enhance community based services that can intervene before the crisis occurs. "We have seen repeatedly that if we provide effective in- home and community-based services, we can prevent children from having to go to less-than-ideal settings -- like a hospital emergency department -- when the situation becomes acute. The best solution is to offer help before that becomes necessary."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=554630
