Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: JAX Official Opening Represents Significant Step Forward for Connecticut Bioscience Industry
Press Release
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 7, 2014
Location: Farmington, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today joined The Jackson Laboratory (JAX) President and CEO Dr. Edison Liu, Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman, UConn President Susan Herbst and national scientific leaders to celebrate the official opening of JAX's new nonprofit research institute for Genomic Medicine.

The Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine, which was built pursuant to Governor Malloy's "Bioscience Connecticut" initiative, was completed on schedule and on budget on the campus of the UConn Health Center in Farmington. In collaboration with state government, universities, hospitals and insurance companies, JAX is recruiting new talent, attracting top-level scientists, generating public and private investment and conducting innovative scientific research to transform the field of personalized medicine.

"We invested in Bioscience Connecticut because we knew this emerging industry would pay immediate and long-term dividends for our state by positioning us as a global leader in personalized medicine and innovative research, attracting new business investment and creating good-paying jobs with good benefits for our residents," said Governor Malloy. "The speed at which this project was completed and the great work that is already underway at JAX Genomic Medicine demonstrates that our investment is already paying off. We could not ask for a better partner than JAX and we look forward to continuing this successful collaboration between the state and this world-renowned research institute."

JAX's decision to select the UConn Health Center Campus for the site of its new genomic medicine research facility was a direct result of the state's investment in "Bioscience Connecticut". In 2011, Governor Malloy introduced his bioscience initiative to jumpstart Connecticut's economy by creating hundreds of immediate construction-related jobs, generating good-paying scientific, research and administrative jobs for residents and combining the resources of government, the private sector and research institutions and universities to advance cutting-edge biomedical innovation in the state.

"Biomedical research is a cornerstone economic driver, and thanks to Governor Malloy, Jackson Laboratory, and the support from the General Assembly, Connecticut is positioned to play a significant role in the industry," said Lt. Governor Wyman. "Bioscience Connecticut will help us establish Connecticut as a research hub, attract and retain top tier scientists, and create economic growth to keep us globally competitive. We welcome JAX to Farmington."

"Genomic medicine represents the next great frontier in the quest to improve human health," said Dr. Liu, President and CEO of JAX. "With this new facility, we are poised to play a leading role in opening up that frontier and bringing the benefits of scientific discovery into the lives of patients."

In 2012, the State Bond Commission, chaired by Governor Malloy, authorized $291 million in state funding for the construction of JAX's Genomic Medicine facility, which JAX broke ground on in January 2013. Construction of the facility in Farmington was managed by Connecticut-based companies, employed about 270-300 construction workers daily on the job site and had higher than required participation for small business and minority-owned enterprises.

-The Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine, which was under a Project Labor Agreement (PLA), awarded more than 87 percent of total bid packages -- $94 million out of $108 million in contracts - to Connecticut-based contractors who used hundreds of local workers.











Source:
