Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Releases Annual Crime Report
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 6, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, joined by representatives from the law enforcement community, today released the state's annual "Crime in Connecticut" report.

Connecticut's overall drop in reported crime was 8.6% in 2013. In that same period, violent crime dropped by 10.8% -- double the 5.4% national decline in violent crime as reported in the FBI's Preliminary Semiannual Uniform Crime Report, January-June 2013. Connecticut's property crime dropped 7.6% in 2013, significantly more than the national 5.4% drop in property crime reported.

"The tremendous results we're seeing in reducing crime are to the credit of the hard-working men and women in law enforcement and the dedicated community leaders that are working day in and day out to reduce violence," said Governor Malloy. "We have not seen crime numbers this low in more than forty years, and we have a population that is 20% larger today than it was then. Clearly we have more work to do, but these results show that we are making real progress in making our state safer."

"Connecticut's statistics are impressive. They illustrate the effectiveness of the comprehensive criminal justice initiatives that we've put in place in our municipalities, the State Police, and with our federal partners," said Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection Commissioner Dora B. Schriro. "But our work is not done. By continuing to work together, we can make all of our streets safer in every community throughout the state."

"Connecticut's decreased crime rates are a testament to Governor Malloy's firm commitment to creating safer communities," said Jeff Matchett, Executive Director of AFSCME Council 15, which represents most police departments in the state. "Throughout his first term, Governor Malloy has provided unprecedented funding of local government and offered state grants ensuring that law enforcement has the best tools and equipment needed to serve our residents. On behalf of AFSCME Council 15 members, I thank the Governor for his continued support of law enforcement, helping us keep Connecticut safe."

Andrew Matthews, President of the Connecticut State Police Union, credits the hard work and dedication of State Troopers and municipal officers for the drop in violent crimes. "Troopers and local police officers risk their lives every day to protect our state from violent crime," he said. "This report is proof that the sacrifices made by Connecticut law enforcement officers keep the citizens of our state safe."

In the three major cities, all reported index crime (violent and property) was down 9% in New Haven, 7% in Hartford, and 15% in Bridgeport.

Violent crime is down 14% in New Haven, 11% in Hartford, and 20% in Bridgeport. Although 2013 was a near-historic low in murders, fatal shootings in these three cities are down 28% in 2014 compared to year-to-date last year, according to data compiled during Project Longevity.

"Smart policing and thoughtful criminal justice initiatives are making a difference throughout Connecticut," said New Haven Police Department Chief Dean Esserman. "Crime is down."

"The credit goes to all the men and women, both sworn and civilian of the Hartford Police Department, who have embraced our community policing model," said Hartford Police Department Chief James C. Rovella. "The police department and the community have built and continue to build on strong relationships in a cooperative effort to reduce property crimes and violent crimes. We look forward to building on those successes in the future."

"We're successfully cracking down on crime in our state's largest city. Police officers are working hard every day to make Bridgeport a safer place to live, work, and raise a family," said Bridgeport Police Department Chief Joseph L. Gaudett, Jr. "Community leaders are collaborating with law enforcement to tackle criminal behavior in our neighborhoods, programs like Project Longevity are leading the charge against recidivism, and efforts like Mayor Finch's gun buyback have taken 1,000 dangerous weapons off our streets. In Bridgeport, we're taking a holistic approach to beating back crime and it's working."

The drop in the number of murders in Connecticut was the most dramatic. The 86 murders are the lowest in 40 years. The Office of the Chief Medical Examiner estimates that homicides year-to-date are running at about the historic low number we saw in 2013.

The total number of reported index crimes, violent and property, is the lowest since 1967.

"As these statistics illustrate, crime is on the decline in the State of Connecticut," said Connecticut State Police Colonel Brian Meraviglia. "All law enforcement across the state should be commended for their continuing commitment to making our communities safer place to live and work."

The national crime rates are significantly higher than the Connecticut crime rate. For property crime, the national rate is 2,730 reported crimes per 100,000 population. In Connecticut, it is 1,980. For violent crime, the national rate is 368 per 100,000 and the Connecticut rate is 253 per 100,000.

The Connecticut Uniform Crime Reporting Program has been collecting crime data throughout the state since its inception in 1977. The success of the program has been a result of the complete support of Connecticut Chiefs of Police and the Connecticut State Police Crimes Analysis staff.

"Crime in Connecticut 2013" is the thirty-sixth annual crime report that the Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection has published. This annual report continues to be the most comprehensive source of crime-related data for the State of Connecticut.

The publication's source data are based upon monthly reporting of crime activity to the Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) Program at the Connecticut Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection. "Crime in Connecticut" provides police departments, administrators, legislators, advocacy groups, and the general public with important information for planning purposes.

"The Connecticut Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection is proud to have 100% participation of data contributors in the Connecticut UCR program," said Commissioner Schriro. "Connecticut law enforcement has consistently provided the necessary resources to make the Connecticut UCR program one of the most effective programs in the United States."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=554372
