Public Statements
Gov. Malloy and Congressional Delegation Applaud Release of Federal Funding to Provide Supportive Housing to Homeless Veterans
Press Release
By: Richard Blumenthal Joe Courtney Dan Malloy Nancy Wyman John Larson Jim Himes Elizabeth Esty Rosa DeLauro Chris Murphy
Date: Oct. 3, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and the members of Connecticut's Congressional delegation are applauding an announcement made by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that $475,900 in rental vouchers will be made available to local public housing agencies in Connecticut to help 54 homeless veterans find permanent supportive housing. The vouchers are being provided through the HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) Program, which combines rental assistance from HUD with case management and clinical services provided by VA.

"Between the efforts from the Obama Administration on the federal level and our efforts here on the state level, we are making a significant dent in ending homelessness among veterans," said Governor Malloy, who in September announced that the State of Connecticut would be making 50 additional Rental Assistance Program (RAP) vouchers immediately available to veterans currently receiving Assistance under the HUD-VASH program and are ready to transition out of supportive housing but still need rental assistance. The creation of the additional RAP vouchers targeted toward veterans frees up new opportunities for those seeking supportive housing under HUD-VASH. The Governor anticipates expanding the RAP program for veterans again later this fiscal year as needs continue to be evaluated.

"Our veterans deserve our support, and these efforts are bringing us a great deal closer to building stronger communities and a stronger workforce," Governor Malloy said. "I want to thank the Obama Administration on today's announcement, as well as our state's Congressional delegation, and I look forward to continuing our efforts on this front."

Earlier this year, Governor Malloy joined the Obama Administration's goal of goal of ending homelessness among veterans by the end of 2015.

"Our veterans have talents and skills sought after by business and industry," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "Stable housing, a connection to career supports, and other services are critical to community reintegration. I applaud President Obama, Governor Malloy, and our Congressional delegation for their commitment to veterans and ending veteran homelessness by 2015."

"Connecticut is leading the way nationally in addressing homelessness amongst veterans, but we still have a long way to go here and across the country to fulfill our broken promise to our nation's warriors. I applaud Governor Malloy's commitment to ending veteran homelessness," U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal said. "As a member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, I will continue my strong advocacy for additional funding to provide not only safe and affordable housing for our homeless veterans, but the mental health, medical and supportive services they need to lead stable, healthy and productive lives."

"No one should have to go without a roof over their head, and Connecticut veterans especially need a permanent place to call home," U.S. Senator Chris Murphy said. "It's our duty to provide our vets with the support they need after all they've given us, which is why I've been fighting hard since I arrived in Congress to make sure Connecticut receives more HUD-VASH funding. The HUD-VASH vouchers announced today will go a long way to help homeless vets and their families in Connecticut, and I thank Secretary Castro for his decisive leadership on this issue."

"I applaud HUD, the VA, and Governor Malloy for ensuring that our veterans will have access to rental assistance and supportive services. Chronic homelessness among veterans remains a serious concern across the country and the announced HUD-VA vouchers will help 42 veterans in Connecticut's 1st Congressional District find permanent supportive housing," said Congressman John Larson. "Our veterans selflessly answered the call to serve the country, and the country should answer their call in times of need."

Congressman Joe Courtney said, "This funding will provide life-changing assistance to Connecticut veterans who are struggling with chronic homelessness, as we have seen in eastern Connecticut with the Griswold veterans housing complex that VASH supports. Governor Malloy has made important strides on the state level, and this commitment from the federal level will further the goal of eliminating homelessness for the men and women who have worn our country's uniform."

"The brave men and women who serve our nation overseas deserve our admiration, our grateful thanks, and, when needed, our assistance," Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro said. "When so many families are struggling to get by, this grant to the Connecticut Department of Social Services and the West Haven Housing Authority will help our homeless veterans find the shelter and support they deserve."

Congressman Jim Himes said, "It is unacceptable that so many veterans find themselves without a home and struggling to find work after serving our nation. One homeless veteran is too many, and we must do better. This federal investment provides a significant boost to our efforts to get homeless veterans in Connecticut off the streets and into decent, reliable housing. I will continue working to ensure that Connecticut's veterans and their families have access to the programs and services they need and deserve."

"When our men and women make the commitment to serve in our military, we must do all that we can to ensure they have our full support, and we must continue that pledge when our veterans return home." said Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty. "The HUD-VASH program is already helping 125 veterans in Waterbury and 15 veterans in Danbury and this additional funding will end homelessness for more veterans."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=554348
