Public Statements
Himes, Malloy, Blumenthal, Murphy and Rilling Announce Federal Grant for Walk Bridge Replacement
By: Chris Murphy Richard Blumenthal Jim Himes Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 2, 2014
Location: Norwalk, CT

Congressman Jim Himes (CT-4) joined Connecticut Governor Dan Malloy, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal and Chris Murphy and Norwalk Mayor Harry Rilling today to announce the recently awarded $161 million federal grant that will go towards the final plan to replace the New Haven Line's 118-year-old Walk Bridge in Norwalk. They were joined by Connecticut Department of Transportation Commissioner James Redeker and commuter advocate Jim Cameron.
"This historic federal investment is a major victory for both Norwalk and our entire region," said U.S. Representative Jim Himes (CT-4). "This award will help replace the deteriorated Walk Bridge, which has caused repetitive delays that have been a drain on both commuters and businesses in Connecticut and the Northeast, and improve the efficiency and safety of Metro-North's New Haven line. I fought hard for this funding and will continue pushing for investments to fix our crumbling bridges, roads and railways to ensure the safety of our people and make our economy more competitive."
"The operational failures of the Walk Bridge underscored how critically important it is to upgrade and bring our aging transportation infrastructure into the 21st Century - something my administration has been addressing over the last several years with smart, strategic investments in our mass transit and highway systems," said Governor Malloy. "Since the malfunctions we saw last summer, we have carried out the repairs and procedures necessary to minimize the risk for failure in the short-term and have aggressively pursued the funding necessary to implement a realistic finance plan that will bring us all the way from design to a full replacement as soon as possible."
The federal government recently awarded ConnDOT $161 million for infrastructure hardening purposes which, combined with existing state funds designated for the Walk Bridge replacement, gives Connecticut about $277 million to put toward the $465 million total estimated project cost. In all, this project will be funded with 34 percent state funds and 66 percent federal funds. The additional funding sources that will provide the $188 million needed for the project are:

Source:
