Public Statements
Gov. Malloy, Lt. Gov. Wyman and Comptroller Lembo Commend Anthem and Hartford Healthcare for Contract Resolution, Announce Agreement to Pilot New Integrated Care Program
Press Release
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: Oct. 2, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman and Comptroller Kevin Lembo today commended Anthem and Hartford HealthCare for reaching a contract agreement, while announcing a new commitment between the state and both parties to improve health-care quality, control costs and establish an unprecedented pilot to coordinate care for patients with chronic conditions.
This collaboration is related to, and builds on, the groundbreaking efforts by Governor Malloy's administration and state employee unions to negotiate and achieve better health-care outcomes and savings through ongoing preventive care and wellness initiatives.
Governor Malloy said, "I want to commend Anthem and Hartford Healthcare for reaching an agreement, one that avoids any disruption of service and maintains access to quality, affordable healthcare. It's all too common in matters like this for the different sides to dig in and make negotiations more difficult. I'm glad that didn't happen in this case. The issue of providing good and decent healthcare is too important to let profit margins get in the way, and by working to reach an agreement, both Anthem and Hartford Healthcare have made it clear that wouldn't allow that to happen."
Lt. Governor Wyman said, "I appreciate the commitment shown by both Hartford Healthcare and Anthem to find a solution to the contract challenges. Connecticut's leadership on healthcare is demonstrative of just how important it is to building strong communities and a strong economy. That continuity of care is maintained for Anthem members is very good news."
Comptroller Kevin Lembo said, "Our office has been engaged with Hartford HealthCare and Anthem for several weeks to assist in reaching an outcome that protects patient access to both the hospitals and associated groups. I am grateful that this contract agreement will prevent any disruption in service to patients, including state employees, retirees and their families.
"These discussions have also produced a collaboration involving these partners, the state, the Connecticut Coalition of Health Funds and other employers to improve the quality and control the costs of health care for our members and others. Specifically, we will be working closely with Hartford HealthCare's physician group, Integrated Care Partners (ICP), to pilot innovative integrated care programs in areas like chronic care management.
"Individuals with chronic conditions such as diabetes, COPD, and heart disease are major contributors to our total health care costs, particularly when health care is not effectively and efficiently delivered. We have, therefore, agreed to create programs of coordinated care for these patients that should improve their health and reduce high-cost services such as hospitalizations.
"I look forward to working with all partners involved here to produce better health-care outcomes that benefit patients, as well as taxpayers."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=554278
