Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: New DMV Mobile App Will Give Residents Better Access to Important Information and Services
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 26, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced today that the Connecticut Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) has launched a new mobile app, called DMV Mobile, for phones and tablets to make it easier to get essential DMV information and give customers ready access to practice test questions for the learner's permit exam. The app is part of DMV's strategy to offer more conveniences to customers by having services online and is now available for free for download from the iTunes and Google Play stores.

"The main goal we are trying to achieve with DMV's Modernization Program is to make the agency more accessible to residents by upgrading the antiquated technology and systems that have been in place at the agency for too long and giving them a more timely, convenient and efficient format to get the important information and services they need," said Governor Malloy. "This mobile app is the agency's first step to branch out from a simple website in order to reach a larger segment of its customers, especially those who are more likely to use a phone or tablet to access services and information online."

CT DMV Mobile is an official State of Connecticut app designed for iPhones, iPads and Android operating systems and represents authentic information to do business with the DMV. The app provides:

-Practice Knowledge Test Questions and Answers from The Real Test;
-Parent Quiz on Teen Drivers;
-DMV and AAA Office Locations and DMV Services Offered;
-Wait Times at DMV Offices.

"This is another in our steps for making DMV easy to use. Now people can find essential information -- offices and locations and wait times -- while on the go with their phones or tablets," said DMV Commissioner Melody A. Currey. "And for those needing to take the written test, we offer easy-access to real test questions so they are prepared."

CT DMV Mobile provides more than 30 points of contact with either DMV or AAA and, using the map services of the cell phone or tablet, also provides driving directions to every DMV or AAA office in the state. Users can also select from a menu of DMV locations and find the wait times for services to determine which office is most convenient for them to visit.

In a first for DMV, the app offers 63 actual test questions and answers for the written learner's permit exam. The questions are derived from more than 200 questions in a database that randomly gives 25 for the real learner's permit exam. The sample test questions have been a popular feature on the DMV website for nearly 16 years. The agency also offers a parent quiz that was developed as a guide for parents to test their own knowledge on parenting a teen to drive, however, parents are not required to take any tests when their teens apply for a learner's permit or a license. It was developed in cooperation with a number of safety advocates who work with DMV on teen driving matters.

CT DMV Mobile was developed by Connecticut Interactive, LLC which builds and manages interactive government services on behalf of the state and is a member of the NICUSA family of companies. Connecticut Interactive, LLC has a contract with the Department of Administrative Services to develop a variety of e-government services.

"While we want all drivers to follow safe practices in their use of mobile technologies, we also recognize that mobile technologies continue to be a critical way to reach many of our drivers," said Mark Raymond, the state's Chief Information Officer. "We know this will increase the access for many of our newer DMV customers."

CT DMV Mobile's development comes as the agency makes a major computer upgrade so that businesses and customers can do more transactions online without visiting a DMV office. The modernization program is bringing a number of different enhancements to DMV and the most popular so far has been scheduling online a learner's permit test. Other efficiency changes by offering online services include certain registration renewal, checks on status of licenses and registrations, and look ups for vanity plate combinations. However, test-by-appointment is the most popular. More than 90 percent of customers who have visited the eight offices so far offering the service said they would recommend it to others.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=553876
