Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: New System Will Link Data from Multiple Sources to Help Prevent Violent Deaths
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 25, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the Connecticut Department of Public Health (DPH) was awarded $925,000 over the next five years from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to gather critical data on homicide and suicide using the National Violent Death Reporting System (NVDRS).

NVDRS helps state and local officials understand when and how violent deaths occur by linking data from law enforcement, coroners and medical examiners, vital statistics, and crime laboratories. Using these data, public health practitioners and violence prevention professionals can develop tailored prevention and intervention efforts to reduce violent deaths.

"We know that the most effective programs involve collaboration," said Governor Malloy. "This grant will allow us to combine data across agencies to gain a clearer picture of criminal and self-inflicted violence that claims far too many lives. Ultimately, this information will assist us in our efforts to reduce crime and support effective preventive measures."

NVDRS provides details on demographics (age, income, education), method of injury, the relationship between the victim and the suspect, and information about circumstances such as depression, financial stressors, or relationship problems. It is the only data system for homicide that collects information from sources outside of law enforcement and has the capacity to link hospital and other health records.

"To prevent violent deaths, we must first understand all the facts," said DPH Commissioner Dr. Jewel Mullen. "NVDRS will provide a more complete picture of homicides, suicides, and unintentional injuries in Connecticut. Knowing the circumstances of violent deaths will help identify the right prevention efforts and put them in place."

"More than 55,000 Americans died because of homicide or suicide in 2011 -- that's an average of more than six people dying a violent death every hour." said Daniel M. Sosin, M.D., M.P.H., F.A.C.P., acting director of CDC's National Center for Injury Prevention and Control. "This is disheartening and we know many of these deaths can be prevented. Participating states will be better able to use state-level data to develop, implement, and evaluate prevention and intervention efforts to stop violent deaths."

In Connecticut, violent crimes are down and murders are at a 40-year low, according to the 2014 Mid-Year Update on Crime Trends.

Connecticut's use of NVDRS is part of CDC's expansion of the system from 18 to 32 participating states. For more information about NVDRS, visit www.cdc.gov/violencePrevention/NVDRS/.

Source:
