Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Continued Efforts to Increase Housing Opportunities and End Chronic Homelessness Among Veterans
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 22, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State of Connecticut is making 50 additional Rental Assistance Program (RAP) vouchers available now to veterans who are currently receiving assistance under the federal HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program and are ready to transition out of supportive housing but still need rental assistance.

The expansion of the RAP program for veterans comes as part of Governor Malloy's goal of ending chronic homelessness among veterans in Connecticut by the end of 2015.

"Whether they have been out of the service for years or are just returning home, our veterans have earned access to decent housing, quality health care, education, and career opportunities," Governor Malloy said. "We can -- and we must -- end chronic homelessness among veterans, and the steps we are announcing today take us a great deal closer to reaching that goal."

By transitioning 50 people from supportive housing under HUD-VASH to the Rental Assistance Program, this will free up new opportunities for veterans in need of supportive housing.

"Veterans represent tremendous potential for our communities and for Connecticut employers," said Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman. "Governor Malloy and I are committed to ensuring our veterans and their families have access to the programs and services they need to reestablish their lives in Connecticut. Expanding housing is critical to this effort, and will help us build stronger communities and a stronger workforce."

"Rental Assistance Program vouchers provide an enormous benefit to our veterans that need help in finding -- and keeping--safe and secure housing," Department of Housing Commissioner Evonne Klein said. "The vouchers are just one of the ways the state is lending a helping hand and contributing to a better quality of life for our veterans who have given so much."

Governor Malloy also said that the state will likely make an additional 50 RAP opportunities available this fiscal year, and there is currently a request pending with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to create more HUD-VASH vouchers in Connecticut.

The combination of creating new RAP opportunities and freeing up additional HUD-VASH vouchers will make a large dent in chronic homelessness among veterans, Governor Malloy explained.

Governor Malloy today also announced that the state is awarding a $2,976,000 loan to the Chrysalis Center for the purpose of assisting in the development of the Legion Court Veterans Housing project at 89 Webster Street in Hartford. This project will contain 12 newly constructed, two-bedroom supportive housing units for homeless veteran families targeted to veterans suffering from mental illness, substance abuse and post-traumatic stress disorder. The project will be developed on what is now a currently vacant site.

"By making these RAPs available and by making our investment in bricks and mortar to expand affordable and supportive housing opportunities for veterans, we are making good on our pledge to end chronic homelessness among veterans in Connecticut by the end of 2015," Governor Malloy said.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=553468
