Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces the Formation of the Important Bird Areas Advisory Committee
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 20, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he is forming a panel of experts that will serve as an advisory committee to the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) on the creation of an Important Bird Area Program that will include identification and recognition of critical bird habitats and the promotion of bird conservation in the state.

"Bird watching is among the most popular outdoor activities in Connecticut, and it is important to recognize that many species of birds depend heavily on habitat here," said Governor Malloy. "It is critical that we make decisions in managing our natural resources to best target habitats for birds and other wildlife that also call Connecticut their home."

"Working closely with Governor Malloy, DEEP has taken important steps to protect the diversity and health of the bird population of our state," said DEEP Commissioner Rob Klee. "Formation of this advisory committee will allow us to continue moving forward by focusing our attention on critical lands owned by DEEP that can be designated as Important Bird Areas. In these areas, we can then offer additional protections to birds that make their home or migrate through our state."

The Important Bird Areas Advisory Committee will be formed within the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection and will be chaired by Stewart Hudson, Executive Director of Audubon Connecticut. Membership will be appointed the Commissioner and shall include but not be limited to:

-Representatives from organizations that have a record of activity in bird conservation or who have an expertise or a recognized knowledge in an area pertinent and valuable to such program
-Members of the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection
State Ornithologist
-Representatives of the Department of Agriculture, the Agricultural Experiment Station and the Siting Council
-Representatives from local governments

"When it comes to protecting habitat for birds, just like for people, it's all about location," said Hudson. "In Connecticut, there's no question that many prime locations are owned by the state and managed by DEEP. This has been a longtime priority for Audubon Connecticut and we commend Governor Malloy for stepping up to recognize the ecological value of these lands -- some of them globally significant habitat for birds -- and look forward to partnering with Commissioner Klee and his staff to identify and steward these Important Bird Areas for the future. The good news is that protecting important places for birds also protects important places for people. Where birds thrive, people prosper."

The Important Bird Area identification process will provide a data-driven means for cataloging the most important sites for birds throughout the country and the world, and the use of a hierarchical classification system further helps to establish priorities for conservation and natural resource education efforts.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=553414
