Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State Brownfield Funding Will Help 11 Communities Take Important Step in Redevelopment Process
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 18, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced the Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD) has awarded $1,698,400 in assessment grants to 11 municipalities to support property cleanup and advance the development of brownfield sites throughout the state.

"The investments we are making to remediate and redevelop brownfields depend on a thorough analysis of the level of contaminated soils or building materials or the need for demolition at any given site," said Governor Malloy. "We designed these grants to help eliminate the uncertainty of the redevelopment process by helping municipalities, developers and site owners get properties one step closer to productive reuse. We know that an investment in planning for the cleanup of pollution on these sites will have pay long term dividends for the State by driving community revitalization, eliminating blight, returning properties to the tax rolls and boosting long-term economic growth."

DECD is providing funding to eligible cities, towns, and regional development agencies to assess and investigate brownfields in their communities. Prior to redevelopment of a brownfield or suspected contaminated site, environmental assessments are required to provide more information to potential developers about the site's environmental conditions.

Since 2011, the Malloy administration has allocated nearly $90 million in state funding for brownfield remediation and redevelopment in the form of loans and grants to municipalities and developers. By comparison, since 1995, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has invested $190 million nationally for brownfield cleanup. Last month, DECD awarded $27 million to 20 remediation and redevelopment projects, which was the largest round of brownfield remediation investments ever made in the state's history. For every dollar invested by the State, $3.43 has been or will be invested by non-State partners.

The grants announced today will allow 11 towns and cities to take the vital first or next step toward returning sites to reuse that in many cases have been underused or abandoned for decades. The projects awarded funding are:

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

"Assessment grants that provide support for conducting initial environmental testing and review of demolition activities go a long way in furthering the state's brownfield redevelopment goals and community revitalization," said DECD Commissioner Catherine Smith. "Many of these projects are important community assets and represent great economic potential, and this funding is just the jumpstart needed to get these sites back into productive use and contributing to the long-term viability of the communities in which they belong."

"The cleanup and redevelopment of Brownfields continues to be one of the greatest challenges and greatest opportunities facing Connecticut's cities and towns," said Commissioner Rob Klee, Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP). "These grants will provide funding to collect needed information about these Brownfield sites that will catalyze future Brownfield redevelopment."

"Governor Malloy has made brownfield redevelopment a centerpiece of his economic development strategy, making targeted investments in projects like the 11 being announced today that will catalyze long-term growth by reactivating long-dormant sites in the heart of Connecticut communities," said Tim Sullivan, director of Waterfront, Brownfield and Transit-Oriented Development within DECD. "We look forward to working with our municipal partners and the private sector to advance these critical development projects from planning to implementation."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=553304
