Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Over 900 Residents Re-Enroll at a Connecticut State College or University Through 'Go Back to Get Ahead'
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 11, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that over 900 Connecticut residents have re-enrolled in college to complete their associate or bachelor's degree at one of the 17 Connecticut State Colleges & Universities using a free course offer from the Go Back to Get Ahead program.

The program, which launched June 2, is open to Connecticut residents who were previously enrolled in an associate or bachelor's degree program but did not complete their degree, or who completed an associate degree but did not go on to complete a bachelor's. The program provides up to three free 3-credit courses to those who re-enroll at one of the 17 community colleges, universities or online college within the Connecticut State University system.

"Investing in our workforce by helping Connecticut residents achieve a college degree will help us build a future for Connecticut in which we are graduating as many students as possible into good paying jobs with good benefits, right here in Connecticut," said Governor Malloy, who introduced the program earlier this year as part of his 2014 legislative proposals to increase college affordability and completion. "By the year 2020 it is projected that 70 percent of all jobs in Connecticut will require a college degree."

To date, over 54,000 people have visited the Go Back To Get Ahead website to learn more about the program. Nearly 6,600 residents have completed an online inquiry form, over 3,660 have been referred to one of the 17 colleges in the Connecticut State Colleges & Universities system, 1,411 have applied and 942 have enrolled for the fall semester.

"We are extremely gratified by the response to this groundbreaking program from our prospective students," said Board of Regents President Dr. Gregory Gray. "More important than what it represents to us is what it represents to these enrolled students--a doorway to continuing their education and a path to renewing their future promise. We are grateful for Governor Malloy's leadership in launching this program."

Residents interested in completing their college degrees via the Go Back to Get Ahead program are encouraged to visit the website, www.GoBacktoGetAhead.com for eligibility and to apply. They may also call 1-844-GBTGA-CT (1-844-428-4228). The Go Back to Get Ahead program is a limited time offer while funds remain available.

The Connecticut State Colleges & Universities system is governed by Connecticut's Board of Regents for Higher Education. System colleges and universities include Asnuntuck Community College, Capital Community College, Central Connecticut State University, Charter Oak State College, Eastern Connecticut State University, Gateway Community College, Housatonic Community College, Manchester Community College, Middlesex Community College, Naugatuck Valley Community College, Northwestern Connecticut Community College, Norwalk Community College, Quinebaug Valley Community College, Southern Connecticut State University, Three Rivers Community College, Tunxis Community College and Western Connecticut State University.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=552730
