Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Flags at Half-Staff to Commemorate 9/11 Anniversary
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 10, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that U.S. and state flags should be flown at half-staff from sunrise to sunset on Thursday, September 11, 2014, in remembrance of the nearly 3,000 men, women and children who lost their lives in the 2001 terrorist attacks.

"With each year on the anniversary of September 11, we take time to remember the lives of those we lost, honor the men and women of our military who continue to fight for our freedom, and come together as a nation unified with an indomitable will and spirit that cannot be broken," Governor Malloy said. "We pay tribute to those who performed extraordinary acts of heroism on that day, selflessly putting themselves in harm's way to protect the lives of complete strangers, and we support the families of those whose lives were taken all too soon, including the many families from Connecticut who have been forever impacted by the tragedy. No amount of time will ever cause us to forget."

Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said, "Today we come together as a nation to mourn the thousands who lost their lives in the terrorist attacks and the subsequent wars. We also honor the many heroes borne of those catastrophic events on September 11, 2001. From the youngest child of a military family bravely navigating life with a parent deployed, to the hundreds of thousands who continue to seek ways to be of service; well over a decade later we are a country unified by a call to honor those we lost, those who responded, and those who continue to fight for us."

The Governor has also issued a proclamation declaring Thursday as Honor Our Heroes and Remembrance Day in the State of Connecticut.

There are 161 victims with ties to Connecticut who were killed in the September 11th attacks. The State of Connecticut's memorial to the victims is located on a peninsula at Sherwood Island State Park in Westport, where people gathered on that day in 2001 to observe Lower Manhattan. The site was also used as a staging area for Connecticut's relief efforts to New York City.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=552674
