Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State to Receive $7.6M for Recover Initiatives
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 9, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that Connecticut will receive two grants totaling $7.6 million from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to better address the needs of persons with mental health or substance abuse disorders.

"These funds will allow us to do a better job of reaching out to individuals who need additional assistance in maintaining safe housing or employment by providing them with tools that promote recovery from mental illness," said Governor Malloy. "This enables Connecticut to more effectively reach out to adults who need additional supports to live full lives in recovery."

The Connecticut Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services (DMHAS) will administer the grants, which assist with permanent housing for persons experiencing chronic homelessness or provide supported employment for individuals with serious mental illness who are either Latino or have been involved with the criminal justice system.

The Connecticut's Critical Time Intervention Plus award is a three-year, $3.6 million grant that will create three teams located within existing supportive housing organizations. The teams will assist clients with moves to permanent supportive housing and behavioral health treatment. They will also facilitate applications for disability entitlements, supported employment to connect participants who are able to work with jobs, and peer recovery services to provide on-going support and encouragement.

"People with serious mental illness experience chronic homelessness for many different reasons. This grant will enable us to address this issue in an individualized way," said DMHAS Commissioner Pat Rehmer. "Without stable housing, recovery cannot be a reality for many individuals with mental illness. This grant provides the opportunity for recovery."

The Connecticut Supported Employment Program award is a five-year, $4 million grant. DMHAS will enhance state and community capacity to provide evidenced-based supported employment programs using the expertise and resources of a statewide oversight committee. The grant will focus on employment services in Hartford and New Haven.

Governor Malloy added, "Employment has been shown to have a strong positive impact on an individual's recovery from mental health and substance use disorders. These state and local partnerships will be a valuable tool in creating and maintaining environments that support employment of residents who may be diagnosed with a substance use or mental health disorder."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=552620
