Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Applauds Federal Transportation Grant Awards for Important Rail and Transit-Oriente Development Projects
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 9, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, joined by members of Connecticut's Congressional delegation, today announced that the state has been awarded two federal TIGER VI (Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery) Grants - totaling $22.6 million - for projects that will support Waterbury's Active Transportation and Economic Resurgence (WATER) program and modernize Connecticut's freight rail infrastructure in eastern Connecticut. This grant award marks the first time since 2010 that Connecticut has received two TIGER grants in one year.

"These projects reinforce our commitment to modernizing Connecticut's transportation infrastructure by investing in rail and finding smart, practical ways to connect housing and employment centers to intermodal transit hubs," said Governor Malloy. "We know strengthening all aspects of our transportation network is critical to increasing our economic competitiveness, creating jobs for residents and making Connecticut a more attractive place to work, live and do business. I thank Secretary Foxx and our state's entire Congressional delegation for their support of these important projects."

The TIGER Discretionary Grant program allows the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to invest in road, rail, transit and port projects that promise to achieve critical national objectives and fund projects that have a significant impact on the nation, a region or a metropolitan area. For this round of TIGER grants, U.S. DOT received 797 eligible applications totaling $9.5 billion, which is 15 times the $600 million set aside for the program. Since 2011, Connecticut has received five TIGER grants totaling $53.1 million, including:

-2014 - City of Waterbury "WATER" project: $14.4 million to build upon investments the state and federal governments have already made in transportation infrastructure to stimulate economic redevelopment and improve the livability and vitality of the city, while complementing several state DOT (ConnDOT) initiatives related to the Waterbury Train Station.

















Source:
