Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Kicks-Off 2014 School Year Continuing to Advocate for Increased Access to Preschool
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Sept. 4, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Today, Governor Dannel P. Malloy, joined by Commissioner of the Office of Early Childhood, Dr. Myra Jones-Taylor, state and local officials, visited the M.D. Fox School in Hartford to highlight recently expanded pre-K slots for new students, the result of an initiative championed by the Governor that created 1,020 additional school readiness opportunities throughout the state this year.

"We know that investing in early education is the single most important investment we can make in our state and economy," said Governor Malloy. "This recent expansion of high-quality preschool in Connecticut brings us yet another step closer to ensuring that all children have an opportunity to succeed and closer to closing the achievement gap."

"This year's School Readiness expansion allows 1,020 more low-income 3- and 4-year-olds to attend high-quality preschool programs throughout the state," said Office of Early Childhood Commissioner, Dr. Myra Jones-Taylor. "This means that more than a thousand more children in Connecticut will be better prepared to enter kindergarten, increasing their chances for academic and life-long success and helping to close the achievement gap."

"We can't thank Governor Malloy enough for providing additional School Readiness seats for low-income children," said Superintendent Beth Schiavino-Narvaez. "The 18 new slots that were allocated to M.D. Fox Elementary School came as a welcome gift."

In June, Governor Malloy announced the allocation of 1,020 additional School Readiness opportunities for low-income children in forty-six towns and cities throughout Connecticut. The increase is part of a five-year plan to expand the School Readiness Program to serve a total of 4,010 more low-income children by 2019. In 2012, Governor Malloy approved a similar expansion of 1,000 School Readiness opportunities for children throughout the state.

In addition, Public Act 14-41 established the Connecticut Smart Start Program which is intended to expand preschool opportunities for low-income children in public schools. Connecticut Smart Start will provide grants in FY15 for the renovation of existing public school classrooms to accommodate public preschool programs.

Source:
