Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Unprecedented Investment in Brownfield Remediation Projects Around the State
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 27, 2014
Location: Bridgeport, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, joined by state and local officials in Bridgeport, today announced that the Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD) has awarded a total of $27 million in grants and loans to 20 brownfield remediation and redevelopment projects in cities and towns around the state.

"Many of Connecticut's brownfield sites have been abandoned or under-utilized for decades because the costs of redeveloping these properties are too expensive for municipalities or private developers to take on by themselves," said Governor Malloy. "That's why my administration has not only allocated the funding necessary to return dozens of unused and blighted properties in every corner of the state to productive reuse, but also taken significant steps to attract private investment and increase participation in our brownfield programs."

Governor Malloy continued, "Just for comparison, since 1995, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has invested $190 million nationally in brownfield cleanup. Since 2011, we've allocated nearly $90 million in state money. This is the largest round of brownfield remediation funding ever in the state's history and we will continue making these investments because we know doing so will generate significant returns for our state and local economies by getting these properties back on the tax rolls, improving the quality of life in these areas, cleaning up environmental contamination and, most importantly, creating jobs for our residents."

In May 2014, Governor Malloy announced that DECD would be accepting applications for up to $20 million of brownfield remediation and redevelopment funding in the form of loans and grants to municipalities and developers, with applications due on June 30, 2014. Based on an extremely strong group of applications and available funding, DECD awarded $27 million to 20 remediation and redevelopment projects.

"Revitalizing Connecticut's cities and downtowns is critical to continuing the State's economic momentum, and with the announcement of today's investments we are taking a significant step toward reactivating priority brownfield sites in every corner of the State," said DECD Commissioner Catherine H. Smith. "These 20 projects represent outstanding opportunities to activate long-stalled sites, create economic opportunity and remove blight from our communities."

"Investments in the cleanup of contaminated lands pay real dividends to our state in the form of reduced public health and environmental risks, economic growth, and job creation," said Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) Commissioner Robert Klee. "The new round of grants announced by the Governor will go a long way toward putting hundreds of acres back into productive reuse. DEEP is supporting this effort by partnering with DECD and other parties to streamline the cleanup process -- making certain cleanups can go as fast as possible while maintaining the highest environmental and public health standards."

"Most of the 20 properties awarded funds for remediation include housing as part of their redevelopment plans," said Department of Housing Commissioner Evonne Klein. "This includes not only market-rate housing, but much-needed affordable housing, which will contribute to long-term economic revitalization of these communities."

Since FY 2012, the Malloy administration invested $62.6 million in 37 projects to remediate contaminated sites in 27 cities and towns statewide. These investments have funded completed or ongoing remediation and redevelopment of 608 acres, and have generated significant additional leverage. For every dollar invested by the State, $3.43 has been or will be invested by non-State partners.

"Bridgeport's investing in the future," said Mayor Bill Finch (D-Bridgeport). "We're doing so in part by revitalizing run down properties. But without the leadership of Governor Dan Malloy, revitalization projects like this wouldn't be possible. Governor Malloy is giving us an opportunity to turn this run down property into a new mixed-use residential development that will include hundreds of apartments, commercial space, and public waterfront access. He's helping Bridgeport become a place where more companies want to invest and hire people, and where more families want to live and work. Thanks to Governor Malloy for his unwavering support of our state's largest city."

"This grant award is a direct result of the focus, hard work and due diligence by the office of economic development and other pertinent town staff," said Mayor John Harkins (R-Stratford). "These funds will allow the Town to clean up a long-vacant and contaminated property without placing an additional burden on the property taxpayers of Stratford. I'd like to thank DECD for its continued support of economic development in Stratford."

Awards made under this round of funding may be used for a range of brownfield remediation and redevelopment activities, including abatement, demolition, site investigation and assessment, groundwater monitoring, installation of institutional controls, and professional services fees associated with redevelopment including attorney's fees, and planning, design and consulting fees. All projects were rated and ranked by an inter-agency committee based on ranking criteria which evaluated the applicant's financial need, the feasibility of both the remediation and redevelopment project and the project's consistency with responsible growth and livability initiatives.

"Under Governor Malloy's leadership and in partnership with the state legislature, the State of Connecticut has made an historic commitment to investing in the redevelopment of brownfield sites across the State," said State Director of Waterfront, Brownfield and Transit-Oriented Development Tim Sullivan. "This round of funding was extraordinarily competitive, leading to an exceptional set of projects selected for funding. Along with our colleagues at DEEP and other state agencies, we are looking forward to partnering with the private sector and municipal leaders to see these investments through from vision to reality."

The projects awarded funding today are as follows:
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=552044
