Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Creates New Working Group to Reimagine Rocky Hill Veteran Facility
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 25, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he has asked Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman to head up an advisory group to plan and determine the best state programs and the most effective use of the Department of Veterans Affairs Rocky Hill Campus in order to support Connecticut's at-risk veterans' population. The group is expected to hold its first meeting in September.

"For decades, Nancy Wyman has been committed to ensuring that our veterans are treated with the utmost respect and dignity, expand affordable housing options and improve access to the support services and employment opportunities they deserve," said Governor Malloy. "Nancy has played an integral role in some of the most important endeavors this administration has pursued in regard to our veterans, and I know that the Lieutenant Governor will bring her usual dedication and tenacity to our review of the use of the grounds at Rocky Hill."

In connection with the Governor's commitment to eliminate chronic homelessness among veterans, the state budget provides $500,000 in funding to perform a capital needs assessment of the Rocky Hill campus, including a feasibility study for additional veterans housing at the Rocky Hill Campus such as the demolition of vacant buildings or those that are appropriate for adaptive re-use.

"This Administration has demonstrated its' strong commitment to improving the education, health, housing, and employment opportunities for our veterans," said Lt. Governor Wyman. "The Department of Veterans Affairs Rocky Hill Campus is a critical component in this effort. I am honored that Governor Malloy has asked me to lead this review and look forward to working with Commissioner Schwartz and the team we've assembled. Working together, we can not only eliminate homelessness among veterans, but make sure that we're giving all of our veterans the tools and the support they need to be successful here in Connecticut."

Commissioner Linda Schwartz welcomed the news of the Lt. Governor's appointment. "Nancy Wyman will bring focus, compassion and a deep understanding of the issues that veterans and their families face. I look forward to working with her on this important initiative," said Commissioner Schwartz.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=551880
