Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Investments in Local Infrastructure Encourages Local Economic Development, Creates Jobs and Improves Safety and Quality of Life
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 25, 2014
Location: Rocky Hill, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today joined state and local officials to highlight the Local Bridge Program, administered by the Connecticut Department of Transportation (ConnDOT), which provides state grants to municipalities for the removal, replacement, reconstruction or rehabilitation of local bridges. The press conference was held at the Old Main Street bridge over Goff Brook in Rocky Hill, which is being completely replaced at a cost of $1.87 million. The project will create more than 30 construction, engineering, and other ancillary jobs.

"As a former mayor, I know how vital our local transportation systems are to the overall economic competiveness of our state," said Governor Malloy. "Making improvements to our transportation infrastructure requires working with our partners at the municipal level to ensure that crucial capital improvement projects move forward. By putting more state money toward infrastructure, we create jobs in the short term and improve resident safety and quality of life over the long term."

The Malloy Administration has expanded the Local Bridge Program by an additional $25 million over the last two years. During that time, the program has committed approximately $35 million in state funds to assist municipalities in their efforts to replace or rehabilitate 48 bridges. These grants usually range between 15 and 50 percent of the total project costs for each project. These funding commitments are issued in July of every year in which funding is issued by the legislature, while municipalities submit applications by the preceding May.

In Connecticut, there are more than 3,400 bridges and culverts on municipally maintained roads. Construction and maintenance of these expensive structures is the responsibility of the cities and towns who own them. Recognizing the difficulty that municipalities have in meeting this responsibility, the General Assembly created the State Local Bridge Program in 1984 as part of the State's Infrastructure Renewal Program. This program provides for state grants to municipalities for the removal, replacement, reconstruction or rehabilitation of local bridges.

ConnDOT Chief Engineer Thomas A. Harley said that, unlike other funding programs that work on a reimbursement basis, the Local Bridge Program provides grants prior to commencement of construction in order to reduce the initial financial burden on municipalities. Adjustments are later made for any underpayment/overpayment through a mandatory audit after construction is complete and all payments are cleared.

The new Rocky Hill bridge will include a pre-cast 40-foot span with a three-piece arched culvert and is expected to be completed by the end of this construction season.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=551852
