Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Signs Fracking Waste Moratorium Into Law
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 18, 2014
Location: East Haven, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today joined state officials, lawmakers and environmental advocates for a ceremony at Farm River State Park in East Haven to commemorate the passage of a new state law that enacts a three-year moratorium on the handling of waste from hydraulic fracturing in Connecticut while its environmental impact is further researched.

The legislation, which has been called one of the strongest in the nation, was approved by the General Assembly with strong bipartisan support and supported by grassroots advocacy across the state.

"This law makes Connecticut a national leader in dealing with a material that can have a serious impact on our public health and our environment," Governor Malloy said. "We must take bold, proactive steps to defend the well-being of our state, remove any loopholes that may exist in environmental protection laws, and protect our citizens from toxic fracking waste. These efforts will assure that Connecticut remains a great place to live, work, and play."

During the three-year moratorium, the new law requires the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection to establish an appropriate regulatory approach necessary to ensure that fracking waste does not create a hazard for Connecticut's air, land, water, and public health.

The law also allows for immediate research permits on fracking waste to a maximum of three entities for up to 330 gallons of waste each. One of these entities may apply one time for an additional 500 gallons. All waste brought into the state for research must be treated as hazardous.

Fracking, which is also known as "hydraulic fracturing," is a drilling technique where an "L" shaped bore is made in the ground, which is then injected with water mixed with sand and chemicals under high pressure. This creates underground fissures that allow otherwise hard-to-reach deposits of natural gas to flow back to the surface. A single gas well made by fracking may create two to four million gallons of wastewater.

The legislation is Public Act 14-200, An Act Prohibiting the Storage or Disposal of Fracking Waste in Connecticut.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=551512
