Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Connecticut's Annual 'Sales Tax-Free Week' Runs August 17 to 23
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 15, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today reminded Connecticut consumers about the state's upcoming "Sales Tax-Free Week" for clothing and shoes that starts on Sunday, August 17 and continues through Saturday, August 23, 2014. During the week, most items of clothing and footwear selling for less than $300 -- including any discounts offered by the retailer -- will be exempt from the state sales and use tax.

"Having this week-long sales tax holiday not only makes back-to-school shopping just a little bit easier, but also helps retailers boost their bottom line," Governor Malloy said during an event to promote the week at a clothing retailer in Berlin. "Many stores also plan sales and discounts to coincide with this week, which allows families to stretch their hard-earned money a little further. This is a great opportunity to shop locally and support Connecticut retailers."

"For more than a decade, retailers have known offering consumers money-saving deals during sales tax-free week can draw in customers and grow their bottom line," Department of Revenue Services Commissioner Kevin B. Sullivan said. "I'm proud that we can continue this tradition, make it a little easier for families to do back-to-school shopping, and offer all taxpayers a break."

Connecticut Retail Merchants Association (CRMA) President Tim Phelan said that tax-free week is a time that customers can afford items that might normally be out of their price range. This is because retailers specifically plan sales and coupons for the tax holiday that, along with the saving on the sales tax, can mean significant deals for shoppers.

"The CRMA has always advocated for the sales-tax free week because of the benefits it offers both consumers and retailers throughout Connecticut," Phelan said. "On behalf of my members, I want to thank Governor Malloy for his continued support of this tax break and commend him for his unwavering stance on the renewal of the tax exemption for similar purchases under $50, effective year-round in 2015."

Additional information about "Sales Tax-Free Week," including examples of clothing and footwear that meet the exemption criteria, can be found on the Department of Revenue Services website at www.ct.gov/DRS.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=551430
