Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Three Connecticut Schools Recognized for Outstanding Innovation in Physical Fitness
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 15, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Chairman of the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils Jake Steinfeld announced today the three winning schools that will each receive a state-of-the-art Live PositivelyTM Fitness Center as part of the National Champion Schools campaign. The campaign has named Washington Middle School in Meriden, Maria Sanchez Elementary School in Hartford and Derby Middle School in Derby as the winning schools for demonstrating new and innovative ways for promoting student physical activity and wellness. This fall, the new fitness centers will be dedicated at ribbon cuttings ceremonies.

"By encouraging participation in physical activities in our schools, we can begin to address the widespread problem of childhood obesity," said Governor Malloy. "While only three schools won a new fitness center, all participating schools are winners for setting our children on the right path to fitness. I am proud to have partnered with Jake Steinfeld to bring this National Champion Schools campaign to Connecticut schools and applaud the winning schools for introducing innovative ideas for improving physical fitness."

"Childhood obesity is not a democrat or republican issue, it's a kids' issue and Governor Malloy has stepped up big time to help combat this growing problem," said Jake "Body by Jake" Steinfeld. "We're thrilled to award these three Connecticut schools with new fitness centers because they have demonstrated a passion for fitness and in living healthy a lifestyle. I know that academics and fitness go hand in hand and when you provide the schools with the tools, students will excel beyond their wildest dreams. Not only will these students be healthier, but they'll also have increased confidence, improved self-esteem and will achieve greater academic success."

The National Foundation's goal is to build a nation of the fittest, healthiest kids in the world. Physical activity and exercise are shown to help prevent and treat more than 40 chronic diseases, enhance individual health and quality of life and reduce health care costs. In schools, studies show that physical activity improves academic achievement, increases confidence and self-esteem, reduces discipline problems, cuts absenteeism and fosters better interpersonal relationships.

The National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils program plans to bring its challenge to all 50 states in the coming years. An attractive and unique feature of this campaign is that the Live Positively Fitness Centers are fully funded through public/private partnerships with companies like Coca-Cola and AOL and does not rely on taxpayer dollars or state funding. Live Positively is part of Coca-Cola's commitment to bring people together to make a positive difference, which includes supporting physical activity programs.

For more information about the National Foundation, visit http://natgovfit.org/.

About the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils
The National Foundation seeks to encourage and reward innovation in the field of youth fitness by awarding fitness centers to schools that use new and unique methods to promote student physical activity and wellness. The National Foundation envisions a fitness center in every school in the U.S., helping to build a nation that--through innovation and a "Don't Quit" attitude--boasts the fittest kids in the world. Since 2012, we've delivered fitness centers in Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Washington, DC, Georgia, New Jersey, Delaware, and West Virginia. In 2014, NFGFC will deliver new fitness centers to California, New Mexico, Connecticut and Virginia.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=551412
