Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State Partners with Statewide Coalition to Improve Response to Domestic Violence
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 13, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that in response to the tragic murder of a state Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) employee in May, the State of Connecticut will partner with the Connecticut Coalition Against Domestic Violence (CCADV) to improve policy and training around the issue of domestic violence.

"This new partnership between CCADV and the state's Learning Center will allow us to increase opportunities for our employees to learn more about how to take proactive steps to help prevent horrific acts of domestic violence," said Governor Malloy. "By working together, we can continue our efforts to build communities that are safe for all citizens and break the cycle of violence that can be devastating to almost every aspect of a victim's life."

CCADV is working closely with the state Department of Administrative Services (DAS) to review policies and training practices around domestic violence. Through the DAS Learning Center, CCADV will present "Understanding Domestic Violence: What Every Professional Should Know," an in-depth look at the warning signs and risk factors, which will assist state employees in identifying and responding to domestic violence not only within their agencies but with family and friends as well.

In addition, the partnership will create a review process for the state's policies and practices when responding to domestic violence in the workplace.

"This partnership creates a meaningful opportunity to impact thousands of individuals statewide. It is crucial that we reach out to state agencies to provide them with the tools to respond to domestic violence. As we know, many victims report being harassed by their partners while they are at work," said CCADV CEO Karen Jarmoc. "We truly appreciate the Governor's leadership in making this happening and improving policy and practices in the ways we respond to domestic violence."

"Our agency recently experienced the tragic death of a colleague due to an alleged act of domestic violence and it was a shocking and stunning blow to her family and to all of her colleagues at DEEP," said Department of Energy and Environmental Protection Commissioner Rob Klee. "Domestic violence is an all pervasive and dangerous crime that affects the lives of thousands of people in Connecticut every day. Efforts like this are critical to broadening our understanding of domestic violence, the risks it creates, the toll it can take, and how it can best be addressed."

The DAS Learning Center provides specialized training for Connecticut state employees in the areas of human resources, managerial support, computers, safety, and career development. This high quality, cost-effective training is intended to help Connecticut agencies develop and maintain a knowledgeable and effective workforce. The Learning Center has partnerships with Connecticut Community-Technical Colleges, and the Connecticut Training and Development Network.

"The DAS Learning Center staff continually assesses the ever changing landscape of issues facing professionals in today's work environment, and the Learning Center is an important tool in keeping state employees educated on workplace topics," said DAS Commissioner Donald DeFronzo. "We have added "Understanding Domestic Violence: What Every Professional Should Know' to our course development and will continue to educate employees on the various workplace issues that affect state employees."

Through this collaborative effort, linkages will be created between state employees to one of 18 domestic violence organizations throughout the state to further assist those in need. Each organization offers free services to victims including a toll-free hotline, safety through shelter, counseling and support groups, children's programs, information and referrals. They can be contacted through the statewide free and confidential hotline at 888-774-2900. For more information about CCADV, visit http://www.ctcadv.org/.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=551282
