Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: New State Ignition Interlock Law Will Help Prevent Accidents Caused By Impaired Drivers
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 11, 2014
Location: Fairfield, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, joined by state lawmakers, public safety officials and advocates, today held a bill signing ceremony to commemorate the ratification of a new law that makes a number of changes to deter driving under the influence (DUI) and strengthen the state's ignition interlock requirements by authorizing the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) to administratively require the devices be installed on cars of first-time DUI offenders. The law, Public Act 14-228, will go into effect on July 1, 2015.

"This ignition interlock requirement is one of several more stringent penalties and measures we are implementing to combat and reduce the kinds of irresponsible behaviors -- like impaired, distracted and reckless driving - that inevitably lead to crashes, injuries and death on our roads and highways," said Governor Malloy. "With the passage of this law, we have taken an important step towards protecting drivers, passengers and pedestrians alike. I want to give a special thanks to our partners in this effort, Representative Fox, Senator Coleman, the MADD organization and the law enforcement community. Together, we are making Connecticut's roads safer for all who use them."

Passed by the General Assembly during the last legislative session, Public Act 14-228 affects penalties imposed when a person is (1) administratively found to have violated drunk driving laws or (2) is convicted of DUI. Specifically, the law:

-Reduces the license suspension period for all administrative per se violations to 45 days, but imposes ignition interlock requirements after the suspension ends;
-Eliminates the 90-day waiting period for a special operator's permit for a first administrative per se violation for refusing to submit to a blood alcohol content (BAC) test;
-Changes the required license suspension period for someone who fails to use an IID as required;
-Allows the DMV commissioner to impose IID requirements on Connecticut residents following an out-of-state DUI conviction that occurs within 10 years of a previous DUI conviction in Connecticut or another state; and
-Decreases, in some cases, the suspension period for drivers under age 21 who are convicted of DUI for the second time.

An ignition interlock is a device about the size of a cell phone that is wired into the ignition system of a vehicle. A convicted drunk driver must blow into the device in order to start their vehicle. If they have a measurable amount of alcohol in their system, the vehicle will not start. Interlocking devices have been shown to deter drinking and driving and DUI offenders using interlocks have acknowledged that the devices have changed their behavior.

"Ignition Interlocks are one of the best ways to stop drinking and driving and keep DUI offenders off the roads," said State Representative Gerald Fox III (D-Stamford), House Chairman of the Judiciary Committee. "The ignition interlock will not allow the driver to start the vehicle if the device determines that the driver is impaired. This device is proven to prevent injuries and deaths of many Connecticut residents."

"MADD CT is very pleased to join 24 other states to sign into law an all offender ignition interlock device statue with Governor Malloy and LT Governor Wyman," said Janice Margolis, Executive Director of Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) Connecticut. "Research from the CDC indicates that first time offenders have driven drunk at least 80 times before they are arrested. Ignition Interlock Devices are effective in reducing repeat drunk driving offenses by 67 percent. It is expected that the CT law, which goes into effect July 2015, will saves lives in our state."

"Preventing operators from Driving Under the Influence, through education, enforcement and supporting effective legislation, remains a high priority for the Connecticut Police Chief's Association and all Law Enforcement Officers throughout Connecticut," said Fairfield Police Chief Gary MacNamara. "This law will make our roads safer by significantly reducing DUI offenders, from repeating their reckless unlawful behavior. I would like to thank the Governor, the legislature, and all others whose efforts made this law happen. I also want to acknowledge all our State and Municipal Law Enforcement Officers who continue in their efforts to make our roads safer."

"These new measures will place additional requirements on those who choose to make the reckless and careless decision to drive under the influence, and ultimately will help make our roads safer," said DMV Commissioner Melody A. Currey.

In 2013, Governor Malloy signed a law to cut down on the number of distracted drivers and distracted driving accidents in Connecticut by mandating higher fines for motorists engaging in any activity that interferes with a vehicle's safe operation. This includes texting or talking on their phone while operating a motor vehicle even while stopped at a traffic light. The law further deters unsafe and distracted driving by allowing insurance companies to take distracted driving violations into account when setting customers' auto insurance rates. A task force was also created to study distracted driving issues and report to the General Assembly's Transportation Committee by January 1, 2014.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=551072
