Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Federal Funding to Support State Home Visitng Program
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Aug. 7, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced a $1 million grant award from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services as part of the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program. These funds, awarded to the Connecticut Office of Early Childhood (OEC), will allow Connecticut to continue and expand voluntary, evidence-based home visiting services to women during pregnancy and to parents with young children up to age five.

"This grant program is one more way in which we are working with local communities to support the positive growth and development of Connecticut's children," said Governor Malloy. "I am pleased that the State of Connecticut is a recipient of these federal funds which will allow us to continue efforts that support positive outcomes for some of our most vulnerable children."

Connecticut's grant award will allow the state's home visiting programs to continue their work in increasing parent knowledge of early childhood development and improving parenting practices, providing early detection of developmental delays and health issues, preventing child abuse and neglect, and increasing children's school readiness and school success.

"Home visiting services are a proven and cost-effective way to help children and their families," stated OEC Commissioner Dr. Myra Jones-Taylor. "By working one-on-one with families, we can increase health outcomes and academic success while also preventing child abuse and neglect."

In 2012, the Department of Public Health (DPH) received $27 million over three years in Affordable Care Act funds to improve the health and development of at-risk pregnant women, parents, caregivers and children from birth-to-eight years of age for the Connecticut Home Visiting Program. In a move to better align early childhood services, the Home Visiting Program will move from DPH to OEC effective October 1, 2014.

The Home Visiting Program builds upon decades of scientific research, which shows that families that choose home visits by a nurse, social worker, or early childhood educator during pregnancy and in the first years of life benefit from important support services for healthy children and families. Home visit programs have been shown to prevent child abuse and neglect, and promote child health and development.

A total of $106.7 million was awarded to 46 states, the District of Columbia, and five jurisdictions as part of the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program (Home Visiting Program) established by the Affordable Care Act. HRSA administers the Home Visiting Program in partnership with the Administration for Children and Families to provide states with the resources they need to expand home visiting programs and early childhood systems.

The Home Visiting Program serves as one part of a prenatal to age five continuum with the other parts of President Obama's Early Learning Initiative: both high-quality infant and toddler care through Early Head Start-Child Care Partnerships and universal Pre-K to optimize the essential foundations in early childhood for future healthy development and well-being.

For more information on HRSA's Home Visiting Program, visit: http://mchb.hrsa.gov/programs/homevisiting

For a list of awardees, visit: www.hrsa.gov/about/news/2014tables/homevisiting

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=550794
