Public Statements
Gov. Malloy & Lt. Gov. Wyman Applaud Final Legislative Passage of "Person First' Legislation
Press Release
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: June 7, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman are applauding the Connecticut House of Representatives for voting today to give final legislative approval on a bill the Governor introduced that updates outdated language within the Connecticut state statutes that are in reference to persons with disabilities and replaces them with person-first, respectful language.
The idea to make these modifications first came to the Governor's attention through the Department of Developmental Services, which pointed out several areas of state statute that use words that are out-of-date and do not promote inclusion and respect for any person who has a disability.
Governor Malloy said, "Connecticut has a long history of being at the forefront of issues concerning equity and respect for all of our citizens, and this legislation should be seen as a step forward and an evolution of those efforts. The language we use within the laws we create in our statute books should reflect our inclusive mindset and respectfulness for all the people of our state, no matter their ability. I want to thank the overwhelming, bipartisan group of lawmakers who agreed that the words we use matter and that these are changes we should support."
Lt. Governor Wyman said, "This legislation is part of a larger commitment to people with disabilities and ensuring that they are defined first by their character and their commitment. Dignity and respect matter, and this legislation is one small way to move that conversation forward, and modernize our statutes and our thinking. I thank Governor Malloy for his work to make Connecticut more inclusive, and the legislature for passing this bill."
The legislation is Senate Bill 796, An Act Concerning the Use of Respectful and Person-First Language. It next moves to the Governor's desk for his signature.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/en/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2017/06-2017/Gov-Malloy-and-Lt-Gov-Wyman-Applaud-Final-Legislative-Passage-of-Person-First-Bill
