Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Funds Approved for Repair of South Branch Park River Channel in Newington, West Hartford, and Hartford
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 25, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that $4.6 million for repairs and improvements to flood control infrastructure that protects hundreds of homes and properties along the South Branch of the Park River as it flows through the towns of Newington, West Hartford, and Hartford were approved this morning at a meeting of the State Bond Commission.

"The South Branch of the Park River Flood Project is in a deteriorated condition and in serious need of repairs," said Governor Malloy. "This is an important and needed investment to protect the safety and well-being of those who live and travel along this river corridor. Funds we will make available will help ensure that the flood control project continues to work effectively and protect people from overflows of the South Branch of the Park River."

Due to the presence of vegetation, woody debris, and sediment, as well as earthen and concrete bank failures, the flood control channels are no longer functioning the way they were intended. The existing condition could jeopardize the continued protection of homes and businesses from flooding and threatens the continued certification of the project as designed by the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS).

"The South Branch Park River Flood Control Project has protected residents and businesses from flooding for more than 30 years and now needs extensive work," said Department of Energy and Environmental Protection Commissioner Robert Klee. "The funding being requested will allow for the necessary repairs to allow the channel to perform its original functions and ensure continued public safety."

The South Branch Park River Flood Control Project was started in the 1960s by the Army Corps of Engineers and the NRCS and is now maintained by the DEEP. The repair project will allow 96 jobs to be created or maintained

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=549038
