Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Bond Commission Agenda Supports Non-Profit Collaboration, Efficiency
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 25, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State Bond Commission approved the authorization of nearly $15 million in funding for nonprofit organizations.

"I am pleased that my administration has been able to take positive steps to support nonprofit providers, which serve all citizens of Connecticut and play a substantial role in maintaining our safety net during challenging times," said Governor Malloy. "Partnering with our nonprofit organizations is a smart fiscal investment to ensure that these agencies can continue to provide services while doing so in an efficient, cost-effective way."

Thirty two nonprofit organizations are scheduled to receive funding, including cultural and historic organizations and organizations providing healthcare and human services.

According to Terry Edelstein, Nonprofit Liaison to the Governor, "these bond funds will help nonprofit organizations streamline programs and services through local, regional and statewide collaborations, to carry out their strategic planning initiatives and to support individuals and families with significant challenges."

Six nonprofit organizations in collaboration with nine other agencies were awarded funding through the Office of Policy and Management's Nonprofit Collaboration Incentive Grant Program, which provides funds for one-time infrastructure costs to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the services provided by the agencies. Through this collaborative venture, a total of 15 organizations are slated to receive funding.

In addition, the State Bond Commission today authorized awards to nonprofit organizations funded through the state Department of Social Services (DSS), the state Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services (DMHAS), the state Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD), the state Department of Public Health (DPH) and other state agency bond pools.

Nonprofit organizations included on the State Bond Commission agenda:

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
GRANTS-IN-AID TO NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS SPONSORING CULTURAL AND HISTORIC SITES

Music Theater of Connecticut in Norwalk to assist with renovations and improvements and creation of a new theater facility - $150,000
Mark Twain House and Museum in Hartford to assist with renovations and improvements - $2,200,000
Connecticut Historical Society in Hartford to assist with renovations and improvements - $300,000
Harriet Beecher Stowe Center in Hartford to assist with renovations and improvements to the Harriet Beecher Stowe House and Library - $650,000
Connecticut Science Center, Inc. to finance various renovations and improvements and technology upgrades - $4,000,000

GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS

Continuum of Care, Inc. to assist in the construction of a new administrative office building in New Haven - $7,500,000 (approved by State Bond Commission 1/9/14) -- allows for the grant to be made to a "qualified community development entity" or other entities.
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES

North End Senior Center in Hartford for renovation and improvements - $100,000
Klingberg Family Centers, Inc. in New Britain for renovations of a former dormitory in New Britain into conference and meeting space and code compliance repairs - $825,000
Trumbull Senior Center for renovation and improvements to the kitchen facilities - $150,000
Youth Continuum, Inc. for renovations and improvements to the basement space at its New Haven facility - $700,000
BHcare, Inc. in North Haven to allow for the purchase of a domestic violence shelter in the greater New Haven area - $190,000 (approved by State Bond Commission 4/26/13) -- allows for purchase in greater New Haven area rather than renovation of property in Ansonia
Community Mental Health Affiliates Inc. in New Britain to assist with renovation to a new, larger space in New Britain for its Team Time Social Club program for young people with mental illness - $600,000
New Britain Berlin YMCA to assist with replacement of the roof and renovation and reconfiguration of the parking lot - $600,000
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

GRANTS-IN-AID TO COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS AND PRIMARY CARE ORGANIZATIONS

Fair Haven Community Health Clinic, Inc. in New Haven for construction and purchase of equipment for a new 6,000 foot facility - $917,141


OFFICE OF POLICY AND MANAGEMENT

NONPROFIT COLLABORATION INCENTIVE PROGRAM

Connecticut Association for Community Action, Inc. to streamline the Community Action Agency network's data warehouse. The data warehouse is used in collaboration with the Access Agency, Community Action Committee of Danbury, Inc., New Opportunities, Inc. and Thames Valley Council for Community Action - $525,000
Waterford Country School Camp Cuheca for upgrades to an existing activity site and garden on the grounds of Waterford Country School. Work on the garden will be in collaboration with FRESH Farm New London -- $62,485
Community Mental Health Affiliates, Inc. for an information technology system collaboration to consolidate administrative functions in collaboration with Farrell Treatment Center - $310,885
Corporation for Independent Living for the development of a multi-tenant, nonprofit center in Hartford in collaboration with the Connecticut Association of Nonprofits - $1,500,000
New London Homeless Hospitality Center for the purchase of a 15 passenger van in collaboration with the New London Meal Center - $53,000
Mercy Housing and Shelter Corporation for the purchase and development of a client database system and integrated business practices in collaboration with Hands on Hartford - $103,635
DEPARTMENT OF MENTAL HEALTH AND ADDICTION SERVICES

BHcare, Inc. in Branford for plumbing renovation and reconstruction of the kitchens
and bathrooms - $310,025
Columbus House, Inc. in New Haven for ADA improvements - $53,295
United Services, Inc. in Willimantic for down payment assistance - $76,500
Emergency Grants-in-aid, statewide - $100,000
Grants-in-aid to various 501(c)(3) nonprofit community-based providers of mental health and addiction treatment for various alterations, repairs and improvements - $222,410

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=549040
