Public Statements
Gov Malloy Commemorates Anactment of New Law on Life-Saving Allergy Treatments in Schools
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 21, 2014
Location: Weston, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today held a bill signing ceremony for a new state law that allows trained school employees to administer the life-saving treatment epipenphrine (commonly known as "EpiPens") for emergency first aid to any students who may experience a severe allergic reaction and were not previously known to have serious allergies. He was joined at Weston High School by state Public Health Commissioner Jewel Mullen, state Education Commissioner Stefan Pryor, lawmakers and advocates.

"Many students suffer from severe allergies, and it can be difficult for families -- particularly those of limited resources -- to know the severity of a student's allergies before an attack occurs," said Governor Malloy. "It is common sense public policy to ensure that any student suffering a life-threatening allergic reaction at school can receive emergency first aid. This legislation sets in motion programs at Connecticut schools that are meant to save lives."

The legislation requires schools to designate and train qualified school employees to administer emergency epinephrine in cartridge injectors to any student having a first time allergic reaction when the school nurse is absent or unavailable. It further requires the State Board of Education (SDE) to adopt regulations concerning the conditions and procedures for the storage and administration of epinephrine by school personnel.

"Over the past three and a half years, we have seen historic investment in our education system, school safety, and student services -- this is another important step in protecting the health and well-being of our young people," said Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman. "I commend Governor Malloy and the General Assembly for ensuring Connecticut schools have the tools and training necessary to assist students in the case of a health emergency."

"An EpiPen is a life-saving device that should be available to any student in need of emergency first aid for a life threating allergic reaction," Commissioner of Education Stefan Pryor said. "This legislation increases health and safety measures in Connecticut's public schools to protect students while they are in our care. It establishes the requirements for policies and procedures to follow when a student suffers a life-threatening allergic reaction, even if he or she has never experienced one before. With Governor Malloy's signing of this bill, parents and students can be assured that in addition to school nurses, teachers, and other qualified school personnel will have the training and legal authority necessary to act in a medical emergency."

Public Act 14-176, An Act Concerning the Storage and Administration of Epinephrine at Public Schools, took effect July 1. Prior to the passage of this law, Connecticut laws made provisions for the administration of medication in schools by unlicensed personnel to only students who had prior written authorization.

"Thousands of Connecticut children have severe allergies that can send them into anaphylactic shock -- and countless more have never been diagnosed," said State Representative Andy Fleischmann, co-chair of the Education Committee. "This new law will help all of these children by making EpiPens -- the key first response to a strong allergic reaction -- far more widely available in our schools and on our playing fields. It will also protect children by ensuring more adults are trained, ready and able to administer epinephrine. In short, it's a great step forward for the health and safety of Connecticut children and their families."

"All children need access to lifesaving epinephrine during a severe allergic reaction at school," said Deputy House Speaker Kevin Ryan, (D-Montville). "I am very pleased to see Connecticut join 26 other states with similar requirements to protect children."

The legislation also requires the Departments of Education and Public Health to jointly develop, in consultation with the School Nurse Advisory Council, an annual training program regarding emergency first aid to students who experience allergic reactions by December 2014.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?Q=548816&A=4010
