Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Economic Assistance Grants Awarded to Small Towns in Connecticut
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 18, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced a series of grants under the state's Small Town Economic Assistance Program (STEAP) that will be awarded to seven towns in Connecticut for the purposes of funding a variety of economic development, community improvement and quality-of-life projects.

"Working with our small towns, we can identify important capital projects that improve the quality-of-life for residents, strengthen local infrastructure, encourage business growth and create jobs," Governor Malloy said. "The investments we are announcing today will help these towns move projects forward that ultimately make Connecticut a better place to live and do business."

"It is so important for state and local governments to work together to improve our neighborhoods, economic centers, and quality of life," said Lt. Governor Wyman. "Governor Malloy and I recognize that all communities face budget challenges -- these grants will help towns address infrastructure problems, improve life for residents, and make a difference for taxpayers."

The STEAP grants announced today are as follows:

Coventry
$475,000 to design, obtain permits, and construct an improved sluiceway and control system at the outlet of Coventry Lake. Lake gate failure could result in significant downstream damage to historic properties and mills. It would also have a negative impact on the recreational activities and marine life in the area.

Hampton
$450,000 to resurface East Old Route 6. The road is a major conduit within the town as it connects Route 6 and Route 97. In addition to reconstructing the road, the project would also include tree trimming and replacing culverts and cross pipes.

Morris
$35,000 to replace a generator at the Highway Department Garage. The project will provide a reliable power source and allow town employees to work and fuel equipment during power outages.

Plymouth
$500,000 to continue the implementation of the Route 6 streetscape improvement project. This project is a part of the town's efforts to redevelop the Downtown Terryville area. The town previously was received a $450,000 STEAP grant for Phase I of the project.

Thomaston
$500,000 for sidewalk reconstruction, much-needed municipal parking for the town's Downtown Development District and Phase I construction of a track/athletic facility to be located in Nystrom's Park. The high school doesn't have a track forcing students to use a main road for practice.

Tolland
$500,000 for the Tolland Public Library expansion project. The library will be expanded into the adjacent gymnasium and a second floor will be added.

Winchester
$500,000 to assist with costs of redeveloping a brownfield facility known as "Lambert Kay," an old mill building that sat abandoned for years. The town has been in discussions with private businesses interested in the site.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?Q=548782&A=4010
