Public Statements
Letter to the Honorable Scott Pruitt, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator - Petition on the Clean Air Act
Letter
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 9, 2017
Location: Unknown

Dear Administrator Pruitt:
In December 2013, the State of Connecticut, along with eight other states, petitioned the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to add nine upwind states to the Ozone Transport Commission (OTC} to address inequities Connecticut faces from the illegal transport of interstate air pollution. Today, more than three years later, the air pollution from upwind states continues to cross our state line- causing severe impacts in our state.
EPA's proposed decision to deny the petition that has been filed under Section 176A of the Clean Air Act is unjust and unfair. The failure of upwind states to make investments needed to operate power plants and industrial facilities in an efficient and clean manner- just as we have in Connecticut and the other petitioning states- is exacting a steep price on the health of both the people and economy of my state, along with many other states. EPA's failure to provide a complete remedy for interstate air pollution transport and denial of this petition will perpetuate this injustice.
As you might recall, I had the opportunity to raise this issue with you in person at the White House, du ring the recent National Governors Association convening in Washington, D.C. I am again requesting that you carefully consider your agency's obligation to protecting the health of American citizen's, which is gravely impacted by this issue, as well as the environment.
Now is the time to require upwind states to take action . EPA must move to include the petitioned states in the collaborative and efficient OTC process to resolve finally the illegal transport of air pollution into Connecticut. Connecticut is t ired of serving as the tailpipe of America. The health of our citizens depends on a positive resolution of this matter- which can only be accomplished by EPA accepting our Section 176A petition and implementing the requirements it proposes.
Sincerely,

Source: http://www.ct.gov/deep/lib/deep/air/176a/2017_03_09_governor_malloy_176a_comment_letter.pdf
