Public Statements
Gov. Malloy & Lt. Gov. Wyman Statements on International Women's Day
Statement
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: March 8, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman released the following statements regarding International Women's Day:
Governor Malloy said, "Investing in the next generation of women leaders must continue to be our collective priority. Listening to and valuing women's voices in our state has never been more important. Time and time again, these voices have resulted in meaningful policy changes that benefit all families in our state -- from raising the minimum wage, to guaranteeing paid sick leave, to ending discriminatory pay secrecy policies.
"While Connecticut has a rich tradition of equality and leading the nation on issues impacting women, the fact remains that there is still much more we can -- and should -- do. Promoting gender diversity in my cabinet has been a priority since day one -- and the results speak volumes. Let me be clear -- Connecticut's state government would not function without the contributions of women serving at every level, including many of the most senior roles in my administration. Negotiating historic economic development agreements, regulating complex industries, ensuring the welfare and education of our children, protecting our public safety -- all of these essential governmental functions, among many others, are accomplished with women at the helm in Connecticut. Today, and every day, I proudly stand with the women of Connecticut."
Lt. Governor Wyman said, "Today I join women around the world who are fighting for equality for women. Equal pay and equal representation at every level of government, science, education, and in every economic sector benefits all people. Access to information and healthcare is necessary for caring for our caretakers. Access to academic and professional opportunity creates a diverse workforce, lifts families out of poverty, and inspires the next generation. These, and other issues, are at the forefront of discussion today especially, but we are fighting to ensure they remain a priority all year long. We have hard work ahead of us, but we have great minds and fierce women -- and men -- with us, and a generation of girls behind us."

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/en/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2017/03-2017/Gov-Malloy-and-Lt-Gov-Wyman-Statements-on-International-Womens-Day
