Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Encourages Participation in Renters' Rebate Program
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 9, 2014
Location: New Haven, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, joined by Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman, Mayor Toni Harp, state Department of Aging Acting Commissioner Margaret Gerundo-Murkette and state and local officials, today encouraged participation in Connecticut's Elderly Renters' Rebate Program for low-income and disabled residents. The budget Governor Malloy signed in May included an increase of more than $6.5 million to expand the Program and help thousands of additional senior citizens stay in their own homes.

"With our elderly population continuing to grow, it is critical for us to take the necessary steps now to meet the needs of Connecticut's seniors," said Governor Malloy. "This includes providing senior citizens with the right amount of support to give them access to a living situation that is safe, decent and affordable. This initiative will help make it possible for thousands of senior citizens and residents with disabilities to afford to stay in their communities and live with dignity, security, and independence."

The Elderly Renters' Rebate Program, established in 1974, benefits around 40,000 residents annually by providing direct, partial reimbursement to lower-income elderly or 100 percent disabled renters to offset a portion of their rent and utility expenses. Under the expansion, an additional 12,700 recipients -- an increase of over 30 percent -- will be able to qualify for assistance.

"Our seniors are integral to the fabric of our communities, ensuring they can safely stay in their homes for as long as possible is a priority," said Lt. Governor Wyman. "With this expansion, Governor Malloy has improved access to the programs and services vital to our aging population, and has improved the lives of seniors across the state."

Administered by the Office of Policy and Management, the program provides payments ranging from $50 to $900 for qualifying married persons, and $50 to $700 for qualifying single persons. The rebate amount is based on a graduated income scale and the amount of rent and utility payments (excluding telephone) made in the calendar year prior to the year in which the renter applies. In order to qualify, married persons must have an annual income not greater than $41,600, and single persons must have an annual income not greater than $34,100.

"In a state like Connecticut, no senior should lose their home because they live on a fixed income," said state Department of Aging Acting Commissioner Margaret Gerundo-Murkette. "Over the course of their lives, seniors here in New Haven and around the state have worked, raised families, paid taxes, and volunteered their time to make communities stronger. We owe them the opportunity to maintain their lives with independence and dignity -- that's what this program is all about."

"Thousands of seniors across Connecticut live on fixed incomes, and the Renters Rebate program helps them enjoy their golden years in their own homes," said Senator Andres Ayala (D-Bridgeport), Senate Chair of the Aging Committee. "As Connecticut's aging population continues to grow, we need to take steps to ensure that they can continue living healthy, independent lives in our communities by increasing access to assistive programs like this one. I am glad that Governor Malloy and his administration have maintained their commitment to Connecticut's seniors."

"Expanding the renters rebate program will provide additional assistance for seniors to remain in their homes that will benefit both the individual and their family," said State Representative Joe Serra (D-Middletown), House Chair of the Aging Committee. "The state's population is getting older and we need to continue to support our senior citizens and shape the future of our state."

The program is an on-going application process. Eligible persons may apply between April 1 and October 1 each year at either their town Assessor's Office or social service agency, depending on the town. To date, OPM has received more than 27,000 applications from 164 cities and towns.

Source:
