Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Data Advisory Panel to Hold First Meeting
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: July 7, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the Open Data Advisory Panel, the group he created that is responsible for advising the direction and focus of the state's recently launched open data portal, will meet for the first time on Wednesday, July 9, at the Legislative Office Building in Hartford to begin discussing a Connecticut Open Data Policy. The meeting will begin at 1:00 PM and will be held in hearing room 1B.

"Making more data publicly available not only makes government more transparent, it also creates an opportunity for innovation and economic growth," said Governor Malloy. "I'm excited for this group to get to work, and for the tremendous opportunity their works gives us to make government more accessible to residents."

Created through Governor Malloy's Executive Order No. 39, the Open Data Advisory Panel is responsible for advising the state's Chief Data Officer on the creation of a Connecticut Open Data Policy governing how data for the state open data portal is managed and made available transparently and usefully. The goal of the Connecticut Open Data Policy will be to share data collected by state government, break down silos within government, make data more easily available for analysis by researchers and entrepreneurs and help spur economic growth and creative new policy.

In a major effort to increase transparency of information within state government, Governor Malloy in February ordered the creation of the Connecticut Open Data Portal, which serves as an online website where data collected across all state government agencies is shared for public consumption. The portal, which launched in March, is located at http://data.ct.gov.

The Connecticut Open Data Portal includes lists, tables, charts, graphs or other non-narrative forms of information that is generally statistical or factual. To date, the site contains more than 180 datasets and over 1.6 million rows of data.

Wednesday's meeting will include an overview of Executive Order No. 39 and a demonstration of the Connecticut Open Data Portal, followed by a discussion on experiences in using and accessing state data and critical elements for Connecticut's open data policy. Time will be provided for public comment.

The Open Data Advisory Panel membership is as follows:

Tyler Kleykamp (chair): Chief Data Officer, Office of Policy & Management
Robert Santy: President of the Connecticut Economic Resource Center, Inc.
Bennett Pudlin: Director, The Charter Oak Group; representing the Appropriations Committee
Steve Anderson: Senior Vice President, Applied Geographics, Inc.
Dean Myshrall: Director of Data Services, DAS/BEST
Mark Abraham: Executive Director, Data Haven
Chris Woods: Entrepreneur, StudyMyCity.org
Dr. Lisa Dierker: Professor of Psychology, Wesleyan University
Dr. Jane Horvath: Associate Professor of Economics and Senior Advisor to the President, University of Hartford
Andrea Barton Reeves: President and CEO, HARC, Inc.
Christopher Brechlin: CEO and Founder, Blueprint for a Dream

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=548216
