Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State Crime Lab Continues Successful Turnaround
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 25, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the American Society of Crime Laboratory Directors/Laboratory Accreditation Board (ASCLD/LAB) conducted, as part of its accreditation process, an audit of the Connecticut Crime Lab's quality management system and operations. The ASCLD/LAB reported compliance in every category and no negative findings.
"I would like to congratulate Dr. Guy Vallaro and the staff at the state Crime Lab on this tremendous accomplishment," said Governor Malloy. "Dr. Vallaro and his team have restored the state's Crime Lab's status as one of the premier labs in the country."
The ASCLD/LAB is an accrediting body for public and private forensic laboratories. As part of the accreditation process, crime labs are expected to be able to demonstrate that their management, personnel, equipment, physical facilities, quality system, operational and technical procedures meet established standards.
"The Laboratory has made many improvements over the past several years with outstanding results," said Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection Commissioner Dr. Dora B. Schriro. "Dr. Vallaro and the Lab's management team and staff are second to none and their commitment to excellence has made a meaningful difference throughout the law enforcement community and in the lives of crime victims and survivors."
After losing accreditation in 2011, the state Crime Lab's accreditation was restored in February of 2012. This marks the second consecutive year that the Lab passed the surveillance inspection with no deficiencies or finding of non-compliance.
"The staff at the State Crime Lab should be commended for their extraordinary work," said Dr. Guy Vallaro, Director of the State Crime Lab. "Their dedication and commitment has resulted in the restoration of confidence in the Lab."
The state Crime Lab continues to make significant progress in reducing test backlogs and, between January 2013 and June 2014, reduced the backlog of firearms to be tested by 83 percent, cyber samples by 79 percent, DNA by 74 percent, latent prints by 60 percent and toxicology screens by 42 percent.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=547278
