Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Statewide Emergency Preparedness Drill to be Held This Week
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 20, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that a two-day statewide emergency preparedness drill designed to enhance mass care planning, readiness and disaster preparedness at all levels of government and the state's utilities will take place on Saturday, June 21 and Monday, June 23.

"We must always look to improve the way we respond to an emergency - so that when disaster does strike - every level of government and our private sector partners, including the state's utilities, are clear about its mission and goals," said Governor Malloy. "Storms and other emergencies are inevitable, but the more we all work together to limit the impact of potential disasters, the better prepared we will be to identify and get aid to those most in need, re-open roads, schools and businesses more quickly and help communities return to normal sooner than might otherwise be possible."

Coordinated by the Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection's Division of Emergency Management and Homeland Security (DEMHS), the exercise will simulate a Category 1 Hurricane and will test the coordination and response of all participating stakeholders. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is predicting 8 to 13 named storms this hurricane season, with 3 to 6 possibly becoming hurricanes and 1 to 2 possibly becoming major hurricanes.

"This exercise continues our commitment to ensure that the people of Connecticut receive the timely, coordinated response they deserve when the next inevitable catastrophe hits," said Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman. "These two days will create a blueprint of how we can improve our preparation heading into the height of hurricane season."

The exercise is part of Governor Malloy's ongoing Emergency Preparedness and Planning Initiative (EPPI), which began in 2011 and culminated with the first exercise in 2012. The overall goals of the exercise include:

Planning -- All participating municipalities will use their Local Emergency Operations Plan (LEOP) to implement an appropriate Incident Action Plan (IAP) with particular focus on planning that integrates functional needs, in response to a Category 1 Hurricane.

Operational Coordination -- All participating municipalities will activate their local Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and convene Unified Command to coordinate and collaborate operational response to the community's needs, and review hurricane preparedness.

Mass Care -- All participating municipalities will convene a municipal mass care/functional needs working group and will exercise, either functionally or through tabletop, local evacuation and sheltering plans, with a focus on functional needs and at-risk populations.

Communications -- All participating municipalities will test their communications equipment and review and plan for public messaging related to storm preparedness, response and recovery, with a focus on functional needs.

At Governor Malloy's direction, state agencies are also participating, including a review of each Primary Emergency Support Function agency's Continuity of Operations Plan. State officials will also support state and local emergency operations by staffing of the state Emergency Operations Center (EOC) in Hartford, which will be activated during the exercise.
The state's utilities will also take part in the exercise in order to test their coordination and response to power restoration with participating municipalities and the state.

Materials related to the exercise and the Governor's Emergency Planning and Preparedness Initiative can be found at www.ct.gov/demhs.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=547024
