Public Statements
Gov. Malloy & Lt. Gov. Wyman Statements on President Trump's Second Travel Ban
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 6, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman today released the following statements regarding the second executive order President Trump signed banning travel from certain countries:
Governor Malloy said, "It is disappointing that President Trump continues to fail to recognize our nation's moral obligation to resettle refugees who are fleeing destruction and despair in their homelands. Furthermore, it is mystifying that the Trump administration has given so much energy and focus during the first 46-days in order to pursue a 90-day stay to review vetting processes. This time and effort would have been better spent to implement such improvements immediately, which also would have saved the United States from further international embarrassment. Quite frankly, the Trump administration's rationale that our vetting processes need to be shored-up to provide better security begs the question -- why, then, are we only focusing such efforts on six countries and not doing it for all nations?"
Lt. Governor Wyman said, "The security of this nation is a top priority. Changes made to travel policy should fulfill that obligation above all else -- President Trump's travel bans have not. While nations much smaller than ours are settling hundreds of thousands of refugees, our country, one built by immigrants, is denying entry despite long, rigorous background screenings. Many of these immigrants are women and children fleeing war and deadly conditions in resettlement camps. They are families who are coming to America to work and to give their children a chance to grow up. The safety and security of Americans is critical, as is staying true to our values as Americans."

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/en/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2017/03-2017/Gov-Malloy-and-Lt-Gov-Wyman-Statements-on-President-Trumps-Second-Travel-Ban
