Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces ALlocation of Pre-K Opportunities Across Connecticut
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 11, 2014
Location: Meridan, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, joined by Commissioner of the Office of Early Childhood, Dr. Myra Jones-Taylor, and local officials, this morning announced the allocation of 1,020 additional School Readiness opportunities for low-income children in 46 towns and cities throughout Connecticut. In 2012, Governor Malloy approved a similar expansion of 1,000 School Readiness opportunities for children throughout the state.

"Investing in high-quality education is the single most important investment we can make in our state and our economy. That has driven my efforts from day one as Mayor of Stamford and Governor of Connecticut," said Governor Malloy. "With this expansion, we are taking immediate steps to provide 1,020 additional children in low-income families with a strong start and foundation for lifelong success."

To be eligible for School Readiness funding, programs must be accredited or pursuing accreditation by the National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) or be a Federal Head Start approved program. The additional 1,020 opportunities will become available at the beginning of the upcoming school year.

The expansion was included in Public Act 14-39, which was signed by Governor Malloy in May. The School Readiness Program is a state-funded program which provides high-quality preschool to low-income 3- and 4-year olds in Priority and Competitive School Districts in Connecticut. Priority School districts include the eight towns in the state with the largest population, the top eleven towns with the highest number of children under the temporary family assistance program, and the top eleven towns with the highest ratio of children under the temporary family assistance program. A Competitive School District is a town that has a priority school (a school in which 40 percent or more of the lunches served go to students who are eligible for free or reduced price lunch) or any town ranked in the bottom 50 towns in the state in town wealth.

"We know that low-income children who have not had access to high-quality preschool face greater challenges in comparison to their wealthier peers who have had high-quality preschool experiences," said Dr. Myra Jones-Taylor, Commissioner for the Office of Early Childhood. "This expansion will give 1,020 more 3- and 4-year-olds a chance to grow and learn in an enriched learning environment with qualified teachers, providing them with the experience they need to succeed in kindergarten and beyond. It is high-quality early care and education programs, like the School Readiness Program, that bring us closer to closing the achievement gap."

The expansion of 1,020 opportunities is part of a five-year plan to expand the School Readiness Program to serve a total of 4,010 additional children by 2019. The plan will provide high quality pre-kindergarten for approximately 1,000 additional children for each of the first three years and 500 children during each of the last two years of the plan.

Based on existing data, including the number of children currently enrolled in the Free and Reduced Price Lunch program in low-income districts, the percentage of children estimated who do not attend a child care program, and the number of children already accessing state-funded programs within low-income districts, it was determined that there was a need of 4,010 3- and 4-year-old low-income children who did not have access to pre-k.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=546542
