Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Signs Legislation Eliminating Nearly 1,000 Pages of State Regulations
Press Release
By: Ed Jutila Anthony Musto Dan Malloy
Date: June 11, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today signed legislation he proposed earlier this year that will eliminate nearly a thousand pages of state regulations that have been identified as obsolete, duplicative, excessively burdensome, or otherwise ineffective or unnecessary, in a major effort to make Connecticut's regulations more streamlined, readable and user-friendly for citizens, especially small businesses.

"State government should regularly conduct reviews of regulations in order to make its system more efficient, more responsive, and more user-friendly for its citizens," said Governor Malloy. "We've made good progress in our efforts to streamline government, cut red tape and increase transparency. Permits that used to take months to get processed are now taking days. Regulations that were nearly impossible to find in hard copy can now be found online. It's a great start, but there is much more that we can and must do, and that's why this bill that I signed today is just one component of our government efficiency efforts."

The bill -- Public Act 14-187, An Act Eliminating Unnecessary Government Regulation -- was developed following a public review period the Governor initiated last fall when he invited members of the public to submit comments on state regulations and directed every state agency to conduct independent reviews of all regulations under their jurisdiction. The resulting public comments and state agency reports can be downloaded online at www.governor.ct.gov/regsreview.

Some examples of regulations being eliminated include:

An outdated and discriminatory Department of Labor regulation of unknown age that prohibits women from working alone between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
Several outdated and conflicting regulations contained within the Department of Administrative Services that have been unnecessary since the adoption of the state building code in the late 1980s
A regulation regarding the grading of Connecticut-grown apples that duplicates USDA regulations and has never been used
Multiple Department of Economic & Community Development regulations dealing with programs repealed by the legislature many years ago, some as far back as the late 1980s
A Department of Energy & Environmental Protection regulation setting forth detailed standards on the use of a pesticide that has not been used in Connecticut since the late 1970s and is otherwise regulated by the department's more up-to-date pesticide regulations
Dozens of other regulations pertaining to statutes that have long since been repealed

In 2012, Governor Malloy proposed legislation that he later signed into law, which ordered all state agency regulations to be published on the internet and made easily available to the public in a major effort to increase transparency and openness. As a result, for the first time ever, all state regulations are now available online at www.ct.gov/eregulations.

"This is just one of the steps our committee took this year in an attempt to make Connecticut more business-friendly," said State Senator Anthony Musto (D-Bridgeport, Monroe, Trumbull), co-chairman of the legislature's Government Administration and Elections Committee. "I thank the Governor for working with us on this and for his continued efforts to foster economic growth in Connecticut."

"This legislation will free individuals and businesses alike from many unnecessary regulations that add no value and impede progress," said State Rep. Ed Jutila (D-East Lyme, Salem), co-chairman of the legislature's Government Administration and Elections Committee. "I applaud the Governor's leadership on this important streamlining initiative."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=546548
