Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: 'Go Back to Get Ahead' Program Will Increase College Completion Rates
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: June 2, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

In a drive to give "lapsed" college students the opportunity to get their college education back on track, and to develop a better educated workforce and more competitive state economy, Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced that the Board of Regents for Higher Education today launched the Go Back to Get Ahead program, offering in-state residents who have started, but not completed a degree, free college courses when they re-enroll.

For a limited time, individuals who took college courses before Dec. 1, 2012, but left before completing their degree, can get up to three free 3-credit courses, by enrolling in one of Connecticut's 17 community colleges or universities.

"There are several hundred thousand adults in Connecticut who have not completed their bachelor's degree," said Governor Malloy. "When a student starts college and doesn't complete their degree, it's a lost opportunity for the student, the college, and Connecticut's economy. Go Back to Get Ahead will help us build a future for Connecticut in which we are graduating as many students as possible into good paying jobs with good benefits, right here in Connecticut."

Governor Malloy introduced the program earlier this year as part of his 2014 legislative proposals to increase college affordability and completion.

"A talented workforce is critical for a strong economy," said Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman. "Under Governor Malloy's leadership we have made historic investments in education and workforce development to ensure students are well-prepared for the job market and a strong future."

"By the end of this decade, about 70 percent of all jobs in Connecticut will require a post-secondary education, so completing a degree is more important now than ever," said Board of Regents President Dr. Gregory Gray. "With a better educated workforce, Connecticut can attract and keep better jobs here in the state."

Dr. Gray continued, "This program is a great opportunity for students who want to finish an education they started. But they need to act quickly, because we expect Go Back to Get Ahead to be very popular, and available funding for the program is limited."

Some 65,000 potentially eligible students will be contacted by mail, and through a public media campaign.

Students can choose from among hundreds of classroom or online programs at the state's four state universities, 12 community colleges and Charter Oak State College, the state's only public, fully online college.

Starting today, interested students can visit GoBackToGetAhead.com for more information, or call 844-428-4228 or 844-GBTGA-CT from 8:30 am to 7pm Monday through Thursday and 8:30am to 5pm on Fridays.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=545968
