Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Statement on Nominations of Donovan and Castro
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 23, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Connecticut Department of Housing Commissioner Evonne Klein today released the following statements in response to President Barack Obama's nomination of U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Shaun Donovan as White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director and San Antonio Mayor Julián Castro to succeed him as HUD Secretary:

"I commend President Obama for nominating Secretary Donovan to become the Director of the White House Office of Management and Budget and Mayor Castro to succeed him as Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development," said Governor Malloy. "Both are outstanding and dedicated public servants and will distinguish themselves in their new roles.

"During his tenure, Secretary Donovan steered the housing market out of crisis, helped millions of families buy a home, and provided critical assistance in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy that is helping us to recover and rebuild stronger. Throughout his tenure at HUD, Secretary Donovan has been a good friend to Connecticut. I congratulate him on his nomination and look forward to working with him in his new capacity as Director of OMB.

The Governor continued, "And he is ably succeeded by Mayor Julián Castro of San Antonio, Texas. Mayor Castro shepherded the city through the Great Recession, and focused his administration on urban revitalization, economic and workforce development, and education. It's no surprise that the Milken Institute ranked the city as the top performing local economy in 2011. I have no doubt that Mayor Castro will translate his success running a city to success running HUD."

"HUD, under the able leadership of Secretary Donovan, has been a tremendous partner on many of our housing programs, including our ongoing Superstorm Sandy relief efforts," stated Commissioner Klein. "His nomination is certainly well-deserved. We look forward to building a new relationship with Mayor Castro, who has done great work on housing and neighborhood revitalization in San Antonio. His many accomplishments on these fronts make him the ideal choice to lead a community-focused agency like HUD."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=545648
