Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Graduation Rate Increases For Fourth
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 14, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, joined by Commissioner of Education Stefan Pryor, today announced that Connecticut's high school graduation rate increased for the fourth consecutive year and that several persistent graduation rate gaps are closing.

Since 2010, the black-white gap in graduation rates reduced by 4.3 percentage points (21.5 percent) and the Hispanic-white gap reduced by 3.5 percentage points (14 percent). Over the same time, the graduation gap between economically disadvantaged students and their more affluent peers reduced by 4.5 percentage points (17.5 percent).

"Four consecutive years of increases in the graduation rate is a great thing, one for which all of our teachers should be proud," said Governor Malloy. "This combined with the first-ever narrowing of our reading achievement gap is proof that when we invest in our children and our educators, we will achieve success. While we still have work to do, this is a clear sign that by equipping our schools and districts with additional resources, we are moving in the right direction."

The statewide average increased by 0.7 percent in 2013 as compared to 2012, representing a cumulative increase of 3.7 percent over the 2010 graduation rate.

In 2013, black, Hispanic, and free-lunch-eligible students substantially outpaced the statewide average increase at 2.7 percent, 1.6 percent, and 2 percent, respectively. The 2013 graduation rate for students in the Alliance Districts, 30 of the state's lowest performing districts, is up by 1.3 percent. The Educational Reform Districts[1], a subset of the Alliance Districts and among the 10 lowest performing in the state, showed the greatest gains with a 2.8 percentage-point increase -- from 66.3 percent in 2012 to 69.1 percent in 2013.

"By focusing on our highest-need districts and partnering with our system's stakeholders, we are closing Connecticut's graduation gap and increasing our overall graduation rate," Commissioner Pryor said. "It's critical that we enable more of our young people to complete high school -- and to do so prepared for college, career, and life. When combined with our recent first-rate results on the national 12th-grade assessments, this increase in the graduation rate is a clear sign that our schools are making real progress. We thank our state's teachers, administrators, parents and students for collaborating so successfully and making such strides. While we are proud of this accomplishment, we cannot rest on our laurels. Our graduation gaps are still too wide and much more work remains to be done. We must continue to work together in order to provide all our students, regardless of zip code or family wealth, with an education that readies them for lifelong success."

Through the Alliance District program, the state provides increased funding tied to greater accountability for the 30 lowest performing school districts. Over the past three years, over $125 million additional dollars have been directed to the Alliance Districts in order to help them strengthen their schools and improve outcomes for students.

"Progress in closing the achievement gap and increasing graduation rates in our state is a testament to the commitment of teachers, paraprofessionals, and all public school employees to their students," American Federation of Teachers (AFT) Connecticut President Melodie Peters said. "It's particularly important to acknowledge their work toward achieving equity and equality in public education. These latest measurements demonstrate how, despite tough odds and significant challenges, teachers are reaching students with special needs, English language learners, and those facing economic disadvantages. Educators at every level deserve recognition and the utmost respect for their tireless efforts to make a difference in the lives of their students."

"It is gratifying to learn that Connecticut's high school graduation rate continues on its upward trend. We know that students who do not graduate from high school have a low probability of leading decent and productive lives. A remarkably high percentage of the state's prison population is composed of high school dropouts," Connecticut Association of Public School Superintendents (CAPSS) Executive Director Dr. Joseph Cirasuolo said. "So, the fact that every year, more and more of our students are graduating from high school is a sign that the multiyear effort that we have been making to better engage and educate our students -- an effort that has been significantly intensified over the past three years -- is evidence that we are doing a better job of meeting our economic, social and moral obligation to our students."

Connecticut Education Association (CEA) President Sheila Cohen said, "We urge everyone to seize this opportunity to acknowledge the hard work and ongoing success of Connecticut students and teachers. Many of our graduates rise above very challenging circumstances with remarkable teachers behind them. If Connecticut is to build on this success, policymakers must be attentive to ensuring that teachers have the resources and time necessary to develop engaging curriculum, address the individual needs of each and every student, and provide the vital social supports that many youngsters require."

"Connecticut's news gives us reason to be optimistic. That our graduation rates are rising indicates that schools and communities at large are doing a better job of engaging our young people in learning and inspiring them to strive for the many successes in life that education can facilitate," Connecticut Association of Schools (CAS) Executive Director Karissa Niehoff said. "We are very pleased that Connecticut's overall cohort graduation rate continues to improve, and want to congratulate High School, Inc. for achieving an 18.4 percent increase in their graduation rate. It is well documented that graduation rates are uneven for students of different races, ethnicities, family incomes, disabilities, and English proficiencies. These "graduation gaps' greatly impede progress, as students who do not graduate from high school are more likely to experience negative outcomes such as unemployment, underemployment, or incarceration."

"The Connecticut Association of Boards of Educations is pleased that the hard work of school boards, superintendents of schools, principals, teachers and others have helped to raise our graduation rates. Our students have better success in life when they graduate -- and continue their education, join the military or begin a career," Connecticut Association of Boards of Education (CABE) First Vice President Ann Gruenberg said. "We need to keep building on this success for our students, our communities, our state and the nation."

Today, the State Department of Education also released, for the first time, the five-year adjusted cohort graduation rate. The five-year grad rate illustrates that, with the benefit of an extra year, more Connecticut students earn a high school diploma. For the 2012 cohort--students who entered Grade 9 in September 2008--the overall five-year graduate rate is 87.5 percent, 2.7 percentage points higher than the cohort's four-year rate. The increases are most significant for English Language learners at 7.7 percentage points, students with disabilities at 7.6 percentage points, and those eligible for free or reduced-price lunch at 5.3 percentage points.

Graduation rates are calculated according to the Adjusted Cohort Graduation Rate method, which the National Governors Association developed and is considered to be the most precise method. These rates represent the percentage of first-time ninth-grade students who graduated with a regular high school diploma in four years or less. It is based on individual student-level data, excludes ninth-grade repeaters, late graduates, and accounts for transfers in and out of the graduating class over the four-year period.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=545016
