Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Applauds Final Passage of Legislation that Will Help Veterans Find Employment
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 8, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today hailed the final passage of legislation (HB 5299) on Wednesday that will address barriers to employment for military families by requiring that state licensing authorities take into account military training and experience, where appropriate, as a substitute for additional training as well as allowing spouses to gain streamlined occupational certifications.

Last year, Governor Malloy signed into law Special Act 13-5, which established a Military Occupational Specialty Task Force with the goal of aiding veterans in securing employment by reviewing military occupational specialty training experience and determining if any such training is equivalent to that required for state licensing purposes. HB 5299 implements the recommendations of the task force and will now be forwarded to the Governor for his signature.

"Veterans of any age, regardless of the job they performed in the military, offer a multitude of transferable skills that employers look for: leadership, strong decision-making, good work ethic and integrity," said Governor Malloy. "Considering the tremendous skill-set veterans have to offer employers, we have been working to make it easier for veterans to find good paying jobs right here in Connecticut."

"With this in mind, last year, I issued Executive Order No. 36 directing all state departments, boards, commissions, and institutions of higher education to review and revise their procedures to take into account the relevant military education, skills and training when determining equivalency for licensure and academic credit. Under that Executive Order, my administration worked closely with the task force to review military occupational specialty training. The passage of HB 5299 is the result of that work."

"I want to extend a special thanks to the task force and the leadership of Veterans' Affairs Committee co-chairs Senator Leone and Representative Hennessy. Although we can never do enough to pay tribute to the service of our veterans, together, we have been able to pass laws that demonstrate our unwavering support for these brave men and women, and ensure that support they and their families receive is second to none."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=544698
