Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Applauds Final Passage of Electric Supplier Consumers' "Bill of Rights"
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 5, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy issued the following statement in response to final legislative approval today of Senate Bill 2, An Act Concerning Electric Customer Consumer Protection and Clarifying the Property Tax Exemption for Certain Solar Thermal or Geothermal Renewable Energy Sources. Last month, Governor Malloy introduced a detailed package of legislative proposals -- the "Electric Supplier Consumers' Bill of Rights" -- that seeks to address the growing number of consumer complaints about spiking prices, deceptive practices and lack of disclosure about rates and contract terms in Connecticut's electric supplier market.

The legislation was approved today by the House of Representatives in concurrence with the State Senate, which approved the bill last week.

"I want to commend the House for passing a bill that will increase protections for consumers by requiring electricity suppliers to provide very clear and specific information about how much they are being charged for electricity by suppliers.

"This bill will help put an end to misleading and deceptive marketing practices. It will give our families the information they need to evaluate pricing options offered by electric retailers and to choose the plan that is best for them and their pocketbooks.

"I am committed to making certain that all of our residents have access to cheaper, cleaner, and more reliable power. A key starting point for that is providing clarity and certainty for electric customers when they select an offer from a supplier. This bill will help provide just that.

"I'd like to thank Attorney General George Jepsen, Consumer Counsel Elin Swanson Katz, Senate President Don Williams, Speaker Brendan Sharkey, and the chairs and ranking members of the Energy and Technology Committee for their leadership and advocacy of this important issue."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=544380
