Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Applauds House Passage of Bill Eliminating Nearly 1,000 Pages of State Regulations
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: May 5, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today applauded the Connecticut House of Representatives for adopting legislation he introduced that will eliminate nearly a thousand pages of state regulations that have been identified as obsolete, duplicative, excessively burdensome, or otherwise ineffective or unnecessary, in a major effort to make Connecticut's regulations more streamlined, readable and user-friendly for citizens, especially small businesses.
"While the system of state regulations certainly serves an important purpose, it is incumbent upon us to consistently review them and identify those that may be out-of-date, burdensome, or don't comport with existing programs," Governor Malloy said. "This legislation is the result of an extensive public review process of our state regulations, and takes us another step closer to streamlining government and cutting red tape. I would especially like to thank Government Administration and Elections co-chairman State Representative Ed Jutila for his efforts in working with my office to gain approval in the House today, and I look forward to its adoption in the State Senate."
The bill, HB 5049 -- An Act Eliminating Unnecessary Government Regulation, was approved in the House today by a vote of 141-0. It next moves to the State Senate for consideration.
The Governor's legislation is the result of a public review period he initiated in October 2013 through Executive Order No. 37, which invited the public to submit to him their comments on state regulations, and also required each state agency to conduct independent reviews of all regulations under their jurisdiction. The resulting comments received from the public and the reports submitted by state agencies can be downloaded online at www.governor.ct.gov/regsreview.
In 2012, Governor Malloy introduced legislation, which he later signed into law, ordering all state agency regulations to be published on the internet and made easily available to the public. As a result, all state regulations are now available online at www.ct.gov/eregulations.

Source:
