Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Applauds Final Passage of Bill Improving Access to Primary Care
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 28, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today applauded the final approval in the Connecticut General Assembly of a bill that will increase access to health care and said that he looks forward to signing it into law once it reaches his desk.

"Connecticut's successful implementation of the Affordable Care Act has increased the demand for services among thousands of newly insured residents," said Governor Malloy. "Although the availability of primary care providers in Connecticut is greater than the national average, access to primary care can be challenging in some communities. With the healthcare industry growing and changing, the role of advanced practice registered nurses remains critical. This bill increases access to primary care across Connecticut by allowing advanced practice registered nurses to do more of what they do so well -- evaluating, screening, physical examinations and management of many routine medical conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, and asthma."

The Governor continued, "I want to thank the representatives who voted for this bill today. Leaders in the House and Senate, Deputy Speaker Peggy Sayers, Representative Susan Johnson, and Representative Theresa Conroy are to be commended for their efforts to improve access to healthcare in our state."

The approved legislation, Senate Bill 36, An Act Concerning the Governor's Recommendations to Improve Access to Health Care, upholds existing requirements for advanced practice registered nurses (APRNs) to maintain a collaborative practice agreement with a physician during his or her first three years of practice. Thereafter, the APRN would be authorized to practice alone or in collaboration with a physician or other health care provider and may perform acts of diagnosis and treatment of alterations in health statutes, and prescribe, dispense and administer medical therapeutics, corrective measures and drugs.

The bill, which now heads to the Governor, was approved today in the House of Representatives by a vote of 110-35. It was approved in the State Senate earlier this month.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=544002
