Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State Launches New Ad Campaign Ahead of Travel Season
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 24, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced the next wave of Connecticut's still revolutionary campaign. The new advertising spots, titled "Revolutionary Thoughts," will showcase a diverse array of experiences travelers can enjoy within close proximity, and features creative spots for TV, out of home and digital advertising, along with public relations and social media efforts.

"Since launching our strategic marketing initiative to promote the state as a tourism and business destination two years ago, we've seen higher visitor spending and job increases in the leisure and hospitality sector," said Governor Malloy. "Increasing our tourism industry remains a key component of our effort to expand economic growth in Connecticut, and this new campaign will be an important factor in continuing that progress and showcasing what makes Connecticut the best place to get away this travel season."

"Revolutionary Thoughts" playfully communicates through unique pairings of identifiable destinations the idea that escaping to Connecticut offers travelers a diverse balance of relaxing and active, historic and contemporary, cultural and nature-oriented activities -- without having to drive too far.

"What we learned from brand research, meeting with hundreds of stakeholders, multiple focus group sessions, and testing various creative executions is that Connecticut's rich breadth and depth of experiences, within close proximity to each other, and close proximity to our travelers, is what sets us apart from our New England neighbors," said Kip Bergstrom, deputy commissioner of the Department of Economic and Community Development, which manages Connecticut's Office of Tourism. "Being still revolutionary means your getaway includes something you didn't know you could get here. This campaign shows those who are looking for a multi-layered travel experience that Connecticut is the place for them."

The $3.4 million tourism campaign will run through August and appear in key regional markets, such as the greater New York City metro, Hartford/New Haven, Providence, Western Massachusetts markets, as well as in digital executions targeted at consumer passion points and sites of interest. A new series of advertisements to promote economic development in the state are slated for release in May and will extend the still revolutionary brand and messaging.

Tourism advertisements feature destinations and attractions from every area of the state, including Lime Rock Park, New England Air Museum, Connecticut Science Center, Winvian, the Thimble Islands, Louis Lunch, Kent Falls, Mystic Seaport, Lake Compounce, Infinity Hall, Foxwoods Resort and Casino, Connecticut's Beardsley Zoo, Mystic Aquarium, Study at Yale, Mohegan Sun, Brownstone Exploration & Discovery Park, Mayflower Grace and tubing on the Farmington River.

Residents and visitors can join in by sharing their ideas for "perfect pairs" -- two Connecticut activities they think make a great getaway -- for their chance to win one of six "Revolutionary Getaways" featuring partners in the ad campaign and others such as The Farmington Inn, Hilton Hartford and the Sheraton Hartford Hotel at Bradley Airport. It's called the #CTGetaway Sweepstakes, and it kicks off today and runs through May 2 across Connecticut's Facebook, Twitter and Pinterest channels. Click here for official rules.

Adams & Knight, a woman-owned integrated marketing agency located in Avon, created the advertising campaign in partnership with MMGY Global, the world's largest tourism and travel marketing agency. The campaign is supported by Norwalk-based Media Storm -- the second-largest independent media planning and buying shop in the U.S., and FleishmanHillard, named PRWeek's large agency of the year, who leads national and in-state public relations and social media efforts for The Office of Tourism.

Click here to view creative from the "Revolutionary Thoughts" advertising campaign. For more information on Connecticut's revolutionary past and present, events, 52 getaway ideas and great deals, visit www.CTvisit.com. Join the community on social media by becoming a fan/follower of the Office of Tourism via Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest and YouTube.

About The Connecticut Office of Tourism

Connecticut's Office of Tourism (COT), a division of the Department of Economic and Community Development, launched a new state brand identity in 2012, Connecticut still revolutionary, a strategic marketing initiative designed to build pride among residents and bolster the state's reputation as a business and tourism destination. Connecticut is home to fine dining and entertainment, serene beaches and hiking trails, historic treasures and world class museums. To obtain more information about Connecticut tourism or plan your next trip, visit www.CTvisit.com or call 1-888-CTvisit.

Source:
