Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Unveils Plan to Increase Support for Legal Aid Services for Low-Income Residents
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 18, 2014
Location: New Haven, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today visited New Haven Legal Assistance Association to highlight a legislative proposal he introduced to increase access to legal aid services for low-income citizens and to secure a funding structure that continues Connecticut's efforts to combat the Civil Justice Gap. The Governor was joined by Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman, Mayor Toni Harp, representatives of the Connecticut Bar Foundation, representatives of legal assistance organizations, and clients who have benefited from legal aid.
"Connecticut legal aid services have been forced to shrink because of pressures on other sources of funding," said Governor Malloy. "When legal aid agencies have to turn away low-income victims of domestic violence, tenants facing eviction, children with disabilities who are entitled to supportive services, and low-wage workers dealing with dishonest employers who don't properly pay them, it's not good for our state. This bill furthers our efforts to achieve equal access to justice for the poor by allowing more of the court filing fee revenues to go to fund legal services for people who otherwise could not afford it. I urge the legislature to act on this bill so that we can address the enormous unmet legal needs of our most vulnerable citizens."
"This legislation ensures vital resources are available to residents who need them the most--and that access to the judiciary is not compromised for any Connecticut citizen," said Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman. "The ability to pursue a legal remedy in the protection of our children, families, and communities is a fundamental right of our democracy. I applaud Governor Malloy's leadership on this issue and echo his comments on legislative action."
In 2012, court filing fees were increased to help solve the legal services funding crisis. The increased fees are set to expire in 2015, which would force legal aid programs in Connecticut to lay off at least 35 staff members, with a resulting reduction in services to thousands of low-income residents. Currently, 70 percent of the court filing fee increases instituted in 2012 are used to fund legal services for the poor. S.B. 31, An Act Concerning Continued Delivery of Legal Services to the Poor, which Governor Malloy introduced, would allow 95 percent of filing fee revenues to go to fund legal aid services. The remaining 5 percent will continue to go to the Judicial Branch for technology improvements.

Source:
