Public Statements
Gov. Malloy and Lt. Gov. Wyman Statements on President Trump's Address to Congress
Statement
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 28, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman released the following statements regarding President Donald Trump's address this evening to a joint session of Congress:
Governor Malloy said, "We all hold high aspirations for our country, communities, and families and it is the role of government to enable all people to achieve such goals. Though President Trump spoke about unity, justice, and a stronger middle class, unfortunately, the vision he presented tonight falls short on providing a path forward towards these ends.
"In particular, the changes to Medicaid that have been recently discussed are cause for alarming concern. And nothing we heard tonight assuages our fear that millions of low-income families and seniors will lose healthcare -- such a result would not only be disastrous to individuals, but to the healthcare system," Governor Malloy continued. "We will not stop advocating for what is in the best interest of the people of our state and our nation. In fact, we stand as ready partners to help move the country forward where everyone stands to benefit. President Trump would be wise to take us up on this offer."
Lt. Governor Wyman said, "President Trump's rhetoric has made it very difficult to know what to believe. While he talks about making health insurance more affordable for all Americans, the Republican proposals would only increase the cost of healthcare and put it out of reach for many citizens -- some of whom are insured now for the first time. We should be working to improve the ACA, and we should be able to reassure Americans that government isn't going to tear healthcare coverage away from people with a pre-existing condition. It's not just a moral obligation, it's also key to our economic growth and it's a fundamental part of what we've been elected to do -- serve the public."

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/en/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2017/03-2017/Gov-Malloy-and-Lt-Gov-Wyman-Statements-on-President-Trumps-Address-to-Congress
