Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Funds to Support Affordable Housing Throughout the State
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 11, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Department of Housing (DOH) Commissioner Evonne M. Klein, and Connecticut Housing Finance Authority (CHFA) President and Executive Director Eric Chatman today announced investments of more than $70 million in federal and state funds for 16 affordable housing projects across the state that will transform their communities and build and rehabilitate a total of 694 affordable rental apartments. The funds are expected to generate an additional $116 million in private investments for the projects, bringing the total investments to $186 million in state, federal and private dollars.

"The funding we're announcing today will result in approximately $116 million in private investment for Connecticut's housing stock," said Governor Malloy. "Leveraged with our recent commitment of about half-a-billion dollars to create and preserve affordable housing in the state, these projects will foster economic growth, revitalize neighborhoods, raise the quality of life for everyone, and provide more affordable homes that are so important in keeping people, young and old, in Connecticut."

Projects selected competed successfully in the federal Nine Percent Low Income Housing Tax Credits (9% LIHTCs) funding round and the fourth round of the state's Competitive Housing Assistance for Multifamily Properties (CHAMP) initiative. Investments include $7.7 million in federal tax credits under the 9% LIHTCs program and $62.4 in state capital funding.

CHAMP, administered by DOH, helps owners and developers of multifamily rental developments to expand or rehabilitate workforce, affordable, supportive and congregate housing.

"Development activity from the investments the Governor made today totals more than $226 million," said Klein, who is also chair of CHFA's Board of Directors. "That's the power of public-private partnerships. Innovative collaborations among nonprofit groups, developers, and government are bringing more resources and skills to bear on the issue of affordable housing."

CHFA administers the 9% LIHTC program, which is a federal tax incentive program designed to stimulate private investment in affordable housing. The credits provide equity for developers to acquire, rehabilitate and/or build low- or moderate income housing through the allocation of federal tax credits that may be sold to corporations or investor groups to raise capital for a project.

"The nine percent tax credits are awarded through a competitive process and the applications are rated and ranked based on a set of criteria, outlined in a Qualified Allocation Plan, which is aligned with the state's affordable housing goals," said Eric Chatman, CHFA's President and Executive Director.

Source:
