Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State Workforce Training Program Creates More Than 2,200 Jobs
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 11, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that with more than 2,200 new employees hired under the state's Subsidized Training and Employment Program ("Step Up"), the job creation initiative has now helped more than 700 employers fill well-paying jobs and expand their workforce.

"The Step Up program is aimed particularly at helping small businesses -- which account for 94% of Connecticut's employers -- with the costs of training new hires during the first few months of employment," said Governor Malloy. "These are quality, good-paying jobs that will help small businesses expand their workforce, and as a result, strengthen our local economy. We've heard a lot of good feedback from employers about how this initiative has helped their businesses and I'm committed to seeing that this worthwhile program receives the support to ensure that it can continue its successful job creation objectives."

Enacted in 2012 as a result of successful bipartisan job creation legislation, Step Up provides either a wage subsidy or training grant of up to $12,500 to eligible small employers with a workforce of 100 or less for the first six months that an employee is hired. The initiative has provided $16.5 million in wage and training subsidizes to help encourage Connecticut employers to hire and expand their companies.

With an average starting wage at just under $16 an hour, the program has generated jobs in marketing, accounting, technology, sales, information technology and manufacturing, with positions including project engineers, graphic designers, solar installers, accountants, engine builders and operations directors.

"Growing Connecticut jobs continues to be a priority in our state, and Step Up has proven to be a valuable catalyst in helping companies to expand their workforce," said Commissioner Sharon Palmer of the Connecticut Department of Labor, which administers Step Up. "We are grateful to Governor Malloy and the legislature for supporting an innovative program that provides our agency with additional opportunities to help get people back into jobs and allows an employer to benefit their business."

Following its launch, a second component of the program was initiated that provides a wage subsidy to companies of any size that hire a qualifying veteran. The Unemployed Armed Forces Member Step Up Program is open to any unemployed veteran with an honorable discharge.

"With more than 7,000 veterans due to arrive home over the next several years, the Step Up program becomes even more important for service members re-entering the workforce," said Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman. "These men and women have strong skills and leadership qualities -- bringing them back into the civilian workforce quickly is a real benefit to both Connecticut business and the veterans and their families."

This legislative session, Governor Malloy has proposed investing an additional $10 million in bonding to continue the program's job creation abilities.

Employers interested in participating in either the original Step Up incentives or in the Step Up for Vets program can find additional information online by visiting the Department of Labor's Step Up website at www.StepCT.com.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=543264
