Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Grants Awarded to Build Supportive Housing Developments in Bridgeport, Hamden, Hartford & Manchester
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: April 10, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that $27.9 million in grants have been approved to build four new supportive, affordable multifamily housing developments in Bridgeport, Hamden, Hartford and Manchester.

The new developments will have a total of 93 affordable rental homes, with 51 apartments set aside for veterans and child welfare-involved families who are currently homeless, at risk of being homeless, or chronically homeless. The grants were approved by the Interagency Committee on Supportive Housing (ICSH) under the state's Permanent Supportive Housing Initiative (PSHI).

"Supportive housing is a vital component of creating stability and a strong economic base for individuals and families in need of additional support," said Governor Malloy. "These homes are a proven way to end long-term homelessness. When we invest in housing, we invest in people, in stable neighborhoods and communities, and in our economic future."

Supportive housing apartments are affordable rental homes that include support services ranging from counseling to transportation, depending on each individual's needs.

"Supportive housing allows families and individuals to leave the chaos of homelessness behind and live in a place that will improve their quality of life and provide opportunities for them to become more productive citizens," said Anne Foley, Under Secretary of the Office of Policy & Management and a member of the ICSH. "The families with school-age children will be able to attend school regularly, which is not always possible for homeless families."

The application process for PSHI grants is competitive. To be eligible, a development must have a minimum of 10 new apartments, either new construction or rehabilitation of existing units that were not fit to be occupied. Grant recipients may also apply for tax credits and other funding to leverage the PSHI funds.

The ICSH is a unique collaboration of public and private organizations that includes the Office of Policy and Management, the Connecticut Housing Finance Authority, the Department of Housing, the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of Social Services, the Department of Children and Families, the Department of Correction, the Court Support Services Division of the Judicial Branch, and the Corporation for Supportive Housing.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=543168
