Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Agreement to Help Protect Connecticut's Working Farms
Press Release
By: John Larson Richard Blumenthal Dan Malloy Elizabeth Esty
Date: April 9, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Connecticut Department of Agriculture Commissioner Steven K. Reviczky, and United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) State Conservationist Lisa Coverdale today announced an agreement that will allow Connecticut to utilize more than $8 million in federal funds to keep farmland in agricultural production.

The agreement also will increase flexibility in use of federal funds through the state's Farmland Preservation Program. More than 300 state farms have been protected under the program, including nearly 100 achieved with $20 million in assistance from the federal USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) Farm and Ranchland Protection Program (FRPP).

"This funding will be used to ensure that our state's farms -- some of the best in the country -- will continue producing Connecticut Grown products and keep our beautiful lands and natural resources preserved," Governor Malloy said. "Connecticut continues to lead New England in the growth rate of farms over the past couple of years, where the agriculture industry contributes $3.5 billion to our economy and provides nearly 28,000 jobs in our state. I remain committed to the growth of this crucial industry and to the hard working families of Connecticut who work in it."

"The permanent protection of working farms is a long-standing priority in Connecticut that has been extraordinarily successful in keeping prime and important farmland in production," Commissioner Reviczky said. "With our federal partners we have preserved more than 13,000 acres of farmland, and this agreement will ensure that we continue to keep more of our working lands in productive farming."

The agreement will extend all NRCS farmland-protection funds obligated to Connecticut until March 31, 2015, giving the state greater flexibility in negotiating agreements with farm owners wishing to participate in the program.

"NRCS's first objective is to ensure that USDA programs work with the state's programs as efficiently as possible to achieve mutual farmland-protection goals," Coverdale said. "Connecticut holds an unprecedented record of preserving the best and most productive agricultural land since 1978. NRCS is proud to be a part of that, and I am firmly committed to a positive and bold path forward."

"I am pleased that the USDA and the Connecticut Department of Agriculture have made significant progress in resolving outstanding issues concerning the state's obligations under the federal farmland preservation law," Senator Richard Blumenthal said. "Today's announcement that eligibility for more than $8 million in farmland preservation funds has been extended for a year is truly good news for those of us seeking to leverage federal monies to preserve local farms. I will continue to work with these agencies to ensure that a final agreement can be reached in a timely manner."

"Federal, state and local stakeholders must work together to help preserve Connecticut's family farms," Congressman John Larson said. "This agreement will help local farmers in their efforts to keep our land productive for years to come. I applaud the work of Governor Malloy and Commissioner Reviczky to strengthen Connecticut agriculture and the jobs it supports."

"This agreement provides welcome flexibility for farmers to take advantage of federal conservation resources to protect their family farms for the future," Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty said. "I thank Governor Malloy and Commissioner Reviczky for working with USDA and NRCS to make sure the Farmland Preservation Program is a success for current and future farmers. This funding will be put to good use in conservation and farmland protection efforts to make sure that our children and grandchildren have access to fresh, local food, and that we can enjoy the beauty of our farmlands for generations to come."

Commissioner Reviczky was recently named Chair of a National Association of State Departments of Agriculture Committee that is developing recommendations for implementing the 2014 federal Farm Bill, including rules regarding farmland preservation.

Source:
