Public Statements
Gov. Malloy, DEEP Commissioner Klee and Mayor Jackson Join Elementary School Students for Trout Stocking Event in Hamden
Press Release
By: Brendan Sharkey Robert Klee Scott Jackson Joe Crisco, Jr. Dan Malloy
Date: April 3, 2014
Location: Hamden, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) Commissioner Rob Klee, and Mayor Scott Jackson today joined first and fifth graders from Hamden's Helen Street and Ridge Hill Schools for a trout stocking event at Lake Wintergreen in preparation for the opening day of trout fishing season on Saturday, April 19, 2014. The annual trout stocking of Connecticut's lakes and streams is used as an opportunity to teach students about the importance of the state's natural resources.

"Joining young students today provides an opportunity to highlight for them the importance of protecting our natural resources, the value of environmental stewardship, and the simple fun of enjoying the outdoors," Governor Malloy said. "Connecticut is blessed with tremendous natural resources -- including many rivers, lakes, and ponds that offer great fishing opportunities, which I know tens of thousands of anglers will enjoy again this season."

Since 1986, instructors from the DEEP's Connecticut Aquatic Resources Education (CARE) program have taught 165,000 students about water, fish, and fishing. This week, CARE instructors visited the Helen Street and Ridge Hill School, combining classroom science with information about fisheries science. Through the CARE curriculum, these first and fifth graders were taught the basic principles of becoming stewards of our state's waters and fish for years to come.

"DEEP is hard at work stocking our waterways with trout so anglers across our state can enjoy a great opening day and fishing season," Commissioner Klee said. "By the time the season ends, we will put about 700,000 trout from our hatcheries into state waters. We hope the youngsters helping us stock Lake Wintergreen will urge their parents and friends to experience the joys of spending quality time outdoors fishing together."

In preparation for opening day, DEEP plans to have more than 350,000 adult brook, brown, and rainbow trout in over 100 lakes and ponds and 200 rivers and streams around the state.

Lake Wintergreen is one of 11 metropolitan water bodies stocked as part of the state's Community Fishing Waters program. This initiative provides a unique fishing experience for many urban residents by stocking fish in convenient and easily accessible locations right in their neighborhoods.

"Partnering with DEEP's Fisheries Division has been a win-win situation for Hamden," Mayor Jackson said. "DEEP provides instruction and guidance to teachers and all 6th grade students in the Hamden Public School system on fish and fishing. This hands-on instructional program also provides our younger students with an opportunity to be outside stocking fish for opening day at Lake Wintergreen."

"The opening of fishing season is a wonderful spring tradition and a part of Connecticut's culture that thousands of families enjoy each year," Speaker of the House Brendan Sharkey (D-Hamden) said. "I am thrilled that over the years our annual trout stocking program has also evolved into an outdoor classroom experience for students across the state to learn about our environment and the importance of protecting our natural resources."

"DEEP has been an active educator in our towns over the years, teaching many thousands of students about the local environment," State Senator Joseph J. Crisco, Jr. (D-Woodbridge) said. "Under Governor Malloy and Commissioner Klee's leadership, this legacy of learning has continued. I'm glad that we can help teach kids about the joys of outdoor activities while simultaneously educating them on environmental stewardship. This is a wonderful day for Hamden."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?Q=542826&A=4010
