Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Urges Religious Community to Speak with Congregants About Signing Up for Affordable Health Care
Press Release
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: March 20, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lieutenant Governor Nancy Wyman today asked leaders of Connecticut's faith community to talk with their congregants this weekend, in advance of the final week of open enrollment for Access Health CT.

"Connecticut is leading the nation when it comes to providing residents with affordable health care. In fact, other states are now beginning conversations on how to adopt our model because of the tremendous work being done by Access Health CT," said Governor Malloy. "With the final weekend approaching, I am asking leaders of our faith community to talk with their members about not letting this opportunity pass them by. Obtaining health care is too important, and the more people that sign up, the better off all of us will be."

"Access Health CT makes it easy for people to get affordable, quality healthcare coverage," said Lieutenant Governor Nancy Wyman. "Beyond the peace of mind that comes with having insurance, stronger families and a healthier workforce benefit everyone in Connecticut--our schools, businesses, and our economy. I urge anyone who is still uninsured to reach out to Access Health CT and learn about their options."

To date, Access Health has enrolled 165,091 residents since its launch on October 1, 2013.

In a letter to the faith community send in February, Chief Executive Officer of Access Health CT Kevin Counihan said, "With the end of the open enrollment session fast approaching, we want to make sure that every Connecticut resident in need of health care coverage is aware that the deadline to enroll is March 31, 2014. I hope that you will take advantage of one of the many options available to you, such as enrollment fairs and retail stores."

All consumer support is free, and provided by people who have been trained and certified by Access Health CT.
Residents can continue to compare plans and shop for coverage online at: www.accesshealthct.com or call 1-855-805-HEALTH (4325) to speak with an AHCT representative.

In-person assistance is also available at the AHCT enrollment centers in New Britain and New Haven and from community-based Navigators, Assisters, Brokers and Certified Application Counselors throughout the state. A list of upcoming enrollment fairs and a link to locate an in-person assister are available at http://learn.accesshealthct.com.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=542040
