Public Statements
Energy Efficiency Upgrade Will Help Bring Down Costs for Owners and Tenants
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: March 7, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he has signed an executive order creating the Affordable Housing Energy Efficiency Program, which will utilize $10.8 million federal funding to improve and increase the energy efficiency of multifamily housing in Connecticut in an effort to bring down energy costs for residents while also advancing conservation efforts.

Funding for the program comes from an allocation of $36.3 million in federal energy conservation funds the state received under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which was passed by Congress and signed into law by President Barack Obama to create jobs and stimulate economic growth. Governor M. Jodi Rell ordered $25.5 million of the funds to be used for certain projects, leaving $10.8 million unallocated.

"Targeting these types of multifamily units for energy efficiency upgrades will help bring down costs for owners and tenants while also providing a cleaner and more reliable energy source," Governor Malloy said. "Over the past couple of years, we've been making bold, innovative efforts to take advantage of state-of-the-art, energy efficient and clean technologies, and what we're announcing today is another step towards helping bring cleaner, cheaper and more reliable energy to people's homes."

Administered by the Connecticut Housing Finance Authority (CHFA), the Affordable Housing Energy Efficiency Program will fund energy conservation or renewable energy projects resulting in a minimum of a 20 percent reduction in energy use. Applicants for the program must either have current mortgage with CHFA or be owned by a public housing authority or its subsidiaries.

The energy projects can range from basic energy-efficiency measures such as insulation and building enclosure improvements up to high-efficiency heating and cooling systems, energy management systems and renewable energy systems, like solar or photovoltaic panels.

CHFA will issue an RFP for the $10.8 million in funds in the next few months and anticipates that the funds will be awarded to housing developments in 2014.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=541214
