Public Statements
Malloy Annouces Funding for Upgrades to Middletown's Dooley Pond Dam
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 28, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that $2.1 million to fund repairs to the state-owned Dooley Pond Dam in Middletown was approved at Friday's meeting of the state Bond Commission. Funding will be used to increase the dam's capacity, notably during severe weather events.

"The Dooley Pond Dam is in need of repairs," said Governor Malloy. "Especially considering the increasingly severe weather we have been having, it is necessary that we have the infrastructure in place to withstand these demands. I'm glad we could make this happen for the residents of Middletown."

The Class C, or high hazard, dam, located near Route 17 south of Brushy Hill Road, is currently considered in poor condition, with issues facing the spillway and water control. About a year ago, the left spillway training wall partially collapsed, resulting in concrete blocks and slabs falling into the spillway discharge channel. The water level of Dooley Pond was lowered by approximately three feet at that time, and must be maintained in a lowered condition until permanent repairs can be made.

Funds will allow for the construction of a new, higher capacity spillway, installation of protective riprap on both the upstream and downstream channel sections, and the installation of toe drains. These improvements will increase the capacity of the dam to handle the water flow from major storm events and create a safer and easier to manage structure.

"Repairs to Dooley Pond Dam will contribute to both public safety and the public's opportunities to be outdoors and enjoy this pond," said Commissioner Rob Klee of Connecticut's Department of Energy and Environmental Protection, which will administer this project. "This is an important investment and we appreciate the support of the Governor and the expected support of the Bond Commission for this project."

Mayor Daniel T. Drew said, "Dooley Pond is immediately adjacent to a state highway and several residential homes. This repair is necessary and timely following last year's lowering of the water level. I appreciate the efforts of both Governor Malloy and Middletown's legislative delegation in seeing through this important repair."

"It is imperative that we protect the safety of our community by making these needed repairs to the Dooley Pond Dam," said State Senator Danté Bartolomeo (D-Meriden). "Once repairs are made to the dam, people in areas neighboring the pond and connecting streams can feel more confident in the security of their homes, and the water can be raised to a level more conducive to recreation at Dooley Pond."

"I want to thank the State Bond Commission and Governor Malloy for seeing the value of these essential repairs," said State Senator Paul Doyle (D-Wethersfield). "We want Dooley Pond to be fully enjoyed by the public, and this project will enable more recreational activity at the pond. This is wonderful news for our residents."

"Investing in infrastructure is always the right thing to do," said State Representative Matthew Lesser (D-Middletown). "This will protect lives and community assets. As climate change produces stronger storms, it's important to make necessary upgrades to our infrastructure so we can weather them."

"I'm delighted that Governor Malloy is prioritizing funding for much needed infrastructure repairs here in Middletown," said State Representative Joe Serra (D-Middletown). "These are critical improvements to the Dooley Pond Dam and I am pleased the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection will be addressing them with the $2.1 million in state bonds."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=540734
