Public Statements
Six Connecticutt Municipalities to Receive Funding for Local and Regional Wastewater Treatment Projects
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 28, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced that nearly $277 million to provide grants and loans for local and regional wastewater treatment projects in Hartford, Rocky Hill, Norwich, Middletown, New Haven, and Bristol was approved Friday by state Bond Commission. It is estimated that the projects will create or retain approximately 5,700 jobs in the manufacturing, engineering and construction industries.

"As a result of the state's strong financial support for municipal wastewater treatment projects, Connecticut's rivers and streams and Long Island Sound are cleaner and more appealing than ever," said Governor Malloy, who serves as chair of the commission. "We want to build on our historic commitment to clean water with a strong new round of funding for these projects, which will improve our environment and enhance our communities while putting our citizens to work designing and constructing these critical facilities."

A total of $94 million in General Obligation Bonds and about $183 million in Revenue Bonds were approved to finance wastewater treatment projects through Connecticut's Clean Water Fund (CWF). The General Obligation Bonds are used to provide grants for certain portions of these projects, while the Revenue Bonds are used to provide low-interest loans of two percent over 20 years for the remainder of the costs.

Projects to be funded with this new allocation include:

The continued rollout of modernization and upgrades by the Metropolitan District Commission (MDC), which provides wastewater treatment services for Hartford and several surrounding towns.
The CWF funds will support work at MDC's water pollution control facilities (WPCF) in Hartford and Rocky Hill and allow work to proceed on a conveyance and storage tunnel in South Hartford. A major focus of the MDC project is addressing Combined Sewer Overflows (CSOs) after major storms that leads to the discharge of sewage into the Connecticut River.







Source:
