Public Statements
Funds for State Park Improvements Expected to be Approved Friday
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 27, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that $750,000 to fund state park improvements is expected to be approved when the state Bond Commission meets Friday. The funding will allow for health and safety improvements at parks throughout the state and for the design of a much-needed major utility upgrade at Hammonasset State Park in Madison.

"As we celebrate the one hundredth anniversary of Connecticut's state park system, we must provide them with the resources needed to make sure they are maintained in the best condition possible," said Governor Malloy. "Not only do our parks provide residents and visitors the chance to get outside and enjoy the state's rivers, streams, lakes, trails, and beaches, but they also attract tourists and have a positive effect on our economy. We must make investments in our parks so that we can enjoy them well into the future."

The majority of the funding being requested ($500,000) will allow for improvements to electrical, plumbing, heating and ventilation system upgrades; and installing new public water supply wells. The remaining portion of the requested funds ($250,000) will allow for the design of a significant utility upgrade needed to accommodate future improvements at the park, including a West Beach Bathhouse and a new Meigs Point Nature Center.

"The Governor and the legislature have committed to an unprecedented level of support for parks infrastructure projects," said Department of Energy and Environmental Protection Commissioner Rob Klee. "At Hammonasset Beach, funds have already been allocated for a new bath house, nature center, and camping cabins. Funds have also been made available for a number of other projects at other parks. We appreciate the continued support of the Governor and the legislature for our state park system."

Governor Malloy added that Connecticut's state parks are visited by millions of residents and visitors every year and need to be in top condition to ensure everyone's stay is safe and enjoyable.

"The funding will allow the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection to make significant improvements throughout the park system and at Hammonasset State Park -- our state's most visited park," he said.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=540644
