Public Statements
Congress Must Act Soon to Ensure Appropriate Levels of Federal Highway and Transit Funding to Continue Critical State transportation Infrastructure Programs
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 24, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today urged Congress to quickly approve federal highway and transit budgets so that states can plan properly, continue investments in transportation infrastructure programs and keep the economy moving forward.

In a letter to Congressional leaders, Governor Malloy wrote, "we need Congress to continue to provide stable and predictable federal funding in order to keep our commitment to an improved and modernized transportation infrastructure that meets the needs of our citizens, creates jobs, and fosters economic growth. As lead Governor on Transportation for The Coalition of Northeastern Governors, I cannot emphasize enough that investments in transportation are critical for the advancement of our region's economic, environmental and energy goals and provide a much needed boost for jobs in the construction industry."

Earlier this month, Governor Malloy proposed a state transportation budget for 2015 that represents a 165 percent increase in funding compared to 2010 levels.

Governor Malloy concluded with a call to action: "The Northeast has a population density over three times that of the nation as a whole and in order to remain competitive in the national and global economies, it is important that states be able to continue planning and funding transportation programs that are vitally important to our states. As Congress works to reauthorize the surface transportation and passenger rail programs, I urge swift action to address the impending funding shortfall in the Highway Account of the Highway Trust Fund, to stabilize its revenue situation for the long-term, and to address a long-term funding solution for our passenger rail system."

The Governor's 2015 transportation budget restores the dedication of the State Transportation Fund solely for transportation purposes. Also included in the Governor's budget is about $1.4 billion to fund the largest transportation capital program in Connecticut's history.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=540416
