Public Statements
Governor Malloy: CONDOT has Delivered Thousand of Tons of Road Salt to Replenish Munical Supplies
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 18, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the Connecticut Department of Transportation (ConnDOT) has distributed nearly 5,000 tons of salt to 42 Connecticut cities and towns to replenish diminishing local supplies caused by an unusually harsh winter season. Last Friday, Governor Malloy announced a relief package, prepared by ConnDOT, to address shortages and provide immediate assistance with stop-gap supplies of salt to municipalities and tribal nations across the state.

"Our municipalities have turned to us for help and ConnDOT has done a great job of stepping up and getting salt to the cities and towns that were facing shortages," said Governor Malloy. "These non-stop storms have put a severe strain on local supplies and budgets, but we are committed to working together to get through this and keep every mile of roadway safe and passable."

As of this morning, ConnDOT had distributed 4,851 tons of salt to cities and towns under a system set up late last week when municipal road salt stores began dwindling. Deliveries are continuing today and the will eventually total in excess of 5,000 tons.

"Despite the difficult winter, ConnDOT has never been short on salt. Our stockpiles have been lower than in the past but certainly not to a point where we have had to restrict our application rates," said ConnDOT Commissioner James P. Redeker. "We are receiving another shipment of salt today and continue to be in a good position for the remainder of the winter season."

ConnDOT currently has adequate supplies of road salt, with an additional 45,000 tons of salt to be delivered this weekend to the Port of New Haven by International Salt. International Salt is continuing to distribute road salt to private contractors in the state, but has made a business decision to control their supply to ensure that ConnDOT and municipalities have levels adequate enough to handle the season's storm activity.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=540072
