Public Statements
Governor Malloy and Secretary Merrill Unveil New Online Voter Registration Feature
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 18, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Connecticut Now 15th U.S. State to Offer Online Voter Registration; Will Expand Democracy, Improving Convenience of Registering to Vote and Accuracy of Voter Lists

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Secretary of the State Denise Merrill today officially unveiled Connecticut's new online voter registration system. The link to the new voter registration feature can easily be reached online at www.ct.gov and will be featured on every Connecticut state agency website.

Connecticut now becomes the 15th U.S. state to provide the complete ability to register to vote online. The new online voter registration feature will be available to eligible Connecticut voters -- residents of the state who are both American citizens aged 18 and older -- who hold a valid Connecticut driver's license or other ID issued by the Department of Motor Vehicles.

The system is designed to have the voter enter their personal information for voter registration online, information which then populates a form that is sent via email to the registrar of voters where the new voter or voter changing address wants to register. The registrar of voters must then check the entered information and verify that it is accurate before adding the new voter to the Connecticut Voter Registration System statewide database.

Secretary Merrill's office worked with the Connecticut DMV to implement a new law requiring online voter registration that was enacted in 2012. Under the law, a new voter registering online agrees to add their electronic signature -- already on file with the DMV -- to the voter registration form online. With the electronic signature, the new voter attests online that all of the information contained in the voter registration form is true and accurate. In addition to new registrations, voters can also change their current registration online.

"This new system will make it faster and more convenient for citizens of all eligible ages to take advantage of one of their most fundamental rights as American citizens," Governor Malloy said. "Voting is the most basic tenant of our democracy -- it is incumbent upon us to ensure that voters have adequate access to the ballot box and that we encourage civic engagement."

"With online voter registration, we truly mark a historic step in moving Connecticut's elections into the 21st century," said Secretary Merrill, Connecticut's chief elections official. "Now, from the convenience of their own home computer or laptop, or even from a tablet or smart phone, Connecticut citizens can very easily register to vote. Through this new online feature we hope to reach a larger pool of eligible voters -- especially younger voters -- who may have found it difficult or inconvenient to register to vote and now with a few short clicks of the mouse can sign up to participate in our democracy!"

Secretary Merrill added, "This new convenience is being provided to Connecticut voters while simultaneously maintaining our strong security precautions to protect the integrity of our voter registration system. We also expect online voter registration to help keep more accurate voting lists because a voter's personal information will be typed instead of written by hand, therefore cutting down on human error in the registration process. I commend Governor Malloy for his leadership in getting this law on the books and the General Assembly for passing the bill; I am grateful for the cooperation of the DMV in helping us implement online voter registration."

"In our democracy voting is a critical act of citizenship. It is the foundation of our representative form of government. With online registration, we move one more step in helping people to exercise their right to vote in our representative government," said DMV Commissioner Melody A. Currey.

The Connecticut General Assembly and Governor Malloy in 2012 enacted a law requiring that both that eligible voters be allowed to register and vote on Election Day starting in November 2013, and that online voter registration be made available by 2014. Besides Connecticut, online voter registration is currently available in the following states: Arizona, Washington, Kansas, Utah, Oregon, California, Virginia, Colorado, South Carolina, Nevada, Minnesota, Maryland, Indiana, and Louisiana. The following states are in the process of implementing online voter registration: West Virginia, Georgia, Illinois, and Hawaii. Connecticut is now the first New England state to allow voters to register online.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=540020
