Public Statements
Governor Malloy Applauds Committees Decision on Allocation of Disaster Mitigation Funding
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 18, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today applauded the decision of the Connecticut Interagency Hazard Mitigation Committee to revise the state's allocation of federal Hazard Mitigation Funds. Last month, Governor Malloy directed the committee to reconvene in order to reassess its initial decision on the allocation of federal funding based on the immediate needs of homeowners attempting to re-occupy their homes following Super Storm Sandy and find alternative funding sources for the mitigation efforts.

"I am pleased that the Committee reconsidered their initial decision and took into the account the immediate needs of homeowners," said Governor Malloy. "I appreciate the professionalism and dedication the members of the Committee demonstrated during this process and further appreciate their willingness to review their initial decisions."

Upon the state's receipt of the FEMA Hazard Mitigation Grant in connection with the two most recent Presidential Major Disasters declared in Connecticut, the state Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection (DESPP) was charged with implementing the latest round of the federal program and making funds available to municipalities. In accordance with FEMA requirements, DESPP convened the Connecticut Interagency Hazard Mitigation Committee to review and prioritize the four categories of mitigation project applications, totaling over $81 million, for the $16.6 million in available funding. The Committee's revised decisions include:

Infrastructure projects will be submitted in priority order to FEMA for consideration with an initial total cap of $4 million federal cost share;
Acquisition projects will be submitted in priority order to FEMA for consideration with an initial total cap of $4.5 million federal cost share;
Elevation projects will be submitted to FEMA for consideration, with a $100,000 cap on the federal cost share per home.

The Division of Emergency Management and Homeland Security (DEMHS) will be contacting municipalities to complete application packets and the necessary Benefit Cost Analyses to submit to FEMA by the March 29th deadline. Also, Municipalities must have a FEMA-approved Hazard Mitigation Plan in order to receive any funding through the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP).

Municipalities and homeowners, including those that have submitted applications to FEMA for HMGP, are encouraged to continue to review alternate funding sources, including the Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery grant program (CDBG-DR). Some municipalities can also access possible funding though Small Town Economic Assistance Program (STEAP). In addition, beginning this summer, Governor Malloy's Shoreline Resiliency Fund will provide low interest loans to homeowners looking to elevate their homes.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=540062
