Public Statements
Governor Malloy and Lt. Governor Wyman to Launch Annual Statewide Series of Community Forums
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 14, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

First Event to be Held Wednesday, Feb. 19 in Norwalk

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman today announced that they will be launching their annual statewide series of community forums next week, giving them an opportunity to discuss the state's pressing issues face-to-face with state residents.

Governor Malloy has held these public meetings every year since his inauguration, fielding hundreds of questions on any range of topics and allowing constituents to voice their views. He is the only Governor in recent Connecticut history to hold these types of forums, starting a new tradition that he believes was long overdue.

"Being out there, accessible, and talking directly with people is fundamental to open government and helps us become more effective at serving the people we were elected to represent," Governor Malloy said. "I really do enjoy talking with our state's residents directly and hearing their opinions on how we can make decisions that will best improve Connecticut. Engaging the public is a critical component in our strategy to make our communities stronger and our economy more competitive."

As occurred in previous years, this community forum series will reach all sections of the state and will be open to the public. Attendees will have an opportunity to ask the Governor questions on any range of state issues.

"These meetings are a very direct way for citizens to have a voice in everything from how their tax dollars are being spent to how their children are being educated," Lt. Governor Wyman said. "I encourage all residents to attend and let us know what they think we are doing right and what they think we should be doing differently."

The first event of this year's series will be held in Norwalk on Wednesday, February 19, 2014, from 7:00 to 8:00 p.m. in the Community Room of Norwalk City Hall (125 East Avenue). Residents who would like an opportunity to ask a question should arrive prior to the start of the event to submit their names on the sign-up sheet.

Dates and locations for each additional forum will be announced during the coming weeks as each event is scheduled. It is anticipated that the forums will run throughout this year's legislative session.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=539938
