Public Statements
Access Health CT Surpasses Goal of 100,000 Enrollees Seven Weeks Ahead of Schedule
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 10, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Seven weeks ahead of schedule, Access Health CT (AHCT) today announced that it has surpassed its self-imposed goal of enrolling 100,000 Connecticut residents and small businesses in qualify, affordable health care coverage. The total number of enrollees stood at 121,983 as of close of business yesterday. The total number of enrollees in private insurance plans is 50,665 or 41.5 percent of total enrollees.

"When the exchange launched in October, we said our goal was to enroll 100,000 Connecticut consumers by the end of open enrollment on March 31st," said Kevin Counihan, CEO of Access Health CT. "We are thrilled to have reached that goal seven weeks early; however, our work does not end here. Our outreach and engagement efforts will be just as aggressive and active during the remaining open enrollment period so we can provide quality, more affordable health care coverage to as many Connecticut consumers as possible."

In December, Connecticut became the first state to exceed the enrollment projections set by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). CMS projected that Connecticut would enroll a total of 33,000 consumers by the end of open enrollment, and by December 23, Access Health CT had enrolled 34,295 consumers.

"Connecticut has clearly become a leader in implementing the Affordable Care Act and enrolling consumers in quality, more affordable health care coverage," said Lieutenant Governor Nancy Wyman, co-chair of the Access Health CT board. "I'm very proud of everything that the Board, Kevin Counihan, the staff at Access Health CT and the partner community organizations have done to educate consumers about health care coverage and help those consumers enroll. Together, we're improving the lives of thousands of Connecticut residents, some of whom are accessing quality, more affordable care for the first time."

"For too long we've talked about the problem of people being unable to afford quality healthcare, and now, Connecticut has finally done something about it," said Governor Dannel Malloy. "I congratulate Lieutenant Governor Wyman for her leadership on this issue and Kevin Counihan and the Access Health CT team for the strong execution of this landmark reform. They have created a model that other states are looking to."

Open enrollment continues until March 31, 2014. Consumers can continue to compare plans and shop for coverage online at www.accesshealthct.com or call 1-855-805-HEALTH (4325) to speak with an AHCT representative. In-person assistance is also available at the AHCT enrollment centers in New Britain and New Haven and from community-based Navigators, Assisters, Brokers and Certified Application Counselors throughout the state. A list of upcoming enrollment fairs and a link to locate an in-person assister are available at learn.accesshealthct.com.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=539714
