Public Statements
Gov. Malloy & Lt. Gov. Wyman Statements on U.S. Senate Vote to Repeal Federal Rule Preventing People with Mental Health Illnesses from Purchasing Guns
Statement
By: Nancy Wyman Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 15, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman released the following statements regarding a vote in the U.S. Senate today to repeal a federal regulation adopted by the Obama Administration in the aftermath of the 2012 tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary School that prevents people with severe mental health illnesses from purchasing firearms. The legislation repealing the regulation passed the Senate by a vote of 57-43 and was approved in the House earlier this month by a vote of 235-185. It now goes to the White House for the president's signature.
Governor Malloy said, "The hypocrisy of the NRA and Republicans is shocking -- both have called for better tools to identify potentially dangerous persons who are severely mentally ill as a way to reduce gun violence, and this measure did just that. However, whenever the opportunity arose to lead, they have fallen woefully short. The overwhelming majority of Americans -- including NRA members -- want commonsense gun violence prevention measures to ensure that those who should not have access to weapons cannot purchase them and do harm to themselves or others. President Obama's action strengthened protections while protecting rights of qualified citizens to purchase firearms."
Lt. Governor Wyman said, "Communities across the nation have mourned terrible acts of violence and the victims who were gunned down in schools, nightclubs, movie theaters, and places of worship. We know that keeping firearms out of the wrong hands is key to public safety. Reversing course on this rule is the wrong path. It jeopardizes the progress we've made to promote public safety without compromising the rights of law-abiding gun owners."

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2017/02-2017/Gov-Malloy-on-Vote-to-Repeal-Federal-Rule-Preventing-People-with-Mental-Illness-from-Purchasing-Guns
