Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Medicare Advantage Beneficiaries Can Keep Their Doctors Despite Changes to Provide Network
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 7, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that help is available to senior citizens affected by United Healthcare's decision to drop doctors within the Yale-New Haven Health System from the company's Medicare Advantage plans. Governor Malloy, Lieutenant Governor Nancy Wyman and State Department of Aging (SDA) Commissioner Edith Prague are urging Medicare beneficiaries who want to keep their doctors at Yale-New Haven to contact a counselor at SDA's CHOICES program to get assistance with re-enrolling in original Medicare by the program's February 14, 2014 deadline. Medicare Advantage is a federal supplement to Medicare not regulated by the state.

"Individuals who want to keep their doctors at Yale-New Haven can do so by un-enrolling from the United Healthcare Medicare Advantage Plan and re-enrolling in original Medicare," said Governor Malloy. "I encourage seniors to speak to one of the great counselors at CHOICES who stand ready to help navigate this transition. Seniors who were affected by this change only have a week to re-enroll, so they must act quickly."

Governor Malloy continued, "I want to assure beneficiaries that Lt. Governor Wyman, Commissioner Prague and I will do all we can to prevent this sudden change from causing a disruption to their health care."

United Healthcare recently notified customers that, effective April 1, 2014, Yale-New Haven Health System will no longer be a provider of the company's Medicare Advantage plans. Due to this change, beneficiaries with United Healthcare's Medicare Advantage will not be able to continue seeing their doctors in the Yale-New Haven network. Beneficiaries can keep their same doctor if they re-enroll in original Medicare by February 14, 2014.

"Many seniors affected by United Healthcare's decision are understandably upset and confused about what to do next," said Lt. Governor Wyman. "I urge anyone affected to contact a CHOICES counselor who can help them sort through their options, including keeping their current doctor if they desire to do so."

The SDA administers the CHOICES program, which has made counselors available to help seniors with re-enrollment in original Medicare. The CHOICES Program provides information and assistance to persons age 60 and older and persons with disabilities regarding health insurance options, including Original Medicare and supplemental options, Medicare and Managed Care (HMO) Choices, prescription drugs, and guidance related to Medicare Rx.

"I am extremely concerned that so little notice was given to Medicare Advantage beneficiaries about this change. This is not only a disruption in the lives of these seniors, but it also severs the relationships current beneficiaries have established with their trusted doctors," said Commissioner Prague. "We have counselors in our CHOICES program who can explain the options available and assist seniors with re-enrolling in the original Medicare."

CHOICES is also a "one-stop shopping" information source for services available to older adults and offers referrals to appropriate agencies as well as preliminary screening for more than 20 federal and state benefit programs.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=539546
