Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Makes Commitment to Universal Pre-Kindergarten College Affordability and Completion
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 6, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Addressing a joint session of the Connecticut General Assembly, Governor Dannel P. Malloy today unveiled a bold agenda aimed at continuing to grow Connecticut's economy, ensuring that Connecticut working families share in the state's emerging recovery, and making targeted investments to improve education and support students of all ages.

In recent days, the Governor announced his plans to deposit more than $250 million into the state's Rainy Day Fund, make an additional $100 million payment toward the state's long term pension obligations, and inject more than $440 million into the economy through different tax relief proposals that will take effect over the next two years. In today's address, the Governor proposed five new initiatives aimed at increasing access to quality educational opportunities for students.

"The best way for everyone to share in our recovery and for us to increase opportunities for success is a quality education," said Governor Malloy. "Taken together, the education initiatives I'm proposing today are part of a continuum, one that would support kids from birth all the way through college. They would help build a future for Connecticut where every child has access to an early learning experience, where every kid the opportunity for higher education, and where we are graduating as many students as possible into good jobs, with good benefits, right here in Connecticut."

In addition to sustained increases for K-12 school funding, the Governor is proposing to:

Move to statewide access for universal pre-K. The plan calls for expanding early childhood education to serve 4,000 more children by 2018, a 40 percent increase of children served, and providing funding to help towns prepare for full statewide access.

"We know that early education is one of the best ways to level the playing field for students," the Governor stated. "First, and for the first time in our history, let's commit Connecticut to achieving universal pre-kindergarten."

Invest in "Transform CSCU 2020.' Governor Malloy called for providing Connecticut's state community colleges and universities with $134.5 million to bring all 17 campuses into a single, student-centered, technology-enriched system while improving the student experience and degree completion.

"Let's help colleges from Norwalk to Naugatuck Valley to Eastern Connecticut State University," said Governor Malloy. "Let's move our state university and community college system into the 21st Century."

Improve college completion rates. The Governor announced the launch of the Go Back to Get Ahead program to allow any Connecticut resident who began their degree but has been out of the classroom for at least 18 months to take one free course for each course they take, up to three free courses in total in pursuit of a college degree.

"There are an estimated 113,000 people in Connecticut who began working towards a degree but for whatever reason didn't graduate," the Governor said. "Let's help more students graduate, and let's help them share in Connecticut's recovery."

Make College a little more affordable. In order to make it a little easier to save for college, Governor Malloy is proposing to create the CHET Baby Scholars program. It will offer new parents up to a $250 investment in a tax-free college savings account for their child.

"Together, let's make an investment in every child that will help them afford college," Governor Malloy said. "Is that investment going to pay for a full college education 18 years later? Of course not. But it can give new parents a boost right when they need it most, and it can help encourage college saving right from the start."

Develop Early College Opportunities. This program will establish pathways that enable high schools students to earn college credit and experience in high-tech disciplines in preparation for the 21st century jobs.

"To ensure that our students are better prepared for college and a career when they finish high school, particularly in high-tech disciplines, we need to consider new models for hands-on learning."

Governor Malloy continued, "Years from now, when the great recession is a distant memory, long after the political battles of this year have faded, this should be our legacy: that we made sure all Connecticut kids get a great education, one that starts early and takes them as far as their dreams and hard work will allow."

Governor Malloy had previously unveiled plans to continue to grow jobs with several initiatives, including continued support for the Small Business Express program, which has already helped nearly 1,000 companies create and retain more than 13,000 jobs.

The Governor's agenda also calls for responsible allocation of the state's budget surplus and increases Connecticut's minimum wage to $10.10 by 2017.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=539448
