Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Expanding Rebate Program Will Help Thousands of Elderly Renters Stay in Their Homes
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 3, 2014
Location: Wethersfield, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy, joined by Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman, state Department of Aging Commissioner Edith Prague and state and local officials, today announced that he is proposing an increase of more than $6.5 million during the upcoming regular session of the General Assembly to expand Connecticut's Elderly Renters' Rebate Program.

"Connecticut's senior population is already one of the largest in the country and continues to grow -- something we need to take into account when we make strategic decisions about the future of our state," said Governor Malloy. "We are taking the necessary steps now to ensure we can support the growing needs of our elderly residents, which includes giving seniors the right amount of support and access to a living situation that is safe, decent and affordable."

Governor Malloy continued, "There are already around 40,000 residents benefiting from the Elderly Renters' Rebate program annually. This expansion -- an increase of more than 30 percent -- will help thousands of additional senior citizens stay in their communities."

In existence since 1974, the Elderly Renters' Rebate Program provides direct, partial reimbursement to lower income elderly or 100 percent disabled renters to help offset a portion of their rent and utility expenses. The program, administered by the Office of Policy and Management, provides for payments ranging from $50 to $900 for qualifying married persons, and $50 to $700 for qualifying single persons. The rebate amount is based on a graduated income scale and the amount of rent and utility payments (excluding telephone) made in the calendar year prior to the year in which the renter applies. In order to qualify, married persons must have an annual income not greater than $41,600, and single persons must have an annual income not greater than $34,100.

"Being able to stay in their own home is an enormous priority for so many of our seniors," said Lt. Governor Wyman. "This program has a direct impact on the quality of life not only for them, but for entire families, and I am proud that our administration is taking steps to reinvigorate it."

Last year, the General Assembly passed legislation that closed the Elderly Renters' Rebate Program to any new applicants as of April 1, 2013 or previous applicants who did not receive a grant for calendar year 2011. Governor Malloy's proposal would re-open the program to new applicants, allowing an additional 12,700 senior citizens to apply for the rebate.

"We know that the demand for programs that serve our seniors will increase dramatically in the coming years and I am committed to preparing the state to meet this demand," said Commissioner Prague. "The Rebate Program helps some of our most vulnerable citizens -- lower income elderly and disabled persons who rent. This expansion will help so many more senior citizens live with dignity and independence."

Eligible persons may apply between April 1 and October 1 each year at either their town Assessor's Office or social service agency, depending on the town. Questions about the program and payments should be directed to the Renter's Rebate Hotline at 860-418-6377.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=539206
