Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Smart Water Policy is Smart Economic and Environmental Policy
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 3, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

The following are the remarks of Governor Dannel P. Malloy -- as prepared -- for today's Connecticut Strategic Water Resources Planning Conference at UConn Law School in Hartford:

I want to thank UConn for hosting today's important dialogue. Their unique experience over the last decade has shaped the Connecticut water experience and triggered the urgency to think strategically about our water resources.

I also want to thank Representatives Hampton and Mushinsky as well as Senator Meyer and Margaret Miner for their thought leadership on the issues before us today.

Finally, I want to extend my appreciation to the Water Planning Council, the Department of Public Health, the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection, the Public Utilities Regulatory Authority and Office of Policy and Management staff, who have been stewards of our abundant clean and safe water for decades -- and to Jack Betkoski in particular. Without your hard work and leadership on water issues, we would not enjoy an abundance of clean and reliable water.

Let's be clear, water is Connecticut's greatest natural resource. While other parts of the nation and world, struggle with drought, we enjoy a very different position.

The abundance of potable water did not happen by accident -- it happened because together over the decades, we have worked to preserve this resource. The challenge we face today is to manage our water wisely for all users and uses while maintaining our competitive advantage.

As you all know, growing Connecticut's economy has been a top priority for me, and a strategic water plan makes good economic sense.

The judicious protection and sustainable use of Connecticut's water resources will ensure adequate and safe public water or our citizens and businesses, provide critical ecosystem services, and enrich our quality of life. All of these are critical to growing our economy. Developing and implementing a state water resources plan will help us further these objectives.

In comparative terms, Connecticut is a water rich state. And with the uncertainty attendant with a changing climate, protecting the resiliency of our natural resource systems and strengthening the infrastructure upon which we rely, must be a focal point for our ongoing efforts.

The development and implementation of a meaningful water resources plan will not immunize us from unforeseen climate change challenges. However, it will prevent exacerbating its damaging impacts -- to our environment and economy.

As responsible leaders, we must be smart stewards and plan ahead to preserve water for future generations while we have the luxury of its abundance. By taking on the task of developing a statewide strategic water plan now, we can reduce climate change uncertainty, plan effectively for future demand and maintain water as an asset.

If we want sustainable development, than we must make sure it is in harmony with the available water resources. If want to continue enjoying healthy rivers and streams, we must plan ahead for it. And, if we want to enjoy healthy, clean drinking water for decades to come, we must start planning today.

As Connecticut digs into its planning process, we must agree that it will reflect our water values.

Number 1: We hold our water in trust for future generations.

Number 2: Water planning and management should be based on sound science, robust data and local knowledge.

And, number 3: It will promote conservation, regional self-sufficiency and resiliency, regional coordination and collaboration and management for sustainable water resources.

Just as we have been focusing on energy efficiency to very positive results, we must implement and incentivize efficient and effective water conservation.

As was said this morning, state statute has required a strategic water plan for nearly 50 years. I think we've waited long enough to get started. We already have 50 years of experience that tells us a piecemeal approach won't work.

Smart water policy is smart economic and environmental policy.

That's why the Water Planning Council is already at work and has engaged UConn for technical assistance to keep Connecticut on track for sustainable water resources for years to come.

I commit to you today that we will get a statewide water resource plan done. We've done it for energy already, and we have the opportunity to tackle water now.

We can't afford to take water for granted and waste our greatest resource.

Together, we be must be stewards of our economic and environmental future and preserve our water abundance.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=539222
