Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Dramatic Increase in Unused Prescription Drugs Collected at Drop Boxes During 2016
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 15, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State of Connecticut saw a dramatic increase in the amount of unused prescription medications that residents dropped off at collection boxes during 2016, with the state collecting a total of 33,803 pounds worth of various medications throughout the year. That amounts to a 43 percent increase compared to the amount that residents dropped off in 2015, when 23,651 pounds of unused drugs were collected by the state.
"The increasing amount of unwanted medication that's being collected at our drop-off boxes is a good sign that people in our state are taking the epidemic of prescription drug abuse seriously," said Governor Malloy, who this year has introduced a legislative package of initiatives to further the state's efforts with combating opioid addiction and overdoses. "We all know how common it is to have extra, unneeded prescription drugs in your medicine cabinet, and you may think that they present no harm. However, you never know who could gain access and potentially misuse them. Whenever medications are no longer needed for their intended purpose, it's best to remove them from your home safely and securely, and these drop boxes are a good way to dispose of them. The misuse of prescription drugs is a nationwide problem impacting people of all ages and backgrounds, and we must do everything we can to tackle it."
The state's prescription drug drop box program is administered by the Connecticut Department of Consumer Protection (DCP) in cooperation with state and local police departments and provides a convenient location for residents to safely discard unused medications from their homes in an effort to decrease the possibility of prescription drug misuse while also preventing the substances from contaminating water supplies. The drop boxes can be found in the lobbies of every State Police barrack in Connecticut, as well as at a growing number of local police departments. Unwanted medications can be dropped off any time that the departments are open -- no questions asked -- and they will safely be destroyed.

Source:
