Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: SBA to Open Disaster Loan Outreach Center to Assist Victims of Jan. 6 Shelton Fire
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 27, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) will open a Disaster Loan Outreach Center at Shelton City Hall on Wednesday to assist residents and business owners affected by the January 6th fire on Howe Avenue. Last week, Governor Malloy announced that his request for SBA to issue a federal disaster declaration had been approved by the agency, making victims of the fire eligible to apply for low-interest SBA disaster loans.

"This Center will give residents the opportunity to speak face-to-face with SBA customer service representatives, receive guidance on the application process and learn about the loan options most appropriate for their situation," said Governor Malloy. "I want to encourage everyone impacted by the fire to take advantage of this great resource and the get all the help available to them so they can get back on their feet as soon as possible."

For homeowners or renters, SBA offers Home Disaster Loans to repair or replace disaster-damaged real estate or personal property owned by the victim. Renters are eligible for their personal property losses, including automobiles. Business Physical Disaster Loans are offered to businesses of any size to repair or replace disaster-damaged property owned by the business, including real estate, inventories, supplies, machinery and equipment.

For small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives, small aquaculture businesses and most private non-profit organizations of all sizes, the SBA offers Economic Injury Disaster Loans (EIDLs) to help meet working capital needs caused by the disaster. EIDL assistance is available regardless of whether the business suffered any physical property damage.

Interest rates are as low as 2.250 percent for homeowners and renters, 2.625 percent for
non-profit organizations and 4 percent for businesses with terms up to 30 years. Loan amounts and terms are set by the SBA and are based on each applicant's financial condition. Applicants may be eligible for a loan amount increase up to 20 percent of their physical damages, as verified by the SBA, to make improvements that help prevent the risk of future property damage caused by a similar disaster.

Source:
