Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces $6.9 Million in Funding to Remediate and Revitalize Brownfields in 14 Towns Across Connecticut
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Feb. 14, 2017
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that $6.9 million in state grants will be awarded to 14 towns and cities to assess, remediate, and revitalize brownfields across the state. The projects comprise 424 acres of redevelopment as part of the administration's ongoing, unprecedented efforts to restore and put blighted properties back into productive use.
"Investing in the remediation of blighted properties and putting them back into productive use ultimately becomes an economic win for our communities," Governor Malloy said. "When we clean up these sites and repurpose them, we can turn what was once an eyesore into a community asset that can help revitalize a neighborhood and spark economic growth."
Under today's round of announcements, $5.6 million is being awarded for the remediation and redevelopment of five properties, totaling 32 acres. An additional $1.3 million is being awarded for assessments that will be completed toward the future revitalization of eight properties, covering a total of 392 acres. All of the grants are awarded through the Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD).
"The State of Connecticut continues to be a national leader in brownfield redevelopment. Through the Governor's leadership, we have invested in 2,240 acres of land across the state over the last six years and will continue to work with our cities and towns to help redevelop these dormant properties," DECD Commissioner Catherine Smith said. "For every dollar the state invests, $5.55 have been or will be invested by non-state partners."
"Connecticut is leading the way in brownfield cleanup and redevelopment," Department of Energy and Environmental Protection Commissioner Robert J. Klee said. "This latest investment in redeveloping contaminated sites creates more sustainable communities for the future as these properties are typically in previously developed areas with water, sewer, transportation, and energy infrastructure."
"Investing in brownfield redevelopment has brought significant private investment and new jobs to cities and towns throughout the state," DECD Deputy Commissioner Tim Sullivan said. "As a result, municipalities are seeing the transformative effect of these redevelopments in each and every community. From transit-oriented development to affordable housing and historic preservation, DECD's investment in brownfields is advancing numerous important policy objectives of Governor Malloy's administration."
Today's round of state brownfield grants include:
Remediation and redevelopment projects
Hamden, 560 Newhall Street: $600,000 grant to the Hamden Economic Development Corporation for abatement and demolition of a portion of a former high school to prepare it for private mixed-use redevelopment.
Hartford, 175 Mather Street: $605,000 grant to the City of Hartford to remediate a 0.4 acre site that will be developed as a secured parking facility that will support approximately 220 units of housing.
New Haven, 198 River Street: $375,000 grant to continue the remediation and abatement of the 3.5 acres of property at 198 River Street at the corner of Lloyd Street, a component of the former Bigelow Boiler site.
Norwalk Redevelopment Agency, Ryan Park: $2 million grant to the Norwalk Redevelopment Agency to remediate a 2.2-acre parcel known as Ryan Park, which has been closed since contamination was discovered that was not addressed when the park was built on former industrial land.
Sprague, Baltic Mill: $2 million grant to abate, demolish and remediate a 16-acre former mill site located in the center of the village of Baltic within Sprague.
Assessment Projects
Ashford/Willington: $200,000 grant for investigation of the north side of Squaw Hollow Road/Boston Turnpike (Route 44) straddling the Towns of Ashford and Willington.
Berlin: $35,000 grant for continued investigation of 586 Deming Road.
Brookfield: $145,000 grant for investigation of 20 Station Road.
Haddam: $200,000 grant for investigation of 11 Candlewood Road.
Middletown: $200,000 grant for investigation of 26.4 acres across multiple parcels on Newfield Street and Mile Lane.
Shelton: $200,000 grant for investigation of 267 Canal Street.
Stonington: $200,000 grant for investigation of 123 Greenmanville Avenue.
Waterbury: $135,240 grant for the investigation of 2100 South Main Street.
For more information about DECD's brownfield redevelopment programs, visit www.ctbrownfields.gov.

Source: http://portal.ct.gov/Office-of-the-Governor/Press-Room/Press-Releases/2017/02-2017/Gov-Malloy-Announces-6-9-Million-in-Funding-to-Remediate-Brownfields-in-14-Towns-across-Conn
