Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Progress in New England Governors Regional Energy Infrastructure Initiative
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 23, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy said today that the New England Governors are taking action to advance a recent regional energy initiative designed to expand energy infrastructure and lower the price of electricity for residents and businesses in the region.

"We urgently need new investments in electric transmission and natural gas capacity in New England because the region's power generation is becoming increasingly reliant on natural gas, and there is a growing need to bring clean energy from diverse sources into the grid," Governor Malloy said. "These investments will help ensure adequate supplies of gas and clean energy while lowering the cost of electricity for residents and businesses."

As an initial step in this effort, the region's Governors have asked for assistance from ISO-New England (ISO-NE), the region's grid operator. In a letter requested by the Governors, the New England States Committee on Electricity (NESCOE) asked ISO-NE to assist the states as they request proposals for transmission infrastructure to deliver at least 1200 MW and as much as 3600 MW of electricity from clean energy sources into the grid. The Governors also asked ISO-NE to develop a funding mechanism to support investment in much-needed pipelines that bring natural gas into the region.

In December 2013, the six New England Governors committed their states to an energy initiative designed to bring affordable, cleaner, and more reliable power to homes and businesses across the northeast. The initiative is designed to accelerate regional cooperation on expanding energy infrastructure in New England.

"Our letter to ISO is a concrete step forward in the partnership of New England states to build the critical energy infrastructure our region needs to secure cleaner, cheaper, and more reliable electric power," Governor Malloy said. "The spikes in wholesale electricity prices we are seeing during cold snaps this winter underscore the urgent need for expanded electric transmission capability and natural gas pipeline capacity. These investments will more than pay for themselves over time through lower prices for electricity. No state can address these on its own -- but working together as a region we will take action to bring down the cost of power for our families

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=538562
