Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Winter Storm and Severe Cold Weather to Impact the State
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 21, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

With a significant winter storm bearing down on the state, Governor Dannel P. Malloy is urging residents to take it slow and avoid travel during the height of the storm Tuesday night. Governor Malloy has also directed the activation of the state's Emergency Operations Center (EOC) at 3:00PM today to monitor conditions across the state and quickly coordinate any assistance that may be necessary.

In addition, the Governor has also directed the staggered release of nonessential first shift state employees between the times of 3:00 p.m. until 3:30 p.m. today because of winter weather.

"I am asking residents to take it slow as they head out for the afternoon commute and to avoid travel during the height of the storm tonight," said Governor Malloy. "If you do not need to be on the road tonight, please stay home as road conditions and visibility will be deteriorating rapidly. I've also asked all executive branch agencies to enact their early dismissal plans so that we are not bogged down during the usual evening rush, right when the snow is forecasted to pick up. Private sector companies may want to consider similar plans."

He continued, "We are also taking steps to make sure that we can take care of those in need of shelter. I urge anyone in need of shelter to call 2-1-1 and continue to encourage local communities to consider opening warming centers or other facilities to help people in need."

Yesterday, Governor Malloy activated the state's severe cold weather protocol which directs the Division of Emergency Management and Homeland Security (DEMHS), the Department of Social Services (DSS), the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services (DMHAS) and the Department of Housing (DOH) to coordinate with 2-1-1 and Connecticut's network of shelters to ensure that the state's most vulnerable people are protected from the severe cold weather.

"State emergency management officials continue to prepare for the potential impacts of this severe weather and continue to provide me with regular updates," Governor Malloy said.

DAS has crafted the following schedule to minimize traffic bottlenecks:

3:00 pm -- DECD, SDE, DSS, MHA, CHRO, OPM, DOC, Housing
3:15 pm -- DCF, Agriculture, DRS, DCP, DEEP, DOL, Protection/Advocacy, Aging
3:30 pm -- All other agencies

The current forecast is calling for heavy snow overnight tonight into Wednesday morning with overnight wind chills ranging from -10 F to -15 F. In addition to Winter Storm Warnings for the entire state, the National Weather Service has also issued Wind Chill Advisories for Tolland, Windham, and Litchfield Counties until 12:00PM Wednesday. Please stay alert for additional Watches and Warnings if they are issued.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=538442
