Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Severe Cold Weather to Impact State
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 20, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

With bitter cold temperatures expected to impact the state over the next week, Governor Dannel P. Malloy has activated the state's Severe Cold Weather Protocol, directing the Division of Emergency Management and Homeland Security (DEMHS), the Department of Social Services (DSS), the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services (DMHAS), and the Department of Housing (DOH) to coordinate with 2-1-1 and Connecticut's network of shelters to ensure that the state's most vulnerable people are protected from the severe cold weather.
"Throughout the winter season, we continue to take the necessary steps to make sure that we can take care of those in need of shelter, especially our state's most vulnerable populations," said Governor Malloy. "I urge anyone in need of shelter to call 2-1-1 and encourage local communities to consider opening warming centers or other facilities to help people in need."
Under the state's Severe Cold Weather Protocol, DEMHS activates its WebEOC communications network -- an internet-based system that allows local, regional and state emergency management officials and first responders to share up-to-date information about a variety of situations and conditions. The system is used to monitor capacity at shelters across the state, enabling 2-1-1 to act as a clearinghouse to assist in finding shelter space for those who need it. Local officials, working through WebEOC, can alert 2-1-1 and the state when they open temporary shelters or warming centers.
DSS and DOH coordinate with 2-1-1 and the Connecticut Coalition to End Homelessness, as well as working with existing vendors to resolve transportation issues for people needing shelter during the period of severe cold.
DMHAS, meanwhile, has teams who specialize in working with homeless people to locate those who are at risk, spread the word about the 2-1-1 system, and encourage everyone to take advantage of the safety of shelters. DMHAS is also working with shelters to assess and meet the needs of individual clients.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=538402
