Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: State Grant Program Encourages Nonprofit Collaboration, Efficiency
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 9, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the state Office of Policy and Management (OPM) is accepting applications for a new round of grants to encourage collaboration and sharing among nonprofit agencies.

The Nonprofit Collaboration Incentive Grant Program provides funds for one-time infrastructure costs to consolidate programs and services by collaborating nonprofit organizations. The goal is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the services provided by the agencies.

Eligible applicants are a collaboration of two or more nonprofit organizations providing services in Connecticut. Each participating organization of the collaboration must be designated as a 501(c)(3) by the IRS. Priority will be given to organizations that have existing contracts or agreements with the State of Connecticut to provide health or human services.

"I am pleased that my administration has been able to take positive steps to support nonprofit providers, which serve all citizens of Connecticut and play a substantial role in maintaining our safety net during challenging times," said Governor Malloy. "Partnering with our nonprofit organizations is a smart fiscal investment to ensure that these agencies can continue to provide services while doing so in an efficient, cost-effective way."
"Our state's future depends on having a comprehensive support structure for all of our children and families, and the network of nonprofit providers is a vital part of that system," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "I am confident that our support of these collaborations will reinforce the great work being done by these agencies to keep the foundation of our communities strong."
"This program helps nonprofit organizations find ways to provide better services at lower operating costs," said Ben Barnes, Secretary of OPM. "At the same time that we're making government more efficient, this program can help nonprofit community-based providers do the same. They already provide valuable services, often on tight budgets. This incentive grant encourages them to think about ways they can work together to improve efficiency."

According to Terry Edelstein, Nonprofit Liaison to the Governor, "this grant program will assist nonprofit organizations to streamline programs and services through local, regional and stateside collaborations. It provides an opportunity for private provider agencies to carry out their strategic planning initiatives and demonstrate real change."

The program will distribute grants to qualified nonprofit organizations for: the purchase of, or improvement to facilities; refinancing of facility loans; equipment purchases; energy conservation; transportation and technology projects; and relocation expenses related to physical consolidation of the collaboration.

There is $3,743,591 available for new projects under the program, with a minimum grant amount of $25,000. Responses to the formal "Question and Answer" process will be posted on January 13, 2014 on the Office of Policy and Management and Department of Administrative Services websites. The application deadline for consideration for funding is 3:00 p.m. on February 14, 2014.

Previous rounds of grants were awarded in 2010-2012 to five collaborations of nonprofit agencies.

The Nonprofit Collaboration Incentive Grant Program issuance follows the Governor's announcement in August of the availability of funding through a new "Nonprofit Grant Program," the NPG. Applications for that program were due in October and the application process is closed. Final award notifications will be issued in mid-February.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=537922
