Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Funds for Rochford Field Remediation in Hamden
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 8, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today joined Speaker of the House Brendan Sharkey (D-Hamden), Senate Majority Leader Martin Looney (D-New Haven, Hamden), State Senator Joseph J. Crisco, Jr. (D-Woodbridge) and State Representative Mike D'Agostino (D-Hamden) to announce that a grant of $4 million for the remediation of Rochford Field in Hamden is scheduled to be approved at Thursday's meeting of the State Bond Commission.

Rochford Field is a heavily used town park located within the larger Newhall Street Neighborhood Remediation Project that was built several decades ago on top of many feet of contaminated fill. The state funding will assist the town in remediating the land that will include covering the park by an impermeable liner and a drainage layer, and then backfilling it with approximately two feet of clean soil. The design will prevent rainwater and snowmelt from percolating through the contaminated waste fill.

"Rochford Field is a popular location for Hamden residents to play baseball, spend time with family, and hike," Governor Malloy said. "Many decades ago, the park was built on top of industrial fill that at the time had been an accepted public health practice, but today continues to be a growing health concern. Approval of this state funding will help the town remediate the land and maintain the park for continued use."

Ongoing maintenance and monitoring of the engineered cover and any improvements to the park facility beyond the restoration work will be paid for by the Town of Hamden. Once the work is completed, an environmental land use will be recorded that will identify the presence of the waste fill below the engineered cover.

"The remediation of Rochford Field is an important part of the Newhall Street Remediation Project, and the park will be a vital addition to the neighborhood," Speaker Sharkey said. "Preserving open space and remediating contaminated properties are key priorities for Hamden."

"Once complete, this remediation project will help Hamden families enjoy Rochford Field free from fear of contamination," Senator Looney said. "This has been a team effort and I want to thank Governor Malloy, Speaker Sharkey, Mayors Jackson and Carusone and all of the state and local officials that have worked on the Newhall Street Remediation Project."

"Taking this necessary course of action will help maintain Rochford Field as a popular location for residents to gather and play," State Senator Crisco said. "I'm pleased that my colleagues and the Governor see the value in preserving this space for generations to come, and wish to thank them for their support."

"I welcome this funding for Hamden for the remediation of Rochford Field," State Representative D'Agostino said. "This field is used by the Hamden little league, the youth center, and people of all ages. This funding will go a long way towards making the field safer and more usable for all residents."

Thursday's Bond Commission meeting will begin at 3:00 p.m. in Room 1E of the Legislative Office Building in Hartford.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=537760
