Public Statements
Issue Position: Education
Issue Position
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman are committed to making Connecticut a leader in educating our young people, putting students on a path to success and developing talent at all ages. That's why they passed bipartisan education reform and continue to increase funding to Connecticut's local classrooms. Connecticut is already seeing these investments pay off as graduation rates have increased by 3.7 percent over the last four years, our students are topping national lists in reading and math, and we are beginning to close the achievement gap.
Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman have invested to open over 1,000 seats for pre-K students in low-income school districts in 2014. Connecticut will achieve universal access to pre-K by 2019 with an additional 4,000 seats available to strengthen each child's foundational cognitive and critical thinking skills in pre-reading and math.
Under Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman, Connecticut has steadily increased annual funding to public schools. They've increased necessary programs for students to become high achievers, such as after-school programs and school breakfasts. Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman have also increased funding for professional development for teachers, school-based health clinics and family resource centers.
Connecticut is working with parents and students every step of the way. Since taking office, Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman have increased funding to childcare providers through Connecticut's Care 4 Kids. They have invested in Connecticut's future with a $250 matching funds deposit into a tax-free college savings account for every newborn. The new program, CHET Baby Scholars, empowers parents to save for their children's college education from day one.
Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman are focused on making sure college is affordable for all students in Connecticut. They've invested an additional $125.5 million into our state's 17 colleges and universities, improved higher education and are bringing our institutions into the 21st century through Transform CSCU 2020. And this year, Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman launched the Go Back to Get Ahead program to help students who left college without finishing their degree return to the classroom. The program offers up to three free courses to Connecticut residents who finish their degree. Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman proudly made Connecticut one of the first states to pass a version of the DREAM Act, giving undocumented students access to affordable higher education.
In line with a commitment to Connecticut's continued progress, Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman have invested $1.5 billion in expanding educational opportunities, research and innovation in the science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) disciplines at the University of Connecticut over the next decade. With a long history of manufacturing, Connecticut is also investing in precision manufacturing vocational programs in three community colleges to better equip workers and businesses for success in the manufacturing industry.

Source: http://www.danmalloy2014.com/issues
