Public Statements
Issue Position: Sustainability
Issue Position
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Progress in Connecticut requires sustainable planning that protects our environment, waterways and natural resources for generations to come. Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman are dedicated to economic infrastructure growth, comprehensive energy reform and environmental preservation.
As a part of their plan to lower energy costs for consumers and businesses, Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman created the state's first ever Comprehensive Energy Strategy. The plan allows more residents to take advantage of cheaper and cleaner natural gas, incentivizes energy efficiency and calls for an expansion of the use of renewable energy. Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman closely assessed the state's energy infrastructure leading to tough storm legislation that holds the state's utility companies accountable and protects consumers during and after storms. It also paved the way for Connecticut to create the nation's first statewide $20 million microgrid program, allowing towns and cities to power portions of their centers during blackouts.
Connecticut's progress relies on the foundation that Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman have built through their continued support for cities and towns. Through STEAP (Small Town Economic Assistance Program), Connecticut has invested $80 million in infrastructure improvements from fire stations to community centers to river dams. In four years, Connecticut has made monumental progress in storm and emergency preparedness. Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman established the Emergency Planning and Preparedness Initiative, which has helped Connecticut through storms and helped the state rebuild after "Superstorm Sandy."
Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman are moving Connecticut forward with a 5-year capital infrastructure plan. Under ConnDOT's 2014-2018 plan, the state will upgrade our bridges, highways, bus systems and rail networks to strengthen our economy while creating thousands of jobs. The plan will invest approximately $345 million for bus and rail assets, and $1.4 billion for highway and bridge infrastructure. These include long-term and shorter-term projects like the Q-Bridge replacement in New Haven and the Moses Wheeler Bridge replacement in Stratford.
For the first time in a generation, new mass transit options are becoming available in the near future that will help alleviate congestion on the state's highways. CTFastrak, 80 percent of which was funded with federal money, will create a high-speed bus service between New Britain and Hartford. In addition, the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield Rail Line will be open to commuters in 2016. With stops in Meriden, Berlin, Newington and other towns, this new rail service will revolutionize transportation in central Connecticut and spur economic growth.
Connecticut has made significant progress in protecting our environment for the next generation. They have invested $750,000 to fund state park improvements, dedicated over $26 million in loans and grants to clean up Connecticut's brownfields and provided $40 million for the preservation of open space. SoundWaters, the environmental nonprofit, recognized Dan Malloy for his staunch advocacy for the preservation of the Long Island Sound. Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman have protected 1,000 acres along the shoreline, which includes Connecticut's coastal forest, and they created the Coastal Education Center at Cove Island Park, which educates more than 25,000 students annually.
During Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman's first term, Connecticut has created thousands of clean jobs in renewable energy and waste management. These initiatives have increased recycling rates and decreased disposal costs. In four years, Connecticut has taken steps to convert 300,000 consumers to cleaner heating practices, launched a solar center for renewable energy creation and transformed energy consumption in state buildings.

Source: http://www.danmalloy2014.com/issues
