Public Statements
Gov. Malloy: Winter Storm and Severe Cold Weather Will Impact the State Over the Next Few Days
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Hartford, CT

With a winter storm and bitter cold temperatures expected over the next few days, Governor Dannel P. Malloy is urging residents to take it slow and avoid travel during the height of the storm Thursday night and has directed the Division of Emergency Management and Homeland Security (DEMHS), the Department of Social Services (DSS) and the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services (DMHAS) to coordinate with 2-1-1 and Connecticut's network of shelters to ensure that the state's most vulnerable people are protected from the severe cold weather.
"I am asking residents to use caution as they head out for their Thursday and Friday commutes and give yourself some extra time to get to your destination," said Governor Malloy. "I am also asking that you avoid travel during the height of the storm Thursday night. We are also taking steps to make sure that we can take care of those in need of shelter. I urge anyone in need of shelter to call 2-1-1 and encourage local communities to consider opening warming centers or other facilities to help people in need.
"State emergency management officials are preparing for the potential impacts of this severe weather and continue to provide me with regular updates."
The current forecast is calling for light snow to begin after midnight tonight and continue through the day on Thursday with heavy blowing and drifting snow overnight Thursday into early Friday morning. Wind chills are expected to range from -5 F to -20 F Thursday night and Friday. The National Weather Service has issued Winter Storm Warnings for most of the state through Friday morning. Please stay alert for additional Watches and Warnings if they are issued.
Under the state's Severe Cold Weather Protocol, DEMHS activates its WebEOC communications network -- an internet-based system that allows local, regional and state emergency management officials and first responders to share up-to-date information about a variety of situations and conditions. The system is used to monitor capacity at shelters across the state, enabling 2-1-1 to act as a clearinghouse to assist in finding shelter space for those who need it. Local officials, working through WebEOC, can alert 2-1-1 and the state when they open temporary shelters or warming centers.

Source:
