Public Statements
Issue Position: Quality of Life
Issue Position
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman have worked diligently to create a Connecticut that provides families with economic opportunity, keeps our children safe, delivers affordable health care and expands affordable housing. But there's more work to be done.
Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman worked with the legislature to create Connecticut's Earned Income Tax Credit to help tens of thousands of Connecticut families move into our growing middle class. The tax credit allows families to keep more of their hard-earned salaries so they can save for the future while also paying for clothing for children, medical care, reduction of household debt and other living expenses.
During their first term, Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman have been focused on keeping our families safe. In 2013, Connecticut passed common-sense gun safety legislation, effectively banning the sale of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, and keeping guns out of the hands of individuals who could pose a danger to themselves or others. Over the last 18 months, more than 200 people have been barred from buying rifles and shotguns for failing a background check. Additionally, 1,747 pistol permits were revoked for reasons such as drunk driving, mental health, and restraining and protective orders in domestic violence cases.
Crime is down in Connecticut and the murder rate is at the third lowest point in the last 40 years, thanks in part to the policies implemented during the Malloy administration. Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman are working with our communities to curb urban violence. They launched Project Longevity to incorporate the social network of community groups by partnering with law enforcement to make our communities safer and provide positive options for at-risk youth.
Connecticut has become the national leader for implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Thanks to Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman's leadership, Access Health CT more than doubled its goal, signing up nearly 230,000 residents and small businesses for quality, affordable health coverage. With the overall growth of health care and an understanding of the complexity of mental health, Connecticut revamped its mental health system to better support patients. Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman launched a broad anti-stigma campaign, invested $23 million to deliver mental health services to underserved populations and worked with the state Department of Children and Families (DCF) to develop a plan focused on prevention, early identification and early intervention.
Quality affordable housing is a key component to the growth of Connecticut's middle class. Since Dan Malloy took office four years ago, Connecticut created a path to affordable housing. Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman have committed nearly $500 million to the preservation and construction of affordable housing units across the state -- the largest investment in affordable housing in Connecticut in decades. They also extended affordable housing for over 50,000 Connecticut seniors by increasing the Elderly Renters' Rebate program by $6.5 million. Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman established Incentive Housing Zones across the state through the Housing for Economic Growth Program. This program has awarded over $200,000 to municipalities to build more affordable housing units.
Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman believe that those who serve our country deserve more. They have a plan to end homelessness for veterans in Connecticut by 2015. They've guaranteed security deposits to help veterans secure a home upon returning from service and established a 74-unit affordable housing development for at-risk veterans and their families that offers shelter and the services for readjusting to civilian life.

Source: http://www.danmalloy2014.com/issues
