Public Statements
Issue Position: Economy
Issue Position
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman's policies have led to the creation of over 50,000 private sector jobs in Connecticut and unemployment is currently at a five-year low. But they are not satisfied and know there is more work to do. That's why they are committed to growing that number to over 100,000 jobs and continuing to drive down unemployment over the next four years. Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman understand it's about creating new jobs and new opportunities for innovation. That means growing jobs across Connecticut's economy in areas like advanced manufacturing, communications, financial services, health and bioscience, and the service industry.
Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman have worked to create the jobs that will keep Connecticut's economy moving forward and support the middle class. Over the last several years:
Connecticut's private sector has added over 50,000 jobs from small businesses to Fortune 500 companies.
Unemployment in Connecticut is at a five-year low.
Over 14,000 jobs in more than 1,000 small businesses have been created or maintained through grants and low-interest-bearing loans as part of the Small Business Express program.
Over 1,600 businesses have benefited from Department of Economic and Community Development programs.
Aid to businesses owned by minorities and women has increased to over $18.3 million.
More union jobs in fields like construction, trades and energy are being created.
Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman have found new ways to generate forward-thinking ideas. Connecticut is supporting innovation by:
Funding early-stage businesses and startups through the Connecticut Bioscience Innovation Fund.
Investing in CTech business incubators to create technology hubs where startups are cultivated to accelerate their growth.
Leveraging the expertise of over 500 companies in the state to mentor more than 300 startups through the CTNext program.
Creating the new $30 million Advanced Manufacturing Fund that will help companies modernize, purchase equipment, develop new technologies, support apprenticeships and provide training and specialized education for workers. The fund will also support an increase in federally-funded research efforts at Connecticut's universities and colleges.
Coming up with revolutionary ways to generate more jobs in the state could only come to fruition by having our own fiscal house in order. Despite inheriting a $3.67 billion deficit -- one of the worst per capita in the nation -- Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman balanced the state's budget each year, reduced our long-term debt by over $11.5 billion, implemented Generally Accepted Accounting Practices (GAAP) and replenished Connecticut's Rainy Day Fund, which is now at more than $300 million after being completely depleted by the previous administration.
Thanks to Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman, Connecticut leads the nation when it comes to protecting and empowering working and middle-class families.
Connecticut was the first state to pass legislation to increase the minimum wage to $10.10 an hour. Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman believe that no one working full-time, especially women raising families, should live in poverty.
Connecticut became the first state in the nation to mandate that its 400,000 workers who receive an hourly wage earn five paid sick days per year. No one should choose between seeking medical care or his or her job.
Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman are committed to helping our veterans and unemployed residents succeed. That's why they've invested $10 million in the Step Up workforce training program giving graduates access to over 2,200 jobs, and passed a jobs bill that created a $900 tax credit for companies that hire veterans.
As a boy, Dan Malloy watched his mom, a nurse, organize her co-workers into a union to secure fair benefits and more rights for workers on the job. And Nancy Wyman broke down barriers early in her career as one of the first female X-ray technicians in Connecticut. Dan Malloy and Nancy Wyman believe that unions help build America's middle class and are key to our state's economic future. That's why they've:
Expanded the right to organize and collectively bargain for more Connecticut workers.
Increased project labor agreements (PLAs) to build Connecticut's infrastructure with high-quality union labor.
Honored the collective bargaining process of workers in both the public and private sector.
Enforced Connecticut's labor laws to protect workers from wage theft and the unsafe use of unlicensed employees.

Source: http://www.danmalloy2014.com/issues
