Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces $1.7 Million Federal Bonus for Children's Health Care Enrollment
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 31, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the Obama Administration has awarded a $1.7 million performance bonus to Connecticut for continuing improvements in children's health care enrollment efforts in the state.
This announcement marks the third year that Connecticut has received a performance bonus from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The State Department of Social Services (DSS) continues to qualify under five of the eight features that promote enrollment and retention in health coverage for children; including "presumptive eligibility', use of the same forms for applications and renewals and use of automatic or administrative renewal. Through presumptive eligibility, children screened and deemed eligible at community health centers and other qualified sites can receive medical services before the formal eligibility process is completed. Additionally, the state demonstrated a significant increase in Medicaid enrollment among children during the course of the Federal Fiscal Year.
Governor Malloy said the performance bonus showcases the ongoing efforts of state employees, community health workers, advocates and federal partners who have placed health coverage that is affordable in easy reach for Connecticut children and teenagers.
"This award is only possible through the hard work of those who've devoted themselves to ensuring children have access to medical care. DSS has been continuously looking for ways to improve access and enrollment efforts," the Governor said. "Additionally, the Covering Connecticut's Kids and Families coalition has been of particular help in supporting the outreach efforts of many community-based social services providers around the state who work directly with families that depend on the HUSKY Program."
"As someone who was part of the original workgroup that led to the creation of HUSKY I couldn't be more pleased that it continues to be a model of success more than 15 years later," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "I congratulate Commissioner Bremby and his agency for their great work in ensuring that our children receive the quality medical care they need to grow into healthy and productive adults."
Covering Connecticut's Kids and Families is sponsored by Connecticut Voices for Children and supported in part by grants from the Connecticut Health Foundation and the Universal Health Care Foundation.
"We are committed to making HUSKY among the best health care programs in the nation, and I think this award showcases the dedication DSS staff has to achieve that goal," DSS Commissioner Roderick L. Bremby said. "I couldn't be more pleased that we have received this bonus for the past three years, illustrating our continued efforts on behalf of Connecticut's children."
"States are working hard to ensure children get access to the health coverage they need," federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Marilyn Tavenner said. "We are pleased to provide financial support to reward states that are reducing enrollment barriers and are connecting kids to coverage."
Performance bonuses were awarded to Connecticut and 22 other states for the 2013 federal fiscal year under the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009. This is the fifth and final year of performance bonus awards.
Since 1998, Connecticut's HUSKY program has combined Medicaid coverage for children in families earning at or below 185% of the federal poverty level with Children's Health Insurance Program (also known as HUSKY B) coverage for children in higher-income families. As of November, there are more than 696,000 beneficiaries enrolled in the Medicaid program, nearly 425,000 of which are Medicaid/HUSKY A recipients. An additional 13,000 children are enrolled in HUSKY B. Depending on specific income level, family cost-sharing applies. Consumer information is available at 1-877-CT-HUSKY or www.huskyhealth.com.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=537492
