Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Views Progress of Turnaround Initiatives During Visit to New Britain's Diloreto School
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 19, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Commissioner of Education Stefan Pryor got a firsthand look at DiLoreto Magnet School's turnaround efforts today in New Britain.

DiLoreto Magnet School is one of 11 schools in the Commissioner's Network, the state's lead initiative to improve Connecticut's chronically underperforming schools. The initiative was proposed by the Governor and enacted as part of Connecticut's bipartisan, landmark education reform legislation in 2012.

"Providing additional support in our state's most struggling schools is vital to ensuring all of our students are prepared for future success in college and 21st-century careers," Governor Malloy said. "The hard work and commitments of teachers, parents, and administrators undertaking the work of school turnaround is as admirable as it is essential to providing a bright future for our students."

The school's plan to improve student performance includes extending the school day by one hour per day, decreasing chronic absenteeism, and increasing literacy skills. By focusing on English and Spanish language skills, the school has committed to developing students who are bilingual in Spanish and English by eighth grade. Other highlights of DiLoreto's turnaround plan include smaller class sizes and summer instruction and training.

Early results show a better attendance rate that puts the school on par with the state average.

"We are pleased that DiLoreto, as a new school within the Commissioner's Network, is visibly and vigorously getting its new initiatives under way," Commissioner Pryor said. "We will continue working together to enable the DiLoreto community to implement its plan fully in the coming months and years. We look forward to seeing and supporting enhanced opportunities and ever greater progress for DiLoreto's students."

DiLoreto Magnet School houses grades PK-8 and has 901 students. Of DiLoreto's 901 students, 85 percent qualify for free or reduced-price meals, about 50 percent are English language learners, and 9 percent are students with disabilities.

Source:
