Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Nominates Judge Richard A. Robinson to State Supreme Court
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Dec. 10, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that he is nominating Appellate Court Judge Richard A. Robinson of Stratford to serve as a justice on the Connecticut Supreme Court.

"Judge Robinson has been an attentive, measured jurist during his thirteen years on the bench, making him an ideal candidate for the role of Supreme Court justice," Governor Malloy said. "Serving on our state's highest court is an immense duty, as it is the final arbiter on issues that impact virtually every aspect of our lives. Judge Robinson has an intellect and a wealth of experience that extends beyond the bench, having served with a number of social organizations, educational institutions, and other groups in our community throughout his career. I am confident that the General Assembly will agree that having Judge Robinson on the Supreme Court will serve the people of Connecticut well."

"I want to thank Governor Malloy for giving me this opportunity to serve the people of our state as a justice of the Connecticut Supreme Court," Judge Robinson said. "As a member of the Superior and Appellate Courts of this state, I realize what an awesome responsibility this honor brings and I promise the Governor, the Judicial Branch, the Connecticut Bar and the people of this state that if confirmed, I will fully and eagerly fulfill my obligations. I am truly humbled by the thought of being considered for this high honor."

Judge Robinson was first appointed to the bench in 2000, when he was sworn in as a judge on the Connecticut Superior Court. During this time, he served as Presiding Judge (Civil) for the New Britain Judicial District (May 2003 to September 2006); Presiding Judge (Civil) and Assistant Administrative Judge for the Ansonia/Milford Judicial District (September 2006 to September 2007); and Presiding Judge (Civil) for the Stamford Judicial District (September 2007 to December 2007).

In 2007, he was nominated to serve on the Appellate Court.

Prior to becoming a judge, he served as Staff Counsel for the City of Stamford Law Department beginning in 1985, and then became Assistant Corporation Counsel in Stamford in 1988. He remained in that position until his appointment as a judge of the Superior Court.

His distinguished career is complimented by an array of public and judicial service, including serving as President of the Stamford Branch of the NAACP from 1988 to 1990, and as General Counsel for the Connecticut Conference of the NAACP from 1988 to 2000. He also served as a Commissioner of the Connecticut Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities from 1997 to 2000, where he also served as Chairman.

He graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Connecticut in 1979 and a Juris Doctor Degree from West Virginia University School of Law in 1984. He was admitted to the West Virginia Bar and the Connecticut Bar, and is a member of the U.S. District Court, Northern District of West Virginia and the U.S. District Court, Connecticut.

Judge Robinson will replace Supreme Court Justice Flemming L. Norcott, Jr., who reached the mandatory age of retirement in October. His nomination will be forwarded to the General Assembly for confirmation.

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=536534
