Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Announces Second Round of Funding Available to Build Additional Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Around State
Press Release
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 22, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the state is launching a second round of incentives under the newly launched program that helps grow the number of publicly accessible electric vehicle (EV) charging stations across Connecticut. This new round follows an announcement earlier this month on the initial round of awards, which is assisting in the creation of 56 new, publicly accessible EV charging stations in 42 locations statewide.

"Transportation is a key element of my Comprehensive Energy Strategy to bring cheaper, cleaner, and more reliable energy to Connecticut residents and businesses," said Governor Malloy, who made the announcement at the grand opening ceremony of the 2013 Connecticut International Auto Show in Hartford. "The build-out of electric vehicle charging stations gives residents more confidence to choose electric when heading into the showroom. This new confidence will save consumers money on fuel costs and protect the environment."

Under the program, which is administered by the state Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP), businesses, organizations, colleges, and municipalities can apply for grants to supplement the installation of publicly available charging stations. Funding for the incentives comes from an April 2012 agreement with the state that allowed for the merger of Northeast Utilities and NStar.

"This will make a real difference in our state," said Governor Malloy. "EVs are not only cheaper to operate, but they dramatically reduce the emissions that pollute our air, harm the health of our citizens, and contribute to climate change."

"Costs for electric vehicles continue to fall and demand continues to rise -- especially as more and more charging stations become available," said DEEP Commissioner Daniel C. Esty. "Our goal is to ensure that anyone purchasing and operating an electric vehicle knows that a charging station is always nearby and in a convenient location. With Connecticut's auto dealers as a partner in this effort, we are confident of dramatically increasing the number of EVs on the road in Connecticut over the next few years."

The grants range from $2,000 to $5,000, depending on the specific requirements of each project and the technology being used. Each grant makes up a partial amount of the total cost of hardware and installation costs, meaning that each award will drive private investment in a network of charging stations across the state.

The first round of grants totaled $135,946. There are currently around 100 publicly available electric vehicle (EV) charging stations in Connecticut.

Governor Malloy also noted that Connecticut is committed to a full build out of infrastructure for Zero Emissions vehicles, as one of eight states to sign an agreement to put 3.3 million zero-emission vehicles on the roads in their states within a dozen years. Zero-emission vehicles include battery-electric vehicles, plug-in hybrid-electric vehicles, and hydrogen fuel-cell-electric vehicles. These technologies can be used in passenger cars, trucks, and transit buses.

Those interested in applying for a grant through the EVConnecticut Incentives program should visit www.ct.gov/deep/evconnecticut, or send an email to EVConnecticut@ct.gov. Applications will be accepted through December 3.

Source:
