Public Statements
Gov. Malloy and Lt. Gov Wyman Statements Regarding State's Decision on the Affordable Care Act Option
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 22, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman today released the following statements regarding the state's decision to forgo the President's recent proposal for the Affordable Care Act. A fact sheet on the announcement and a memo from the Connecticut Insurance Department were also released.

Said Governor Malloy:

"Residents of my state are frustrated about this situation and so am I. The truth is that the solution offered last week won't work for Connecticut. To those who think we should have a special session because there's some magical way for us to fix the issue, I say you're wrong.

"First, this option would not affect a full 36 percent of individual policies that were carried over from before March 23, 2010. Second, of the remaining group that could be potentially impacted, insurers have told the state that they do not plan to continue those policies already slated to be replaced, even if given the option to do so. Finally, even if they changed their minds and decided to renew them, we know that rates on those plans would increase significantly this year, and again next year.

"Thankfully, here in Connecticut, our Lt. Governor, Nancy Wyman, has spearheaded the effort to build an insurance exchange that is working for Connecticut citizens. In the weeks ahead, staff from Access Health CT and the Connecticut Department of Insurance are going to continue working with private carriers to help anyone and everyone that is losing their plan. This will include a new coordinated effort that will embed Access Health staff directly into private carriers to better coordinate these efforts. In addition, I've asked Access Health to extend the deadline for new signups to our exchange for one week to December 22, giving consumers a little more time to explore their options.

"We're going to work with people, walk them through their options, and get them covered either on the exchange or with a private plan that makes sense for their needs. The simple truth is that Connecticut didn't create this particular problem, but we aren't going to pass the buck either. We're going to step up and do everything we can to get people covered, and continue working towards our goal of good, affordable health insurance for every Connecticut resident."

Said Lt. Governor Wyman:

"I am proud of the work that our team has done to make Connecticut's exchange a model for the nation, and that now includes having the flexibility and the expertise to help thousands of our residents continue their health coverage without interruption. While no solution is perfect for every policyholder, I believe that many of those who received cancellation notices will be able to secure quality coverage at a reasonable price through our state exchange."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=535584
