Public Statements
Gov. Malloy Statement on PURA Approval of Natural Gas Expansion Plan
Statement
By: Dan Malloy
Date: Nov. 22, 2013
Location: Hartford, CT

Governor Dannel P. Malloy today issued the following statement on the approval of the natural gas expansion plan by the Public Utilities Regulatory Authority (PURA):

"From the moment my energy strategy was finalized last February, we have been hard at work bringing key provisions to life for the benefit of everyone who pays a monthly bill for heat and electricity. Approval of the natural gas expansion plan today is another major step forward in our effort to help our residents and businesses lower their energy bills by taking advantage of a cleaner, cheaper energy source.

"With this plan in place we will now expand opportunities for families and businesses to reduce their costs for heat and power by taking advantage of natural gas -- which costs much less than oil and burns much cleaner. A greater percentage of homes and businesses in neighboring states benefit from the use of natural gas than do people in Connecticut. This has put us at a competitive disadvantage -- but with this plan in place we will now move forward to change that.

"I was especially pleased to see that the final decision provided the natural gas utility companies with the approval they need to secure additional gas pipeline infrastructure and supplies to provide reliable service to their new customers. Gas pipeline capacity into the New England region is limited, and this has caused prices to spike in the winter when gas is needed both to heat homes and run power plants. The gas expansion plan called for in my Comprehensive Energy Strategy will benefit both gas and electric customers in the near-term, by helping to expand gas capacity into Connecticut. To secure a cheaper, cleaner, and more reliable energy future for the long-term, we are going to have to work together as a region to expand key energy infrastructure. I am committed to working closely with our neighbors to take the steps needed to address our common energy challenges.

"While there is much more work to be done, we've made real progress in implementing my Comprehensive Energy Strategy. In addition to the natural gas expansion plan, we have put a plan in place to double the availability of popular and cost-effective energy efficiency programs; vastly expanded the amount of renewable energy resources in a manner that is driving down prices; put a strong focus on 'hardening' our electric grid to make it better able to withstand the impact of the extreme weather; and taken real steps to promote the use of vehicles that operate on other fuels, such as electricity. In short, Connecticut has emerged as a leader and a national model in building a 21st century approach to energy."

Source: http://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?A=4010&Q=535728
