Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces Mission Critical Solutions Manufacturing Expansion and New Job Creation in Bedford County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Nov. 30, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Mission Critical Solutions, LLC (MCS), an ISO-certified engineering, fabrication, and machining services company, will expand its operations in Alum Bank, Bedford County, creating 16 new jobs over the next three years.
"We are proud to partner with companies like MCS that are committed to the betterment of both its community and its employees, and this expansion project reaffirms just that," said Governor Wolf. "Not only does this project create new jobs in Bedford County, but it provides for the continued opportunity for this steel manufacturer to serve as a supplier for the U.S. military, which has ripple effects beyond Pennsylvania."
MCS will renovate space at its current location at 271 Industrial Lane and purchase new equipment to modernize and strengthen the company's manufacturing and machining capabilities. MCS will invest more than $825,000 in the expansion which will enhance its ability to serve the defense, rail, and utilities industries. The company has committed to the creation of 16 new, full-time jobs over the next three years, along with the retention of 36 existing positions.
"MCS has grown from three employees to over thirty in a span of almost nine years, and our revenues have doubled, year-over-year for the past three years," said MCS CEO Bob McGowan. "This evolution has always been driven by a desire to deliver quality products and professional engineering services, using the skills and dedication of local talent. Our team is invested in growing MCS into an innovative, national resource for fabricated and machined products. We are grateful to Governor Wolf and the Governor's Action Team for recognizing our commitment to growing our local manufacturing sector and supporting those efforts with a financial assistance package."
MCS received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $16,000 Pennsylvania First grant, $16,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits to be distributed upon creation of the new jobs, and $7,600 in WEDnetPA funding for employee training. The company has also been encouraged to apply for a $371,015 low-interest loan from the Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority.
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with the Bedford County Development Association (BCDA).
"MCS has demonstrated steady growth since opening in Bedford County in 2008," said Bette Slayton, president, BCDA. "Bob McGowen and his team are true entrepreneurs who are committed to high quality product and service. MCS is a valued employer with a bright future. We are fortunate to be the home of this exciting young company."
Founded in 2008, Mission Critical Solutions offers a full range of engineering, fabrication, and machining services. The company's quality systems have been certified by the International Organization for Standardization to be in compliance with the ISO 9001:2008 quality standard, as well as the Association of American Railroads (AAR) M-1003 standard related to railroad component manufacturers. In addition, all MCS welders are American Welding Society certified. MCS is honored to supply custom products to various branches of the United States Military and is a proud member of the National Armaments Consortium (NAC), the industrial / academic component of the Department of Defense Ordnance Technology Consortium (DOTC).

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-mission-critical-solutions-manufacturing-expansion-and-new-job-creation-in-bedford-county/
