Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces $2 Million Investment in Manufacturing in Johnstown
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Nov. 18, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Today, Governor Wolf announced a $2 million state investment that will support the construction of a plate mill at Gautier Specialty Metals and Gautier Steel in Cambria County that will produce non-aerospace titanium for the United States Department of Defense and other markets.
"I am proud to be here to announce the commonwealth's investment in this important project that will expand manufacturing right here in Cambria County," said Governor Tom Wolf. "My administration's partnership with Gautier Specialty Metals will open a plate mill that not only helps the Johnstown economy, but will bring skilled manufacturing jobs back to this area. These are good, middle class jobs that are needed in Johnstown, and shows once again, that here in Pennsylvania, we can work together to compete with other states and countries to bring economic investments to our local communities."
These jobs are key to an area like Johnstown, where the workforce is ready to meet the needs of our manufacturing economy. This project demonstrates the important partnership that needs to exist between state government and private industry. The state must do all we can to ensure that we are setting the table for investment in our communities, and making sure that we are all working to bring jobs back to areas like Johnstown.
"Gautier Specialty Metals and Gautier Steel (GSM / GSL) was pleased to have Governor Wolf at its manufacturing facilities in downtown Johnstown for the announcement of this investment," said Darryl DiOrio, Gautier Specialty Metals and Gautier Steel. "Gautier employs approximately 100 people with 80 of whom are members of the USW. The additional jobs retained and created will be blue collar, steelworker jobs with good pay and a full benefit package."
"These new state dollars are targeted to help expand a local manufacturing operation as it competes on a worldwide market," said Senator John Wozniak. "Gautier is a world-class facility that has made a strong investment in our area. To regain economic strength and rebuild our economy, we need to be able to access state resources to help fund important economic development initiatives. The investment in the new plate mill will generate commercial activity and create jobs for years to come."
"This investment will also strengthen national defense capabilities by ensuring titanium products are manufactured in the United States," said Rep. Bryan Barbin.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-2-million-investment-in-manufacturing-in-johnstown/
