Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces GO-TIME Continuous Process Improvement Initiative for Customer Service, Efficiency in State Agencies
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Nov. 17, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that the Governor's Office of Transformation, Innovation, Management and Efficiency (GO-TIME) will partner with state agencies to implement continuous process improvement programs to streamline work and deliver better services.
"We are taking concepts pioneered by the private sector and applying them to the work of government," Governor Wolf said. "We want state employees to be part of the solution as we strive for ways to do things better and improve services to Pennsylvania."
The GO-TIME Continuous Process Improvement (GO-CPI) initiative is based on "Lean" practices. Lean is being used by federal agencies and state and local governments to address backlogs, improve workflow, increase quality, better meet the needs of the agency's customers, address new challenges, and free up time and resources to focus on other needs. Over a dozen states, including Connecticut, New York and Ohio have established continuous process improvement programs in recent years.
GO-TIME will provide training to key agency staff, who can then lead process improvement projects and train others. GO-TIME will also lead process improvement initiatives that span multiple agencies.
One of the first process improvement initiatives will focus on a backlog of over 1,400 applications for clemency, commutation and pardons. GO-TIME is working with staff from the Board of Pardons, Board of Probation and Parole, State Police and the Lieutenant Governor's Office to streamline the process to reduce the backlog and ensure the accurate and timely review of new applications.
"One important mission of the Board of Pardons is giving people a second chance if they have earned it, so they can get a new or better job, to become productive members of society. Working with GO-TIME will help us move cases though the process more quickly, to help ex-offenders take the next positive step in their lives sooner," Lt. Governor Mike Stack said.
"The employees who perform the work are often in the best position to identify steps in a process that lead to delays, errors and bottlenecks," said Sharon Ward, Director of GO-TIME. "Continuous process improvement is a proven method that departments can use to engage employees, make the best use of existing resources and improve the speed and quality of service."

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-go-time-continuous-process-improvement-initiative-for-customer-service-efficiency-in-state-agencies/
