Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces $500,000 State Investment in Reading Area Community College Science Lab Renovations
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Nov. 17, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Today, Governor Wolf announced a $500,000 state investment in Reading Area Community College to complete renovation of existing labs in Berks Hall, resulting in state-of-the-art biology and anatomy labs, while moving the chemistry and physics labs to Schmidt Training & Technology Center.
"I am proud to be here to announce the commonwealth's investment in this important project that will improve the quality of the STEM education offered here at RACC," said Governor Tom Wolf. "This project will reshape and modernize the way that students at this campus learn. This is crucial, because we need to ensure that our students coming out of college are prepared to join the skilled workforce."
This project's focus is on education for career pathways leading to a pipeline of highly-skilled employees in high tech and advanced manufacturing, healthcare, and material and medical research. Over half of all degree track students at RACC are required to take lab science courses. This project will guarantee that those students are learning in an environment suited to the needs of our economy.
"I applaud Governor Wolf for committing state funds to upgrade science laboratories at Reading Area Community College," Schwank said. "Investing in our community colleges is smart policy. These technology upgrades will benefit our Berks County workforce by providing job seekers and holders more opportunities to enhance their skills."
"These renovations will enhance the quality of education for current students as well as appeal to prospective students looking to further their education," said Rep. Caltagirone. "This funding signals an all-around commitment to providing a high quality of education to Pennsylvania students who are our future workforce."
"I am grateful to Governor Wolf for providing these funds to support the renovations to and expansion of RACC's science laborites. This is an investment in basic educational capability that will pay dividends to our students while enhancing our workforce, particularly in the areas of manufacturing and healthcare," said Guido M. Pichini, Chair of the College's Board of Trustees.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-500000-state-investment-in-reading-area-community-college-science-lab-renovations/
