Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces $5 Million Investment to Train Skilled Workers
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Nov. 14, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Today, Governor Tom Wolf announced the commonwealth's $5 million investment in the Steamfitters' Butler Training Facility project, which allows the Steamfitters Local 449 to train both unemployed and underemployed individuals who can contribute to the construction and energy industry for the Pittsburgh and the surrounding area.
"For years, the Steamfitters and the building trades have been providing an incredible service to our young people, said Governor Wolf. "They have trained them in stable, secure job fields and prepared them to enter the workforce and contribute to Pennsylvania's economy by building our infrastructure. The Steamfitters have been particularly successful, and I have been constantly impressed by the quality of training that they provide. This facility will allow the Steamfitters to train more students in a better, more modern, and dynamic environment through hands-on-training."
Through the Steamfitters' current facility and training program, they graduate around 170 apprentices annually. This project will raise that number to 270 apprentices annually, who are ready to join the workforce and earn middle class wages.
Southwestern Pennsylvania is experiencing a shortage of skilled welders, which poses an ongoing challenge to the construction and burgeoning energy industry in Pennsylvania.
Steamfitters Local 449 provides highly trained labor for the fabrication, installation and service of piping systems in a variety of facilities. Ongoing development in the region, most notably in the City of Pittsburgh, will require labor by skilled building trades including Steamfitters. Furthermore, supplying skilled labor in support of the Marcellus Shale Industry will serve to enhance the overall economy, thus creating greater wealth and higher quality of life. The training facility will also contribute to the continued development of the Route 19 Corridor in Butler County.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-5-million-investment-to-train-skilled-workers/
