Public Statements
Governor Wolf Signs Law Legalizing Ride-Sharing Statewide
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Nov. 4, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today made ride-sharing legal across the entire commonwealth by signing Senate Bill 984, which would enable services like Lyft and Uber to operate. In Philadelphia, where temporary legislative authority had expired and ride-sharing had been barred until today, the bill also allows for two-thirds of revenues received from ride-sharing will go to the school district.
"I want to thank the legislature for working with me to finally pass a long-term solution that will allow ride-sharing companies like Uber and Lyft to operate everywhere in Pennsylvania," Governor Wolf. "This bill puts an end to any question about these companies operating in our Commonwealth, especially in Philadelphia.
"We want these companies welcome here in the Commonwealth, allowing them to become full partners with the cities and communities where they operate and invest, including Pittsburgh where Uber has headquartered its advanced robotics research. This bill also protects consumers with background checks and thorough vetting for drivers, making sure we are doing all we can to keep riders safe and secure."
Senate Bill 984 was sponsored by Senator Camera Bartolotta, who, along with key bill supporters Representatives Robert Godshall and Maria Donatucci and Senator Vincent Hughes and others, joined Governor Wolf in Harrisburg.
"Companies like Uber and Lyft have revolutionized the way that many transportation needs are met," Sen. Bartolotta said. "This legislation recognizes the growing demand for these services while also ensuring that adequate protections are in place for passengers and drivers. I am thankful that with Gov. Wolf's signature today, these services will be available in every county in our Commonwealth."
"Transportation Network Companies, such as Uber and Lyft, provide a tremendous service to the public -- particularly those in areas with limited or no taxicab service," said Rep. Godshall. "It took four years and a lot of bipartisan work to reach the compromises necessary for an agreement. Uber and Lyft have changed the way people travel in urban, suburban and rural areas and I am pleased that they, and companies like them, can now operate legally and permanently in the Commonwealth."
The statewide authorization is particularly important for Philadelphia, which was the only area in the commonwealth previously unable to access ride-sharing legally and where two-thirds of revenue from ride-sharing will help struggling schools.
"The governor's signature cements the benefits of this long-term solution into place. Ride-sharing businesses will continue to be able to prosper and grow, and students in the Philadelphia School District will reap the benefits from a new funding source," said Representative Donatucci. "In every sense of the words, this new law is a compromise and a win-win. I'm happy to have been able to participate in this process."
"This is a victory for Philadelphia's consumers, but it is also a victory for our schools. I am very proud that the majority of the tax revenue generated by ride-sharing will go to the Philadelphia School District," Senator Hughes said. "Our schools need every dollar that we can find, so I'm pleased this was a part of the compromise to legalize ride-sharing in Philadelphia."
The law establishes the conditions, requirements, and the regulatory framework for the operation of transportation network companies (TNCs). It also includes a number of driver and consumer protections, including ensuring insurance coverage and criminal background checks for drivers.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-signs-law-legalizing-ride-sharing-statewide/
