Public Statements
Governor Wolf Signs Bill Prohibiting State from Contracting with Businesses that Boycott Israel
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Nov. 4, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Today, Governor Tom Wolf signed HB 2107, sponsored by Representative Matt Baker, which prohibits the commonwealth from contracting with any company or organization that engages in an economic boycott against Israel. The movement to engage in these kinds of boycotts, called Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions, or BSD, has actively encouraged boycotts in place of peace talks to settle the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
"We must make clear that we are in favor of a peaceful, negotiated solution to this conflict and that the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and the United States, stand behind our friends and allies, and will not encourage economic punishment in place of peaceful solutions to challenging conflicts," said Governor Tom Wolf. "We, as a Commonwealth, must make sure that Pennsylvania is not contributing to a cause that is antithetical to our country's position on the world's stage."
I would like to commend and extend my appreciation to the General Assembly and Governor for supporting and signing this important and historic legislation into law," said Representative Matt Baker. "This legislation makes it very clear that companies can either perform a BDS action or they can do business with Pennsylvania. However, they cannot do both."
This law will prohibit contracting with BDS businesses, states that a purchasing agency may not contract with a company unless the company certifies that it is not currently engaged in a boycott of an entity based in or doing business with a jurisdiction not prohibited by Congressional statute from engaging in trade or commerce. Also, the entity must certify that it will not engage in such boycotting during the duration of the contract.
The Department of General Services will make available a certification form that verifies a company is eligible for business, which shall be provided when registering to do business as a vendor with the commonwealth.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-signs-bill-prohibiting-state-from-contracting-with-businesses-that-boycott-israel/
