Public Statements
Governor Wolf Signs Bills to Battle Heroin and Opioid Crisis
Statement
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Nov. 2, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Today, Governor Wolf signed legislation to battle Pennsylvania's heroin and opioid epidemic. This legislation will strengthen the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program, restrict the number of pills that can be prescribed to minors or in emergency rooms, establish education curriculum on safe prescribing, and create more locations for the drop-off of prescription drugs.
"I am proud to sign a package of bills that represents the work that we have all done together to address the heroin and opioid abuse crisis, and begins to curb the effects of this public health epidemic in Pennsylvania," said Governor Tom Wolf. "Four weeks ago, I addressed a joint session of the General Assembly to outline a set of legislative goals that would help us tackle this public health crisis and together, the General Assembly and my administration committed to help the victims of substance use disorder, and the communities that have been devastated by this terrible disease."
"The epidemic will be fought piece by piece with hard work and victories like the ones we celebrate today," said Liz Roderick, who lost her brother to substance use disorder. "Our family is honored to be standing with the Governor as he signs these bills that will ultimately save lives and prevent tragedy like the one that has scarred our family and so many others. It is my hope that we will continue to combat the stigma of addiction and continue to fight for a stronger system that will protect our loved ones."
"The legislation enacted today with the Governor's signature will have a direct and meaningful impact on the health and welfare of our Commonwealth and its citizens," said Senator Gene Yaw. "These five new measures together will work to combat the rise in heroin and opioid abuse impacting every corner of our state. I have said that each of these bills can be compared to the strands of a rope. Each strand represents one measure to fight the epidemic. Alone, they might not be fully effective, but together they can strengthen the rope and our collective efforts. I appreciate the support of the legislative leadership and Governor Wolf, and I am thankful for the Governor's prompt signing of these bills into law."
"The opioid crisis, drug overdoses and abuse must be dealt with on multiple levels," said Senator John Wozniak. "The legislation passed by the General Assembly, which will be signed into law today, will help address critical aspects of the problem. These new initiatives will give those who are involved in the fight more resources to address the crisis."
"The legislature has made significant steps this session toward curbing our state's opioid abuse crisis," said Representative Doyle Heffley. "This is a nonpartisan issue impacting every community in Pennsylvania, and we need to continue to do all we can to prevent opioid abuse as well as provide adequate treatment options for those in recovery."
"The PA HOPE Caucus was formed out of an unfortunate necessity, because Democratic and Republican legislators recognized that we had a drug epidemic sweeping our state," said Representative Ed Gainey. "We joined Governor Wolf in reaching out to communities across Pennsylvania to let people know that we would do whatever it takes to help lead them from addiction to recovery. The passage, and now enactment, of these bills is the result of those conversations."

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-signs-bills-to-battle-heroin-and-opioid-crisis/
