Public Statements
Governor Wolf Takes Father's Day Pledge to End Gender Violence
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: June 16, 2017
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today is urging Pennsylvanians to join him in taking the Father's Day Pledge to end gender violence. Governor Wolf is joining the Philadelphia Phillies and Pittsburgh Pirates, along with other elected officials and men across Pennsylvania, to commit to never use violence in relationships, speak up, support work to end gender violence, and be a mentor to younger men.
"It is important that all Pennsylvanians work towards reducing violence of all forms, but domestic violence is particularly damaging to women, kids and our communities," Governor Wolf said. "Strong men respect women and by speaking out and raising awareness about the dangers for women and families, we can help end gender violence and make our communities more safe"
Governor Wolf encouraged fellow Pennsylvanians to take the Father's Day Pledge to End Gender Violence at http://pasaysnomore.com.
The campaign, organized by the Pennsylvania Coalition Against Domestic Violence, asks each signer to pledge to work to end gender violence and:
Never use violence of any form in my relationships.
Speak up if another man is abusing his partner or is disrespectful or abusive to women and girls.
Support women who are working to end all forms of gender violence.
Mentor and teach boys about how to be men in ways that don't involve degrading or abusing girls and women.
According to the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence:
On average, nearly 20 people per minute are physically abused by an intimate partner in the United States. During one year, this equates to more than 10 million women and men.
1 in 3 women and 1 in 4 men have been victims of [some form of] physical violence by an intimate partner within their lifetime.
1 in 4 women and 1 in 7 men have been victims of severe physical violence by an intimate partner in their lifetime.
1 in 7 women and 1 in 18 men have been stalked by an intimate partner during their lifetime to the point in which they felt very fearful or believed that they or someone close to them would be harmed or killed.
The Pennsylvania Coalition Against Domestic Violence is a statewide collaborative membership organization committed to ending intimate partner violence and all forms of violence against women.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-takes-fathers-day-pledge-to-end-gender-violence/
