Public Statements
Gov. Wolf Announces $14 Million in Shale Impact Fee Funding
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Oct. 24, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today announced that the Commonwealth Financing Authority (CFA) approved $14 million in funding to support 94 projects through six Act 13 Marcellus Legacy Fund programs designed to support conservation projects and environmental protection measures throughout Pennsylvania.
"Using fee revenue collected from unconventional gas wells, Act 13 supports statewide environmental projects -- from flood control, to sewage treatment, to greenways, trails and recreation -- that help improve, protect, and conserve Pennsylvania's natural beauty and well-being," said Governor Wolf. "We anticipate a tremendous, positive impact that can be witnessed and shared by communities across the state as a result of these investments."
The 94 projects approved today are located in 38 counties: Allegheny, Armstrong, Bedford, Berks, Bucks, Butler, Cambria, Cameron, Carbon, Centre, Chester, Clearfield, Clinton, Cumberland, Dauphin, Delaware, Erie, Fayette, Franklin, Greene, Huntingdon, Indiana, Lackawanna, Lawrence, Lehigh, Luzerne, Mercer, Montgomery, Northampton, Northumberland, Philadelphia, Potter, Snyder, Somerset, Susquehanna, Tioga, Wayne and Westmoreland, counties
The Act 13 Marcellus Legacy Fund programs are administered by the CFA and include Abandoned Mine Drainage Abatement and Treatment; Baseline Water Quality Data; Flood Mitigation; Greenways, Trails and Recreation; Orphan or Abandoned Well Plugging; and Watershed Restoration and Protection programs.
The CFA approved the following for six of the Marcellus Legacy Fund programs at the October meeting:
Abandoned Mine Drainage Abatement and Treatment: 2 projects approved; $563,191 total
Flood Mitigation: 8 projects approved; $1,821,325 total
Greenways, Trails and Recreation: 68 projects approved; $9,182,299 total
Orphan or Abandoned Well Plugging: 1 project approved; $130,00 total
Sewage Facilities: 4 projects approved; $141,647 total
Watershed Restoration and Protection: 11 projects approved; $2,161,538 total
The Marcellus Legacy Fund was created by Act 13 of 2012 to provide for the distribution of unconventional gas well impact fees to counties, municipalities, and commonwealth agencies.
To date, the fee has generated more than $1 billion to support local community initiatives.
The programs are administered jointly by the Department of Community and Economic Development, the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, and the Department of Environmental Protection, under the direction of the CFA.
For more information about the Commonwealth Financing Authority and to view a complete list of approved projects, visit dced.pa.gov.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/gov-wolf-announces-14-million-in-shale-impact-fee-funding/
