Public Statements
Gov. Wolf, Sen. Casey Announce $3 Million in State Funding for New Project HOME Facility in Philadelphia
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Oct. 21, 2016
Location: Philadelphia, PA

Governor Tom Wolf and Senator Bob Casey today announced a $3 million grant to help fund the construction of a new Project HOME building with LGBTQ-friendly affordable housing units for young adults who are homeless or at risk of homelessness.
"Nationwide, 40 percent of homeless young adults identify as LGBTQ, and we know that without early interventions to educate, employ, and empower homeless youth, and without a stabilizing force in their lives, it becomes incredibly hard to break the cycle they are caught in," Governor Wolf said. "This project will target that population, giving them a place to stay and access to critical services that they need to get back on their feet in a time of intense need."
"Our nation has a deep and abiding obligation to the most vulnerable, a mission Project HOME fulfils daily," Senator Casey said. "Earlier this year I called for additional resources to combat homelessness, particularly among children. I worked to help secure this grant so that more children in Southeastern Pennsylvania will be able to have this basic measure of security. This grant will also ensure that LGBTQ youth have an opportunity to reside in a secure and affirming environment."
The $3 million Redevelopment Assistance Capital Program (RACP) funding will go toward construction of a four-story, 36,000 square-foot building at 1315 N. 8th Street in the Kensington section of the city. It will include 30 one-bedroom units of affordable housing targeted to young adults (age 18-25) who are homeless, have experienced homelessness, or are at risk of homelessness (including those aging out of foster care), and will be LGBTQ-friendly. Residents will benefit from a combination of housing, employment, education and health care-related services, as well as case management, life skills and community-building activities.
"Project HOME is very grateful for the partnership with Governor Wolf and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania," said Sister Mary Scullion, President and Executive Director of Project HOME. "With their extraordinary leadership, the $3 million RACP grant will leverage an estimated $13 million in total direct capital investment to support phase one of a two part, $27 million project at 8th and Thompson Streets. The first phase is 30 units of LGBTQ-friendly housing for homeless and at-risk young adults. We will continue our work with the broader community because none of us are home until all of us are home."
Project HOME plans to break ground in the spring of 2017. Construction is expected to be complete by the spring of 2018.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/gov-wolf-sen-casey-announce-3-million-in-state-funding-for-new-project-home-facility-in-philadelphia/
