Public Statements
In Montgomery County, Governor Wolf Discusses Efforts to Battle Opioid Epidemic
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Oct. 10, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today visited Community Health & Dental Care, a center of excellence, to discuss his administration's efforts to battle the opioid epidemic. The 2016-2017 budget included $20.4 million for Centers of Excellence which serve as central, efficient hubs around which treatment revolves. These centers will have navigators to assist people with opioid-related substance use disorders through the medical system, and ensure they receive behavioral and physical health care, as well as any evidence-based medication-assisted treatment needed.
"I am thrilled that by working with Republicans and Democrats, we have achieved this level of funding for our fight against this public health crisis," said Governor Wolf. "As we all know, the opioid epidemic does not discriminate -- it affects Pennsylvanians from all walks of life. While the budget allows us to expand treatment for individuals suffering from addiction, we can and should do more to address this matter that is plaguing all of our communities. That's why I delivered a joint address to the House and Senate about taking legislative action to address this public health crisis."
"Community Health and Dental Care of Pottstown is honored to have received the Centers of Excellence award for Montgomery County," said Community Health and Dental Care CEO Bridgette McGivern. "Our health center, in collaboration with the Montgomery County Recovery Center and other collaborative partners, is fully committed to combating the opioid epidemic that is afflicting our communities. Our health center continually strives to make a difference in the lives of our patients and this initiative will positively impact those efforts."
In order to stem the tide of opioid abuse and make progress for those suffering from the disease of addiction and their loved ones, we must work quickly and efficiently to pass bills to send to Governor Wolf's desk. During his joint address, Governor Wolf said that he hopes to pass legislation that will strengthen the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program, improve and increase education about opioid use disorder, limit opioid prescriptions to emergency room patients and minors, require insurance companies to cover abuse deterrent opioids, and establish a voluntary directive if they do not want to be prescribed opioids.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/montgomery-county-governor-wolf-discusses-efforts-battle-opioid-epidemic/
