Public Statements
Governor Tom Wolf Commends Attorney General for Launch of Probe into Opioid Marketing and Addiction
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: June 15, 2017
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf commended Attorney General Josh Shapiro's announcement today that Pennsylvania is taking on a leadership role in a bipartisan investigation of opioid marketing and addiction in Pennsylvania and across the country. Shapiro made the announcement at a press conference in the Capitol.
"Over the past few months, I have been proud to have my administration support and collaborate with Attorney General Shapiro on this important step in our fight against the opioid crisis," Governor Wolf said. "It is undeniable that powerful and overprescribed prescription drugs have played a significant role in the deadly addiction crisis facing Pennsylvania and states across the country.
"While we have taken steps to expand treatment for those suffering and expand resources for law enforcement and health professionals, the death toll is still rising in our state.
"I thank Attorney General Shapiro for taking a lead role in today's action and for being a vital partner in our fight against heroin and overuse of prescription opioids."
The U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency's (DEA) most recent statistics on fatal overdoses in Pennsylvania show a 37 percent increase in fatal overdoses in 2016 compared to 2015. Of those 4,642 fatal overdoses, the DEA attributed 85 percent to prescription or illegal opioids, including heroin, according to the report.
"The latest DEA figures on heroin and opioid deaths in Pennsylvania are extremely disturbing, and reinforce that Pennsylvania and the federal government must fight even harder to combat the damage done to our families and communities by heroin and opioids and the disease of addiction," Governor Wolf said. "The Attorney General's announcement today reaffirms our commitment to fighting this burgeoning epidemic from all sides."
A comprehensive list of new and expanded initiatives in Pennsylvania aimed at fighting this epidemic can be found here. Pennsylvania's can call 1-800-662-HELP (4357) to get assistance with substance use disorder.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-tom-wolf-commends-attorney-general-for-launch-of-probe-into-opioid-marketing-and-addiction/
