Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces 60 New Jobs through Expansion of York Group Facility in York
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Aug. 25, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that The York Group, Inc., a manufacturer and distributor of funeral caskets and related products, will expand operations at their York County facility by consolidating an out-of-state site into its site in Pennsylvania -- a move that will create 60 new, full-time jobs.
"Today I'm thrilled to announce that Pennsylvania has secured another strong manufacturing expansion project," said Governor Wolf. "The York Group's decision to consolidate operations from outside the commonwealth to York County instead of its location in Canada is a true testament to the company's commitment to the region."
The York Group, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Matthews International Corporation, headquartered in Pittsburgh, will expand operations at its existing facility located at 2880 Blackbridge Road, Manchester Township, making facility renovations and purchasing new equipment. The company has committed to investing at least $6 million in the project and to create 60 new, full-time jobs over the next three years while retaining 276 existing positions.
"Matthews is proud of our over 165 year history in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and our 85-year heritage of building caskets in York, Pennsylvania. We are pleased to expand our operations at this long-standing facility, which is an important part of our manufacturing network. The York plant employs a strong, local workforce who make the highest quality caskets in the funeral industry, and we look forward to continuing our manufacturing tradition in York for years to come," said Steven D. Gackenbach, group president for Matthews Memorialization.
The York Group received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $100,000 Pennsylvania First program grant, $120,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits to be distributed upon creation of the new jobs, and $27,000 in WEDnetPA funding for employee training.
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania in collaboration with the York County Economic Alliance (YCEA).
"The York Group could have expanded its operations anywhere, but we are thrilled that the company will be doing so in York County," said Loren Kroh, YCEA interim president and CEO. "We welcome the projected 60 jobs to be added to the company's existing York County workforce. As York County's chamber and economic development corporation, the York County Economic Alliance looks forward to working with the company during and beyond this expansion."
Matthews International Corporation is a provider of memorialization products and industrial automation solutions, employing more than 1,261 people in Pennsylvania and more than 10,000 people worldwide.
For more information on Matthews International, visit matw.com. Interested applicants should apply onsite at the Manchester Township location.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-60-new-jobs-through-expansion-of-york-group-facility-in-york/
