Public Statements
GO-TIME: Department of Corrections Realizes Energy Savings in Pilot Program
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Aug. 19, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today announced that the Pennsylvania Department of Corrections has implemented a new energy savings pilot program that will reduce utility costs at State Correctional Institution Dallas by more than $1.7 million over five years. This initiative is part of the Governor's Office of Transformation, Innovation, Modernization and Efficiency (GO-TIME).
"Department of Corrections has been a leader in working to reduce costs and improve outcomes at the same time," Governor Wolf said. "We are working to mitigate any and all costs in order to allow for more funding to go towards programs that help improve public safety and generate better outcomes."
The Guaranteed Energy Savings Act (GESA) provides an innovative financing technique that uses cost savings from reduced energy consumption to repay the cost of installing energy conservation measures.
The DOC expects significant utility savings from a reduction in facility water and electrical usage. The project also includes other energy conservation measures that will result in energy savings.
The savings for the 5-year period beginning in October and ending in June FY 2020/21 is expected to be $1,725,000.
"We are always looking for ways to reduce prison costs," said Corrections Secretary John Wetzel. "The GESA project affords us the opportunity to not only save money but reduce energy usage as well."
The project plan involved replacing existing interior and exterior lighting with new light emitting diode (LED) lighting to improve the quality of lighting as well as reduce its energy costs and enhance security. The LED power supplies have a 100-year life expectancy that will significantly reduce maintenance costs, allowing electricians to fulfill other maintenance needs throughout the institution.
The DOC is exploring expanding the program to other state correctional institutions based on the success of the program at SCI Dallas.
GO-TIME was created by Gov. Tom Wolf in 2015 to maximize efficiency, modernize state government operations and provide the highest quality services. As a result, state agencies saved more than $156 million in FY 15-16, exceeding the $150 million savings goal he set by the Governor. Wolf has set a new GO-TIME savings goal of $500 million by 2020.
To learn more about GO-TIME, visit www.governor.pa.gov/go-time/.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/go-time-department-of-corrections-realizes-energy-savings-in-pilot-program/
