Public Statements
Governor Wolf Hails DCNR Online Reservation Innovation for Campers, Cost Savings at State Parks Across Pa.
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Aug. 18, 2016
Location: Wellsville, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today praised the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources' efforts to implement new digital technology to make reservations more accessible for visitors and made agency efforts more efficient, saving more than $100,000 a year.
"DCNR's innovative new online reservations system is an example of how technology can help us deliver better services and save precious taxpayer dollars," Governor Wolf said. "Our state parks are some of Pennsylvania's most beautiful assets and DCNR has succeeded in making them more accessible for all Pennsylvania's residents."
Reservations can be made 24 hours a day, seven days a week. In 2015, 194,000 reservations were made, swelling the total to more than 327,000 since the system rolled out in February 2015. More than 82 percent of advanced reservations are now made online, reducing DCNR's incurred contractor costs for 2015 and future years.
DCNR Secretary Cindy Adams Dunn today joined other state officials, Bureau of State Parks representatives and state park campers in celebrating cost-saving park reservation improvements that recently gained DCNR recognition from the Governor's Office of Transformation, Innovation, Management and Efficiency (GO-TIME).
"Our Bureau of State Parks' workers are justifiably proud of this distinction afforded by Gov. Wolf," Dunn said. "Not only do these reservation improvements make for happy, better informed and served campers, they also help this department realize savings of more than $100,000 a year."
Veteran campers who have enjoyed the recent benefits of the online reservation system improvements also spoke at today's gathering at Gifford Pinchot State Park, York County.
Recognized Aug. 2 by Gov. Wolf and GO-TIME officials, Bureau of State Parks reservation improvements will ease bureau expenses by lowering software transaction costs. At the same time, the bureau has seen a marked increase in online and overall camping reservations.
"The new reservation system now utilized by the Bureau of State Parks is a great example of smart savings," said Sharon Ward, director of the Governor's Office of Transformation, Innovation, Management & Efficiency. "In short, it delivers both lower costs and better service to Pennsylvanians."
Gov. Wolf has announced state agencies saved over $156 million through GO-TIME efforts such as DCNR's, exceeding a $150 million savings goal for the 2015-16 fiscal year. More than 150 department initiatives across the state have contributed to a $156 million savings so far.
"Our new reservation system was tested and vetted on all levels to ensure we were not only improving benefits to our customers, but improving park operations as well," Dunn told the park gathering. "In addition, lower software transaction costs will save our department over $100,000 per year, over the next three years."
Veteran Pinchot State Park campers Nancy and Glenn Peck said the system changes have streamlined their efforts to stay annually at the 2,338-acre state park, graced by Pinchot Lake and its almost 350 acres.
The state park reservation system can be found at http://pennsylvaniastateparks.reserveamerica.com/
Details on Gifford Pinchot and Pennsylvania's 120 other state parks can be found at www.dcnr.pa.gov.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-hails-dcnr-online-reservation-innovation-for-campers-cost-savings-at-state-parks-across-pa/
