Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces New Central Garden & Pet Company Facility in Northampton County, Creation of 40 Jobs
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Aug. 18, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Harrisburg, PA -- Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Central Garden & Pet Company, a manufacturer and marketer of pet and garden products, will establish a new warehouse and distribution facility in Easton, Northampton County, and create at least 40 new jobs.
"Central Garden & Pet Company's decision to relocate to Pennsylvania was based on an evaluation that included availability of workforce, cost of operations, and proximity to customers," Governor Wolf said. "We are pleased that the company recognizes the many advantages that Pennsylvania provides. We welcome them to the commonwealth and look forward to their continued success here."
Central Garden & Pet will relocate a garden distribution facility to Pennsylvania, leasing a 243,360-square-foot facility in Easton, Lower Nazareth Township. The company plans to invest at least $835,000 on the project, which will include facility leasing, the purchase of machinery, equipment, and computer hardware and software, and employee training. Central Garden & Pet has also committed to creating 40 new, full-time jobs and to the retention of 35 current, statewide positions over the next three years.
"We are excited to be a part of the Easton community as we open a new distribution center for our garden products. Easton was selected because of its close proximity to our customers," said Will Reeves, Central Garden & Pet regional vice president. "In addition, we think the Easton area will provide a solid pool for hiring and a great environment for our employees and their families to work, shop, and play."
Central Garden & Pet received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes $80,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits, a $80,000 Pennsylvania First Program grant, and $18,000 in WEDnetPA funding for employee training.
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania.
Central Garden & Pet Company is a leading innovator, marketer, and producer of quality branded products for the lawn and garden and pet supplies markets. Committed to new product innovation, its products are sold to specialty, independent, and mass retailers. Central Garden & Pet also provides a host of other regional and application-specific garden brands and supplies, as well as application-specific pet brands and supplies. Central Garden & Pet is based in Walnut Creek, California, and has approximately 3,700 employees, primarily in North America.
For more information about Central Garden & Pet, visit www.central.com.
For more information about the Governor's Action Team or DCED visit dced.pa.gov.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-new-central-garden-pet-company-facility-in-northampton-county-creation-of-40-jobs/
