Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces 49 New Jobs with Expansion of McCarthy Tire Facility in Wilkes-Barre
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Aug. 18, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that McCarthy Tire Service Company, Inc., a manufacturer of retreaded tires for the commercial trucking industry, will expand operations near its existing facility in Wilkes-Barre, Luzerne County, and create 49 new jobs over the next three years.
"Through this growth, McCarthy Tire will become one of the top three largest tire retreaders in North America. In addition to this accomplishment, the company will expand its workforce significantly, providing 49 new, full-time jobs in Wilkes-Barre," Governor Wolf said. "We applaud McCarthy Tire for its continued success and for the support it provides for the region's economic well-being."
In an effort to increase its manufacturing capacity, McCarthy Tire will expand retreading operations by executing a 10-year lease of a 75,000-square-foot facility that is now used for warehousing. The company plans to invest $3,277,000 in the project, including the leasehold, infrastructure improvements, and new equipment purchases. McCarthy Tire has committed to the creation of 49 new, full-time jobs over the next three years, and the retention of 197 existing employees.
"We are working closely with Bandag, the global leader in retread manufacturing, to build a state-of-the-art manufacturing plant," said John D. McCarthy, Jr., president of McCarthy Tire. "This will be the largest Bandag retread facility in North America. It seemed fitting to locate it in Wilkes Barre, the city where my grandfather started McCarthy Tire Service 90 years ago."
McCarthy Tire received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $150,000 Pennsylvania First Program grant, $49,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits to be distributed upon creation of the new jobs, and $22,050 in WEDnetPA funding for employee training.
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with the Greater Wilkes-Barre Chamber of Commerce.
"For three generations, the McCarthy family has never stopped investing in their industry-leading tire business and in the City of Wilkes-Barre," said Senator John T. Yudichak. "In partnership with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, McCarthy Tire's most recent investment will bring a new and world-class manufacturing facility to Wilkes-Barre, proving that our workforce and our great city can compete with anyone for quality, twenty-first century jobs."
"McCarthy Tire Service Company is truly a great family business that has provided quality products, service, and jobs to the people of Wyoming Valley for nearly a century," said Representative Eddie Day Pashinski. "It is most gratifying to know the state recognizes the value of McCarthy Tire by incentivizing their operation to continue their expansion and success, and most importantly, remain in the city where they have lived and worked for so many years."
Established in 1926, McCarthy Tire is a third-generation family owned and operated business, headquartered in the City of Wilkes-Barre. The company is the sixth largest commercial tire dealer in the United States with more than 50 locations along the east coast. It serves the commercial, industrial, off-the-road, intermodal, and retail sectors of the transportation industry. McCarthy Tire offers tire sales and service, heavy duty mechanical services, automotive services, 24-hour commercial roadside assistance, wheel reconditioning, and retreading services for commercial fleets.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-49-new-jobs-with-expansion-of-mccarthy-tire-facility-in-wilkes-barre/
