Public Statements
Governor and First Lady Wolf to Host National Night Out Event At PA Governor's Residence
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Aug. 2, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf and First Lady Frances Wolf will host the second annual National Night Out event at the Pennsylvania Governor's Residence today, Tuesday, August 2. The event will run from 5:30 p.m. until 7:30 p.m. and will proceed rain or shine. The Governor and First Lady will greet visitors at the event.
"Now, more than ever, it is crucial that we build positive relationships between our tremendous Pennsylvania communities and those in law enforcement who work tirelessly to keep us safe," said the Governor and First Lady. "We are excited to host the second National Night Out event at the Pennsylvania Governor's Residence and hope that it can help to build these important relationships. National Night Out is a wonderful opportunity for the Governor's Residence to serve as an open, community space for everyone to enjoy. We are thankful to the Pennsylvania State Police and Capitol Police for being a part of this event and we hope many of our neighbors and community members will be able to attend."
Visitors will have the opportunity to visit with Pennsylvania State Police Mounted Patrol, K-9 Unit and explore a State Police patrol car. They will also be able to explore a full-sized Capital Area Transit bus that will be on hand for tours and a "touch and feel" station provided by Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources. Martial Arts Master Vergara will provide martial arts demonstrations at 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. Pennsylvania Office of Administration's Next Generation Taskforce will facilitate games and temporary tattoos for kids and additional activities and educational information will be provided by Big Brothers Big Sisters of the Capital Region, YWCA Greater Harrisburg, WITF, Capital Area Girls on the Run, American Red Cross of Central PA, and American Cancer Society.
The Residence will serve light refreshments and will be open for tours of its gardens.
The Governor's Residence is located at 2035 North Front Street in Harrisburg. Parking is available along 2nd Street and in the private lot at the corner of 2nd and Maclay Streets. Guests should enter the Residence grounds through the 2nd Street gates. No large bags, totes or purses will be permitted, and some security measures will be in place.
National Night Out is an annual community-building campaign that promotes police-community relationships in order to make our neighborhoods safer, better places to live. It is held annually on the first Tuesday of August in thousands of communities across all 50 states, according to the National Association of Town Watch.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/375292-2/
