Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces 5,000 New, Full-Time Jobs with Statewide Amazon Expansion
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: July 21, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Amazon will expand its presence in Pennsylvania and has committed to the creation of at least 5,000 new, full-time jobs statewide.
"Pennsylvania's strategic location, as well as its skilled workforce, continues to be extremely valued assets to companies large and small," Governor Wolf said. "Amazon, a worldwide logistics leader, has chosen Pennsylvania to further support its "Prime' initiative creating 5,000 new jobs across the state."
Amazon will expand its fulfillment and distribution operations in Pennsylvania at multiple new sites throughout the commonwealth, marking the first with a recent lease agreement in Palmer Township, Northampton County.
Amazon's new "Prime" initiative "Prime Now" includes free two-hour delivery on tens of thousands of items or one-hour delivery for a fee, which requires Amazon's fulfillment centers to be geographically located in close proximity to its customers to accommodate "Prime" delivery time frames.
The company has committed to investing at least $150 million statewide and will create at least 5,000 new, full-time jobs over the next three years. Additionally Amazon has agreed to maintain new and retain its current positions statewide for an additional four years.
The company received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $5 million Pennsylvania First Program grant, $15 million in Job Creation Tax Credits to be distributed upon creation of the new jobs, and $2.25 million in WEDnetPA funding for employee training. The assistance is contingent upon Amazon submitting complete applications and meeting all of the program guidelines and commitments.
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania in collaboration with the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-5000-new-full-time-jobs-with-statewide-amazon-expansion/
