Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces Launch of PennDOT Traffic Website for Residents, Visitors during DNC
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: July 14, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today announced that the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT) has launched www.511pa.com/DNC-- a detailed travelers' website to assist residents and visitors as Philadelphia hosts the Democratic National Convention from July 25 to 28. The site is linked both to PennDOT's 511PA site and the Pennsylvania Turnpike's travelers' information site.
"The convention will bring thousands of delegates, media and visitors to Philadelphia and this site will help everyone keep on top of changing traffic conditions and information about street closures and restrictions," Wolf said. "As we did with last year's Papal visit, my administration has worked very hard to assist travelers during this important national event."
The site's home page offers options to see information about real-time traffic conditions on highways in the Philadelphia region and lists street closures around the convention venue at the Wells Fargo Center in South Philadelphia. The site is accessible from both desktop and mobile interfaces.
"We want to keep inconvenience to our visitors and residents alike at a minimum during the DNC, and this tool is one way they can become aware of changing traffic conditions," said PennDOT Secretary Leslie S. Richards. "With this site, PennDOT is delivering on Gov. Wolf's promise of a government that works."
Pennsylvania Turnpike Chairman Sean Logan said that the www.511pa.com/DNC site will be useful for anyone driving in Philadelphia and its suburbs -- including those who may not be headed to Philadelphia's Wells Fargo Center and the DNC.
"This special-event website will be a crucial aid for delegates as well as those just running errands or passing through town during the convention," Logan said. "In addition to live traffic conditions, 511pa.com/DNC offers alternate routes for those wishing to steer clear of traffic delays likely to result from this historic event being staged in the birthplace of American Democracy."

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-launch-of-penndot-traffic-website-for-residents-visitors-during-dnc/
