Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces First "Carbon Science Center of Excellence' in U.S. to be Established in Centre County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: July 12, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Morgan Advanced Materials will establish a new research and development center in College Township, Centre County. The center is the first of its kind in the U.S., focused on driving developments in the field of carbon research.
"Collaboration plays a vital role in supporting the critical linkage between our leading universities and business development," said Governor Wolf. "We are proud to support a project like the Carbon Science Center of Excellence that will support and cultivate the innovative efforts of both Morgan and Penn State for years to come."
Morgan will lease a site at Penn State's Innovation Park and where it will establish the "Carbon Science Center of Excellence.' This will be Morgan's third center of excellence, but its first in North America. The company has committed to making a multi-million dollar investment at the R&D facility and to create at least 15 new, highly-skilled positions in Pennsylvania.
"Support from Penn State University, the Governor's Action Team, and the Chamber of Business & Industry of Centre County has been vital in making this center a reality," said Mike Murray, Chief Technology Officer for Morgan Advanced Materials. "By working collaboratively, we envisage our discoveries will drive the industry forward, pushing the boundaries of technological innovation in the years to come."
The company received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $50,000 Pennsylvania First Program grant. The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania in collaboration with Invent Penn State. Invent Penn State is a commonwealth-wide initiative focused on spurring economic development, job creation, and student career success.
"The collaboration is a win-win situation for all involved. Our commitment to developing new methodologies and making further scientific discoveries in carbon science is closely aligned with Morgan's company vision, mission and commitment to the markets it serves," said Neil Sharkey, Vice President of Research for Penn State University. "Morgan's expertise and commercial insights will provide our researchers with a solid foundation to deliver workable, commercially viable solutions that distinguish both Penn State and Morgan in a fiercely competitive marketplace, while contributing to job creation and economic development in State College and in the commonwealth."
Morgan Advanced Materials, trading in the U.S. as Morganite Industries, Inc., is a global materials engineering company which designs and manufactures a wide range of high specification products with extraordinary properties, across multiple sectors and geographies. Morgan Advanced Materials has a global presence with over 8,500 employees across 50 countries serving specialist markets in the energy, transport, healthcare, electronics, petrochemical, and industrial sectors.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-first-carbon-science-center-of-excellence-in-u-s-to-be-established-in-centre-county/
