Public Statements
Wolf Administration Approves Funding for 21 Municipalities to Improve Traffic Safety
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: June 9, 2017
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today announced that nearly 21 municipalities will receive $6 million in Automated Red Light Enforcement (ARLE) funding to fund 27 safety projects statewide.
"Keeping people moving is about more than improving roads and bridges -- it also includes ensuring that traffic signals are operating as efficiently as possible," Governor Wolf said. "These investments help communities bring their signals to today's standards and better respond to traffic demands today and in the future."
Under state law, fines from red light violations at 30 intersections in Philadelphia supply the grant funding. Pennsylvania's ARLE program aims to improve safety at signalized intersections by providing automated enforcement at locations where data shows red-light running has been an issue.
The law specifies that projects improving safety, enhancing mobility and reducing congestion can be considered for funding. Municipalities submitted more than 140 applications, totaling approximately $29.8 million.
Projects were selected by an eight-member committee based on criteria such as benefits and effectiveness, cost, local and regional impact, and cost sharing.
This investment brings the total investments awarded through the ARLE funding program since 2010 to $45.4 million, funding 298 safety projects.
For more information and to see the recipients list, visit the "Traffic Signals, Management" page under "Travel In PA" at www.penndot.gov, or email RA-PDSIGNALFUNDING@pa.gov.
Following is a county-by-county list of ARLE funding recipients, the amount of state funding, and a brief description of the projects:
Bucks County:
Lower Makefield Township -- $59,000 to retime and interconnect with fiber communication the traffic signals at the intersections of Yardley-Newtown Road at Mirror Lake Road and Creamery Road.
Lower Makefield Township -- $260,000 to upgrade the existing traffic signal at the intersection of Route 2024 (Big Oak Road) and Makefield Road by installing emergency pre-emption and upgrading pedestrian facilities between school zones.
Lower Southampton Township -- $149,388 to install an enhanced pedestrian crossing using a rectangular rapid flashing device -- which alerts drivers and pedestrians that pedestrians may cross -- with a physical median island and left-turn restriction at the intersection of Bustleton Pike and Bridle Path Lane.
Butler County:
Connoquenessing Township -- $187,000 to replace the existing traffic signal at the intersection of Route 68 and Kriess Road to accommodate additional lanes.
Cranberry Township -- $52,708 to install adaptive traffic signal system software along the Freedom Road and Rochester Road corridors.
Slippery Rock Borough -- $167,260 to upgrade the existing traffic signal at the intersection of Main Street and Keisler Road by installing 12" signal heads with LEDs, pedestrian countdown signals and facilities that are ADA accessible, as well as pre-emption.
Cambria County: Upper Yoder Township -- $195,967 to upgrade existing traffic signal and "signal ahead" flasher along Woodmont Road at Menoher Boulevard.
Centre County:
Boggs Township -- $2,900 to replace faded pavement markings at the intersection of Route 144 and Route 504.
Patton Township -- $108,964 to upgrade and replace the school zone flasher and warning system along Valley Vista Drive between Park Forest Middle School and Little Lion Drive.
Chester County:
East Bradford Township -- $78,700 to upgrade pedestrian facilities at the intersection of Hannum Avenue and Bradford Plaza Shopping Center.
Easttown Township -- $553,329 to upgrade and install adaptive traffic signal system along four intersections in the Lancaster Avenue Corridor. These include the intersections with Bridge Avenue/Old Lancaster Road, the Cassatt Avenue pedestrian bridge/Waterloo Avenue, Midland Avenue/Old Lancaster Road, and Waterloo Road.
Penn Township -- $48,862 to replace the LEDs along Old Baltimore Pike and Jennersville Road Corridors.
Crawford County:
Meadville -- $32,520 to upgrade pedestrian facilities at the intersections of Main Street and Linden Street, Washington Street and Hickory Street and at State Street.
West Mead Township -- $4,301 to implement safety improvements at the intersection of Leslie Road and Blooming Valley Road.
Erie County: Albion Borough -- $223,056 to replace the existing traffic signal at the intersection of Route 18 and Route 6.
Luzerne County: Kingston Township -- $126,240 to upgrade pedestrian facilities by installing ADA-compliant curb ramps, LED pedestrian facilities and new pavement markings at the intersection of Route 309 and Franklin Street.
Mifflin County: Derry Township -- $391,000 to install a traffic signal at the intersection of Ferguson Valley Road and West Freedom Avenue.
Montour County: Danville Borough -- $211,900 to upgrade the existing traffic signal at the intersection of Walnut Street and Railroad Street by installing signal heads, back plates, conduit and wiring, camera detection for left-turn phasing and new ADA pedestrian facilities.
Philadelphia:
$300,000 to improve sight distance between drivers and pedestrians and provide safer pedestrian connections to transit stops at the intersections of Roosevelt Boulevard with Cottman Avenue, Rhawn Street, Welsh Road, Grant Avenue and Red Lion Road.
$200,000 to provide for the restoration of roughly 29 miles of the city's historic streets inventory to improve vehicular flow including bicycles and crosswalks within the City of Philadelphia.
$500,000 for the city to perform safety audits and evaluations at target locations where there are disproportionate numbers of crashes at intersections and corridors as well as installing an enhanced pedestrian crossing using rectangular rapid flashing beacons at these same locations throughout the City of Philadelphia.
$1.2 million to design and construct intersection modifications to help slow traffic, improve sight distance between drivers and pedestrians and to reduce pedestrian crossing time at five or six intersections to be identified by the City of Philadelphia.
$500,000 to install pedestrian countdown signals at 60 intersections throughout the City of Philadelphia.
$300,000 to perform safety audits at 15 intersections around Eakins Oval and to implement low cost safety improvements such as identified bicycle zones, minor signal timing changes, street lighting upgrades and minor curb and sidewalk upgrades.
Warren County: Tidioute Borough -- $15,493 to install four solar flashing school zone beacons to improve student and resident safety within the school zone along Main Street and Jefferson Street.
Wyoming County: Eaton Township -- $58,400 to replace poles, mast arms and lighting fixtures on the Route 29 bridge to improve pedestrian safety across the bridge.
York County: Glen Rock Borough -- $75,344 to upgrade the existing traffic signal at the intersection of Baltimore Street and Manchester Street by installing three new signal poles with new signal heads, a conflict monitor, a pre-emption system and a new cabinet.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/wolf-administration-approves-funding-for-21-municipalities-to-improve-traffic-safety/
