Public Statements
Advocates Join Governor Wolf, Bipartisan Legislators in Supporting Senate Bill 1
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: June 9, 2017
Location: Harrisburg, PA

On Monday, Governor Tom Wolf will join bipartisan leaders and members of the General Assembly to sign Senate Bill 1, the pension reform compromise bill.
"Senate Bill 1 received strong bipartisan support in both chambers and from prominent long-time advocates for pension reform because of the significant, long-term changes in the bill," Governor Wolf said. "This pension compromise achieves my foremost goals: continuing to pay down our debt, reducing Wall Street fees, shifting risk away from taxpayers, and providing workers with a fair retirement benefit, all while providing long-term relief to school districts."
Many longstanding advocates for pension reform have joined Governor Wolf and members of the General Assembly in supporting Senate Bill 1, including:
"Passage of this bill would mitigate more risk than any other state that has recently enacted pension reform. We believe this to be historic and meaningful legislation, and we give it our unqualified and enthusiastic support." -- Joint statement from Dennis Yablonsky (Allegheny Conference), Rob Wonderling (Philadelphia Chamber) and Gene Barr (PA Chamber)
"Senate Bill 1 represents the needed long term reform and stability our School Districts have been calling for and need. The intent of Senate Bill 1 is to place our future employees' retirement system on a viable path that will reduce investment risk by 53% or $15.5 billion over time. This plan protects taxpayers from jarring tax increases and/or draconian program cuts. Senate Bill 1 ensures that our schools will have a retirement plan that is both competitive and sustainable." -- John M. Callahan, Pennsylvania School Boards Associations
"This legislation, which Governor Wolf has indicated he will sign into law, meets the key principles that the Allegheny Conference and Greater Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce have for years been advocating for in a meaningful state pension reform solution. It addresses the ever increasing unfunded pension liability; provides for risk sharing and cost predictability between state employees and taxpayers; increases the overall funding certainty of the retirement systems; and provides adequate retirement security for beneficiaries of the plans. The passage of comprehensive state pension reform legislation would not have been possible without the leadership of our public sector partners including Governor Wolf and our legislative leadership on both sides of the aisle." -- Dennis Yablonsky, CEO of the Allegheny Conference on Community Development, and Matt Smith, president of the Greater Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce
"Pew supports [Senate Bill 1] because it would build upon previous legislation to achieve full funding of the state's pension system, lower costs and significantly reduce risk for taxpayers, and preserve a path to retirement for skilled public workers. Our research indicates that this would be one of the most -- if not the most -- comprehensive and impactful reforms any state has implemented. Our analysis of this plan indicates that it saves Pennsylvania $5-$20 billion over 30 years depending on investment performance. The reform also establishes an investment committee to target further cost reductions of $3 billion by lowering investment fees. Pennsylvania currently has the fifth highest fee levels across the 50 states." -- Pew Charitable Trusts
"We believe Senate Bill 1 will put the state pension systems on a better path to stability and sustainability. This legislation also provides for more steady and predictable funding from taxpayers, which will help establish more structurally sound systems and lead to less uncertainty for current and future school and state employees." Gene Barr, President and CEO of PA Chamber

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/advocates-join-governor-wolf-bipartisan-legislators-in-supporting-senate-bill-1/
