Public Statements
Governor Wolf Applauds Approval of Oil and Gas Regulations After Bi-Partisan Agreement Reached With Legislature
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: June 15, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today applauded the legislature's approval of the unconventional Chapter 78a Environmental Protection Performance Standards at Oil and Gas Well Sites. This follows several weeks of work between the Wolf Administration and the legislature that culminated in a bi-partisan agreement that will modernize and strengthen environmental protections at oil and gas sites in Pennsylvania. The Office of the Attorney General will now review the regulations. The governor also announced that his administration will work with the legislature to draft conventional Chapter 78 regulations to which all sides can agree.
"I am pleased to have reached bi-partisan agreement with the legislature on the unconventional oil and gas regulations, which will better protect the health of our environment and our residents," said Governor Wolf. "These new safeguards further my goal of improving the protection of water and public resources, as well as public health and safety, and also address landowner concerns, enhance transparency, and improve data management. These regulations have been under development for more than five years, through three separate administrations and have benefited from an unprecedented process of engagement and public participation. I would like to thank both Democrats and Republicans for working together with me, and for the commitment both sides showed to ensuring our environment and our people are safe."
These regulations aim to assure the protection of public health, safety, and the environment, and were developed after extensive engagement with the industry and unprecedented public participation including:
20 Advisory Board and Committee meetings.
2 public comment periods.
135 days of public comment opportunity.
12 public hearings.
Nearly 28,000 comments received.
Since taking office, Governor Wolf has fought for stronger environmental protections and taken measures to fight climate change. Governor Wolf announced a nation-leading strategy to reduce emissions of methane, a greenhouse gas that contributes to climate change and has been implicated in health risks, and he previously signed an executive order reinstating a moratorium on new leases for oil and gas development in state parks and forests.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-applauds-approval-oil-gas-regulations-bi-partisan-agreement-reached-legislature/
