Public Statements
Governor's Advisory Council Seeks Candidates For Game Commission Board
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: June 10, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

The Governor's Advisory Council for Hunting, Fishing and Conservation is seeking a qualified candidate to represent District 6 on the Pennsylvania Game Commission's board of directors. District 6 includes the counties of Adams, Cumberland, Dauphin, Franklin, Juniata, Lancaster, Lebanon, Mifflin, Perry, Snyder and York. The district is currently represented by Ronald Weaner, of Biglerville, Adams County. While Commissioner Weaner's term expired on June 3, 2016, he is permitted to serve a six-month extension while his replacement is sought.
"The Governor is reaching out to the hunting and trapping community in District 6 to find a diverse group of applicants, one of which will be nominated by the Governor to fill this vacancy," said Robb Miller, director of the advisory council. "We're encouraging anyone interested in volunteering to serve on the board to send us a letter of intent and a resume."
According to the Game Code, applicants must be well informed on the subject of wildlife conservation and restoration and be residents of the district. Commissioners serve a four year term and may be reappointed for a maximum of two additional terms. They receive no compensation for their services, but are reimbursed for travel expenses.
Candidates will be interviewed by the advisory council and rated on their responses, as well as on their professional and volunteer experience with wildlife conservation and related activities. Governor Tom Wolf will select the final candidate to be presented to the Senate for confirmation.
Individuals interested in applying should send a resume and detailed cover letter explaining their desire to serve to Robb Miller, Governor's Advisory Council for Hunting, Fishing and Conservation, 400 Market St., 7th Floor, Harrisburg, PA 17101-2301. Individuals can also email the information to Robb Miller at robmille@pa.gov.
Applications will be accepted until Friday, September 9, 2016.
CONTACT: Robb Miller, Governor's Advisory Council on Hunting, Fishing & Conservation, 717-705-0793

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governors-advisory-council-seeks-candidates-game-commission-board-2/
