Public Statements
Governor Wolf Nominates Brig. Gen. Tony Carrelli to be Pennsylvania's Adjutant General
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: June 9, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today nominated Brigadier General Tony Carrelli to serve permanently as Pennsylvania's Adjutant General pending confirmation by the State Senate. Brig. Gen. Carrelli has served in his acting role leading the Pennsylvania National Guard and Department of Military and Veterans Affairs since January 2016.
"Brig. Gen. Carrelli exemplifies all the characteristics we expect from public servants and has served Pennsylvania and our nation with distinction for more than thirty years," Governor Wolf said. "I look forward to working with Tony to continue our work to ensure Pennsylvania National Guard members are safe abroad and that Pennsylvania is ready to respond to emergencies and threats on the home front. Just as important is our work to provide the care and resources needed by our military members and veterans at home, including working to end veterans' homelessness and better serve veterans with Post Traumatic Stress Injuries."
Legislative leaders from the Senate Veterans Affairs and Emergency Preparedness committee joined Governor Wolf in praising Brig. Gen. Carrelli.
"After serving ably in the position of Acting Adjutant General for several months, I am pleased Brig. Gen. Anthony Carrelli is being nominated by Governor Wolf to serve as Adjutant General," said Senator Randy Vulakovich, Chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs & Emergency Preparedness Committee. "I have worked very well with Brig. Gen. Carrelli both in this position and as Deputy Adjutant General for the Pennsylvania Air National Guard. He has served our country overseas and now he will continue his service to Pennsylvania -- leading the Department of Military and Veterans Affairs. I am looking forward to his confirmation by the full Senate."
"Brig. Gen. Carrelli has long been engaged with the military and is a veteran of numerous operations. He is highly decorated and well-regarded -- a person of impeccable credentials who has commanded troops in difficult environments," Senate Minority Leader and Veterans Affairs and Emergency Preparedness Minority Chair Jay Costa said. "He has compiled a distinguished career and has repeatedly demonstrated leadership skills and abilities. As a command pilot and veteran of overseas duty with experience in multi-service military operations, Brig. Gen. Carrelli is exceptionally prepared and qualified to serve the citizens of Pennsylvania."
Prior to his appointment as Acting Adjutant General, Carrelli assumed duties as the Deputy Adjutant General-Air, Pennsylvania National Guard, Joint Force Headquarters on January 22, 2013. He served as the primary advisor to Pennsylvania's Adjutant General on all matters pertaining to air operations and as commander of the Pennsylvania Air National Guard. He was responsible for overall operational readiness and ensuring that the 4,100 assigned members are trained and equipped to successfully accomplish their federal and state missions.
Brig. Gen. Carrelli graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a Bachelor of Science Degree and was commissioned as a second lieutenant in 1985. He completed undergraduate pilot training at Reese Air Force Base, Texas, followed by several flying assignments as an A-10 pilot. He served in the active duty Air Force for several years as a T-37, AT-38 and A-10 pilot. Following his release from active duty, Brig. Gen. Carrelli joined the Pennsylvania Air National Guard in 1999. He has deployed in numerous operations to include Desert Storm, Southern Watch, and most recently Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom.
Brig. Gen. Carrelli has completed Air Command and Staff College and Air War College. His military decorations include: the Legion of Merit, Bronze Star, Meritorious Service Medal with two devices, Air Medal with five devices, Aerial Achievement Medal with five devices, Air Force Commendation Medal with three devices, Air Force Achievement Medal with one device, Gallant Unit Citation, Joint Meritorious Unit Award, Meritorious Unit Award, Air Force Outstanding Unit Award with seven devices and Valor, National Defense Service with one device, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal with two devices, Southwest Asia Service Medal with one device, Afghanistan Campaign Medal with two devices, Iraq Campaign Medal with one device, Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Air Force Overseas Ribbon with one device, Air Force Expeditionary Service Ribbon with two devices and gold border, Air Force Longevity Service Ribbon with four devices, Armed Forces Reserve Medal with multiple devices, Small Arms Expert Marksmanship Ribbon with one device, Air Force Training Ribbon, Pennsylvania Distinguished Service Medal, Pennsylvania State Service Medal, Pennsylvania Major General Thomas R. White, Jr. Medal, and Pennsylvania Thomas J. Stewart Medal. He is a command pilot with more than 4,500 flying hours in the A-10, T-37, T-38, AT-38B and KC-135 aircraft.
Brig. Gen. Carrelli previously served as commander of the 111th Fighter Wing, Horsham, and commander of the 171st Air Refueling Wing, Pittsburgh International Airport.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-nominates-brig-gen-tony-carrelli-pennsylvanias-adjutant-general/
