Public Statements
Governor Wolf Signs Historic Liquor Reform Bill
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: June 8, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Today, Governor Wolf was joined by legislators to sign a historic liquor reform bill that will enhance the customer experience by providing greater convenience and satisfaction.
"This is truly a historic day for Pennsylvania and the most significant step the commonwealth has taken to reform our liquor system in 80 years," said Governor Tom Wolf. "I want to commend leaders and members from both parties in the House and Senate for coming together to pass this legislation, and today, I am proud to design it into law. As I have always said, my goal is to modernize the sale of liquor and beer in Pennsylvania and this reform package finally brings Pennsylvania's wine and spirits system into the 21st century."
"As the author of the final version of this bill, I am extremely grateful that all sides were able to set aside partisanship and unite around a plan that truly puts the consumers first," said Senator Chuck McIlhinney. "I would also like to thank the Governor for reaching a compromise that puts the citizens of Pennsylvania ahead of politics. The reforms included in this bill are measures that consumers have requested for years, and I appreciate the fact that we were able to reach a compromise that responds to the most pressing concerns we hear from community residents."
This bill:
Removes Sunday restrictions and state-mandated holidays.
Enhances customer loyalty programs and opens up coupons at state stores.
Provides options for flexible pricing to allow state stores to offer special discounts and sales.
Allows restaurants and hotels to sell up to four bottles of wine for take-out.
Allows grocery stores that currently sell beer to sell up to four bottles of wine.
Allows for direct shipments of wine to people's homes.
And makes permanent gas stations' ability to sell 6 packs.
"This historic legislation is a tremendous leap into bringing Pennsylvanian into the 21st century," said House Speaker Mike Turzai, the prime sponsor of the legislation. "This privatization bill will bring consumers the added choice and convenience they have been asking for since Prohibition."
"Pennsylvania has taken a huge step to finally provide consumers with more convenient ways to purchase wine and spirits," said Representative Paul Costa said. "There will be more options for one-stop shopping to get what they need. Making smart changes at the state's Fine Wine and Good Spirits Stores will also help to maintain thousands of existing jobs and increase revenue to begin closing our huge budget gap."
All of these improvements will enhance the customer experience by providing greater convenience and satisfaction and increase much-needed revenue to help balance our budget.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-signs-historic-liquor-reform-bill/
