Public Statements
Governor Tom Wolf and First Lady Frances Wolf Invite the Public to Arts in the Garden at the Governor's Residence
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: June 7, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf and First Lady Frances Wolf today invited the public to visit the Governor's Residence in Harrisburg this Sunday, June 12th from 1:00 to 4:00 p.m. for "Arts in the Garden." -- the first Second Sunday event of the season. Second Sundays are an annual series of free summer events offered at the Governor's Residence throughout the summer.
"Pennsylvania is home to some of the richest and most inspiring art talent in the country, and Arts in the Garden at the Governor's Residence provides a unique opportunity to meet and enjoy the work of our local artists," said First Lady Frances Wolf. "We hope many of our neighbors and community members can take advantage of this opportunity to visit the Residence and enjoy our local arts community. As Tom and I have said, the Governor's Residence belongs to everyone and it is a space that we hope every Pennsylvanian can visit and explore."
During "Arts in the Garden" this Sunday, live music will be provided by the Susquehanna Flute Trio from 1:30-2:30 p.m. and singer/songwriter Eric Ian Farmer from 2:30-3:30 p.m. Plein air artists from the Pennsylvania Arts Experience, Art Association of Harrisburg and Susquehanna Plein Air Artists will be painting throughout the gardens. Caricatures will be provided by artist and art instructor Bradley Gebhart. SPLAT -- A Family Art Studio will be on hand to provide crafts and activities for kids. The American Red Cross -- Central PA Region will be collecting items for the Totes of Hope program for homeless Pennsylvania veterans. Additionally, as part of the current art exhibit at the Governor's Residence, "Threads, From Traditional to Today," Jill Odegaard, Professor of Art & Department Chair at Cedarcrest College Department of Art, will lead visitors in a participatory, community-based art project called Woven Welcome, Idrija lace artist Allie Marguccio will provide live Slovenian bobbin lacemaking demonstrations and cabinet maker and wood turner Tom Marguccio will create custom, hand-turned lace bobbins, which are used in Idrija lacemaking.
Governor's Residence docents will be on hand to provide information as visitors are invited to participate in self-guided tours of the space and the gardens. Through a partnership with the Penn State Extension Master Gardeners of Dauphin County, volunteer master gardeners will also be on hand to offer expertise on horticultural topics and answer garden-related questions from visitors. This event will also provide one of the last opportunities for the public to view the current art exhibit in the State Rooms, "Threads, From Traditional to Today," which will remain on display through the end of June.
Second Sunday events are free, open to the public and reservations are not required. No large bags, purses or totes are permitted, and security measures will be in place.
In addition to Second Sunday events, the Governor's Residence is now also open to the public for Third in the Burg, on the third Friday of every month from 5:00-8:00 p.m., and docent-led tours are now being offered every Thursday from 9:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Please note that reservations are required for guided tours, and may be made by calling the Residence tour line at 717-772-9130. For more information, visit www.residence.pa.gov or call the Governor's Residence tour line at 717-772-9130.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-tom-wolf-and-first-lady-frances-wolf-invite-the-public-to-arts-in-the-garden-at-the-governors-residence/
