Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces New Manufacturing Operation and 65 Jobs in Luzerne County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 31, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that LOOK Trailers, a trailer manufacturing company, will establish a new facility in Wright Township, Luzerne County, and create 65 new, full-time jobs at the site.
"This is the seventh job creation project that we've announced with the Governor's Action Team in Northeast Pennsylvania, securing commitment for the creation of more than 860 new jobs in 2016," Governor Wolf said. "LOOK Trailers is the third manufacturer that has decided to make a home in the region this year and we are happy to add this operation to Pennsylvania's strong manufacturing base."
LOOK Trailers will establish a new manufacturing operation at an existing 84,339-square-foot building on Oak Hill Road in Wright Township, Luzerne County. The company will invest at least $2.3 million at the new site, where it will manufacture enclosed cargo trailers, and will create at least 65 new, full-time jobs over the next three years.
"LOOK Trailers is excited to partner with the Governor's Action Team and the State of Pennsylvania to bring jobs to Mountain Top Pennsylvania," said Matt Arnold, President, LOOK Trailers. "We look forward to providing high quality skilled positions that will boost the local economy. LOOK Trailers is committed to long term growth and investment in our new operation."
The company received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes $130,000in Job Creation Tax Credits to be distributed upon creation of the new jobs and $15,750 in WEDnetPA funding for employee training.
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania in collaboration with the Greater Wilkes-Barre Chamber of Commerce.
LOOK Trailers, founded in 2010, has been labeled the fastest-growing enclosed trailer company according to Statistical Surveys Inc. LOOK Trailers manufactures a wide variety of enclosed steel and aluminum trailers including cargo, auto hauler, ATV, snowmobile, and race. LOOK also manufactures Pace American and Cargo Express enclosed trailers across four facilities throughout the United States.
For more information on LOOK Trailers, visit www.looktrailers.com.
For more information about the Governor's Action Team or DCED visit www.newPA.com

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-new-manufacturing-operation-and-65-jobs-in-luzerne-county/
