Public Statements
Governor Wolf Reminds Drivers To Be Safe This Holiday Weekend
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 27, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today reminded Pennsylvania drivers to avoid dangerous decisions over the long Memorial Day holiday weekend, as Pennsylvania State Police will increase enforcement coverage for drivers under the influence.
"This Memorial Day weekend should be about remembering those who sacrificed their lives for our country and enjoying a long, safe weekend with family, friends and neighbors," Governor Wolf said. "There is no room this weekend for driving under the influence, not wearing a seatbelt or other reckless behavior that puts yourself and fellow Pennsylvanians in danger. If you're going out and drinking, there's no excuse: find a ride home or designate a sober driver."
"The Pennsylvania State Police will have extra troopers on the roads this weekend and, along with local law enforcement, will be checking to make sure drivers are sober and wearing a seatbelt."
State Police troopers will be focused on stopping impaired driving and ensuring proper seatbelt use. In conjunction with "Click it or Ticket", law enforcement will be taking a zero tolerance approach when it comes to buckling up.
Troopers will be on the lookout for speeding, tailgating, and other unsafe driving habits on interstates, highways, and local roads. State and local law enforcement will hold DUI checkpoints and patrols throughout the weekend.
Drivers can take advantage of the SaferRide app to plan their ride home before they go out. The app, available for free download on Android and Apple devices, is a great option to facilitate a safe ride home after you've been drinking. Once the app is downloaded, you can use it to call a taxi or a friend by identifying your location so you can be picked up.
The national "Click It or Ticket" campaign occurs May 23 -- June 5, 2016. The Department will be conducting high visibility enforcement and, as part of this campaign, Department members certified as Child Passenger Safety (CPS) technicians will be conducting free car seat fitting stations.
At these fitting stations, caregivers can have their car seats checked for suitability and can receive instruction in the proper installation of car seats and harnessing of children in those seats.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-reminds-drivers-to-be-safe-this-holiday-weekend/
