Public Statements
First Lady Frances Wolf, PA Commission for Women Host Girls on the Run Sleepover at the Governor's Residence
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 20, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

First Lady Frances Wolf and the Pennsylvania Commission for Women today are joining Girls on the Run to host the first-ever "Girls on the Run at the Residence" sleepover at the Pennsylvania Governor's Residence. Forty 3rd to 5th grade girls who recently completely a 10-12 week training program and 5K race were selected by their coaches and council directors to participate in the event. The teams that were selected include Harrisburg Catholic Elementary School from the Girls on the Run Capital Area Council, Price Elementary School from Girls on the Run of Lancaster and Chief Shikellamy Elementary from Girls on the Run of Susquehanna Valley.
"We are so proud of all these girls have accomplished over the last few months and are pleased to be able to welcome them to the Governor's Residence to celebrate their hard work and dedication," said First Lady Frances Wolf. "I commend Girls on the Run and the Pennsylvania Commission for Women for all they do to fight for and improve the lives of young women in the commonwealth -- especially these inspiring girls that are joining us at the Governor's Residence today."
"The Commission for Women is proud to partner with Girls on the Run to offer this exciting opportunity to a phenomenal group of hardworking girls," said Pennsylvania Commission for Women Chair Randi Teplitz. "The Commission strives to support organizations and programs that benefit and advance the lives of women and girls in the commonwealth and, by empowering young women to build confidence and self-esteem and define their lives on their own terms, Girls on the Run stands out as an exemplary example."
"The sleepover is a great opportunity and a unique experience for our Girls on the Run teams," said Girls on the Run Capital Area Council Director Gillian Byerly. "It's a fitting reward for their hard work and personal growth over the past 10 weeks. We share the vision of the PA Women's Commission to empower girls and women. We hope to grow our partnership to benefit even more girls."
Throughout the course of Friday evening and Saturday morning, the girls are participating in various activities including a healthy cooking and eating discussion with Governor's Residence Executive Chef Barry Crumlich, a rocket-building and Starlab experience with the Whitaker Center, a yoga demonstration by Yoga Instructor Jessica Cavey, an empowerment workshop sponsored by Dove, a financial literacy seminary sponsored by the Pennsylvania Credit Union Association, and a dance performance and demonstration by Positive Energy Arts.
In addition to the Commission for Women and Girls on the Run, supporting organizations that helped to make this event possible include All Better Care, Capital Blue Cross, Central Penn College, Dove, Maher Duessel, Malady & Wooten, Pennsylvania Credit Union Association, Planet Fitness, Prep Cosmetics, Schmidt Kramer, Serratelli, Schiffman & Brown and Whitaker Center.
About the PA Commission for Women:
The Pennsylvania Commission for Women, which was created by Executive Order and consists of volunteer members, is responsible for advising the Governor on policies and legislation that impact women; supporting economic and civic opportunities for women; encouraging mentoring programs for girls and young women; identifying programs and opportunities for the benefit and advancement of women; and serving as a resource center for Pennsylvania women. The Commission also acts as an advocate for policies and legislation it feels serves the best interest of women and girls in Pennsylvania. Read more about the Pennsylvania Commission for Women.
About Girls on the Run:
Girls on the Run is a physical activity-based positive youth development program for 3rd to 8th grade girls that has served over one million girls across the country. Participants develop and improve competence, feel confidence in who they are, develop strength of character, respond to others and oneself with care, create positive connections with peers and adults and make a meaningful contribution to community and society. Each session is led by trained volunteer coaches that guide and mentor the girls. The 10-week program concludes with all participants completing a celebratory 5k event which gives them a tangible sense of achievement as well as a framework for setting and achieving life goals.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/first-lady-frances-wolf-pa-commission-for-women-host-girls-on-the-run-sleepover-at-the-governors-residence/
