Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces Funding to Support Community Revitalization Efforts Across Pennsylvania
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 17, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today announced the approval of nearly $2.6 million in funding through the Keystone Communities program to support fourteen community revitalization projects all across the commonwealth.
"Supporting initiatives that encourage revitalization and business development in our communities is critically important to the economic prosperity of Pennsylvania," Governor Wolf said. "Sometimes all it takes is one project to be the catalyst for change within an entire community and we believe the public-private commitments announced today will spark statewide transformation."
Administered by the Department of Community and Economic Development, the Keystone Communities program is designed to encourage the creation of partnerships between the public and private sectors in the community that jointly support local initiatives such as the growth and stability of neighborhoods and communities; social and economic diversity; and a strong and secure quality of life.
The commonwealth strongly encourages community-based organizations, public agencies, business leaders, private developers, financial institutions, and private citizens to work in partnership with local government to develop a comprehensive approach to address community development and housing needs. These partnerships can and will create more attractive places to live and will encourage business and job expansion and retention in Pennsylvania.
Governor Wolf's 2016-17 budget supports an increase of $8.65 million for the Keystone Communities program to encourage further revitalization throughout Pennsylvania.
For more information about the Keystone Communities program visit www.newPA.com.
MEDIA CONTACT: Lyndsay Kensinger, 717.783.1132
Following is a list of approved Keystone Communities projects:
Statewide
Self Determination Housing Project of Pennsylvania: $400,000 to continue implementing their state-wide accessible housing modifications program. The funds will support modifications to approximately 24 homes.
Allegheny County
Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh: $80,000 for planning in the business district including data collection and property evaluation, development of streetscape guidelines to meet the needs of a 21st century corridor, and development of a strategy to improve the accessibility of the commercial corridor for individuals with disabilities.
Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh: $77,200 to administer development activities for the Warrington Avenue, East Ohio Street, and Oakland business districts.
Wilkinsburg Community Development Corporation: $50,000 to continue a façade renovation program in the Main Street designated district to assist with downtown revitalization.
Butler County
Butler County Redevelopment Authority: $500,000 for renovation of the historic Kaufman House which will be revitalized into a boutique hotel and restaurant. Butler County Community College intends to use the restaurant for internship/externship opportunities for its hospitality management program.
Clearfield County
Clearfield Revitalization Corporation: $50,000 to continue the façade improvement program and help restore a minimum of ten storefronts.
Luzerne County
City of Hazleton: $500,000 to support Phase I of the City Arts Center renovations and façade improvements. Phase II will include further renovations to the first and second floors to be used for classroom, studio, and exhibit space, as well as exterior renovations, outdoor stage construction, and ADA entry modifications. It is anticipated that ten buildings will be renovated with the façade component of the funding.
Montgomery County
Ardmore Business District Authority/Ardmore Initiative: $18,363 to conduct a market study and strategic plan to assist with the development of new business recruitment efforts.
Northampton County
Greater Easton Development Partnership: $300,000 to complete multi-phase construction of the year-round indoor public market at the former Weller Center site. Completion will house 25 independent food and retail businesses.
Northumberland County
Coal Township: $61,250 to assist with the demolition of the former St. Anthony's Parochial School building on Webster Street which presents an immediate risk to neighboring residents and is beyond preservation. Once demolished, the Township will prepare the site for future community use.
Philadelphia County
City of Philadelphia: $241,000 to support accessible housing modifications within the county as part of Philadelphia's Adaptive Modification Program. The funds will support modifications to approximately 40 homes.
City of Philadelphia: $150,000 to revitalize at least 20 commercial façades within several Philadelphia neighborhood commercial corridors.
Schuylkill County
Schuylkill YMCA: $97,516 to complete renovations at the North Center Street facility in Pottsville. Improvements to include lighting upgrades, installation of new gymnasium flooring to improve program safety, modernization and access improvements to locker rooms, and lighting upgrades.
Westmoreland County
Latrobe Community Revitalization Program Inc.: $50,000 to complete approximately 10 façade rehabilitation projects in the downtown district.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-funding-to-support-community-revitalization-efforts-across-pennsylvania/
