Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces 48 New Jobs with Expansion of HomeNet Automotive Facility in Chester County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 13, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that HomeNet Automotive, Inc., a producer of software solutions for online vehicle inventory management, will expand operations at its headquarters in Exton, Chester County, a move that will create 48 new, high-wage jobs over the next three years.
"The good-paying information technology-related jobs that will be created by HomeNet Automotive are exactly what we need in Pennsylvania in order to strengthen our middle class, " Governor Wolf said. "Through this expansion, Homenet will provide additional business opportunities for its customers, increasing the economic opportunities beyond just this project."
HomeNet Automotive will expand operations at their current headquarters in Exton, Chester County. The company has committed to investing more than $2.5 million in the project which will include building and equipment improvements. HomeNet Automotive has also committed to creating 48 new, high-wage jobs over the next three years, and the retention of 132 existing employees.
HomeNet Automotive received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes $96,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits to be distributed upon creation of the new jobs, and $39,600 in WEDnetPA funding for employee training.
"Investing in our talent is one of HomeNet Automotive's core company goals. Thanks to our partnership with the Chester County Economic Development Council and the Governor's Action Team, we can equip our team members with additional education and training as our organization and technology continues to grow." said John Hensman, general manager, HomeNet Automotive.
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania in collaboration with the Chester County Economic Development Council.
"HomeNet Automotive provides innovation and technology-driven solutions to the automotive industry, but their young, team-structured workforce places a focus on values and service. We cannot be happier to have a company like HomeNet Automotive contributing to the economic health of our community here in Chester County," said Michael Grigalonis, Chief Operating Officer of Chester County Economic Development Council.
HomeNet Automotive, Inc., a subsidiary of Cox Automotive, Inc., provides online vehicle inventory polling, acquisition, and management tools for automotive dealerships to market and distribute their vehicle inventory. Voted by Philly.com in 2016 as one of the "Top Work Places," HomeNet is currently hiring for the new positions. For more information on HomeNet Automotive and to view current job openings, visit www.homenetauto.com.
For more information about the Governor's Action Team or DCED visit www.newPA.com.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-48-new-jobs-with-expansion-of-homenet-automotive-facility-in-chester-county/
