Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces Central States Manufacturing to Establish New Facility, Create 50 Jobs in Blair County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 10, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Central States Manufacturing, Inc., a manufacturer and distributor of metal building components, will establish a facility in Greenfield Township, Blair County. The new facility will create 50 new jobs.
"This is the fifth jobs announcement that my administration has made with the Governor's Action Team over the last month, with employers committing to create at least 403 jobs statewide," Governor Wolf said. "Today we're pleased to welcome employee-owned Central States to Pennsylvania and Blair County and we look forward to watching you thrive in commonwealth."
Department of Community and Economic Development Executive Deputy Secretary Neil Weaver was on site for the groundbreaking ceremony for Central States earlier today. The ceremony also included the dedication of the Martin J. Marasco Business Park and the groundbreaking for Sheetz Store Operations, Learning Center and Daycare Complex.
"The Central States project demonstrates Pennsylvania's ability to continue to attract new employers, alongside the commonwealth's strong, home-grown employers like Sheetz that continue to flourish," said Executive Deputy Secretary Weaver. "Both employers have shown a dedication to their workforces. Central States has not laid off an employee in the company's existence and Sheetz has shown a commitment to empowering its employees with fair wages, increasing the purchasing power of the workforce."
Central States Manufacturing has purchased over eight acres in the Martin J. Marasco Business
Park in Greenfield Township and plans to construct a 50,000-square-foot manufacturing and warehouse facility. Central States Manufacturing has committed to the creation of 50 new, full-time jobs over the next three years, and will invest at least $5.8 million on the project.
"We are very excited to partner with Blair County to continue our growth of metal building components into the state of Pennsylvania," Tim Ruger, vice president of operations, Central States said. "While we currently deliver into Pennsylvania, our new location in Claysburg will allow us to better serve our customers through shorter turnaround and a faster response time. At Central States, we believe that each location should connect and contribute to the surrounding community and we look forward to helping serve in Blair County."
Central States Manufacturing received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $100,000 Pennsylvania First program grant and $22,500 in WEDnetPA funding for employee training.
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with the Altoona-Blair County Development Corporation.
"We consider our collaborative efforts for economic development here at the Altoona-Blair County Development Corporation an item of great pride and we are excited to be part of this project with Governor Wolf, the Governor's Action Team, our federal, state and local elected officials, agencies, and private sector partners." said Martin Marasco, president and CEO of ABCD Corporation. "We are grateful to Central States Manufacturing for deciding on Blair County for their manufacturing operations, investment and creation of new jobs here in the heart of the I-99 Innovation Corridor Region."
Founded in 1988, Central States Manufacturing, Inc. is a 100 percent employee-owned company, which serves over 5,000 post frame, commercial, residential, and architectural customers in the United States with over 700 employee-owners. Central States manufactures eleven metal roofing and wall panel profiles, along with a full line of trim, accessories, and structural purlin.
For more information on Central States Manufacturing, visit www.centralstatesmfg.com.
For more information about the Governor's Action Team or DCED visit www.newPA.com.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-central-states-manufacturing-to-establish-new-facility-create-50-jobs-in-blair-county/
