Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces 207 Jobs With New Hudson's Bay Company Facility in Schuylkill County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: April 28, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Hudson's Bay Company (HBC), parent of Saks Fifth Avenue, Lord & Taylor and Saks OFF 5TH, will establish a new facility in Foster Township, Schuylkill County. The move will result in 207 new, full-time jobs.
"This is the nineteenth jobs announcement that my administration has made with the Governor's Action Team this year, securing commitments for the creation of thousands new jobs all across the commonwealth," said Governor Wolf. "Each announcement is another boost to Pennsylvania's economy and the addition of HBC's new facility in Schuylkill County means 207, new, full-time jobs for Pennsylvanians."
HBC will move into an existing distribution facility in Foster Township. The company will establish an e-commerce fulfillment center and develop a 50,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art fashion photography studio. The company has committed to making an investment of at least $50 million in the project and has committed to creating 207 new, full-time jobs and retaining 391 positions over the next three years.
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with the Schuylkill Economic Development Corporation.
"We are grateful to Governor Wolf and the Governor's Action Team, and excited to become part of the Pottsville community," said Jerry Storch, HBC's Chief Executive Officer. "At HBC, we are laser-focused on our all-channel strategy, and this investment leapfrogs us to the forefront of internet distribution technology. As we execute on our digital strategy, we continue to invest in innovation that enables us to serve our consumers seamlessly, lead the evolution of trends in the retail industry, and expand our business which creates new job opportunities and investment in the community."
HBC received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $500,000 Pennsylvania First program grant, $93,150 in WEDnetPA funding for employee training, and $414,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits to be distributed upon creation of the new jobs.
"There is no issue more important in Schuylkill County than good-paying jobs," said state Sen. David G. Argall, R-Schuylkill/Berks. "I want to congratulate Governor Wolf and his team, as well as Frank Zukas at SEDCO and Rep. Goodman and all of our local economic development advocates on a job well done. The interstate and international competition for jobs of this kind is very intense and I am very pleased by the result today."
"I'm thrilled that Hudson's Bay Company has chosen to bring hundreds of family-sustaining jobs to my legislative district and to invest $50 million into this project," said state Rep. Neal P. Goodman, D-Schuylkill. "Hudson's Bay Company is one of the fastest growing department store retailers in the world, and its e-commerce fulfillment center in Highridge Business Park will help the company and Schuylkill County to continue to move forward."
"Today's announcement is great news for the economic future of Schuylkill County given the excellent reputation of the Hudson's Bay Company as an innovative retailer and e-commerce leader with iconic brands such as Saks Fifth Avenue and Lord & Taylor included in their family of companies," said Frank Zukas, president, Schuylkill Economic Development Corporation.
Hudson's Bay Company is the oldest company in North America. HBC's leading North American banners include Hudson's Bay, Lord & Taylor, Saks Fifth Avenue, Gilt, and Saks OFF 5TH, along with Find @ Lord & Taylor and Home Outfitters. In Europe, its banners include GALERIA Kaufhof, the largest department store group in Germany, Belgium's only department store group Galeria INNO, as well as Sportarena. The company has more than 460 stores and 66,000 employees around the world.
For more information about the Governor's Action Team or DCED visit www.newpa.com.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-207-jobs-with-new-hudsons-bay-company-facility-in-schuylkill-county/
