Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces 69 New Jobs with New Signallamp Health Facility in Downtown Scranton, Lackawanna County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: March 18, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Signallamp Health, LLC, a healthcare technology startup that provides chronic care management services, will establish a facility and begin operations in downtown Scranton, Lackawanna County, a move that will create 69 new jobs.
"Ensuring the health of our Pennsylvania seniors is a priority," Governor Wolf said. "The 69 jobs that Signallamp Health will create, will help boost the local economy and will further support their innovative approach and be instrumental in delivering care management services to chronically ill Medicare patients."
Signallamp Health will establish a new site and begin operations in 14,000 square feet of office space within the Bank Towers Building in downtown Scranton's Central Business District in Lackawanna County. Signallamp Health has committed to creation of 69 new, full-time jobs over the next three years, and an investment of at least $300,000 at the new site.
"Two-thirds of Medicare beneficiaries have two or more chronic conditions," said Drew Kearney, chief executive officer, Signallamp Health. "These are lifelong conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure, and congestive heart failure that cost tens of billions of dollars to manage. By pairing a patient with a dedicated nurse, we are delivering superior care to our patients and generating new and untapped revenue for the practice. It's a win-win-win for patients, physicians and Signallamp Health."
Signallamp Health received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $75,000 Pennsylvania First program grant and $54,650 in WEDnetPA funding for employee training.
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with the Ben Franklin Technology Partners of NEPA, the Lackawanna County Office of Planning and Economic Development and the Greater Scranton Chamber of Commerce.
"Ben Franklin Technology Partners NEP invested $100,000 to complete development and implementation of Signallamp Health's technology infrastructure to enable streamlined onboarding of patients," said Ken Okrepkie, regional manager, Ben Franklin Technology Partners NEP. "An investment in this healthcare IT company is an investment in downtown Scranton. The founders are leveraging technology to aggressively grow their business in the city."
"We are pleased to support the most recent addition to our corporate community," said Patrick O'Malley, Lackawanna County commissioner. "Signallamp Health capitalizes on one of the major strengths here in Lackawanna County, our skilled and committed workforce. We look forward to working with Signallamp Health in their advancement of family sustaining bioscience/healthcare jobs."
Signallamp Health is serving physicians across northeast Pennsylvania, including The Wright Center for Primary Care, a thought leader in primary care delivery and innovation, by providing telephonic Chronic Care Management (CCM) services via experienced Registered Nurses to Medicare beneficiaries on behalf of their primary care physicians.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-69-new-jobs-with-new-signallamp-health-facility-in-downtown-scranton-lackawanna-county/
