Public Statements
Governor Wolf Statement on Completion of Sunoco Logistics' Energy Infrastructure Project in Delaware County
Statement
By: Tom Wolf
Date: March 10, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf released the following statement on the completion of Phase 1 of Sunoco Logistics' Mariner East natural gas liquids pipeline project in Marcus Hook, Delaware County:
"The opening of the Mariner East pipeline represents a vital first step in redirecting Pennsylvania's abundant natural gas liquids to critical markets here at home. Sunoco Logistics is making a $3 billion investment in Pennsylvania's energy economy by keeping Marcellus Shale resources for manufacturing right here in Pennsylvania, rather than sending this business, revenue, and jobs to other states. The immediate effect will be the creation of 290 to 440 permanent jobs. The long-term impact from operation of this pipeline is an estimated $100 million to $150 million influx into Pennsylvania's economy."
Project background:
Sunoco Logistics broke ground on the Mariner East 1 project in 2013 after purchasing and repurposing the Marcus Hook Industrial Complex, a former oil refinery. The project utilizes mostly existing 8-inch diameter steel pipeline, except for 51 miles of new 12-inch diameter steel pipe between Washington County and Westmoreland County. The 51 new miles of pipeline was purchased from U.S. Steel's McKeesport mill.
The first phase of this project enables the transport of 70,000 barrels a day of liquid propane and ethane from Western Pennsylvania to the Marcus Hook Industrial Complex in Delaware County, where the products will be processed, stored, and sold to local, regional, and international markets.
The second phase of the project, Mariner East 2, is currently underway. It involves approximately $2.5 billion of underground pipeline, tanks, processing facilities, and other equipment. The system will consist of up to two pipelines approximately 350 miles in length that will transport 275,000 to 450,000 barrels of natural gas liquids per day from Ohio and West Virginia into Pennsylvania.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-statement-on-completion-of-sunoco-logistics-energy-infrastructure-project-in-delaware-county/
