Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces 140 New Jobs with New Select Products Holdings Manufacturing Hub in Lackawanna County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: March 7, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Select Products Holdings, LLC, a manufacturer of paper products for household use, will establish its manufacturing hub in Vandling Borough, Lackawanna County, a move that will create 140 new jobs.
"We are gaining momentum as more and more companies continue to see the value of Pennsylvania's assets and strategic location as the best place to support their expansion goals," Governor Wolf said. "Select Products Holdings will undoubtedly serve as an important part of the community, sparking economic growth and employment opportunities both immediately and for years to come."
Select Products Holdings will expand operations and establish its manufacturing hub in Vandling Borough, Lackawanna County. The company will invest $6.6 million in the project which will include building acquisition, expansion, and plant upgrades at the 939 Main Street location. Select Products Holdings has committed to creating 140 new jobs over the next three years.
"Our new location will serve as our manufacturing hub, providing efficient service and distribution of our product lines, with brand new state of the art machinery to our network along the East Coast," said Simon Roozrokh, CEO, Select Products Holdings. "One of the reasons we selected this location is because of the ability to expand, build additional space, and add additional equipment. This project would not have gone forward without the assistance provided by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and The Greater Scranton Chamber of Commerce, which made for a smooth transition into the community."
Select Products Holdings received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $280,000 Pennsylvania First program grant, $280,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits, and $63,000 in WEDnetPA funding for employee training. The company has also been encouraged to apply for a $2.4 million low-interest loan from the Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority.
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with the Greater Scranton Chamber of Commerce.
"The Greater Scranton Chamber of Commerce is committed to working toward the creation of family sustaining manufacturing jobs," said Bob Durkin, president, The Greater Scranton Chamber of Commerce. "Select Products Holdings decision to locate here is a three-fold win for Lackawanna County. Not only are welcoming a new manufacturer to the area, but we are creating jobs in a part of our community with labor pool trained in the necessary skills sets and recruiting a company that currently does business with our existing industries regionally."
Select Products Holdings is a manufacturer and converter of paper products for personal and sanitary uses.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-140-new-jobs-with-new-select-products-holdings-manufacturing-hub-in-lackawanna-county/
