Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces Paychex, Inc. to Expand Operations in Lehigh County, Creating 100 New Jobs at Regional Site
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: March 7, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Paychex, Inc., a provider of payroll, human resources, retirement, and insurance services, will expand its operations in South Whitehall Township, Lehigh County, creating at least 100 new, full-time jobs.
"I am pleased to announce that Paychex has chosen to further its commitment to Pennsylvania and expand in the Lehigh Valley," Governor Wolf said. "The company's decision to expand a regional hub is a testament to Pennsylvania's standing as a business leader. Our state is uniquely positioned to thrive in local and global economies to help create jobs and strong, stable communities."
Paychex will expand operations to approximately 40,000 square feet at the Allentown site, expanding the facility that serves as a local office and one of the company's northeast regional hubs. Paychex has committed to an investment of approximately $1.3 million on the project and will create 100 new, full-time jobs while retaining 444 existing positions over the next three years.
Paychex received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $300,000 Pennsylvania First Program grant, $300,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits to be distributed upon creation of the new jobs, and $45,000 in WEDnetPA funding to train its workforce.
"Lehigh County has proven to be a great location for us to support our clients and the continued growth of Paychex," says John B. Gibson, Paychex senior vice president of service. "The access to a high-quality workforce and the support of the local and state governments makes this an ideal location for this expansion."
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with the Lehigh Valley Economic Development Corporation.
Paychex, Inc., a provider of human capital management solutions for payroll, human resources, retirement, and insurance services, has over 100 locations in the U.S., as well as offices in Germany and Brazil, with 13,000 employees serving approximately 590,000 businesses nationwide.
Paychex is currently hiring for positions related to its expansion.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-paychex-inc-to-expand-operations-in-lehigh-county-creating-100-new-jobs-at-regional-site/
