Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces Norac to Establish First American Manufacturing Facility in Northampton County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: March 4, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Norac, an agro-food group that manufacturers bread and bakery products, will establish its first American manufacturing facility in Forks Township, Northampton County. The company will create 62 new jobs as a result
"I am thrilled to announce that Norac is establishing its first American manufacturing facility in Pennsylvania, "Governor Wolf said. "The collaborative efforts of the Governor's Action Team, the Pennsylvania Office of International Business Development and our local economic development partner Lehigh Valley Economic Development Corporation exemplify that we can have a government that works on all levels."
Norac will expand its global operations through their subsidiary Norac Group USA and establish its first American manufacturing facility in Forks Township. The company will build a 79,160-square-foot facility and make site improvements. Norac has committed to creating 62 new jobs over the next three years.
Norac USA received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $186,000 Pennsylvania First program grant, $124,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits, $27,900 in WEDnetPA funding for employee training. The company has also been encouraged to apply for a $2.4 million low-interest loan including $1 million from the Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority.
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with the Office of International Business Development and the Lehigh Valley Economic Development Corporation.
Norac employs more than 3,700 worldwide, and are the producers of the number one bakery snack in France. Under the brand Bakerly, Norac USA is introducing a natural alternative to traditional bakery snacks for supermarkets across the country: delicious French inspired recipes with no preservatives and no additives. Its product line includes chocolate and strawberry filled crepes, as well as other bakery items such as chocolate croissants and mini-brioches with chocolate chips.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-norac-to-establish-first-american-manufacturing-facility-in-northampton-county/
