Public Statements
Governor Wolf Welcomes SeaLand Atlantico Service To Port Of Philadelphia
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Feb. 17, 2016
Location: Philadelphia, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today welcomed a new shipping service to the Packer Avenue Terminal in South Philadelphia that will link directly with port operations on the Gulf of Mexico. SeaLand, the intra-Americas regional ocean carrier of the Maersk Group, launched its "Atlantico" service between Veracruz, Altamira and Philadelphia earlier this month.
"The arrival of SeaLand Atlantico is great news for exporters in the Greater Philadelphia metro area, and it is also great news for the commonwealth's economy," Governor Wolf said. "Mexico is the second largest export market for Pennsylvania and New Jersey, and this means manufacturers from the Greater Philadelphia metro area now have a more efficient, economical way to get to the growing markets of Mexico. It's exactly the kind of growth my administration likes to see as we continue to invest in and improve the Port of Philadelphia."
The Atlantico service offers an alternative transportation option for trade between the Gulf of Mexico and Eastern United States, which generally employs ground transportation on 95% of its volumes. This line will particularly benefit producers and exporters of perishable goods to the U.S. by providing economies of scale, security and reliability of an ocean service. Targeted commodities include goods such as avocados, lemons, tomatoes and commercial cargo.
"We're very excited about this new weekly service with Mexico," said Philadelphia Regional Port Authority (PRPA) Chairman Jerry Sweeney. "It's another example of the kinds of things that happen at the Port when you have great public-private partnerships in place. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania is proud to invest in its marine terminals and provide support in helping secure new business to the Port."
Last fall, Governor Wolf announced his strategic plan to ensure long-term stability and growth at the Port of Philadelphia:
Governor Wolf has named seven new board members to the Philadelphia Port Authority, including Chairman Sweeney. He has launched a national search for a new executive director with a proven track record of successful port development.
Governor Wolf is creating an advisory committee of stakeholders to provide input on the future of the port. It will include stakeholders from industry, labor, local and state government to drive a unified vision for the port.
Governor Wolf is leading the strategic development of the port. He has directed PennDOT to conduct a study to determine the best use/economic feasibility of the port.
Governor Wolf has established a timeline for the development of the Southport Marine Terminal.
The Philadelphia Regional Port Authority (PRPA) is an independent agency of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania charged with the management, maintenance, marketing, and promotion of publicly-owned port facilities along the Delaware River in Philadelphia, as well as strategic planning throughout the port district. PRPA works with its terminal operators to modernize, expand, and improve it facilities, and to market those facilities to prospective port users. Port cargoes and the activities they generate are responsible for thousands of direct and indirect jobs in the Philadelphia area and throughout Pennsylvania.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-welcomes-sealand-atlantico-service-to-port-of-philadelphia/
