Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces New East Coast Nihon Kohden America Facility in Lehigh County, Creation of New Jobs
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Feb. 11, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Nihon Kohden America, Inc., a manufacturer, developer, and distributor of medical electronic equipment, will establish a new facility in Allentown, Lehigh County, and create at least 27 new, high-paying jobs.
"Nihon Kohden America's decision to establish its East Coast facility in Allentown is great news for Pennsylvania," Governor Wolf said. "The commonwealth's strategic location makes it a prime spot for businesses to expand and support their growing customer base."
Nihon Kohden America will expand operations and establish a 7,000-square-foot facility in Allentown, South Whitehall Township to provide technical and product support to key installations along the East Coast, and support biomedical training classes for consumers.
The company plans to invest at least $445,000 on the project, which will include tenant improvements, the purchase of equipment, and training for new employees. Nihon Kohden America has also committed to creating 27 new, full-time jobs and the retention of 11 current positions over the next three years.
"We are always looking for ways to improve the level and quality of service and support we provide to our customers because we know that every minute counts when it comes to patient care," said Dr. Wilson P. Constantine, CEO of Nihon Kohden America. "Initially our new Allentown facility will serve as a second U.S. technical support call center, increasing access to our knowledgeable support staff; and in the future we will have the ability to add other functions as customer needs dictate."
Nihon Kohden America received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes $81,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits, a $75,000 Pennsylvania First Program grant, and $22,950 in WEDnetPA funding for employee training.
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with the Lehigh Valley Economic Development Corporation.
Founded in Japan in 1951, Nihon Kohden is the leading manufacturer, developer, and distributor of medical electronic equipment, with subsidiaries in the U.S., Europe, and Asia. The company's products are now used in more than 120 countries, and it is the largest supplier of electroencephalography products worldwide. A pioneer in transformational healthcare technology, Nihon Kohden has envisioned, designed and produced revolutionary devices, such as pulse oximeters, arrhythmia analysis, low-invasive blood volume monitoring and wireless patient monitoring. In the U.S., the company is a trusted source for patient monitoring, sleep assessment, neurology and cardiology instrumentation solutions, and has been recognized by MD Buyline for the highest customer satisfaction among U.S. hospitals and health systems for 36 consecutive quarters. The company's newest facility will complement its west coast-based facility allowing for a rapid response to customers across all U.S. time zones.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-new-east-coast-nihon-kohden-america-facility-in-lehigh-county-creation-of-new-jobs/
