Public Statements
In Letter to Sen. Toomey, Governor Wolf Gives Voice to Real Pennsylvanians in Health Care Debate
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 30, 2017
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Following up on a personal conversation earlier this month, Governor Tom Wolf today shared his concerns with Senator Pat Toomey in a letter about the impact of federal health care cuts and loss of consumer protections, along with the concerns of shared constituents. Governor Wolf also warned that current Medicaid reforms included in American Health Care Act (AHCA) would reduce federal funding to Pennsylvania by more than $26 billion over the next nine years and threaten coverage for seniors, kids and those with disabilities.
"In this health care debate, we must ensure Pennsylvania's seniors, parents and patients are being heard in Washington, D.C.," Governor Wolf said about the letter. "The impact on senior and disabled Pennsylvanians from cuts to Medicaid would be devastating. And nearly every family stands to be hurt by the dismantling of consumer protections in the Affordable Care Act. I hope these stories help Senator Toomey understand these are not just abstract policy changes but serious concerns for millions of real Pennsylvanians."
Governor Wolf's letter shares four stories of Pennsylvanians who contacted him with their concerns about Washington's direction on health care, including:
Michael from Allison Park has a grandson with special needs who has been able to maintain a high quality of life because of the services he receives through Medicaid.
Annette from New Hope has worked hard all her life, and struggles to make ends meet, but has been able to access preventive care because of ACA subsidies. However, with the new distribution included in the AHCA, she does not think she'll be able to afford care any longer.
Johnathan from Beaver whose parents -- a retired teacher and a former airline employee -- have been able to purchase a health care plan that fits their needs because of the ACA. This coverage meant his father could receive treatment for pre-cancerous polyps, treatment that they are likely no longer going to be able to afford under the cost shifts included in AHCA.
Tasha from Pittsburgh underwent corrective heart surgery that was covered due to reforms through ACA but now is terrified about what this pre-condition will mean if changes are not made to the current version of the AHCA.
"To be frank, I am extremely concerned with the direction of the conversation in Congress, and the impact it may have on Pennsylvanians' access to affordable and adequate care -- an undoubtedly vital service," Governor Wolf wrote to Sen. Toomey. "Scaling back consumer protections and disrupting a fragile insurance market would eliminate or diminish coverage for millions of our neighbors. The proposed caps and cuts imposed on Medicaid would be particularly harmful for our aging population, and would leave the commonwealth scrambling to maintain coverage for kids and the disabled. To that end, I urge you to reconsider your recent call for even steeper cuts in federal support for this critical program.
"Any new proposal should not take us backward, where too many Americans sought treatment in emergency rooms and the rest of us paid for that care through higher premiums. Rather, changes should focus on making health care more affordable, more sustainable, and more accessible."
In the letter, Governor Wolf offered a variety of issues the federal government could take action on to improve health care delivery and markets, including:
Reform the approach to review state plan amendments, state waiver programs, and state contracts and rates for Medicaid. A better state-federal partnership should be grounded in objective rules, applied consistently, and afford states the flexibility and control over those matters that are appropriate for state oversight.
Follow through on the Trump Administration's promise of increased flexibility for states to design programs that meet our specific needs would save our state money and allow us to continue improving outcomes for Medicaid recipients. Structural changes that pass risk and cost onto states degrade our ability to be flexible, except in cases of deciding which services should be cut and ultimately, who is less deserving of health care.
Repeal the Institutions for Mental Disease (IMD) exclusion, which limits the federal financial participation on stays in an IMD, which encompass more than 80 percent of Pennsylvania's inpatient drug and alcohol treatment providers, to no more than 15 days. In the face of the opioid and heroin epidemic, 15 days is not sufficient for a person to address their substance use issues in any kind of substantive or long-term way.
Governor Wolf further outlined the negative impacts of the current direction on specific populations, the state budget and public health priorities.
SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER
"Through Pennsylvania's Medicaid program, 222,127 individuals received treatment for substance use disorder in 2016. Of those, 127,194 individuals were covered through Medicaid expansion, meaning they would not have been able to access that treatment prior to my decision to expand Medicaid. Almost 68,000 of those newly enrolled Pennsylvanians sought treatment of some kind for opioid specific substance use disorder, an alarming number. Phasing out Medicaid expansion and eliminating this benefit for low-income, hard-working individuals across our state would catapult us even further into the depths of this epidemic and would put people's lives unnecessarily at risk."
CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM (CHIP)
"Reauthorization of the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) must continue at the current enhanced matching rate. Pennsylvania's CHIP has long been acknowledged as a national model, receiving specific recognition in the Federal Balanced Budget Act of 1997 as one of only three child health insurance programs nationwide that met Congressional specifications. More than 180,000 children are estimated to benefit from Pennsylvania's CHIP this year, and it has contributed to Pennsylvania achieving the lowest uninsured rate in our history for children at just 4.1 percent."
STATE BUDGET
"Pennsylvania is facing a $3 billion structural deficit in the coming years. If the federal government shifts significant costs to states at any point, it will throw Pennsylvania into a fiscal crisis the likes of which we've never seen before. The current Medicaid reforms included in AHCA would reduce federal funding to Pennsylvania by more than $26 billion over the next nine years. Whether this shift is phased in or immediate, you and I both know this cost shift will result in hundreds of thousands of people losing access to health care."

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/letter-to-sen-toomey-governor-wolf-gives-voice-real-pennsylvanians-health-care-debate/
