Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces Turn 14 Distribution Commits to Creation of 197 Jobs, Expands Headquarters in Montgomery County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Feb. 10, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Turn 14 Distribution, Inc., a national wholesale distributor of performance aftermarket car parts, has relocated its corporate headquarters and expanded operations in Horsham Township, Montgomery County, a move that will create 197 new, full-time jobs.
"Turn 14 is experiencing tremendous growth, and I am thrilled that Pennsylvania can continue to foster that success through the relocation of their headquarters in Montgomery County," Governor Wolf said. "This company has coupled with Pennsylvania's strategic location and infrastructure to establish a strong record of success that has now rendered the creation 197 new jobs."
Turn 14 Distribution has expanded its corporate headquarters and distribution operations after leasing a 162,000-square-foot facility on Tournament Drive, Horsham, near one of its existing distribution centers. Turn 14 Distribution is investing $3.9 million on the project and has also committed to creating 197 new, full-time jobs and retaining 96 existing positions statewide over the next three years.
Turn 14 Distribution received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development (DCED) that includes a $200,000 Pennsylvania First Program grant, $394,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits to be distributed upon creation of the new jobs, and $88,650 in WEDnetPA grant funding to train its workforce.
"The opening of Turn 14 Distribution's new Horsham, PA corporate office renews our commitment to our customers, employees, and partners as a Pennsylvania-based company with deep roots in the community," Jon Pulli, chief executive officer of Turn 14 Distribution said. "This is another step in the realization of our goal to lead our industry in providing an atmosphere conducive to being the best."
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania.
Turn 14 Distribution, Inc. is a national wholesale distributor of performance aftermarket car parts with distribution facilities located in Pennsylvania and Nevada. Turn 14 Distribution's name is derived from the historic Wisconsin race track, Elkhart Lake's Road America.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-turn-14-distribution-commits-to-creation-of-197-jobs-expands-headquarters-in-montgomery-county/
