Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces J.T. Thorpe & Son Commits to the Creation of 130 New Jobs in Beaver County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Feb. 8, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that J.T. Thorpe & Son, Inc. (JTT), an engineering and construction services company, has expanded its operations in Ambridge, Beaver County, and has committed to the creation of 130 new, full-time jobs.
"Today's jobs that pay announcement is yet another example of the importance of the manufacturing industry in Pennsylvania," said Governor Wolf. "J.T. Thorpe's commitment to Pennsylvania should be celebrated and my administration is proud to support a project that means so much for the residents of Beaver County and the surrounding communities."
J.T. Thorpe & Son has expanded operations through leasing a 120,000-square-foot facility in Beaver County to increase its industrial fireproofing operations where structural steel is received, then coated with fire-proofing material, and shipped out to project sites nationwide. The company will continue to operate its Leetsdale facility, which serves as its Pittsburgh regional office and eastern operations headquarters. JTT has committed to making an investment of at least $2.9 million on the project and the creation of 130 new, full-time jobs and retention of 68 additional positions statewide over the next three years.
The company received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $260,000 Pennsylvania First grant, and up to $58,500 in WEDnetPA funding to train its workforce.
"JTT is excited to bring the largest capacity fireproofing facility in North America to the state of Pennsylvania. Our new operation benefits from a homegrown, skilled, union workforce who can expertly deliver a superior product for our customers. As Pennsylvania continues its production of natural gas, JTT is focused on providing downstream solutions so Pennsylvania can not only produce the raw materials, but also build the structures that will process it," said Kevin Howard, JTT vice president of eastern operations.
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania.
J.T. Thorpe & Son, Inc., the largest refractory contractor in North America, specializes in the engineering, supply and installation of refractory, fireproofing, and acid resistant materials. Founded in 1906, JTT performs work nationwide in a multitude of industries, including refining, mineral processing, power, gasification, incineration, steel/metals, and petro-chemical. JTT is a wholly owned subsidiary of Terra Millennium Corporation, which was ranked number 34 on Engineering News-Record's "2015 Top 600 Specialty Contractors."

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-j-t-thorpe-son-commits-to-the-creation-of-130-new-jobs-in-beaver-county/
