Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces DeVilbiss Expansion, New Jobs in Somerset County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Feb. 5, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that DeVilbiss Healthcare, LLC, a global manufacturer of respiratory and sleep products, will expand operations in Somerset Borough, Somerset County. The move will create and retain 231 full-time positions.
"Manufacturing is the backbone of Pennsylvania, and our partnership to promote the growth of this industry is creating jobs that pay," Governor Wolf said. "We thank DeVilbiss Healthcare for their continued commitment to Somerset County, and the positive impact the expansion will have for the people of this community."
DeVilbiss Healthcare will expand production of its Oxygen Concentrator line, investing more than $1.9 million at their regional headquarters in Somerset. The investment will support building, manufacturing and equipment improvements. The company has also committed to creating at least 15 new, full-time jobs and retaining 216 current positions over the next three years.
DeVilbiss Healthcare received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $75,000 Pennsylvania First program grant.
"This grant will be instrumental in expanding production of our 5-Liter Oxygen Concentrator line," said Tim Walsh, Chief Financial Officer for DeVilbiss Healthcare. "It is our hope that with the continued support of the Governor's Action Team and the SCEDC, DeVilbiss Healthcare can continue to flourish and provide family-sustaining jobs that will have a positive impact on Somerset and surrounding communities."
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with the Somerset County Economic Development Council (SCEDC).
"DeVilbiss Healthcare has been part of the business community in Somerset County for over 50 years," said James Zimmerman, President, of the Somerset County Economic Development Council (SCEDC). "SCEDC was pleased to work with the Leadership of Drive/DeVilbiss Healthcare and the Governor's Action Team at DCED on a project that will assure DeVilbiss' ongoing growth and development. The project is good news for DeVilbiss' many suppliers located in Pennsylvania."
DeVilbiss Healthcare, recently acquired by Drive Medical and now doing business as Drive DeVilbiss Healthcare, is a world leader in the design, manufacture, and marketing of respiratory and sleep products that are distributed to over 80 countries.
For more information on Drive DeVilbiss Healthcare, visit www.drivemedical.com.
For more information about the Governor's Action Team or DCED visit www.newpa.com.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-devilbiss-expansion-new-jobs-in-somerset-county/
