Public Statements
Wolf Administration to Provide Loans to Help Older Pennsylvanians and Those with Disabilities to Live Where They Choose
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Feb. 4, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today announced that the Departments of Human Services (DHS), Aging (PDA), and Community and Economic Development (DCED) are partnering to launch the Home and Community Based Services (HCBS) Loan Program in July 2016.
DHS and PDA help seniors and individuals living with disabilities to transition from living in long-term care facilities to residing in the community, ensuring that people have choices about where they live and receive long-term services and supports.
"This program will help people to live full, independent lives on their own terms," said Governor Wolf. "The loans can help build the infrastructure so individuals can live where they want and how they want, giving them many more choices than they would have if living in a facility. I'm thrilled to announce this next step towards accomplishing my administration's goal to help more Pennsylvanians receive home-based care."
"We believe that supporting the development of a new supports and services structure will mean that more people are served in the right setting," said DHS Secretary Ted Dallas. "This new system also gives folks the proper amount of support to help them live independently in their homes and communities."
Loans will be provided for projects that help the commonwealth to meet its goal of expanding opportunities for long-term services and supports in the community. It's expected that loans -- for startups, reconfiguration, or expansion -- will range from $50,000 to $200,000.
DHS' Office of Long-Term Living (OLTL) will receive loan applications at any time of the year and will process them on a first-come, first-served basis. DCED's Pennsylvania Economic Development Finance Authority will work with OLTL to process the loans. More information will be supplied in coming months in the Pennsylvania Bulletin.
The Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority provides cost-effective financing to businesses by issuing bonds, selling the bonds to private investors, and lending the proceeds to eligible businesses.
"The collaborative efforts necessary in order to launch this program is a demonstration of our commitment to Governor Wolf's government that works initiative for a common goal of creating a better Pennsylvania," said DCED Secretary Dennis Davin. "DCED is proud to be a part of such an important program."
The loans are intended to support long-term care providers as they position themselves to successfully transition to managed care in Community HealthChoices, Governor Tom Wolf's plan to improve the quality of care for seniors and individuals living with disabilities through managed long-term services and supports.
"The opportunity to best leverage the resources of DHS, DCED, and PDA to launch this program illustrates the Wolf Administration's commitment to create and sustain a system that allows Pennsylvanians to receive services in the community, preserves consumer choice and actively assists in tapping into the creativity of our provider infrastructure," said PDA Secretary Teresa Osborne.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/wolf-administration-to-provide-loans-to-help-older-pennsylvanians-and-those-with-disabilities-to-live-where-they-choose/
