Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces Voith to Create 37 New Jobs in York County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Jan. 29, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Voith, an international engineering and manufacturing company, will establish a Global Business Service Center and Centers of Competence and create 37 new, full-time jobs in West Manchester Township, York County.
"Voith has a long history in York County as one of the largest hydropower manufacturing facilities," Governor Wolf said. "The proud tradition will carry on and this new investment shows a renewed commitment to the state and an eagerness to continue and grow here in Pennsylvania."
The project includes a committed investment of at least $825,000 from Voith to transform existing warehouse space into a state-of-the-art office environment, retaining 577 current positions and creating 37 new, full-time jobs over the next three years. The project will consolidate accounting, human resources, sourcing, corporate and market communications, and other functions for its North American operations.
Voith received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $100,000 Pennsylvania First Program grant and $74,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits.
"After having a presence here for 139 years, Voith is deeply woven into the community," said Bob Gallo, president and chief executive officer of Voith Hydro. "Our continued success is a positive reflection of our hard-working employees and Voith's ability to offer our customers leading edge technology and quality service."
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with York County Economic Alliance.
"Our team was pleased that we were able connect Voith with the Governor's Action Team and other resources to facilitate the consolidation," Darrell W. Auterson, president and chief executive officer of York County Economic Alliance said. "Voith's global reputation for excellence greatly enhances our community's position as a welcoming center for international business investment. We're honored to have them as a major employer in York County."
Voith is an engineering company in the energy, oil and gas, paper, raw materials, transport, and automotive markets. Founded in 1867, Voith employs more than 20,000 people, generates $5 billion in sales, operates in over 60 countries around the world, and is one of the biggest family-owned companies in Europe, excluding the discontinued Group Division Voith Industrial Services. Voith Hydro, specializing in hydroelectric equipment, technology and services, is headquartered in West Manchester Township, York County.
Find out more about Voith, visit www.voith.com.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-voith-to-create-37-new-jobs-in-york-county/
