Public Statements
Governor Wolf Makes Jobs That Pay Tour Stop at "PLEDGE IT'
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Jan. 28, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today continued his Jobs That Pay tour by visiting "PLEDGE IT' by PledgePlatform, LLC, a company that produces a fundraising website that allows sports teams and athletes to raise money for charities or causes based on their performance. PledgePlatform was recently approved to receive funding support from the Ben Franklin Technology Partners of Central & Northern PA in the amount of $200,000.
"It is exciting to visit a company like PledgePlatform and see firsthand how our efforts are supporting tech startups," Governor Wolf said. "It is important that we continue to support our partners like the Ben Franklin Technology Partners of Central & Northern PA so that entrepreneurs feel safe to take risks on their business ideas and know that they are supported in their efforts to do so."
PLEDGE IT is used by athletes of all sports at all levels, from pro-athletes supporting their favorite charities to youth teams raising money from new uniforms. Some notable customers include:
NFL players: Larry Fitzgerald, Devon Still, Philip RiversMLB players: Kyle Seager, Alex Gordon, Jason Motte
NCAA Teams: Penn State, Notre Dame, Florida State
High School/Youth/Charitable Partnerships:Pennsylvania Scholastic Football Coaches Assocation, American Cancer Society, Ronald McDonald House
"Governor Wolf's support of innovative programs like Ben Franklin Technology Partners make Central Pennsylvania the ideal location to start a company like PLEDGE IT," said Scott Shirley, CEO of Pledge Platform, LLC. "Our technology platform has a global impact by empowering teams and athletes to raise money for various causes, but our growing business is creating jobs and generating revenue to the benefit of my hometown. That is a win-win."
The Ben Franklin Technology Partners of Central & Northern PA provide startup funding and business support services to tech-based startups and small manufacturers located in the 32-county coverage area.
The largest early-stage seed investor in the region, Ben Franklin Technology Partners/CNP -- an initiative of the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development (DCED) and funded by the Ben Franklin Technology Development Authority (BFTDA) -- provides funding, operational assistance, and business support services to emerging tech-based companies and small, existing manufacturers for the purpose of creating and retaining jobs in Pennsylvania.
Recognized nationally and internationally as a model for technology-based economic development, the BFTDA ensures that the variety of technology-based economic development organizations and initiatives throughout the commonwealth are working collaboratively to fully leverage the wealth of research, capital sources and support services available to build a comprehensive infrastructure that supports company growth.
In 2015, the BFTDA approved $3.5M for each of the four Ben Franklin Technology Partners (BFTP) to encourage investments that advance the competitiveness of commonwealth companies in the global economy.
The BFTPs are designed to play a leadership role in building the state's technology economy, strengthening regional economies and creating and retaining high-wage, high-skill jobs.
With four regional offices strategically located across Pennsylvania, the BFTPs provide critical seed and risk capital to start and grow technology firms throughout the commonwealth.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-makes-jobs-that-pay-tour-stop-at-pledge-it/
