Public Statements
BLOG: Governor Wolf Announces Avoided Costs, Waste Prevention as Result of Significant Reduction in SNAP Error Rate
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Jan. 21, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Yesterday, Governor Tom Wolf joined the Pennsylvania Department of Human Services (DHS) to announce a significant reduction in the error rate of the administration of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). This is the latest success in the Wolf Administration's "Government that Works" effort to spearhead initiatives that save costs, reduce waste, improve efficiency, and reform government programs.
Nationally, the SNAP payment error rate was 3.66% in 2014. Since coming into office in January, the Wolf Administration has reduced the food stamp error rate by 58% to 2.01%, which is well below the national average. Furthermore, this reduction represents the largest percentage decrease in the SNAP error rate in a single year in the 29 years that these records have been kept. The change in error rate is estimated to equal a cost avoidance of nearly $35 million.
Check out the coverage of the announcement below:
FOX43: Governor: Pennsylvania SNAP error rates well below national average.
""Today, we are thrilled to announce that the Pennsylvania Department of Human Services is administering SNAP at historically accurate levels,' said Governor Wolf. "This is an exciting announcement, as it shows success in our work to combat hunger and food insecurity in our state, as well as in our push to create a government that works in Pennsylvania What all of this means is that not only are the people of Pennsylvania who are eligible for assistance the ones receiving it -- and in the correct amount -- but we are avoiding $35 million in federal costs by appropriately allocating the funds This is no small number, and we are proud of the improvement in accuracy and efficiency this represents in a system that Pennsylvania's most vulnerable populations truly need.'"

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/blog-governor-wolf-announces-avoided-costs-waste-prevention-as-result-of-significant-reduction-in-snap-error-rate/
