Public Statements
Governor Wolf Continues "Jobs That Pay" Tour in Luzerne and Bucks Counties
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Jan. 15, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf continued to highlight how smart investments can grow communities' and Pennsylvania's economy and create and retain jobs. Governor Wolf has prioritized creating jobs that pay with policies that help set the table for robust private sector growth and support our manufacturing and new growth industries, and many new jobs across the commonwealth have been created under Governor Wolf's administration.
Today, he visited Web.com in Drums, Luzerne County, and Waste Gas Fabricating Company in Fairless Hills, Bucks County, to highlight the importance of investing in job creation and workforce development.
"We are fortunate to have an incredibly diverse industry base in Pennsylvania and visiting businesses has given me a chance to listen to what businesses need," Governor Wolf said. "I am focused on breaking down the barriers that inhibit business development in Pennsylvania, such as the final phase-out of an archaic, burdensome tax on Pennsylvania businesses: the Capital Stock and Franchise tax.
"One thing we know is that creating jobs that pay requires a tremendous amount of synergy among various groups. As a business owner myself, I know firsthand how a strong state government can invest in the right things -- economic development, workforce and job-training programs, and our primary, secondary and higher education systems -- to create economic prosperity for more people and help businesses grow."
Governor Tom Wolf announced earlier this month that Web.com, a provider of Internet services and online marketing solutions for small businesses, will reshore operations and expand at its existing facility in Drums, Luzerne County, a move that will create 74 new jobs.
Web.com will expand its operations by increasing the technology-based customer service center, bringing outsourced jobs back to its existing facility in Drums. The company has committed to creating 74 new, full-time jobs and retaining 268 current positions over the next three years. Web.com received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes $148,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits, a $40,000 Pennsylvania First Program grant, and $25,650 in WEDnetPA funding for employee training.
Waste Gas Fabricating Co. (WGF) in Fairless Hills, PA has a rich history in metal forming and fabrication. WGF commonly serves clients throughout the Mid-Atlantic region, including New York, Ohio, Delaware, and New Jersey, and offer their products and services internationally.
WGF maintains the most current state-of-the-art equipment for precision machining and forming, including plasma and laser cutting, shearing, sawing, and rolling equipment. Fabricated steel products require skilled fabricators, and their machining and welding is done by ASTM-certified professionals. The WGF finishing department can handle any type of surface for grinding, deburring, and industrial painting. Furthermore, Waste Gas Fabricating Company employs the most skilled craftsmen in the trade and offers continual training to all employees.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-continues-jobs-that-pay-tour-in-luzerne-and-bucks-counties/
