Public Statements
Governor Wolf, Insurance Commissioner React to the Congressional Budget Office's New Score of the American Health Care Act
Statement
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 24, 2017
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf and Insurance Commissioner Teresa Miller today issued the following statements on the Congressional Budget Office's new score of the American Health Care Act.
Governor Wolf Statement:
"The American Health Care Act will hurt millions of Americans, particularly Pennsylvania seniors, by raising costs and putting essential health coverage at risk and the Congressional Budget Office's score proves this. This legislation will strip millions of people of their health care, increase costs for things like maternal care, and force older Pennsylvanians to pay more.
"I will continue to fight to protect access to quality, affordable health care for all Pennsylvanians, especially our elderly and most vulnerable citizens with chronic health needs and pre-existing conditions. I hope the U.S. Senate takes the impact of these attempted reforms to heart moving forward and shows more respect to the people they were elected to serve.
"I urge the U.S. Senate to move away from this legislation and instead focus on reforms that can improve the Affordable Care Act by promoting stability and addressing the rising health care costs around the country."
Commissioner Miller statement:
"Today, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) confirmed what we already know -- the American Health Care Act is a reckless piece of legislation that will endanger health care for millions of Americans and further destabilize the insurance market.
"According to the CBO's score, the number of uninsured compared to the Affordable Care Act would rise to 14 million in 2018, then 19 million in 2020 and 23 million in 2026. Millions of people will be forced off insurance due to higher premiums than they currently are and lower financial assistance that will be based on age instead of financial need.
"Higher prices and the elimination of the individual mandate will force people out of the market, causing further instability for insurers if they are left with a less healthy risk pool. This instability will only continue to drive up prices for consumers left in the market.
"Instead of focusing on real reforms that can improve how the Affordable Care Act works for all Americans without hurting those who benefit from the law, House Republicans and the Trump Administration doubled down on a bill that jeopardizes affordable and robust coverage for older and low-income Pennsylvanians and the 5.4 million with pre-existing conditions -- our most vulnerable citizens."

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-insurance-commissioner-react-to-the-congressional-budget-offices-new-score-of-the-american-health-care-act/
