Public Statements
Governor Wolf Tours Universal Pasteurization Company and PRA Health Sciences on "Jobs that Pay" Tour Stops
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Jan. 4, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Today, Governor Tom Wolf made two "Jobs that Pay" tour stops. Both the Universal Pasteurization Company and PRA Health Sciences are Governor's Action Team (GAT) projects. The Governor's Action Team is a group of experienced economic development professionals that serve as a single point of contact for companies looking to establish new business operations in Pennsylvania or companies considering retention and/or expansion of existing Pennsylvania operations.
In April, Governor Tom Wolf announced that Universal Pasteurization Company, LLC, ("Universal Pasteurization" and "UPC"), a provider of high pressure processing (HPP) and cold storage services to domestic food manufacturers, would establish a facility in East Whiteland Township, Chester County -- a move that will create more than 50 new jobs.
"The creation of over 50 new jobs for this area represents progress in the type of pro-business and pro-manufacturing climate we are working to create and continue in Pennsylvania," said Governor Tom Wolf. "It showcases what happens when government works with the private sector to support robust business growth."
Universal Pasteurization entered into a lease of a 170,000-square-foot facility located at 8 Lee Boulevard, which Governor Wolf toured today. The company received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development, including $102,000 in job creation tax credits and a $22,950 WEDnetPA grant to train its workforce.
PRA Health Sciences, a leading global contract research organization (CRO), strives to move drug discovery forward, helping to develop life-saving and life-improving drugs. PRA has more than 11,000 employees working in more than 80 countries providing comprehensive clinical development services across all phases.
PRA Health Sciences is expanding its presence in Pennsylvania. Employees recently relocated from Horsham and Fort Washington facilities to PRA's new modern Class A+ office space in Blue Bell, now the company's largest office worldwide. PRA currently has more than 1,000 employees in Pennsylvania and is looking to add additional staff. To date, PRA has invested nearly $4 million dollars in the Blue Bell expansion project.
"I'm excited to celebrate this growth of new jobs and growth of Pennsylvania's economy," said Governor Wolf. "The life science industry is a major driver of economic growth for the commonwealth and we're all witnesses to this today with PRA's expansion project."

Source: https://governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-tours-universal-pasteurization-company-and-pra-health-sciences-on-jobs-that-pay-tour-stops/
