Public Statements
Wolf Administration's Apprenticeship and Training Office Increasing Opportunities for Job Seekers and Employers in Pennsylvania
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 22, 2017
Location: Harrisburg, PA

The Wolf Administration today announced that the Department of Labor & Industry's Apprenticeship and Training Office (ATO) recently added seven new apprenticeship programs and two occupations to help both job seekers establish a career path and employers train the skilled workers they need.
"The creation of the Apprenticeship and Training Office has significantly expanded the apprenticeship footprint in Pennsylvania," said Governor Wolf. "Increased education of and outreach to potential employers has led to more registered apprenticeship programs, such as the ones approved recently, to expand career opportunities for employees who successfully complete their apprenticeships."
Since the Wolf Administration established the ATO last year, the office, which is responsible for providing outreach, education, and technical support to current and prospective apprenticeship program sponsors and apprentices, has added 1,599 new apprentices and 58 new registered apprenticeship occupations statewide.
"Apprenticeship programs improve the skills of job seekers and create a highly qualified pool of talent for employers," Sec. Manderino said. "The ATO not only helps support traditional registered apprenticeship programs, but encourages the growth and expansion of these programs into non-traditional industries, such as health care, to benefit even more job seekers."
Some of the non-traditional occupations that have been added to the ATO program include direct support professional, bio medical research technician, and early childhood/pre-K teacher.
Following is a list of recently approved apprenticeship programs:
Manufacturing Association of Central Pennsylvania -- The association registered a group model that will include employers from within its association. It also registered a machinist, and tool and die occupations in York in partnership with Thaddeus Stevens Career and Technical School that could lead to an associate's degree.
PBM, Inc. -- PBM added a mill and lathe apprenticeship occupation to its existing advanced manufacturing training program in Irwin.
District 1199C -- District 1199C registered an apprenticeship program in early childhood education and added a direct support professional occupation to its already existing apprenticeship program. It has also been instrumental in helping other employers register their programs as well.
United Home Care Workers (UHCW) -- The program registered an advanced home health care aide program in partnership with District 1199c. UHCW is a joint venture with SEIU and AFSCME.
Liberty Resource Home Choice -- Liberty Resource Home Choice registered a nurse's aide program. It's the first home health care program apprenticeship of its kind for a certified nursing assistant.
School District of Philadelphia -- The School District of Philadelphia has registered electrician and plumbing apprenticeship occupations. This program will help the students that have graduated from the vo-tech associated with the district, and place them into career opportunities within the school.
SPIN, Inc. -- SPIN, a nonprofit organization that provides services to people of all ages with autism and intellectual/developmental disability, registered two apprenticeship programs. The first was a direct support professional program, which will train workers to assist people with intellectual disabilities. The apprentices are selected from a pre-apprenticeship program to create a talent pipeline of qualified employees.
SPIN also approved an early childhood education program, which is parallel to a previously approved program at Brightside Academy. As part of the education apprenticeship, workers earn an associate's degree at the Community College of Philadelphia.
The Wistar Institute -- The Institute registered an apprenticeship in biomedical research, which will serve the science community in the greater Philadelphia Area. The apprenticeship creates a career pathway that will go beyond its existing internship program for research technicians. The Wistar Institute is partnering with Community College of Philadelphia. This is the first apprenticeship of its kind in the nation.
Approved through the Department of Labor & Industry's Apprenticeship and Training Office, apprenticeship programs are used to provide employer-driven training to create a more productive, diverse, highly-skilled workforce for employers and help reduce employee turnover. The program provides job seekers with increased skills, and a nationally recognized credential to support future career advancement and increased wages.
For more information on the Apprenticeship and Training Office, visit ATO.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/wolf-administrations-apprenticeship-and-training-office-increasing-opportunities-for-job-seekers-and-employers-in-pennsylvania/
