Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces "Troops to Teachers' Grant Program
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 16, 2017
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today announced $400,000 in federal funds will provide support to veterans transitioning from military service to careers in education. The Troops to Teachers grant program, managed by the Defense Activity for Nontraditional Education Support (DANTES), will create a robust network of teacher preparation programs around the commonwealth supporting veterans as they earn their teaching certifications.
"It is critical to ensure Pennsylvania's veterans have the opportunity to pursue fulfilling new careers and that systems are in place to support them as they transition," said Governor Wolf. "Additionally, by assisting veterans in their journey to become educators while partnering with high-need schools, the Troops to Teachers program will benefit not only our veterans, but also our schools, classrooms, and students."
The Troops to Teachers grant program, in partnership with high-poverty and/or high-minority schools across the state, will enable veterans to gain critical skills and experience in the classroom, and help them with everything from navigating the certification process to securing a job in the field. The program will also provide targeted, intensive support during grantees' first year by pairing them with teacher mentors and a Pennsylvania Department of Education certification staff point of contact. Under the program, certification costs will also be discounted, and application processing will be expedited.
"This federal grant funding will provide Pennsylvania's veterans with the tools they need to move from the military to the classroom, and will allow us to place more high-quality educators in schools," said Education Secretary Pedro. A. Rivera. "It's a comprehensive program that will offer preparation, support, and special consideration to these deserving, skilled individuals."
For more information about Pennsylvania's education policies and programs, or to read PDE Secretary Rivera's budget testimony, visit the Department of Education's website at www.education.pa.gov or follow PDE on Facebook, Twitter, or Pinterest.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-troops-to-teachers-grant-program/
