Public Statements
Wolf Administration Announces Alcoa to Expand Operations in Westmoreland County, Creating At Least 90 New Jobs
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Sept. 3, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Alcoa, a lightweight metals manufacturer, will expand its R&D site in Upper Burrell Township, Westmoreland County and create at least 90 new, full-time positions.
"Today's announcement makes it clear that Alcoa has shown a commitment to continue to grow in Pennsylvania," said Governor Wolf. "The creation of new, high-paying, skilled positions in Westmoreland County is great news for Pennsylvania's workforce and we are thrilled at the continued growth of the manufacturing sector."
Alcoa will expand operations at the Alcoa Technical Center facility to produce materials designed specifically for a range of additive technologies for aerospace and other high-growth markets such as automotive, medical and building, and construction. The company plans to invest at least $60 million on the project and has also committed to the creation of 90 new, full-time jobs and the retention of 2,995 current positions over the next three years.
Alcoa received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development that includes a $450,000 Pennsylvania First Program grant, $180,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits, and $76,500 in WEDnetPA funding. The company has also been encouraged to apply for a $2 million low-interest loan from the Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority.
"Alcoa is investing in the next generation of 3D printing for aerospace and beyond," said Alcoa Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Klaus Kleinfeld. "Combining our expertise in metal alloys, manufacturing, design and product qualification, we will push beyond the limits of today's additive manufacturing. This investment strengthens our leadership position in meeting fast-growing demand for aerospace components made using additive technologies."
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with Westmoreland County.
"Alcoa's investment in Westmoreland is significant and illustrates that additive manufacturing is a major contributor to the local economy," said Chairman of the Westmoreland County Board of Commissioners Chuck Anderson. "We are proud to support their current growth plans and look forward to a strong partnership in the future."

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/wolf-administration-announces-alcoa-to-expand-operations-in-westmoreland-county-creating-at-least-90-new-jobs/
