Public Statements
Pennsylvania Details State Highway Plans, Resource Requests for Papal Visit
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Aug. 5, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Today, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania outlined its plans to help manage needs for public safety, public health and transportation during the Philadelphia Papal visit.
"Pennsylvania is committed to supporting event planning partners to prepare and help ensure a safe, secure Papal visit for residents of Philadelphia and surrounding areas in addition to all of the visitors from around the world," Governor Tom Wolf said. "Due to the size and scope of the event and the large crowds expected, Philadelphia and event organizers requested assistance from the commonwealth. We are ready to assist event organizers and planners to keep people safe and make this historic Papal visit to Philadelphia a success."
Planning for the event is being led by the United States Secret Service, along with the City of Philadelphia and the World Meeting of Families. As requested, Pennsylvania is providing resources, including personnel and equipment, to assist with public safety, security, public health, transportation and emergency management.
Due to street closures in the City of Philadelphia and the needs of law enforcement and emergency agencies, the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation will close the following roads beginning on Friday, September 25th at 10 p.m.:
· I-76 eastbound from I-476 to I-95 and I-76 westbound from I-95 to U.S. Route 1 (Roosevelt Extension);
· I-676 in both directions from I-76 to I-95; and
· U.S. Route 1 in both directions from U.S. 30 to Belmont Avenue.
These are the only roads under PennDOT's jurisdiction that are expected to be closed. PennDOT is not anticipated to be responsible for any other closures.
Contrary to previous reports, I-95 will remain open to traffic with only selected ramps closed due to street closures within the city and security needs.
It is necessary to close portions of these roads to effectively move emergency vehicles to, through and from the event area, and because thousands of buses will be travelling to and from the event as well as to maintain public safety. Traffic will be routed to surrounding highways and PennDOT will remind drivers of these traffic changes from now through the Papal visit. In addition, PennDOT will coordinate with Pennsylvania Emergency Management Agency, and police and emergency medical services agencies to have health and safety action teams stationed on open highways where traffic will increase to assist motorists.
In order to assist local and federal law enforcement with public safety and crowd management efforts, the Pennsylvania State Police will provide approximately 1,100 requested personnel to the City of Philadelphia for the Papal visit. The Secret Service has further requested Pennsylvania National Guard members to assist with traffic management within the City of Philadelphia. The commonwealth anticipates fulfilling additional National Guard requests from surrounding counties.
"The Pennsylvania State Police will provide vital staffing assistance to the Secret Service and Philadelphia Police," Governor Wolf said. "The men and women of the Pennsylvania National Guard -- who are our friends, family members and neighbors -- will primarily assist with traffic management. They will support law enforcement to keep visitors and residents safe and will play an important supportive role in making sure people can get to, through and from the event."
The Department of Health will provide requested Emergency Medical Services teams, ambulances and other transports, and other equipment and supplies necessary to provide adequate public health coverage for the anticipated crowds. The Pennsylvania Emergency Management Agency and Department of Human Services will be on-site during the Papal visit to provide resources and coordination in the event of an emergency.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/pennsylvania-details-state-highway-plans-resource-requests-for-papal-visit/
