Public Statements
Governor Wolf, PennDOT Announce $200 million in Roadway Improvements
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 5, 2017
Location: Hollidaysburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf and the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation announced today that over $200 million in highway and bridge improvements that will take place across PennDOT's six-county District 9 region during the 2017 construction season.
"Many improvements will be made across this six-county region and this mirrors what we're seeing across the state," said Governor Tom Wolf. "These needed improvements will not only help Pennsylvanians get from A to B, but allow them to do so in the safest most efficient manner possible."
Overall highlights in the 2017 construction season for District 9 (Bedford, Blair, Cambria, Fulton, Huntingdon, and Somerset counties) include:
approximately 164 miles of paving;
approximately 70 bridges will be repaired or replaced; and
approximately 324 miles of roadway will be seal coated to extend pavement life.
District 9 Executive Thomas Prestash said, "This is the 19th consecutive year that PennDOT's Engineering District 9 has conducted outreach meetings for legislators, municipal officials, planning and economic development agencies and community leaders in each of our six counties. With over $200 million worth of construction projects slated for area roadways this year, we've had good news to share."
Notable projects that have been bid include:
the Route 403 Moxham Stonycreek bridge replacement project in the City of Johnstown for $7.4 million;
the continuation of the Route 22 Frankstown Intersection Safety Improvement Project in Blair County for $7.4 million;
the continuation of the Route 219 Meyersdale to Somerset Corridor Project which will consist of approximately 11 miles of new four-lane limited access highway estimated at $265 million;
the 17th Street Safety Improvement Project in the City of Altoona for $4.1 million;
the Route 36 Corridor Improvement Project in Bedford County for $4.8 million; and
the Route 281 Gilmour to Welsh resurfacing project in Somerset County for $8.2 million.
Notable projects that are expected to be bid this year include:
the Interstate 99 17th Street to Grazierville Resurfacing Project in Blair County; and
the Route 219 Jack Murtha Highway Rehabilitation Project in Cambria County.
The investments complement the department's Road Maintenance and Preservation, or Road MaP, program, which Governor Wolf recently announced will invest $2.1 billion in maintenance and highway and bridge capital projects over the next 10 years. Of the investments, $1 billion will go to roadway maintenance and $1.1 billion will go to highway and bridge capital projects. Of the capital projects, $500 million will be allocated to an Interstate preservation and reconstruction program, bringing that total program, begun in 2016, to $1 billion over the next 10 years. Another $600 million will go toward rehabilitation and reconstruction needs identified through the department's district and regional planning efforts.
More information on Road MaP is available at www.penndot.gov on the "Act 89 Transportation Plan" page.
For more information on projects occurring or being bid this year, those made possible by or accelerated by the state transportation funding plan (Act 89), or those on the department's Four and Twelve Year Plans, visit www.projects.penndot.gov.
Motorists can check conditions on major roadways by visiting www.511PA.com. 511PA, which is free and available 24 hours a day, provides traffic delay warnings, weather forecasts, traffic speed information and access to more than 825 traffic cameras.
511PA is also available through a smartphone application for iPhone and Android devices, by calling 5-1-1, or by following regional Twitter alerts accessible on the 511PA website.
Follow local PennDOT information on Twitter at www.twitter.com/511PAAltoona.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-penndot-announce-200-million-in-roadway-improvements-in/
