Public Statements
Governor Wolf Nominates State Police Commissioner
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Aug. 3, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today nominated Tyree C. Blocker as Pennsylvania State Police commissioner. Blocker, 62, has 30 years of experience with the Pennsylvania State Police, starting as a trooper and ascending to major before retiring in 2005. Major Blocker will serve as acting commissioner pending confirmation by the Senate.
"Major Blocker's diverse experience with the Pennsylvania State Police, starting as a trooper and working his way up to major, gave him the opportunity to work in operations across the agency," said Governor Wolf. "Major Blocker has deep knowledge in the areas of patrol and criminal investigation as well as staff services and administration. He also brings tremendous leadership capabilities and a history of working collaboratively with law enforcement officials at all levels. Major Blocker has an extensive background in drug law enforcement, which will be an asset in helping the State Police stop high-level drug trafficking organizations that prey on our communities and citizens and seek to perpetuate the heroin crisis in Pennsylvania. His strong career experience will allow him to step into the role of commissioner and lead the men and women of the Pennsylvania State Police."
"The Pennsylvania State Police is the commonwealth's top law enforcement agency, and the most distinguished in the country," continued Governor Wolf. "Major Blocker will build on the strong foundation of the traditions and culture of the Pennsylvania State Police while also looking for opportunities to ensure that the force reflects the diversity of Pennsylvania."
Major Blocker will succeed Col. Marcus Brown as commissioner. Major Blocker served for three decades with the Pennsylvania State Police from 1975 to 2005 starting as a trooper and progressing through the ranks to major. He has experience in patrol, criminal investigation, staff services and administration, and has demonstrated excellent rapport with police executives and government officials throughout the United States. Major Blocker has worked to develop and implement creative law enforcement strategies in response to local government requests for State Police assistance in high crime areas and he has deep leadership and fiscal management abilities as a result of having worked cooperatively with a variety of law enforcement administrators.
Biography:
Tyree C. Blocker started his career with the Pennsylvania State Police in 1975 as a trooper, working in patrol, criminal investigation, staff services and organized crime with Troops J, T, K, and the Bureau of Criminal Investigations. Major Blocker worked his way up through the ranks over a 30 year career with the State Police, retiring in 2005 with the rank of major and was responsible for investigative, patrol and administrative operations of 3 Troops, comprised of 13 locations and 750 Troopers in 10 counties including Philadelphia. During his three decades with the State Police, major Blocker supervised units related to identification records, automotive activities, procurement and supplies, communications, and community relations; worked in all facets of criminal investigation, and the gathering of intelligence, as well as the active participation in various multi-agency, multi-state task forces; supervised hundreds of troopers while running the administrative, financial and operational aspects of numerous counties as well as providing support for local law enforcement; and reorganized the Bureau of Drug Law Enforcement to address the sophistication and complexity of drug trafficking in the commonwealth. After retiring from the State Police, Major Blocker worked at George Mason University serving as a technical adviser to the Trinidad and Tobago Police Service and then as an advisor to the minister of national security for the Trinidad and Tobago government. Major Blocker also served as president of Silver Seals Consulting and currently owns Future Gem Fitness Corporation. Major Blocker resides in New London Township in Chester County with his wife, Janice.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-nominates-state-police-commissioner/
