Public Statements
Governor's Residence to Host First National Night Out Event
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: July 30, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Tom Wolf and First Lady Frances Wolf announced today that the Governor's Residence in Harrisburg will host its first ever National Night Out event on next Tuesday, August 4. The event will run from 6:00 p.m. until 8:00 p.m.
"National Night Out is a tremendous opportunity for the residence to serve as an open, community space," said the Governor and First Lady. "We are thankful to the Pennsylvania State Police and Capitol Police for being a part of this important event to improve the relationships between law enforcement and community members. We hope many Pennsylvanians will be able to attend."
Pennsylvania State Police and the Capitol Police Department will be on hand to greet visitors and speak with families and members of the community. Kids and community members will also have the opportunity to see a Pennsylvania State Police patrol car up-close, along with giveaways and resources from law enforcement and community organizations.
The Residence will serve light refreshments and will be open for tours of the house and its gardens.
The Governor's Residence is located at 2035 North Front Street in Harrisburg. Parking is available along 2nd Street and in the private lot at the corner of 2nd and Maclay Streets. Guests should enter the Residence grounds through the 2nd Street gates. No large bags, totes or purses will be permitted, and some security measures will be in place.
National Night Out is an annual community-building campaign that promotes police-community relationships in order to build safer, better neighborhoods. It was started by the National Association of Town Watch, which is headquartered in Wynnewood, Montgomery County, in 1981. It is held annually on the first Tuesday of August in more than 16,000 communities across the country, according to the National Association of Town Watch.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governors-residence-to-host-first-national-night-out-event/
