Public Statements
Isenhour Announced as Chief of Staff; McGinty Leaves Wolf Administration
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: July 23, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Today, Governor Tom Wolf named Mary Isenhour Chief of Staff following the announcement that Katie McGinty had stepped down effective July 23.
"Katie McGinty has been an invaluable advisor and friend, and her contributions to the Commonwealth will be remembered. We worked together to expand Medicaid, eliminate the unfair and costly SNAP asset test, save the children's health insurance program in Pennsylvania, and implement key government reforms like a gift ban," said Governor Tom Wolf. "Katie's work has help lay the course for my administration, and I greatly appreciate her efforts to fix our schools, create jobs, and build a better Pennsylvania."
"It has been an honor to serve Governor Tom Wolf," said Katie McGinty. "I am proud to have helped to fight to expand Medicaid and eliminate unfair asset tests while advocating for policies that will fund our schools and strengthen our middle class. I will continue to fight for the principles and polices that we worked on in the Wolf Administration including fixing our schools, creating jobs, and advocating for a living wage for our workers."
"Mary Isenhour is one of my closest advisors, and she has served as a valuable part of my administration," said Tom Wolf. "Mary has earned respect from Republicans and Democrats, and she has vast and diverse experience in government that will help to guide my administration. I am eager to continue to work with Mary in her new role as my Chief of Staff."
"It is an honor to serve as Governor Wolf's Chief of Staff, and I look forward to continuing to work with the governor and the administration to serve the people of Pennsylvania," said Mary Isenhour. "Governor Wolf has the right priorities for the Commonwelath: schools that teach, jobs that pay, and government that works, and I look forward to working with him to implement his vision."

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/isenhour-announced-as-chief-of-staff-mcginty-leaves-wolf-administration/
