Public Statements
Wolf Administration Announces Creation of 80 New Jobs at JLE Industries Facility in Fayette County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: July 17, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that JLE Industries, LLC, a transportation and logistics company serving the energy and infrastructure development industries, will establish a new site in Dunbar Township, Fayette County to serve as its corporate headquarters, a move that will create 80 new, full-time jobs.
"JLE chose Pennsylvania over other states as the best place to accommodate the needs of their thriving business and we're thrilled to announce the creation of 80 new jobs with this expansion," Governor Wolf. "The energy industry continues to drive job creation and investment and my administration will continue to encourage the growth of the industry all across the commonwealth."
JLE Industries will acquire and refurbish an existing 50,000-square-foot facility after to serve as its new corporate headquarters. The company plans to invest more than $9 million on the project, and has also committed to the creation of 80 new, full-time jobs and retaining 48 existing positions over the next three years.
JLE Industries received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development including a Pennsylvania First Program grant for $150,000 and $160,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits.
"The opening of this facility commemorates a milestone in our journey to become the premier transportation, logistics, and energy field service company in the Appalachian basin," said Jason Adamsky, CEO and co-owner, JLE Industries, LLC. "This state of the art facility, which will house more than 150 JLE associates, will be the epicenter and strategic hub for the continued growth of our business."
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the Governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with Fay-Penn Economic Development.
JLE Industries, LLC is transportation, logistics and field services company serving the energy and infrastructure development industries. Since its inception nearly five years ago, JLE Industries has experienced significant growth and transformation, both organically and through strategic investments in gas and oil field services and technology. Today, the business is comprised of more than 80 power units and 100 employees strategically positioned at various service points across the Appalachian region.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/wolf-administration-announces-creation-of-80-new-jobs-at-jle-industries-facility-in-fayette-county/
