Public Statements
Governor Wolf Discusses Education Funding, Budget Priorities on "Schools That Teach" Tour Stops in Bellefonte and Pittsburgh
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: July 13, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today continued the "Schools That Teach" Tour in the North Hills and Bellefonte school districts, where he stood with district administrators and teachers to speak about the importance of including significant increases in state education funding in the 2015-16 budget.
Earlier this month, Governor Wolf vetoed the Republican budget that failed to address the core issues facing Pennsylvania, including a structural budget deficit, a drastically underfunded school system, and rising property taxes for seniors and middle-class families. Governor Wolf has remained committed to passing a 2015-16 budget that contains fair and adequate education funding in part by implementing a commonsense severance tax, provides property tax relief to Pennsylvania families and seniors, fixes the structural deficit, and provides a sound plan to create jobs across this commonwealth.
"The people of Pennsylvania want funding for education, and they support a commonsense severance tax to pay for it," Governor Wolf said. "While my budget proposes a historic $1 billion investment in education at all levels, including $500 million for K-12 education, the Republican budget continues the handouts for oil and gas companies and the underfunding of our schools. Their budget includes only $8 million for education -- that's less than 3 cents, per child, per day."
In the North Hills school district, Gov. Wolf's proposes an increase of $328,971 dollars to the district which would be used for personalized interventions for struggling students and restoration of programs and personnel that districts were forced to make as a result of prior state budget cuts. The Republican budget includes over $191,800 less than Governor Wolf's proposal.
In Bellefonte Area school district, Gov. Wolf's proposes an increase of $499,517 dollars to the would be used for high-quality early childhood programs, summer learning programs, professional development, and enrichment programs among other improvements. The Republican budget includes over $369,900 less than Governor Wolf's proposal.
Governor Wolf will continue to work with legislators in Harrisburg to enact a 2015-16 budget that not only provides fair and adequate funding for Pennsylvania's schools, but also provides significant property tax relief and closes the structural budget deficit.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-discusses-education-funding-budget-priorities-on-schools-that-teach-tour-stops-in-bellefonte-and-pittsburgh/
