Public Statements
Governor Wolf Discusses Education Funding, Budget Priorities on "Schools That Teach" Tour Stop in Allentown
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: July 10, 2015
Location: Allentown, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today continued the "Schools That Teach" Tour in the Parkland School District, where he stood with district administrators and teachers to speak about the importance of including significant increases in state education funding in the 2015-16 budget.
Last week, Governor Wolf vetoed the Republican budget that failed to address the core issues facing Pennsylvania, including a structural budget deficit, a drastically underfunded school system, and rising property taxes for seniors and middle-class families. Governor Wolf has remained committed to passing a 2015-16 budget that contains fair and adequate education funding in part by implementing a commonsense severance tax, provides property tax relief to Pennsylvania families and seniors, fixes the structural deficit, and provides a sound plan to create jobs across this commonwealth.
"The people of Pennsylvania want funding for education, and they support a commonsense severance tax to pay for it," Governor Wolf said. "While my budget proposes a historic $1 billion investment in education at all levels, including $500 million for K-12 education, the Republican budget continues the handouts for oil and gas companies and the underfunding of our schools. Their budget includes only $8 million for education -- that's less than 3 cents, per child, per day."
At Cetronia Elementary School today, Governor Wolf joined Superintendent Rich Sniscak and Principal Jamie Giaquito to discuss the effects that this school district would see from Governor Wolf's budget. Governor Wolf's plan includes over half a million dollars in additional funding that would be seen directly in the classrooms of the Parkland School District. That's over $210,000 more than the amount proposed for the district in the Republican budget.
"Governor Wolf's commitment to fully and fairly allocating state education funding hits home with us in Parkland," Superintendent Rich Sniscak said. "We could use this additional half a million dollars to implement new and innovative learning options, as well as job training programs to prepare students for entering the higher education institute or workforce of their choice."
Governor Wolf will continue to work with legislators in Harrisburg to enact a 2015-16 budget that not only provides fair and adequate funding for Pennsylvania's schools, but also provides significant property tax relief and closes the structural budget deficit.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-discusses-education-funding-budget-priorities-on-schools-that-teach-tour-stop-in-allentown/
