Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces Fee Waivers for Volunteers Seeking Background Checks
By: Tom Wolf
Date: June 10, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that fees for child abuse clearances and criminal background checks required by the Child Protective Services Law will be waived for volunteers working with children. Additionally, the Department of Human Services (DHS) and the Pennsylvania State Police (PSP) will be reducing the cost of both the child abuse and criminal history record checks from $10 to $8 for all other applicants. These changes will take effect July 25, 2015.
In 2014, 23 pieces of legislation were enacted including Act 153 of 2014, changing how Pennsylvania responds to child abuse. These changes significantly impacted the reporting, investigation, assessment, prosecution and judicial handling of child abuse and neglect cases.
"My action today could not have been accomplished without the hard work of the General Assembly, who has participated in an ongoing bipartisan working group with the Administration in an effort to develop needed clarifications to the Child Protective Services Law," said Gov. Wolf. "Through that process, the General Assembly expressed concerns of many members about the cost of background clearances, particularly for volunteers. I share those concerns, and that is why I am excited to announce these actions today."
Beginning July 1, 2015, volunteers are required to obtain background checks, including the Child Abuse History Clearance, issued by the DHS, and the Criminal History Record Check, issued by the PSP.
Persons seeking employment for work with children and others required under the law will still be assessed fees for the clearances, but at a reduced cost of $8 each. FBI clearances are also required for all employees and for volunteers who have not been a continuous resident of the commonwealth for the last 10 years, but because these are administered by the federal government current costs will continue to apply.
"The work from DHS and PSP sets a strong example of interagency collaboration," Gov. Wolf continued. "Partnerships like these create the foundation for a government that works."

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1693#.VYxpaHUVhHw
