Public Statements
Governor Wolf Discusses the Impact of Funding Increases in Delaware County during "Schools that Teach" Roundtable and Tour
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 21, 2015
Location: Upper Darby, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today continued his "Schools That Teach" tour in Delaware County, where he heard from teachers and administrators in the Upper Darby School District about their plans to ensure that education funding from his 2015-16 budget goes directly into the classroom.
"Pennsylvania ranks near the bottom in the country in state funding for K through 12 education and my proposed budget makes historic investments at all levels - early childhood education through higher education," said Governor Wolf. "After years of funding cuts that resulted in the loss of educators, increased class sizes, and cuts to valuable programs, I want to ensure that the new funding in my budget reaches the classroom and directly impacts student achievement. Focusing on education will allow us to lay the foundation for long-term economic growth."
In a roundtable discussion at Stonehurst Hills Elementary School, Governor Wolf heard from school leaders and stakeholders about their plans to use increased funding for professional development and for the restoration of programs and personnel, particularly reading specialists and math coaches.
"This is an important opportunity for districts to have comprehensive conversations about how to invest this funding on proven resources and programs that will improve student learning," Governor Wolf said. "What is being proposed here in the Upper Darby School District is a prime example of a plan that will ensure this historic education investment reaches the classroom while providing clear benchmarks to measure the results of student achievement."
"When this district had the proper resources and funding, we were improving the academic standing of our students, which, in turn, had a positive impact on the morale of the district and community," Upper Darby School District Superintendent Dr. Richard Dunlap said. "With proper funding and resources, we believe that we can achieve student success that would mirror, or even surpass, the success that we recognized prior to the state budget cuts."
In March, Department of Education Acting Secretary Pedro Rivera sent a letter to superintendents in all 500 districts detailing accountability measures to ensure the education funding proposed in Governor Wolf's 2015-2016 budget is spent directly on students in the classroom to allow them to compete in a modern economy. In the letter, Acting Secretary Rivera called on districts to submit plans to ensure this new investment reaches the classroom and to measure results for Pennsylvania's students.

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1678#.VYxbg3UVhHw
