Public Statements
Wolf Administration Announces 53 New Jobs at SunOpta Facility in Lehigh County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 20, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Department of Community and Economic Development Secretary Dennis Davin announced today that SunOpta, Inc., a manufacturer of flexible pouches for healthy snacking and baby food, will expand to add aseptic production lines at its existing manufacturing facility in Upper Macungie Township, Lehigh County, a move that will create at least 53 new jobs and retain 52 jobs over the next three years.
"We're thrilled with today's announcement of 53 new jobs in Lehigh County," said Davin. "Manufacturing is what Pennsylvania was built on, and the Wolf Administration recognizes the importance of manufacturing to Pennsylvania's economy as the leading driver of job creation."
The company received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development including $106,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits and a $23,850 WEDnetPA grant.
SunOpta, a global manufacturer of natural, organic and specialty foods and health products, will invest more than $32 million at its current 101,000-square-foot facility to provide manufacturing space for additional aseptic production lines and to make leasehold improvements, utility upgrades and acquire machinery and equipment.
"The expansion of our integrated aseptic platform aligns with our strategy to aggressively grow our value added consumer packaged foods portfolio," said Steve Bromley, Chief Executive Officer of SunOpta Inc. "Demand for aseptically processed healthy beverages continues to grow as consumers focus on health and wellness, and we are well positioned to participate in these fast growing categories. This expansion will enhance our North American aseptic processing footprint, increase capacity and allow us to better serve our customer portfolio."
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the Governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with the Lehigh Valley Economic Development Corporation.
SunOpta has 48 U.S. locations and is headquartered in Ontario, Canada.

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1675#.VYxbgHUVhHw
