Public Statements
DCED's Office of International Business Development Receives 2015 President's "E Star" Award for Export Service
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 18, 2015
Location: Unknown

Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development Secretary Dennis Davin and Deputy Secretary Wilfred Muskens, on behalf of Governor Tom Wolf, today accepted the 2015 President's "E Star" Award for Export Service presented to Pennsylvania's Office of International Business Development. The ceremony was held at the U.S. Department of Commerce in recognition of Pennsylvania's significant and sustained contribution to the increase of American exports.
"It is an honor to be the only state to receive the 2015 President's "E Star' Award for Export Service, recognizing the exceptional contributions that Pennsylvania has made to increase American exports," Governor Wolf said. "We are creating good-paying Pennsylvania jobs through global business opportunities, and exports of goods and services play an increasingly important role in the commonwealth's efforts to spur economic investment and job creation."
Pennsylvania's Office of International Business Development (OIBD), housed under DCED, boasts the largest network of international offices of any state in the U.S. OIBD supports Pennsylvania companies by working with them to increase their export sales through a network of 19 trade offices that cover more than 50 markets, supported by ten Regional Export Network (REN) partners located across Pennsylvania. The office also encourages foreign companies to invest and set up their U.S. operations in Pennsylvania.
Over the last four fiscal years, OIBD's Export Development program has helped its clients generate more than $3 billion in export sales and create or sustain more than 25,000 jobs.
Governor Wolf's 2015-16 Executive Budget includes an increase of $1 million to the World Trade PA appropriation, which supports OIBD's efforts to increase export opportunities and encourage foreign direct investment in Pennsylvania communities. In 2013-14, World Trade PA generated a $155.66 return on investment for every dollar of taxpayer money spent.
U.S. Department of Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker presented the award to Sec. Davin and Deputy Secretary for International Business Development Wilfred Muskens at today's ceremony.
The "E" Award dates back to World War II when more than 4,000 "E" Pennants were presented to U.S. war plants in recognition of production excellence and service to the war effort. President Kennedy revived the "E" symbol of excellence to honor and provide recognition to America's exporters and established the "E" Award program by Executive Order in 1961.The President's "E Star" Award, authorized in 1969, recognizes continued superior performance in increasing or promoting exports. Only previous recipients of the "E" Award are eligible for the "E Star", and the level of performance must exceed that for which the "E" Award was given. OIBD received its first President's "E" Award for Export Service in 2011.
The "E" and "E Star" Awards are the highest national recognition any U.S. entity may receive for supporting export activity.

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1671#.VYxbdnUVhHw
