Public Statements
Letter to Eugene DePasquale, Pennsylvania State Auditor General - Leading a Task Force on Municipal Pensions
Letter
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 14, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Dear Auditor General DePasquale:
Although most municipal pension plans in Pennsylvania are financially healthy, a significant minority are substantially underfunded. This underfunding can threaten both the retirement security of municipal employees and the ability of municipalities to provide basic services at a reasonable cost to their residents. It is for this reason that I have created a Task Force on Municipal Pensions. I am pleased that you will serve as Chair of the Task Force. The members of the Task Force are Susan Hockenberry, Mary Soderberg and Janet Yeomans.
I hope that the Task Force will make recommendations that address the unfunded accrued liability of Pennsylvania's municipal pension plans and place those plans on a sound financial footing for the long term, while at the same time maintaining retirement security for municipal employees without imposing undue risk on them.
The following are among the specific ideas I hope the Task Force will consider.
Eliminate needless administrative expenses by consolidating municipal plans into the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement System (PMRS) and prohibiting state assistance to municipal plans from being used for administrative expenses.
If any municipal plans are to remain outside of PMRS, professionalize investment decision-making by setting mandatory qualification standards for municipal pension fund investment managers.
Please also consider requiring municipalities with distressed pension plans to take reasonable steps to reduce costs and increase revenue dedicated to reducing unfunded pension liabilities. To reduce costs, municipalities with distressed plans might be required to refrain from providing benefit enhancements to existing or future employees as long as their plans remain in distressed status. Municipalities could choose from a number of options for increasing revenue dedicated to reducing unfunded liabilities. Those options include securitizing revenue streams from municipally owned water and sewer systems and issuing pension obligation bonds if it is financially prudent to do so.
I look forward to receiving your report on solving Pennsylvania's municipal pension funding problem in a way that is fair and sustainable for municipal employees, municipal governments, and the commonwealth.
Sincerely,
Tom Wolf

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1667#.VYxbPXUVhHw
