Public Statements
Governor Wolf Signs First Bills, Honors First Responders
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 13, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf today signed his first four pieces of legislation, including a bill that extends the application period for survivors of fallen law enforcement officers to apply for death benefits.
At a bill signing ceremony for Act 1 (House Bill 152), Governor Wolf was joined by April Waller and Knidia Kea Coleman and their families, who lost loved ones who died during the performance of their duties.
"It's hard to imagine the pain each of these women felt, as well as the countless families across the commonwealth who have lost their loved ones, and it should be our job to ease that hurt in any way possible," Governor Wolf said.
"Last night in Philadelphia, I witnessed first-hand the risks that law enforcement and first responders undertake to protect and serve the public. We owe it to them and their families to help them recover when the unthinkable unfortunately happens."
Governor Wolf also thanked Representative Will Tallman and Senator Kim Ward for their leadership in getting House Bill 152 passed with bipartisan support.
House Bill 152 amends the Emergency and Law Enforcement Personnel Death Benefits Act to extend the application period for survivors to apply for death benefits from 90 days to four years. The bill is retroactive in that it applies to deaths where an application for benefits was not made within 90 days of death but four years have not passed since the death occurred. The bill also adds survivors of campus police officers who die in the performance of their duties to the list of those eligible for the death benefits.
Governor Wolf also signed:
Act 2 (House Bill 159), which amends Title 40 (Insurance), to allow four entities currently organized as medical professional liability reciprocal exchanges to convert to stock companies;
Act 3 (House Bill 178), which names seven bridges and highways; and
Act 4 (Senate Bill 79), which corrects the naming of a bridge from last year.

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1663#.VYxNhnUVhHw
