Public Statements
Wolf Administration Announces Creation of 115 New Jobs at JLL Facility in City of Pittsburgh
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: May 7, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Department of Community and Economic Development Acting Secretary Dennis Davin on behalf of Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL), an integrated commercial real estate and investment management firm, will relocate and expand its operations by serving as the primary tenant at the newly constructed Tower Two-Sixty in downtown Pittsburgh, Allegheny County, a move that will create 115 new jobs over three years.
"JLL's decision to create 115 new jobs and relocate to the newly constructed Tower Two-Sixty site is a huge win for Pennsylvania and the city of Pittsburgh," said Governor Wolf. "I look forward to seeing more companies setting up shop here in Pennsylvania. Creating a climate for growing good-paying, middle class jobs is my top priority."
JLL will lease 54,000-square-feet of office space designed to accommodate projected growth in professional positions. The commercial real estate company plans to invest more than $5 million at the new site, and has also committed to the creation of 115 new jobs in finance and accounting over the next three years.
JLL received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development including a Pennsylvania First Program grant for $250,000 and $230,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits. The plan was announced at a Topping Off ceremony today at the site.
"Tower Two-Sixty is a bold and exciting addition to the marketplace," said JC Pelusi, Market Leader and Managing Director in JLL's Pittsburgh office. "The building makes a statement, one that contributes to company culture, employee attraction and retention."
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the Governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with Pittsburgh Regional Alliance.
"The Pittsburgh Regional Alliance (PRA) congratulates JLL on its continued expansion in the Pittsburgh region. When a global leader in real estate makes yet another decision to grow here, it's a true indication of Pittsburgh's desirability," said PRA President David Ruppersberger. "The region has long-standing strength in corporate support, which is integral to JLL's services to clients worldwide. The backbone of that corporate support strength is workforce. As JLL continues to grow, recruiting and retaining the best professionals -- especially that next generation of workforce -- will be critical."
JLL (NYSE: JLL) is a professional services and investment management firm offering specialized real estate services to clients seeking increased value by owning, occupying and investing in real estate. With annual fee revenue of $4.7 billion and gross revenue of $5.4 billion, JLL has more than 230 corporate offices, operates in 80 countries and has a global workforce of approximately 58,000. For further information on Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated, visit www.jll.com.

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1654#.VYxNVHUVhHw
