Public Statements
Governor Wolf's 'Jobs That Pay Tour' Rolls into Lehigh Valley, Northeast
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: April 24, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Today, Governor Tom Wolf discussed job creation and workforce development on his "Jobs that Pay" tour at C F Martin & Co.'s factory in Nazareth and the business incubator inside the TekRidge Center in Jessup.
Governor Wolf's budget makes significant new investments in manufacturing, economic development and workforce training aimed at rebuilding Pennsylvania's middle class while reducing the corporate net income tax by 40 percent immediately and finally eliminating the Capital Stock and Franchise Tax. Governor Wolf has toured the state meeting with manufacturers and entrepreneurs to listen to how the commonwealth can support their businesses to create more jobs and better train workers.
"To rebuild the middle class, we need new ideas to create jobs that pay and policies that support our manufacturing and new growth industries," Governor Wolf said. "Coming from the private sector, I know we must make new investments in 21st century manufacturing and refocus our economic development dollars and strategies. The status-quo is no longer acceptable. The commonwealth can help set the table for robust private sector growth to create and retain good jobs while strengthening the middle class."
In addition to increased funding for high school career and technical education programs and the reinstatement of the dual enrollment program, the Governor's budget proposal encourages school districts, employers and postsecondary institutions to work together to create a seamless bridge for students transitioning from high school to college or a career.
"The incubator programs at TekRidge, The Scranton Enterprise Center and Carbondale Technology Transfer Center offer inviting incentives and professional support - allowing start-up companies to establish themselves operationally and financially," Bob Durkin, President of The Greater Scranton Chamber of Commerce, said. "Fostering the growth of these entrepreneurs is a critical element of our overall economic development strategy for Lackawanna County and the regional as a whole."

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1641#.VYw-gHUVhHw
