Public Statements
Governor Wolf Continues 'Jobs that Pay' Tour at the Energy Technology Education Center
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: April 15, 2015
Location: Lycoming, PA

Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf visited the Energy Technology Education Center (ShaleTEC). During his visit, Governor Wolf discussed his 2015-2016 budget proposal, which contains a significant investment in workforce development and a boost in funding for Pennsylvania's most successful, in-demand public post-secondary programs that work to meet the needs of regional and statewide employers.
"Our citizens must have access to the education and training that jobs require, particularly as we continue to grow our energy industry," Governor Wolf said. "Reinvesting in programs like ShaleTec will help prepare people for jobs that pay. Rebuilding the middle class and creating a better future for all Pennsylvanians depends on a skilled workforce and an industry-driven education and training strategy."
Energy Technology Education Center is a collaboration between Pennsylvania College of Technology and Lycoming County Department of Public Safety and was made possible by significant investments by industry. The training center supports local emergency responders by providing hands-on instruction that enables them to understand and implement effective emergency-response practices -- the kind they may encounter at typical gas-field drilling and production sites.
In addition to increased funding for high school career and technical education programs and the reinstatement of the dual enrollment program, the Governor's budget proposal encourages school districts, employers and postsecondary institutions to work together to create a seamless bridge for students transitioning from high school to college or a career. Specifically, the Governor's budget includes a proposed $1.2 million for the Pennsylvania College of Technology, which represents a 7 percent increase. Further, the budget increases funding for programs to supply workers in need of skills with the training they need and help employers find and train employees with 21st century job skills. This includes $18 million for programs that help Pennsylvanians gain targeted job training and new skills necessary to compete in a changing economy.

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1633#.VYw-InUVhHw
