Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces Creation of 51 New Jobs at New Universal Pasteurization Facility in Chester County
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: April 7, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf announced today that Universal Pasteurization Company, LLC, ("Universal Pasteurization" and "UPC"), a provider of high pressure processing (HPP) and cold storage services to domestic food manufacturers, will establish a facility in East Whiteland Township, Chester County -- a move that will create more than 50 new jobs.
"I am pleased that Universal Pasteurization has chosen Pennsylvania as the place to grow its business," said Governor Wolf. "The significant reforms proposed in my budget will continue to move Pennsylvania forward by creating a pro-business climate that supports our manufacturing sector, creating jobs that pay."
Universal Pasteurization has entered into a lease of a 170,000-square-foot facility located at 8 Lee Boulevard. The company plans to invest more than $10.8 million at the new site and has also pledged to create at least 51 new jobs.
The company received a funding proposal from the Department of Community and Economic Development, including $102,000 in Job Creation Tax Credits and a $22,950 WEDnetPA grant to train its workforce.
"As the largest contract manufacturer of HPP services and a provider of cold storage, we are excited about the opportunity to operate and continue to grow our business in Pennsylvania," said Melanie Galloway, Chief Executive Officer, Universal Pasteurization. "The Chester County Economic Development Council has made this a very smooth journey for us and we are very grateful. We look forward to providing a solution for our customers in the northeast, as well as providing jobs and opportunities for the people in Chester County."
The project was coordinated by the Governor's Action Team, an experienced group of economic development professionals who report directly to the Governor and work with businesses that are considering locating or expanding in Pennsylvania, in collaboration with Chester County Economic Development Council.
"We are delighted to have helped locate Universal Pasteurization in Chester County and to have connected UPC to the resources offered through our Ideas x Innovation Network (i2n)," said Michael Grigalonis, Chief Operating Officer, CCEDC. "The Chester County Economic Development Council looks forward to building our relationship with UPC, as it grows its business here, adding to the fabric of what makes Chester County such a wonderful place to live, work and raise a family."
Universal Pasteurization provides high pressure processing and cold storage, along with offering value-added services such as dry and wet tempering, dry-aging, kitting, blast freezing, ink jetting and logistics. Universal Pasteurization also has operations in Lincoln, Nebraska; Villa Rica, Georgia; and Coppell, Texas.

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1627#.VYw-hnUVhHw
