Public Statements
Governor Wolf Continues "Jobs that Pay' Tour at the Community College of Philadelphia
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: April 1, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Today, Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf visited the Community College of Philadelphia's West Regional Center. During his visit, Governor Wolf discussed his 2015-2016 budget proposal, which makes historical investments in K-12 public education, reinvests in higher education, and commits to fully restore cuts to colleges and universities over the next two years.
"My budget proposal recognizes that our responsibility to provide a great education does not end with high school," Governor Wolf said. "Reinvesting in higher education and community colleges will help prepare people for jobs that pay. Rebuilding the middle class and creating a better future for all Pennsylvanians depends on a skilled workforce and an industry-driven education and training strategy."
Joined on the tour with Senator Vincent Hughes and CCP President Donald Generals, Governor Wolf spent the morning learning about the West Regional Center's Automotive Technology Program, where students are prepared to meet modern automobile industry demands for highly skilled, technologically advanced automotive professionals.
In addition to increased funding for high school career and technical education programs and the reinstatement of the dual enrollment program, the Governor's budget proposal encourages school districts, employers and postsecondary institutions to work together to create a seamless bridge for students transitioning from high school to college or a career. In total, the 2015-2016 budget provides a $15 million increase to community colleges. This reinvestment restores 75 percent of the cuts made to community colleges' funding since 2011. His proposed budget provides a 7% increase for CCPs 2015-2016 state allocations.
In return for the governor's investment, he is calling on our state institutions of higher education and community colleges to freeze tuition. The state will also work with community colleges and the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education (PASSHE) to develop individual college plans that address performance, affordability, student completion and transformation through structured career pathways and partnerships with employers.

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1623#.VYw-gnUVhHw
