Public Statements
Wolf Administration Announces Significant Workers' Comp Insurance Rate Cut While Maintaining Benefit Levels for Injured
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: March 27, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

The Wolf Administration today announced Pennsylvania businesses will see a significant cut in workers' compensation insurance rates while benefit levels for injured workers will be maintained. Workers' comp insurance rates will drop 5.99 percent, effective April 1, reducing a key expense for many companies and saving Pennsylvania businesses an estimated $140 million this year.
"A constant concern for business owners is reducing costs while supporting employees' health and livelihood," said Governor Wolf. "These rate reductions will go a long way towards ensuring business owners can continue to create and support jobs that pay in Pennsylvania."
The rate reduction follows the Insurance Department's approval of the Pennsylvania Compensation Rating Bureau's annual loss cost filing. These loss costs are used to determine the premiums businesses pay for workers' compensation insurance. The premium savings for an individual employer will vary based on the employer's risk classification, claims experience and other factors. Not all employers will see a decrease.
This is the fourth consecutive workers' compensation insurance cut in as many years, and brings the cumulative savings to $550 million for the past four years. Workers' compensation insurance covers the cost of medical care and rehabilitation for injured workers, lost wages and death benefits for the dependents of those killed in work-related accidents.
"Reducing this cost helps businesses in our state be more competitive, and frees up money to spend on other priorities, such as hiring more workers," said Acting Insurance Commissioner Teresa Miller.
More than 10,530 state-certified workplace safety committees have been established since March 1994, protecting more than 1,396,306 workers. Additionally, employers with certified workplace safety committees have saved close to $524.3 million in workers' compensation premiums. These savings in insurance costs are due solely to the five-percent premium discount provided to businesses that have these committees.
"We are proud of the role our Bureau of Workers' Compensation Health & Safety division plays in the keeping our workers safe," Acting Labor & Industry Secretary Kathy Manderino said. "It's clear that employer safety programs produce tangible benefits and cost savings. Coupled with the reduction in premium rates, employers with safety committees get a win-win in savings and safety."
Employers should contact their insurance company or agent for more information about how their workers' compensation premiums will be affected.

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1615#.VYw3DnUVhHw
