Public Statements
Updated: Governor Wolf's Statement on Pennsylvania State Police Pursuit of Steve Stephens
By: Tom Wolf
Date: April 18, 2017
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Wolf released the following statement on the Pennsylvania State Police's pursuit of Steve Stephens:
"I am incredibly grateful to the Pennsylvania State police for their bravery and vigilance in spotting and pursuing "Facebook Live Killer' Steve Stephens in Erie and acting without hesitation to keep others safe. On behalf of all Pennsylvanians and Americans, I thank these state troopers, the entire State Police and all law enforcement involved for their heroism in protecting their fellow citizens."
Update: Governor Wolf delivers remarks on Pennsylvania State Police Pursuit of Steve Stephens
I would just like to take a moment to address this morning's pursuit in Erie County by the Pennsylvania State Police of a person named Steve Stephens fleeing Cleveland, Ohio. He committed a brutal murder, at least one, and shamefully broadcast it online. This act was horrific and Stephens posed a true threat to other citizens. Nevertheless, the Pennsylvania State Police did not back down from this. They got a tip from an alert citizen and immediately began to canvas the area. When they spotted the vehicle that Stephens was driving, they began their pursuit and attempted to disable the vehicle. Eventually they caused it to spin out of control. At this time, Stephens took his own life. Thanks to the vigilance and swift action of these Pennsylvania state troopers, there were no reported injuries, none, to law enforcement or to members of the public. On behalf of all Pennsylvanians, I just want to thank the state troopers for their heroism, and all law enforcement involved in this manhunt, for their bravery. This is just another reminder to all of us of the important role that state troopers play in keeping our community safe. I just want to say on behalf of all Pennsylvanians, we're grateful for their efforts to protect their fellow Pennsylvanians, all of us, and everybody else in this region from harm.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolfs-statement-on-pennsylvania-state-police-pursuit-of-steve-stephens/
