Public Statements
Governor Wolf Visits Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology On His "Schools That Teach Tour"
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: March 12, 2015
Location: Lancaster, PA

Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf continued his "Schools That Teach" Tour today at the Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology in Lancaster County. During his visit, Governor Wolf discussed his 2015-2016 budget proposal, which makes historic investments in K-12 public education and higher education, and commits to fully restore cuts to colleges and universities over the next two years.
"When I ran a business, finding talented people with a strong education was my highest priority. It's what made us competitive in the marketplace," Governor Wolf said. "My budget proposal recognizes that our responsibility to provide a great education does not end with high school. Reinvesting in higher education and community colleges will help prepare people for jobs that pay. Rebuilding the middle class and creating a better future for all Pennsylvanians depends on a skilled workforce and a real world education and training strategy."
In addition to increased funding for high school career and technical education programs and the reinstatement of the dual enrollment program, the Governor's budget proposal encourages school districts, employers and postsecondary institutions to work together to create a seamless bridge for students transitioning from high school to college or a career.
The 2015-16 Budget provides significant increases to two of Pennsylvania's most successful, in-demand public post-secondary programs that work to meet the needs of regional and statewide employers--a $1.231 million (7 percent) increase for the Penn College of Technology and an $863,000 (7 percent) increase for the Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology
Governor Wolf spent the morning learning about the college's two-year technical programs that prepare students for the workforce demands of technology-based industries. Governor Wolf, along with Lancaster city Mayor Rick Gray, toured classes and met students learning welding, machine technology and electro-mechanical technology.
In return for the governor's investment, he is calling on our state institutions of higher education and community colleges to freeze tuition. The state will also work with community colleges and the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education (PASSHE) to develop individual college plans that address performance, affordability, student completion and transformation through structured career pathways and partnerships with employers.

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1600#.VRMsTKCW1Kg
