Public Statements
Governor Wolf Visits Community College of Allegheny County On His "Schools That Teach' Tour
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: March 10, 2015
Location: Oakdale, PA

Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf continued his "Schools That Teach' Tour today at the Community College of Allegheny County. During his visit, Governor Wolf discussed his 2015-2016 budget proposal, which makes historical investments in K-12 public education, reinvests in higher education, and commits to fully restore cuts to colleges and universities over the next two years. Governor Wolf's budget would provide a $2,273,641 increase for the Community College of Allegheny County in 2015-2016.
Governor Wolf spent the morning learning about CCAC's commitment to developing Western Pennsylvania's workforce. The governor, joined by Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald and Senate Minority Leader Jay Costa, toured the Center for Professional Development, met with students and instructors in the Mechatronics program, and learned about job opportunities that CCAC students pursue in industries such as manufacturing, energy, healthcare, and the military.
"When I ran a business, finding talented people with a strong education was my highest priority. It's what made us competitive in the marketplace," Governor Wolf said. "My budget proposal recognizes that our responsibility to provide a great education does not end with high school. Reinvesting in higher education and community colleges will help prepare people for jobs that pay. Rebuilding the middle class and creating a better future for all Pennsylvanians depends on a skilled workforce and a business-driven education and training strategy."
In addition to increased funding for high school career and technical education programs and the reinstatement of the dual enrollment program, the Governor's budget proposal encourages school districts, employers and postsecondary institutions to work together to create a seamless bridge for students transitioning from high school to college or a career. In total, the 2015-2016 budget provides a $15 million increase to community colleges. This reinvestment restores 75 percent of the cuts made to community colleges' funding since 2011.
In return for the governor's investment, he is calling on our state institutions of higher education and community colleges to freeze tuition. The state will also work with community colleges and the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education (PASSHE) to develop individual college plans that address performance, affordability, student completion and transformation through structured career pathways and partnerships with employers.

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1595#.VRM43qCW1Kg
