Public Statements
Commonwealth Financing Authority Announces New Alternative, Clean Energy Investments to Improve Environment, Invest in Future
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: March 10, 2015
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Wolf announced today that the Commonwealth Financing Authority approved funding to support new Alternative and Clean Energy (ACE) projects with the investment of more than $6.0 million in grants.
"Today's investments approved by the Commonwealth Financing Authority are a start to building a stronger Pennsylvania," Governor Wolf said. "Pennsylvania can have a bright future, but we must continue to work together to make new, bold decisions to move the commonwealth forward. My proposed budget includes recommendations that will once again make Pennsylvania a leader in national energy."
The Commonwealth Financing Authority (CFA) approved three High Performance Building projects through the state's Alternative and Clean Energy (ACE) program.
The CFA investments in Bucks and Lancaster counties are projected to result in more than $130.543 million in additional economic investments.
The ACE Program provides financial assistance in the form of grants and loan funds that will be used by eligible applicants for the utilization, development and construction of alternative and clean energy projects in the state.
For more information about the CFA and a complete list of approved projects, visit www.newPA.com or call 1-866-466-3972.
Editor's Note: CFA project approvals funded through the ACE Program
High Performance Building Projects:
Bucks County
Council Rock School District will receive two grants for the construction of two high performance buildings within the district. The first grant for $2 million is for the construction of a new USGBC LEED Gold middle school located in Newtown, Bucks County. The new 176,000-square-foot school will include geothermal heating and cooling, energy-efficient lighting, automated energy control systems, low-flow water-saving fixtures, occupancy-based temperature and lighting, a 110 kW solar PV array, and an improved thermal envelope. The project is anticipated to reduce energy consumption by an estimated 3,429,021 kBTU annually. In addition, new low-flow water fixtures will save the district 30 percent of the annual water usage at the building. The total project cost is estimated at $55,820,000.
Council Rock School District also received a $2 million grant for the renovation and construction of a USGBC LEED Gold middle school in Northampton Township, Bucks County. The 136,000-square-foot renovation will also feature the addition of 44,000 square feet. The project will also include geothermal heating and cooling, energy-efficient lighting, automated energy control systems, low-flow water-saving fixtures, occupancy-based temperature and lighting, a 110kW solar PV array, and an improved thermal envelope. The project is anticipated to reduce energy consumption by an estimated 3,462,236 kBTU annually. In addition, new low-flow water fixtures will save the district 30 percent of the annual water usage at the building. The total project cost is estimated at $50,675,001.
Lancaster County
Manheim Central School District will receive a $2 million grant for the construction of a new USGBC Gold elementary school in Penn Township, Lancaster County. The new 120,000-square-foot school will include a ground-source geothermal HVAC system, energy efficient lighting, a building orientation that takes advantage of natural daylight opportunities, and a modern thermal envelope. The project is anticipated to reduce energy consumption by 1,664,010 kBTU annually. In addition, new low-flow water fixtures will save the district 30 percent of the annual water usage at the building. The total project cost is estimated at $30,048,000.

Source: http://www.governor.pa.gov/Pages/Pressroom_details.aspx?newsid=1597#.VRMwgaCW1Kg
