Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces State Clean Energy Grant Investment
By: Tom Wolf
Date: April 17, 2017
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Today, Governor Tom Wolf announced funding approval through the Pennsylvania State Clean Diesel Grant Program to assist the Berks County Intermediate Unit in replacing six older diesel-powered school buses with newer diesel-powered buses.
"Programs like this that help improve air quality are extremely important for the citizens of Pennsylvania and I am pleased to announce the first award approved this year to assist Berks County Intermediate Unit's efforts to reduce emissions," said Governor Wolf.
The project is anticipated to remove 108 pounds of fine particulate matter, 212 pounds of hydrocarbons, 640 pounds of carbon monoxide, and 1,300 lbs. of oxides of nitrogen annually from the air.
"Berks County is a nonattainment area for ozone and maintenance area for fine particulate matter National Ambient Air Quality Standards," said Department of Environmental Protection Acting Secretary Patrick McDonnell. "Replacing the school buses will help the commonwealth's efforts to improve air quality in this area and protect citizens' health and the environment."
Nearly $400,000 in State Clean Diesel Grant funding is still available for projects that replace, re-power, or retrofit fleet diesel-powered highway and nonroad vehicles, engines, and equipment.
Public and private entities that operate diesel-powered fleets throughout the commonwealth are eligible, including but not limited to school districts, municipal authorities, political subdivisions, other state agencies, nonprofit entities, corporations, limited liability companies or partnerships incorporated or registered in the commonwealth.
Applications will be accepted through May 12, 2017 and guidelines are available on the DEP Bureau of Air Quality website.
State Clean Diesel Grants are funded by U.S. Environmental Protection Agency through allocations from the federal Diesel Emission Reduction Act.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-state-clean-energy-grant-investment/
