Public Statements
Letter to Members of Pennsylvania Congressional Delegation - Support of Miners Protection Act
Letter
By: Tom Wolf
Date: April 11, 2017
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Dear Representative:
As you may be aware, without action from Congress in the coming days, health care benefits for tens of thousands of retired coal miners, including nearly two thousand in Pennsylvania, will expire at the end of April. Without action from Congress in the near term, the pension plan relied on by 13,000 Pennsylvania retirees will approach insolvency in the next few years. Retired miners worked for these benefits, paid for them with years of service doing dangerous work so that the rest of us could have reliable and affordable power. We have a responsibility to see that these benefits are preserved.
To ensure that we uphold our commitments, I urge you to join the bi-partisan coalition supporting the Miners Protection Act (HR 179), which provides a comprehensive and permanent remedy to continue health care benefits, and ensure the long-term solvency of the United Mine Workers of America's 1974 Pension Plan and Trust.
The Miners Protection Act, which Senator Casey has championed in the Senate, and which your colleagues Representatives Boyle, Brady, Cartwright, Doyle, Fitzpatrick, Shuster, and Thompson have joined as co-sponsors in the House, is bipartisan, completely offset, and will not divert dollars from abandoned mine reclamation work.
On March 1, 2017, Pennsylvania's retired miners and their families began receiving letters informing them that their health benefits will be terminated at the end of April. This was the second such letter many have received in the past five months. As you can imagine, the ongoing uncertainty about benefits many of these retirees depend on for critical services and lifesaving medications has been a significant source of anxiety and stress, and only compounds as the deadline approaches. We owe these workers better. I urge you to support the Miners Protection Act in order to provide a permanent remedy that averts the loss of hard-earned health and retirement benefits and gives our miners and their families peace of mind.
For the sake of Pennsylvania's retired miners and their families, please support the Miners Protection Act. Thank you for your consideration of this request.
Sincerely,

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-urges-congress-to-support-miners-protection-act/
