Public Statements
Blog: Tom Wolf: Thank You
Statement
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Nov. 4, 2014
Location: Unknown

As I travelled all across Pennsylvania during this campaign, I was amazed at the dedication, energy, and enthusiasm put forth by supporters like you to encourage others to participate in our democracy.
You made this campaign about more than electing me -- you made it about people coming together to improve our schools, our neighborhoods, and our state.
Throughout my life, I've found that the only way to get things done right is to listen, to treat people fairly, and to include everyone in the process. It's that kind of collaboration that allowed me to turn my former business around, and it's the approach we need to take to bring about the bright future this great commonwealth deserves.
Governor Tom Corbett, Lt. Governor Jim Cawley, and their many supporters deserve our respect and admiration for running a campaign focused on the issues. While we may disagree on ideology, we all agree that Pennsylvania's best days are ahead of us.
I hope you keep your passion for Pennsylvania alive by continuing to connect with residents all across our commonwealth. In the days and weeks ahead, I urge you to reach out to your neighbors -- especially those who didn't support this campaign -- and ask them what you can do together to improve your community.
The conversations you have may surprise you.
If we're going to fund a world-class public education system, create family-sustaining jobs, bring about fairness and equality under the law, provide access to affordable health care, build safe communities, and keep Pennsylvania beautiful, it's going to take all of us doing our part.
Democracy requires healthy debates, but our duty to Pennsylvania requires that we listen, that we roll up our sleeves, and that we come together to do what is right.
As your governor, I'll be there working with you -- and I can't wait to see what we do together to help give Pennsylvania a fresh start.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/blog/tom-wolf-thank-you
