Public Statements
Blog: Getting Out the Vote in State College with Ice Cream and Tom Wolf
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Oct. 31, 2014
Location: Unknown

Since last Friday, the Fresh Start Bus has made twenty-five stops throughout Pennsylvania, and on Wednesday, Tom was on the trail again visiting State College, Lock Haven, Bloomsburg, Reading, and Coatesville.
The bus pulled into State College early yesterday morning, where Tom greeted more than one hundred supporters at the famous Berkey Creamery. In addition to enjoying some delicious chocolate ice cream, Tom shook hands and took pictures with supporters and stressed the importance of Tuesday's election:
"I don't care who you are. I don't care what your party is. I don't care where you grew up; you can't like what you've seen over the last few years, especially if you're a student."
Wolf told the crowd that unlike Governor Corbett, he'll make funding education and creating family-sustaining jobs a priority:
"Our schools have been hollowed out. Whatever this governor is doing hasn't worked. Pennsylvania has numerous natural resources including timber, coal, natural gas, fresh water, and beautiful scenery.If any other state had one or two of the things we have, they'd be at the top of the charts in terms of economic development. We're at the bottom."
In Reading, Tom continued to urge supporters to help him get out the vote:
"If you believe that we shouldn't do what we're doing anymore, and if you believe we can do so much more, we have got to make 2014 a time when we actually make that point at the ballot box. That's the only place it really counts."
And in Coatesville -- the last stop for the day -- Tom spoke to a fired up crowd of a more than one hundred and fifty people and urged everyone to get to the polls on Tuesday in order to change the culture in Harrisburg.
"I think 2014 is really unique for us because we get a chance to say who we are. It's not just for rejecting what we don't like, but we have a chance to say, 'Pennsylvania, we can be something good.' And Pennsylvania should not settle for anything less."
As we head toward Tuesday, check back for more updates from the Fresh Start Bus Tour, and be sure to sign up to see when Tom and the bus are rolling into your neighborhood.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/blog/state-college-fresh-start-bus-tour
