Public Statements
Blog: Sharon, Meadville, Erie, and Dubois Are Fired Up to Vote for Tom Wolf on November 4
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Oct. 30, 2014
Location: Unknown

Throughout the Fresh Start Bus Tour, Tom Wolf has told supporters about his vision for the future of Pennsylvania. And on Tuesday -- day five of the tour -- Tom brought his fresh start message to Sharon, Meadville, Erie, and Dubois.
Surrounded by more than one hundred supporters in Erie, Tom spoke about what's at stake on November 4:
"This election isn't just about rejecting the policies of an incumbent -- it is also about what Pennsylvania can be. And I think Pennsylvania, for too long, has been thinking about what we aren't. I think this election is a chance for us to do something affirmational and say that we can do better."
In Sharon, some supporters brandished "Educators for Wolf" t-shirts and signs as Tom told the crowd about his plan to restore Governor Corbett's $1 billion cuts to education and invest in public schools by instituting a 5% severance tax on big oil and gas companies.
"This administration has not invested in education. Do you like that?" Tom asked the crowd.
"No!" the fired up crowd yelled back.
"I understand that you can't throw money at any issue, but you can't take money away from education and expect a better result," Tom continued to rousing applause.
Governor Corbett's $1 billion cuts from education have led to increases in class sizes, more than 27,000 educators losing their jobs, and skyrocketing property taxes.
Not only are Pennsylvania schoolchildren being held back by Governor Corbett's misplaced priorities -- so is our economy. From the front steps of the Crawford County Democratic Committee's headquarters in Meadville, Tom expressed his concern about the direction Governor Corbett has taken Pennsylvania's economy.
"On the campaign trail, I have been discussing how Pennsylvania has fallen from 9th to 47th in the nation in job creation. But now, new information from the Bureau of Labor says we are now 50th in the nation in job creation."
Tom knows that we can do better in Pennsylvania. That's why he's traveling the commonwealth on his bus tour talking to voters about his fresh start plan, how they can help get out the vote, and making sure they have a plan for voting next Tuesday.
"The elections are a week away. If we get out to vote, we can actually change Pennsylvania. So let's make 2014 the year where we resurrect our democracy."
Check back for more updates from the tour, and make sure you sign up to see when Tom and the Fresh Start Bus are rolling into your neighborhood.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/blog/sharon-meadville-erie-dubois-fresh-start-bus
