Public Statements
Blog: Day 3 of the Fresh Start Bus Tour Visits McKeesport, Washington, and Aliquippa
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Oct. 28, 2014
Location: Unknown

On Sunday, Tom Wolf continued the Western Pennsylvania leg of his Fresh Start Bus Tour with the support of his two daughters, Katie and Sarah, and his wife Frances in McKeesport, Washington, and Aliquippa.
In McKeesport, Tom talked to a hall filled with excited supporters about how education is vital to the success of his business and other businesses in Pennsylvania.
"If we don't do a good job of delivering on Pennsylvania's constitutional promise of providing a thorough and efficient education, our society is not going to work, our democracy is not going to work. If we want a stronger economy -- if my business is going to survive, if it's going to thrive -- we need a good education system."
Tom knows that a high-quality education system is the foundation of a strong economy. Unfortunately, Governor Corbett's failed economic policies and $1 billion cuts to education have held Pennsylvania back. Thanks to Corbett, Pennsylvania is facing a $2.7 billion deficit and the commonwealth was forced to take out a $1.5 billion loan just to keep the lights on.
Among a Washington County crowd ready to put Pennsylvania back on the right track, Tom said that if his business ran on the same economic model as Governor Corbett's management of Pennsylvania, his business wouldn't be successful.
"If I went to a bank and asked for a loan with a cash flow like Pennsylvania's, the bank would tell me that I didn't have a business plan that works. They would tell me that my business plan is nonsense and they would not give me a loan."
At the Wolf Organization, Tom built both a prosperous and fair business. The Wolf Organization pays living wages, provides good benefits, and even shares 20-30% percent of net profits with employees. Tom follows this business model not just because it's right, but also because it's good business and the path toward building a stronger community and a stronger middle class. Tom believes that fairness matters, and it is a value we need to instill in government in Pennsylvania.
Tom has a plan to make Pennsylvania a place full of opportunities and dynamic economic growth, which you can read more about at WolfForPA.com/Fresh-Start.
All across Pennsylvania, grassroots supporters are fired up to elect Tom as governor on November 4, but with less than a week to go, Tom told the crowd in Aliquippa that we have to turn that energy into action:
"The only poll that counts is the one on November 4th. I need you to go out and vote. I need you to get your friends, your neighbors, your family members to go out and vote. Because if we don't, we'll miss our chance to get our state moving in the right direction."
Check back for more dispatches from the Fresh Start Bus Tour, and be sure to sign up to see when Tom and the bus are rolling into your neighborhood.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/blog/day-3-fresh-start-bus-tour
