Public Statements
Blog: Tom Wolf Kicks Off Statewide Fresh Start Bus Tour with Supporters
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Oct. 25, 2014
Location: Unknown

Yesterday, hundreds of supporters joined Tom Wolf at grassroots events on the first day of the statewide Fresh Start Bus Tour.
The tour kicked off in Tom's hometown of York, where a few hundred friends and neighbors turned out to cheer on Tom as he got ready to board the bus that will make stops across the state in the final days before Election Day.
The design for the bus was inspired by Tom's famous Jeep.
At the kickoff, Tom told the crowd of friends, neighbors, and supporters how important this election is for Pennsylvania's future.
"Do you like where we are right now? Schools have been hollowed out, we have 27,000 educators that have lost their jobs, and right here in York County, class sizes have shot through the roof -- and so have property taxes."
"I'm a Pennsylvanian. I'm from York County. I was born here, I grew up here, I do not want my state to continue down this road."
As supporters waved signs, clapped, and cheered, Tom laid out his vision for a better Pennsylvania.
"This election is about what we do want for Pennsylvania. We want to invest in education, infrastructure, and middle-class jobs. We need to take advantage of our natural resources and make sure we have a level playing field. If we do those things, we're going to have a great Pennsylvania."
Before boarding the bus, Tom thanked the York ralliers for their support and asked them to keep up the hard work to help get out the vote on November 4.
"I need you to come out and vote. I need you to tell your friends and neighbors to come out and vote, and I need you to continue to support me with your volunteer efforts."
The crowd at the Historic Harrisburg Association waits to hear Tom speak.
Following the sendoff rally, the Fresh Start bus headed to downtown Harrisburg, where Tom talked about how Governor Corbett's policies have sunk Pennsylvania to last in the nation in job creation.
"If you have objective eyes, you can't be happy with the way the economy is going. What would Pennsylvania look like if it worked for everyone?"
"It's time to look forward and say 'we can do better.' Let's vote for what we can be. 2014 is a chance to show how great Pennsylvania can be."
Tom and the Fresh Start bus also made stops to speak to excited crowds in Somerset and Altoona.
A packed room in Altoona listens to Tom Wolf talk about his Fresh Start plan for Pennsylvania.
Today, Tom Wolf is continuing his statewide Fresh Start Bus Tour at grassroots events in Johnstown, Indiana, Leechburg, Greensburg, Uniontown, and Waynesburg.
Check back for more updates from the tour, and be sure to sign up to see when the Fresh Start Bus rolls into your neighborhood.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/blog/tom-wolf-kicks-off-bus-tour
