Public Statements
Governor Wolf Announces $2.4 million in Business-Education Partnership Program Grants
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: April 5, 2017
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Tom Wolf, in conjunction with the Department of Labor & Industry (L&I), today announced 19 recipients of Business-Education Partnership (BEP) Program grants totaling $2.4 million.
"This funding supports the "Educator in the Workplace' initiative which connects classroom learning with relevant business practices," Governor Wolf said. "Partnering teachers with business leaders to integrate subject material with relevant work standards will help better prepare students for 21st century careers."
In November 2016, the Pennsylvania Workforce Development Board recommended a portion of the Workforce Investment and Opportunity Act discretionary monies from fiscal year 2015-16 be used to fund the Business-Education Partnerships program. These partnerships connect local businesses with school districts to promote job opportunities and career pathways to increase awareness of in-demand technical careers.
The Business-Education Partnerships connect schools, employers and students to provide career-related experiences and exposure opportunities through soft-skills development, internships, workplace shadowing, and career mentoring, all with the goal of engaging more students in the need for technical skills required by employers.
A total of $2.4 million WIOA state set-aside dollars were available for the grants and each of the 22 local Workforce Development Boards (LWDBs) were encouraged to apply.
"Labor & Industry is proud to administer this funding to encourage students interested in exploring career and technical education opportunities," said L&I Secretary Kathy Manderino. "Providing Pennsylvania's young people with a solid first work experience puts them squarely on the path to future success."
For a full list of winners and grant amounts, www.dli.pa.gov/Businesses.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-announces-2-4-million-in-business-education-partnership-program-grants/
