Public Statements
Blog: Latinos for Wolf Mobilizes to Get Out the Vote in Philadelphia, Reading, and All Across Pennsylvania
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Sept. 24, 2014
Location: Unknown

Latinos for Wolf held with events in both Philadelphia and Reading to mobilize the Latino community for the upcoming November election.
In Philadelphia, Tom Wolf was joined by Councilwoman Maria Quiñones Sanchez, former Councilman Angel Ortiz, and former Pennsylvania Secretary of State Pedro Cortes to help fire up Latino voters about electing Tom Wolf in November.
Each speaker echoed Tom's fresh start message for Pennsylvania -- rebuilding a secure middle class, investing in education, and bringing good-paying jobs back to our state -- and each asserted that Tom is the right person to make it happen.
"This is not just about one person who wants to win the governorship of Pennsylvania," Tom said during his speech, "This about making our commonwealth better. This is about making our commonwealth better for everyone."
The Reading rally was attended by several elected officials in the city, including Reading Mayor Vaughn D. Spence, State Representative Mark Rozzi, Reading City Council President Frances Acosta, Allentown City Council President Julio Guridy, Pennsylvania Legislative Director for the Laborers' International Union Abe Amoros, and a host of other elected officials who traveled from as far as Lancaster to show their support for Tom.
In Reading, Tom discussed the need for every Pennsylvanian to have a fair shot at success.
"If everybody feels that they have a shot at making good in this state, we're going to all benefit from that. Fairness is not a feel-good thing that comes around at election time with some politician checking off the box. Fairness actually matters."
Education funding and unemployment are key concerns for Pennsylvania's Latino community -- 9.2% of Latinos are out of work, significantly higher than the state average.
Under Governor Corbett, Pennsylvania has fallen from 9th to 47th in job growth, and for the second month in a row, unemployment is on the rise.
As governor, Tom Wolf will fully restore education funding to ensure Pennsylvania's children are receiving the world-class education they deserve. In addition, Tom will make job creation a top priority by rebuilding the state's manufacturing sector, beginning with clean energy technology. He will work to implement policies that help attract the high-tech, high-wage jobs of the future, and he will raise the statewide minimum wage to $10.10 an hour.
With the election only a few short weeks away, the Latinos for Wolf initiative is hitting the ground running with voter contact and mobilization. If you believe in Tom's message of a fresh start for Pennsylvania, sign up today to join this effort.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/blog/latinos-for-wolf-kickoff
