Public Statements
Tom Wolf Visits Advent Design to Discuss Manufacturing, Education, and Workforce Development
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Sept. 4, 2014
Location: Unknown

Yesterday, Tom was in Bucks County where he stopped by Advent Design to discuss manufacturing, education, and workforce development.
Advent Design, a manufacturing and design company in Bristol, is a Pennsylvania success story, and like Tom, they are vocal proponents of American and local manufacturing. After the tour, Tom had an opportunity to describe Advent's ingenuity:
"They're designing processes here that make America competitive with the rest of the world. In fact, we can beat the rest of the world...and its not just patriotism they're appealing to -- they're competing on price, on quality, on everything."
In the mid-1980s, Advent Design started out as a small business with four employees using 2,500 square feet in an old woolen mill in Bristol. Today, Advent occupies a 200,000-square-foot plant, employs over ninety workers, and has customers like Martin Guitar and K'Nex, two Pennsylvania manufacturers that Tom visited earlier in the summer.
In fact, every Lincoln Log and Tinker Toy that will appear on shelves in the coming Holiday season will pass through Advent Design.
While touring their facility, Tom talked about how he reinvented the business model of the Wolf Organization when he bought it back in 2009 by designing and sourcing Wolf-brand products right here in Pennsylvania and across the United States. Tom made this strategic choice at the Wolf Organization in order to compete directly with overseas companies, and Tom explained that Advent Design likewise decided to invest in Pennsylvania because of the advantages the state's geographic location lends to moving products.
"They're taking advantage of...the natural ingenuity that we have here. And they're creating the stuff we saw out there -- it's really amazing. We need to recognize that, not only is it a patriotic thing to say that we should be making stuff in the United States -- we need to figure out how we can take advantage of the natural advantage we have [here in Pennsylvania] and actually make more stuff."
Tom understands that if Pennsylvania companies are going to grow and thrive in a global economy, we must invest greater resources into workforce development. Unfortunately, a company like Advent Design's growth has been hindered due to a lack of quality training programs for machinists.
In the past, Advent participated in a program for developing machinists in Philadelphia and hired a worker from the first graduating class, but the state closed the program shortly after. Advent told Tom that if the state had kept the program, they would have hired someone every year and their machine shop would be much larger.
Pennsylvania needs a leader who is ready to invest in our future. Governor Corbett is not that leader. In the 2013-2014 budget, the state is actually underfunding these programs by 8 percent. Tom has a plan to make sure Pennsylvania has a workforce equipped with the skills needed for 21st century, advanced manufacturing.
As governor, Tom will invest in workforce development, and he will also enact innovative reforms to improve outcomes. Tom firmly believes that American workers, working in plants located in the United States, can produce goods that compete on both price and quality with anybody making anything anywhere in the world.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/blog/tom-wolf-advent-design
