Public Statements
Severance Tax Projected To Generate Over $1 Billion, Would Raise Hundreds of Millions For Education
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Sept. 2, 2014
Location: York, PA

Governor Corbett's refusal to support a severance tax on natural gas extraction is leaving over $1 billion on the table at a time when Pennsylvania schools are struggling as a result of his $1 billion in cuts to public education. Natural gas production in Pennsylvania -- the only major gas-producing state in the country without a severance tax -- is at a record high according to recently released data from the state's Department of Environmental Protection.
"We should all be alarmed by the deteriorating public education system our children are returning to as the school year begins," said Tom Wolf. "With natural gas production at an all-time high, a reasonable 5 percent severance tax would generate over $1 billion in 2015. Governor Corbett's refusal to support a severance tax shortchanges our children and further decimates our schools. Governor Corbett's cuts to schools across the state have resulted in property tax increases, massive layoffs, the elimination of valuable programs, and larger class sizes. Our children and schools cannot afford another four years of Governor Corbett's failed policies."
New estimates project that Pennsylvania would generate over $1 billion by 2015-16 and nearly $1.5 billion by 2018-19 if a 5 percent severance tax was imposed:
"Pennsylvania remains the only significant gas-producing state that does not have a severance tax. With the new production numbers we estimate that a 5% severance tax could raise over $1 billion by 2015-16 and almost $1.5 billion by 2018-19." [Pennsylvania Budget and Policy Center, August 28, 2014]
The Tribune-Review reported that shale wells across the state produced nearly 2 trillion cubic feet during the first half of 2014, a 14 percent increase in production over the last six months of 2013. This also represents an increase from about 1.4 trillion cubic feet over the first six months of 2013. During the same period, the value of gas produced increased from $6.4 billion to $9.6 billion.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/press-releases/severance-tax-would-generate-over-one-billion
