Public Statements
Statement from Tom Wolf Following Superintendent Hite's Announcement Regarding Philadelphia Schools
Statement
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Aug. 15, 2014
Location: Unknown

Following Superintendent Hite's press conference regarding Philadelphia Schools, Tom Wolf released the following statement:
"We need to stop this cycle of lurching from crisis to crisis and make sure that Philadelphia schools have the funding they need to provide a strong education for our children. It is unfair to continuously force the Philadelphia School District into these types of decisions where our children lose out. Pennsylvania Schools will begin another year without the resources needed to provide our kids the kind of education that will give them the skills necessary to take advantage of an ever-changing, highly competitive economy. There is no greater risk to Pennsylvania's future.
"Philadelphia schools should never have been placed in a position where they have to rely on cash advances and cigarette taxes while facing massive layoffs and further program cuts, but Governor Corbett's complete mismanagement has forced the school district into turmoil.
"Over the past four years, Tom Corbett's $1 billion education cuts have led to over 20,000 educators losing their jobs, valuable programs being eliminated, and class sizes dramatically increasing in size. Meanwhile, Tom Corbett is refusing to implement a reasonable severance tax that will help fund all of Pennsylvania's schools including Philadelphia.
"Today's announcement of deep cuts to services like safety, transportation, cleaning, advancement programs, and other needed services means that Philadelphia children will have a more difficult and greatly diminished educational experience. The announcements make the current crisis even more acute.
"We need to do things differently.
"The Philadelphia school funding crisis has truly highlighted the need for a fair, basic education funding formula to make sure that every student, despite their zip code, receives the education that they deserve.
"Tom Corbett has once again displayed a lack of leadership, leaving Philadelphia school children in limbo and refusing to provide adequate or fair funding.
"Governor Corbett's failed policies have not only affected Philadelphia; across the state we have seen increased property taxes, massive layoffs, larger class sizes, and the elimination of valuable programs. Pennsylvania's children, and our schools, cannot afford another four years of Governor Corbett's misplaced priorities."

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/press-releases/wolf-statement-on-opening-of-philadelphia-schools
