Public Statements
Tribune-Democrat - Educational Tour: Gubernatorial Candidate Outlines Goals
News Article
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Aug. 12, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Dave Sutor
Tom Wolf spent time learning about the region's different types of educational opportunities on Tuesday.
The Democratic Party gubernatorial nominee visited Greater Johnstown Career and Technology Center, Pennsylvania Highlands Community College and University of Pittsburgh at Johnstown during his time in Cambria County. He talked with school representatives about programs offered at those institutions and discussed his own education plan for the commonwealth.
"I am really focused on this because I understand how important education is to our workforce and to make sure that what we're doing at each of our institutions of education -- higher education, vo-techs, the community colleges -- that we're actually making sure that Pennsylvanians get a relevant education and that Pennsylvania -- the economy -- gets the skills that are necessary here in the 21st century," said Wolf, who earned a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
He was joined on the tour by Johnstown Area Regional Industries workforce director Debi Balog, along with some local Democrats: former U.S. Rep. Mark Critz, Cambria County Commissioner Thomas Chernisky, state Sen. John Wozniak and state Rep. Frank Burns.
"By going to the vo-tech, going to Penn Highlands and coming to UPJ, we wanted to show him all of the organizations working together to move this area forward and also educate the next generation of the workforce," Critz said.
Chernisky added, "Obviously, he's on top of education, and there's nothing wrong with seeing people face to face and asking questions and getting answers."
Wolf's plan calls for raising new funds for education from multiple sources.
The goal would be to replace the approximately $1 billion in federal stimulus money from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that the state had for its 2010-11 budget, but no other year since, a loss the Democrats frequently refer to as a "cut" made by Gov. Tom Corbett, a Republican.
"I want to put a tax, a 5 percent tax on the Marcellus Shale industry and a chunk of that -- not all of that, some of that -- would go back to the localities, some of it would be used for DEP (Department of Environmental Protection) and a bridge to a sustainable energy future -- but some of that would be used for education, a big chunk of it, hundreds of millions of dollars," Wolf said.
"If we looked at a fair way of funding good performing charter schools, according to an auditor general, (former) Auditor General Jack Wagner, that would be about $200 (or) $300 million that we could get there. If we expanded Medicaid, that would save about $250 million, taken from there to education. That would get you pretty close to the billion dollars that was taken out. I think that would be a down payment. Then we'd look for ways to make sure that we were funding it adequately."
He would also like to see the state provide half of school districts' funding in order to reduce local property taxes.
"I think the reliance on the local property tax for funding public education creates a lot of animosity and a lot of opposition to education that wouldn't be there if we funded it in a fair manner that wasn't imposing on private owners," Wolf said.

Source: http://www.tribdem.com/news/local_news/article_7775fa6e-2292-11e4-9c96-001a4bcf887a.html
