Public Statements
Governor Wolf, PennDOT Announce Infrastructure Investments for 2017 Construction Season in Northeastern Pennsylvania
By: Tom Wolf
Date: April 5, 2017
Location: Dunmore, PA

Governor Tom Wolf joined representatives from PennDOT today to launch the 2017 construction season and announce major investments in road improvements throughout Northeastern Pennsylvania.
"Residents throughout the region are going to see more work this year than they've seen in a very, very long time," Governor Wolf said. "Bridges are being replaced, roads are being paved, and our transportation system is being improved. Communities throughout Pennsylvania are going to see these improvements and today I'm thrilled to recognize the investments being made in District 4."
Due to Act 89, the state's transportation plan, northeastern Pennsylvania will see a significant increase in the amount of work taking place this year to improve the transportation network for the region.
Overall, highlights in the 2017 construction season for District 4 (Lackawanna, Luzerne, Pike, Susquehanna, Wayne and Wyoming counties) include:
more than 300 miles of roadway that will be paved or resurfaced by PennDOT personnel;
an additional 133 miles of roadway that will be paved or resurfaced by private industry;
approximately 600 miles of roadway that will be crack sealed or repaired;
104 bridges that will be either repaired or replaced;
and 86 safety enhancement projects.
"Pennsylvanians should always have the ability to know where their tax dollars are being spent," said PennDOT District 4 Executive George Roberts. "We're pleased to show the public just how much work will be going out the door in 2017. With more than 1,000 miles of roadway being improved and more than 100 bridges being repaired or replaced, this is great news for our region."
In his presentation, Roberts highlighted many of the projects that will be completed this year, including:
the resurfacing of State Route 11, State Route 307, and Business Route 6 near the Viewmont Mall -- which to ease congestion, will take place at night;
over 200 miles of roadway resurfacing to happen in Susquehanna and Wayne Counties;
the final restoration of State Routes 6 and 11 between Clarks Summit and Wyoming County to be completed by the fall;
the next phase of the reconstruction of Interstate 84 in Pike County which will also include replacing or repairing 11 interstate bridges;
and over 80 miles of surface improvements in Luzerne County, including one contract that will improve 22 miles on State Route 92 (Sullivan Trail), State Route 93 (Berwick-Hazleton Highway) and State Route 3004 (Newport Street, between Glenn Lyon and Alden)
For a complete list of all highway and bridge projects that are currently underway or will be active in 2017, visit www.Projects.PennDOT.gov.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-penndot-announce-infrastructure-investments-for-2017-construction-season-in-northeastern-pennsylvania/
