Public Statements
Blog: Tom Wolf Tours Interstate Building Products, Promotes Pennsylvania Manufacturing
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Aug. 6, 2014
Location: Unknown

By Jeffrey Sheridan
On his Fresh Start tour Monday, Tom stopped in Pittston to visit Interstate Building Products' manufacturing facility, Interstate Window & Door.
Interstate Window & Door is the largest window and door manufacturer in the Mid-Atlantic region -- and is also a customer of the Wolf Organization. The relationship between the two companies dates back to the mid-1990s, when the Wolf Organization supplied Interstate with kitchen and bath cabinets. Today, the Wolf Organization supplies Interstate with different types of PVC boards and trim as well as TruExterior Board.
While meeting employees and learning about Interstate's manufacturing processes, Tom discussed his belief that Pennsylvania can lead the nation in manufacturing:
"Every time I visit a business like [Interstate], I learn more about what we need to do in Pennsylvania. And we can do it. We can make things that are tailor-made to specifications. You can't do that if you are far away."
When Tom bought back the Wolf Organization, he reinvented the company's business model. In doing so, he defied conventional wisdom that said products need to be made in low-cost factories around the world, not in the United States.
Under Tom's leadership, the Wolf Organization began designing and sourcing its own products. The company contracted with manufacturers in Pennsylvania and across the country to make their products, which generated new manufacturing jobs in the U.S.
Tom knows that Pennsylvania can go head-to-head with anybody in the world. And though his experience is with kitchen cabinets, decking, and other household products, Tom believes American-made products can compete on price and quality with anywhere in the world.
In order to convince Pennsylvanians that we can create good-paying manufacturing jobs, Tom is visiting places like Interstate Window& Door to highlight their strengths and tout their success. Tom is also discussing his Made in Pennsylvania manufacturing plan, which he believes will lay the foundation for Pennsylvania to build a 21st century economy.
Manufacturing is a vital component of Pennsylvania's economy, and with Tom Wolf as governor, both manufacturing, and middle-class families, will have a bright future.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/blog/tom-wolf-tours-interstate-building-products
