Public Statements
Blog: Back in Pittsburgh, Tom Visits TechShop to Promote Pennsylvania Manufacturing
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: July 24, 2014
Location: Unknown

Tom was back in Pittsburgh again on Monday as part of his Fresh Start tour. His latest stop landed him at TechShop, a community-based workshop and prototyping studio whose mission is to democratize access to the tools of innovation; in simpler terms, TechShop is a do-it-yourself workshop where innovators and entrepreneurs can build things.
TechShop offers a variety of workspace options including metalwork, woodwork, electronics, textiles, 3D printing, and bicycle repair. The ingenuity that is taking place inside their walls is helping fuel the maker movement in Pittsburgh and revitalize the important start-up sector of the thriving city.
TechShop has also attracted support from federal agencies like the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) looking for new ways to help veterans serve an important role in America's economy. In fact, TechShop, with the help of DARPA and the VA, chose Pittsburgh for its 6th location nationwide because of it's large, 33,000-strong veteran population.
Throughout his Fresh Start tour, Tom has discussed how he believes Pennsylvania can set the table for fostering innovation and rebuilding the middle class by expanding our manufacturing.
Tom Wolf knows that American manufacturing has a bright future from his own business experience. When Tom and his wife bought back their kitchen, bath, and home products business, they turned it around by investing in people, innovating, and thinking about the future differently:
Mr. Wolf touted American manufacturing and spoke about the Wolf Organization, the family-founded kitchen cabinet company of which he was CEO, which manufactured its products in the United States.
"What I found is that we can actually make stuff and go head to head with the Chinese on pricing and quality right here in the United States," he said.
Manufacturing is already a key component of the state's economy: According to a report by the National Governors Association, the manufacturing industry is the third-largest sector in Pennsylvania. Moreover, these jobs are solid and well-paid -- the Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry reports that the average manufacturing wage is $53,976.
As evidenced by places like TechShop, an important piece of the manufacturing economy is our high-tech sector. For Pennsylvania to lead the way, it's going to take a leader who knows how to both change Harrisburg and create family-sustaining jobs.
Tom Wolf is that leader. Read his plan (http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/page/made-in-pa) to create manufacturing jobs and share it with your friends.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/blog/tom-wolf-pittsburgh-techshop
