Public Statements
Tom Wolf Talks Baseball and Pennsylvania Manufacturing at Chandler Bats in Norristown
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: July 15, 2014
Location: Unknown

Before Tom ever joined the Peace Corps, earned his Ph.D., and built the Wolf Organization into the largest distributor of kitchen cabinets in the country, he wanted to be a professional baseball player. That dream faded, but last week Tom revisited his old passion during a tour of Chandler Bats in Norristown, where he learned about manufacturing baseball bats.
Founded in 2010, Chandler Bats quickly became a local business success story and now manufactures hundreds of models of baseball bats for Major League Baseball players as well as players in the minor leagues, college, and high school. Chandler bats are unique in their quality -- they are compressed to a degree that compacts the wood tighter than any of their competitors, making them stand apart in performance and durability. And they are made right here in Pennsylvania.
While Tom toured Chandler, he discussed his plan to boost manufacturing in the Commonwealth with Chandler Chief Executive Officer David Chandler and Montgomery County Commission Chairman Josh Shapiro.
"I want to showcase the idea that we can make things here in the United States and that means we can make things here in Pennsylvania. I want to do what I can to make sure companies like Chandler thrive," Wolf said.
Tom understands that in order to make innovative products here in Pennsylvania, we must train a skilled and modern workforce. Chandler and Shapiro have taken great steps to achieve this goal by creating the type of public--private partnership to train workers that Tom has advocated for throughout his career. Montgomery County has worked closely with Chandler to equip unemployed individuals with the necessary skills to find sustainable employment at Chandler, and today, the company that didn't exist 5 years ago now supplies bats for about 26% of Major League Baseball players.
Tom knows from experience that the conventional wisdom that says it's easier to manufacture overseas because of cheap labor and lax regulation is wrong. After buying back the Wolf Organization while on the verge of bankruptcy, Tom reinvented its business model to include the manufacturing of Wolf-brand products, and now the company is growing.
"If you design your supply chain right, if you're adequately responsive to the market, to your customers, as Chandler is, there is no end of what you can do in the United States and they're proving that right here: right here in Montgomery County," Wolf said.
To help companies like Chandler Bats grow, Tom has proposed offering incentives to manufacturing firms that create jobs here in Pennsylvania. Under Tom, the state would provide cash payments of up to five percent of new taxable payroll for the following year. And in order to ensure that these jobs are high-quality middle-class jobs, this plan will require participating companies pay at least an equal wage to the county average as well as supply competitive health benefits.
Speaking after the tour, Chairman Shapiro said, "the Commonwealth needs a governor who understands manufacturing and will help the industry in Pennsylvania grow. Having Tom here at Chandler -- and he asked to come here -- sends a great signal about the importance of manufacturing to him and what the Wolf administration would look like."

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/blog/tom-wolf-talks-baseball-and-pennsylvania-manufacturing
