Public Statements
Letter to Tom Corbett, Governor of Pennsylvania - Pass Severance Tax
Letter
By: Tom Wolf
Date: June 3, 2014
Location: York, PA

Honorable Tom Corbett
Office of the Governor
225 Capitol Building
Harrisburg, PA 17120
Dear Governor Corbett,
The urgent challenge facing our state leaders, now and into the future, is how to manage our remarkable natural gas resource so that the citizens of Pennsylvania broadly share its benefits for many years to come. I believe it is incumbent upon our leaders to put politics aside and pass a severance tax at the effective rate of 5 percent. I urge you to join me in supporting this and agree to not veto such a measure if it is passed by the General Assembly.
There is support for a severance tax from Republicans and Democrats alike along with a majority of Pennsylvanians, and the revenue generated can be used to make critical investments in priorities like education and local infrastructure, and help provide greater environmental oversight as well as deliver the tools to build a renewable energy future.
I believe the natural gas industry is vital to our state's economic future but right now Pennsylvania is the only major gas-producing state without a severance tax -- this is unacceptable. Our state has an abundance of natural gas, and the development of this resource offers the commonwealth the opportunity to expand prosperity across our entire economy.
If this is done right, individual citizens and businesses will benefit from the large reserves of natural gas trapped in the Marcellus Shale for many years, but not making gas companies pay their fair share while our schools are suffering and Pennsylvania families are struggling benefits no one.
Making sure we do it right, therefore, should be on the top of everyone's mind, and a severance tax -- in line with other states in the region -- is the way to accomplish this.
Now is the time to get to work and craft a plan that lays out how to best share in the benefits of the Marcellus Shale to enhance our economy. With the revenue generated from a 5 percent severance tax, we can build a 21st century economic infrastructure in Pennsylvania by providing the commonwealth with the incentive and revenue needed to grow.
Once again, I urge you to stand with the people of Pennsylvania and enact a 5 percent severance tax.
Sincerely,

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/press-releases/wolf-urges-corbett-general-assembly-to-pass-severance-tax
