Public Statements
Issue Position: Workers' Rights
Issue Position
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Throughout his career, Tom Wolf has continuously demonstrated his respect for those working alongside him by providing a competitive salary, comprehensive healthcare and retirement benefits, and sharing 20-30 percent of his company's profits. While rebuilding our middle class and attracting good paying jobs back to the Commonwealth, we need to promote policies that protect the rights of our workers. As governor, Tom Wolf will fight everyday to protect the rights of workers to unionize and collectively bargain. Specifically, Tom Wolf will:
End employer attacks on workers - Tax dollars should be used to educate our children, provide healthcare to hard-working families, and give seniors the dignity of a happy and secure retirement. They should not be used by employers to fund anti-union efforts. As governor, Tom Wolf will support legislation that limits the misuse of these tax dollars and complies with existing federal laws. He will also support tougher penalties on employers who illegally fire employees who are organizing unions, and will use the authority of the governor's office to issue executive orders similar to President Obama's Economy in Government Contracting, which would prohibit businesses who contract with the State from using taxpayer dollars on anti-union activities.
Veto legislation that restricts the rights of workers - As governor, Tom Wolf will veto any legislation that interferes with the rights of workers. This includes vetoing legislation that repeals the agency fee, limits or takes away collective bargaining rights, does away with union dues, eliminates the right of school employees to strike, and changes the prevailing wage.
Pension Reform - Tom Wolf absolutely opposes changes to current employees' pension plans, and he believes that a defined benefit retirement plan is the most effective tool for ensuring that our public workers have a financially secure retirement. In order for our government to run smoothly and provide the needed services to our residents, we must attract high quality workers - pensions are part of the compensation package. On the whole, Pennsylvania public sector employees earn 12 percent less than similar private sector employees. But, when nonwage benefits such as pension plans are included, the wage difference shrinks to 5.4 percent.
Minimum Wage Increases - Tom Wolf supports increasing the minimum wage to $10.10, and indexing it to inflation. According to the Economic Policy Institute, this would raise wages for 20 percent of Pennsylvanians, and lead to the creation of 5,000 new jobs by 2016. Tom Wolf also supports raising the tipped minimum wage to 70 percent of the minimum wage. Because it would be tied to the minimum wage, it too would be indexed to inflation. According to the Keystone Research Center, making this adjustment to the tipped minimum wage will result in lifting 4,000 women out of poverty. As a business owner, Tom Wolf knows that investing in workers is the right thing to do. He believes that when you pay your workers well and provide good benefits, everyone wins.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/page/workers-rights
