Public Statements
Issue Position: Fighting for Pennsylvania's Senior Citizens
Issue Position
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Tom Wolf comes from a small town in York County and lives in the same house to which he was brought home from the hospital after he was born in 1948. The tradition Tom grew up with was one of taking care of your neighbors, and that's what guides him today. In the private sector, Tom's business provides comprehensive benefits to his employees and not only matches workers' investment in retirement funds, but makes employer contributions even when workers do not. Those are the values that would guide Tom Wolf as Governor.
Pennsylvania has an aging population that's struggling to afford their medicine; their groceries; their property taxes. We must protect our seniors and ensure dignity in the twilight of their lives.
As state Revenue Secretary, Tom Wolf implemented changes that grew the state lottery, providing millions of additional dollars for prescription drug relief, home health care, and property tax relief for senior citizens. Tom opposes Governor Corbett's scheme to privatize the lottery that would put funding for seniors at risk and has already wasted over $3 million that could have covered 137,681 prescriptions.
PENNSYLVANIA CHOICE
Too many of our seniors are forced to move to nursing homes, often leaving homes they lived in their entire lives, because they can no longer fully care for themselves and their families lack the resources to provide care. Tom Wolf will invest more in in-home care for seniors, so they can continue to live in their homes if they choose and their families are spared the cost of full-time nursing homes.
To balance the choice between nursing facility care and home and community-based care, Wolf will:
Increase income eligibility requirements for those accessing home and community-based care. To do this, Wolf will add a new eligibility category for residents who have an income up to 150 percent of the Federal Poverty Level. He will also have the Commonwealth adopt a Medicaid State Plan amendment to create a "spend down" option for those who would prefer home and community-based care in place of nursing home care.
Expand health eligibility requirements for those accessing home and community-based care. Through Medicaid, the State has multiple options to allow those who have not been diagnosed as needing nursing care to access home and community-based care. By implementing the Medicaid Home and Community-Based Services State Plan Option and Personal Care Services Medicaid Option, we can shift to a focus on prevention and improve the quality of life of seniors.
Improve access to home and community-based care services. Wolf will promote changes to the system, like expanding the Community Choice pilot program, to ensure that those wanting to stay in their community can access services as quickly as those wanting nursing care. If we want to preserve the rights of seniors to make choices about their care, we cannot have a system where it takes an average of 34 days for an individual to receive services in their home. Additionally, instead of asking Medicaid recipients to navigate the complex waiver system, Wolf will add the Community First Option, which would make the full menu of waiver services available through the state plan.
Not only will Tom Wolf fight to make sure that our seniors have the opportunity to age with pride but he will also advocate for the rights of homecare workers. By prioritizing home and community-based care, Pennsylvania can build strong, sustainable middle-class jobs, and family caregivers can focus on their careers because they are confident that the needs of their loved ones are being addressed.
Read more about Tom Wolf's plan to Deliver Quality Senior Care Options for Pennsylvanians: http://wolfforpa.com/sections/page/pa-choice

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/page/seniors
