Public Statements
Issue Position: Building a 21st Century Infrastructure
Issue Position
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

Tom Wolf's business makes and distributes kitchen cabinets across Pennsylvania to markets all over the United States. Unfortunately, businesses like Tom's are often hampered by the high cost of transporting products on our poorly maintained roads. A real transportation plan -- focused on building a 21st century infrastructure -- would put thousands of people to work and help attract and retain businesses right here in Pennsylvania.
According to PennDOT, Pennsylvania ranks third in the number of bridges but leads the nation in the number of structurally deficient bridges. Of the 25,344 state owned bridges, 4,449 are structurally deficient. At the county level, there are 6,352 county owned bridges, of which 2,234 are structurally deficient. Collectively, 21 percent of the bridges in the state are structurally deficient.
In addition, 37 percent of state and locally owned roads and highways are in poor or mediocre condition. As a result, Pennsylvania motorists spend a total of $3 billion annually to fix car damage caused by driving on rough roads.
In 2010, the American Society of Civil Engineers gave Pennsylvania a D- for roads and transit.
The U.S. Department of Transportation estimates that for every $1 billion invested in transportation infrastructure, 30,000 good-paying jobs can be created or sustained in Pennsylvania.
Tom Wolf's Plan to build a 21st Century Infrastructure
The debate between Governor Corbett and the Republicans in the legislature this past fall seemed to have devolved into should we fix our bridges or not? Of course we should fix our bridges -- but that's not really the question. The question is: what should a 21st Century transportation system look like in Pennsylvania that builds a thriving economy and a strong middle class for generations to come?
Tom Wolf knows we can rebuild our state's infrastructure and bring new businesses and jobs back to Pennsylvania by enacting policies that:
Create a "Connect Pennsylvania" collaborative - This collaborative will bring together key stakeholders, engage the private sector, and leverage private dollars to kick-start projects that will increase Pennsylvania's economic competitiveness, such as high-speed rail that allows Pennsylvania manufacturers to move products quickly from Philadelphia to Chicago in three hours.
Form a multi-state partnership - In order to create a system where goods and products can move smoothly from Pennsylvania to U.S. and world markets, we need our neighboring states as well as others across the country to also commit to building a 21st century infrastructure. Working together, we can be a powerful voice for additional federal and private investment.
Represent Pennsylvania's interest in Washington D.C. - Not only has federal funding for state infrastructure projects decreased over time, but the rules and regulations that often accompany these funds make it difficult for states to innovatively address infrastructure challenges. As governor, Tom Wolf will be a vocal advocate for more federal infrastructure funding as well as more flexibility in how those dollars are used.
Start a "Wire Pennsylvania" initiative - A statewide public-private partnership to expand broadband networks can better connect residents and businesses. This high speed internet network will help level the playing field for those in rural areas by helping rural residents expand businesses, connect with social services, and access educational programming.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/page/building-a-21st-century-infrastructure
