Public Statements
Issue Position: Developing the Marcellus Shale while protecting Pennsylvania's environment
Issue Position
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

With Pennsylvania sitting on one of the largest deposits of natural gas in the world, Tom Wolf believes that the Marcellus Shale must be a key component of any plan for Pennsylvania's future. We must ensure that we take advantage of this resource and opportunity in a way that benefits all Pennsylvanians and protects our water and environment.
Four years ago Tom Wolf called for a severance tax on natural gas extraction and responsible development, saying:
Pennsylvania is sitting on one of the largest deposits of natural gas in the world, the Marcellus Shale formation, which stretches from our northeast to southwest corner. With new drilling techniques we can now efficiently unlock these massive natural gas deposits that lie beneath huge portions of our state.
Experts estimate there might be as much as 50 trillion cubic feet of recoverable natural gas beneath Pennsylvania's soil. That would make our commonwealth the Saudi Arabia of natural gas and, if managed correctly, transform our economy. Tom Wolf believes Marcellus Shale must be a key component of any plan for Pennsylvania's economic future.
The urgent challenge facing our state leaders, now and into the future, is how to manage this remarkable natural resource so that its benefits are broadly shared by the citizens of Pennsylvania for many years to come.
Unfortunately, Governor Corbett's failed leadership has given away our state's valuable resources without generating revenue for critical investments like schools, roads, and economic development and harmed our environment.
If states like Texas, West Virginia, and Oklahoma are able to charge a severance tax on gas extraction to fund key priorities, it's time Pennsylvania does too.
And just as Pennsylvania helped to fuel the industrial revolution with the first commercially developed oil wells in Titusville and the anthracite coal fields, we can once again have a bright economic future based on these abundant natural gas reserves. The negative environmental impact of the oil and coal booms, however, should serve as a warning of what can happen if our natural resources are not properly managed.
Unlike Governor Corbett, Tom Wolf will make sure state agencies tasked with environmental oversight are adequately funded, staffed, and supervised to prevent reckless drilling, and that irresponsible companies are held accountable.
Tom Wolf believes that we have an obligation to get this new energy era right. To do so, it will take a plan with these principles:
Enact a 5 percent severance tax to build for Pennsylvania's future. We should make sure that the citizens of the commonwealth share in a portion of the financial benefits of this geologic windfall. Texas, Wyoming, Louisiana, New Mexico, West Virginia and most other states in the country currently benefit as oil and gas companies and other corporate interests cash in on those states' environmental resources.
Make smart investments to fund Pennsylvania's priorities. Rather than just using natural gas funds to plug budget holes or fund the same old approaches to economic development, we should use these new resources to build a brighter future for Pennsylvania's with strategic investments in schools, roads, and renewable energy technology.
Ensure responsible drilling to protect Pennsylvania's environment. New drilling technologies and water recycling processes would allow us to exploit our natural gas resources without causing environmental degradation. Additionally, Tom Wolf will ensure the following steps are taken to protect our environment, to hold drilling companies responsible, and to create jobs for working, middle-class families:
Increase funding for the Department of Environmental Protection so that it is sufficiently staffed and able to provide proper oversight of drillers;
Bring greater transparency to the fracking process by requiring drillers to publicly disclose chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process, and lifting the current gag order on physicians;
Allow local communities more control in zoning.
If done right, continued development of natural gas is a bridge to a clean energy future and renewables and will allow Pennsylvania to have good-paying energy jobs;
a safe and secure environment; and the ability to make critical investments in education, health care, and infrastructure through a severance tax on oil and natural gas extraction.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/page/marcellus-shale
