Public Statements
Issue Position: Higher Education
Issue Position
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

The Governor's Advisory Commission on Postsecondary Education noted that by 2018, 60 percent of new jobs in Pennsylvania will require a postsecondary education. Unfortunately, only 43 percent of residents currently have this qualification. In order to rebuild our middle class and attract good paying jobs to the Commonwealth, we need to address the barriers that prevent students from continuing their education after high school. Tom Wolf will create programs that improve access to higher education for the state's typically underserved populations. As governor, Tom Wolf will:
Improve access to higher education for veterans - Tom Wolf believes that we must support our veterans as they work to earn postsecondary degrees. To do this, the Commonwealth will design state programs that support veterans' unique needs and encourage continued development of their skills in the sciences, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
As governor, Tom Wolf will create veteran support centers at state-funded colleges and universities. These centers help veterans and their families access federal funding, navigate the higher education system and help them with such tasks as transferring military credits, determining resident status, and helping with payment extensions when waiting for educational benefits to kick-in. These centers will also be places where veterans can interact with other veterans, and access academic and social supports.
In addition to granting in-state tuition rates to all veterans, Tom Wolf will also identify existing funding to offer tuition grants for veterans who major in sciences, technology, engineering, or mathematics. Because service members often have previous, real-world experience in these fields, the opportunity to hone these skills and earn a postsecondary degree will give them access to the high tech, high wage jobs of the 21st century.
Help Pennsylvania's Deserving Scholars - Many low-income high school scholars do not have the resources to submit applications to colleges that might offer scholarships, and most low income students do not have the ability to go and visit or interview with prospective schools. Researchers at Stanford University and the University of Virginia recently released the findings of an experiment in which they sent college information packets to low income, high achieving students. For the group of students who received the information packet, 54 percent were admitted to college. Comparatively, for the group of students who did not receive the package, only 30 percent were admitted to college.
To ensure that Pennsylvania's high achieving, low-income students have every opportunity to pursue a college degree, Tom Wolf will create a Deserving Scholars program. Students who score in the top 20 percent of seniors taking the SATs or who have earned a 3.75 grade point average, and whose family is in the bottom quartile of income distribution will receive information packets from the state, which include information on Pennsylvania state-owned and state-related schools, financial aid information, and guidance on how to navigate the application process.
Additionally, all eligible students will receive up to six waivers for applications to state-owned and state-related schools. This will provide a low cost opportunity for students to tap into existing scholarship resources.
Provide financial support to traditionally underserved students -- Many underserved students come from low-income communities and are often the first in their family to go on to a postsecondary educational program. To help ease the transition, address financial concerns, and increase completion rates, Tom Wolf will partner with private funders to provide low income college students access to public benefits and social supports. Through this program, state-funded colleges and universities will draw on best practices from around the country to: help students secure the financial resources needed to stay in school, provide training to college guidance counselors to better assist prospective students, and connect students with state and county human services.
Expand the use of 2+2 programs - Tom Wolf will strengthen the connection between our community colleges and state-owned and state-regulated colleges, making it easier for students to transition between programs and earn a bachelor's degree. A statewide agreement between these post secondary institutions will include a list of pre-approved courses that count toward an associate's degree in STEM-specific subjects and are fully transferrable to 4-year colleges and universities. This will allow students to complete a bachelor's degree in four years and save on the cost of tuition.
Support a Pennsylvania DREAM Act - Tom Wolf believes that children who have spent the vast majority of their lives in United States should have the same opportunity to earn a college degree as all other students in the Commonwealth. In this vein, Tom Wolf will support the creation of a Pennsylvania DREAM Act, which will allow eligible students to access in-state tuition rates at Pennsylvania colleges and universities.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/page/higher-education
