Public Statements
Issue Position: Creating Good Jobs in Pennsylvania
Issue Position
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Jan. 1, 2014
Location: Unknown

For Tom Wolf, creating jobs is job one. As governor, Tom will work to lift Pennsylvania's middle-class through innovative policies that help attract the high-tech, high-wage jobs of the future.
Four years ago Tom received word that the business he had sold earlier in the decade was about to go under, leaving his former employees to join the ranks of the unemployed. While he could have walked away, Tom instead sank every penny he had into saving the company, buying it back at full market value and investing in its workforce while reinventing its business model.
Tom's rescue and innovation resulted in saving the company and the hundreds of middle-class jobs that went with it. The company is growing and thriving by sourcing its own American-made products, competing directly with products made overseas in low wage countries. Tom knows that in order for the middle-class to thrive, businesses must invest in their workforce. Owning his own business, Tom provides his workers with good wages and comprehensive health and retirement benefits.
As governor, Tom will be a different type of leader. He'll work to revolutionize Pennsylvania's economy through innovative policies on the state level.
Under Governor Corbett, Pennsylvania has fallen from 7th to 41st in job creation and there are nearly 500,000 unemployed Pennsylvanians. Too many corporations pay no income tax in Pennsylvania while small businesses and workers struggle; we need to level the playing field. Corbett has put corporations and the wealthy over the middle-class, and as a result we've lost out on thousands of good-paying jobs.
Tom will work to get Pennsylvania's economy moving again by rebuilding Pennsylvania's manufacturing sector, starting with clean energy technology. And he'll work to create the high-tech, high-wage jobs of the future through policies that put the middle-class first.

Source: http://www.wolfforpa.com/sections/page/jobs
