Public Statements
Governor Wolf: Proposed Budget Cuts and Program Eliminations Will Harm Communities Across Pennsylvania
Statement
By: Tom Wolf
Date: March 16, 2017
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Wolf released the following statement in response to President Trump's proposed budget:
"Thousands of Pennsylvanians rely on programs that are being eliminated or dramatically cut in President Trump's budget proposal. Seniors receive food from meals on wheels efforts. Families across Pennsylvania get help paying for their heating bills through heating assistance. Workers rely on job training programs to help them get back on their feet. Students across Pennsylvania with disabilities get access to the education they need to succeed through federal funding.
"All of these programs are facing elimination or massive cuts. It's unacceptable.
"Many communities will be harmed by indiscriminate cuts to housing programs, agriculture investments, and efforts to keep our land and water safe.
"Here in Pennsylvania we have seen first-hand the consequences of budgets that indiscriminately cut programs. Our schools are still recovering from the cuts under the previous administration, as I have fought to increase education funding by $640 million. We still have work to do in Pennsylvania. That's why I have made sure my budget puts Pennsylvania families first. Facing a difficult budget situation, I found $2 billion in savings and efficiencies, allowing for targeted investments in schools, job training, and programs that help Pennsylvania's seniors. My budget proposal stands in stark contrast to the proposal from Washington that simply tries to cut its way out of its problem at the expense of families and seniors."
Governor Wolf is asking Pennsylvania's congressional delegation to carefully review the devastating cuts in this proposal and help stop them.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-proposed-budget-cuts-and-program-eliminations-will-harm-communities-across-pennsylvania/
