Public Statements
Issue Position: Government That Works
Issue Position
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Jan. 1, 2017
Location: Harrisburg, PA

"With commonsense policies and reforms, we were able to strengthen ethical standards, improve efficiency and customer service, and bring greater transparency to your state government."
-- Governor Tom Wolf
For Pennsylvania to be great again, we need a government that restores faith in the fundamental notion that our democracy still works while efficiently providing services to Pennsylvanians. Our government should be transparent and fully accountable, and taxpayers deserve to know how every penny is spent.
Governor Tom Wolf is committed to government reforms that increase efficiency, reduce waste, and eliminate cronyism and corruption, and since his first days as governor, he has been praised statewide for his moves towards transparent government that works in Pennsylvania. To date, GO-TIME has identified more than 200 cost-saving projects in state agencies. GO-TIME projects saved over $150 million in the previous fiscal year.
Governor Wolf has made fighting the opioid crisis a top priority of the administration and is continuing to work across the aisle to address this looming public health issue. The 2016-2017 budget provided funding to implement 45 centers of excellence (COE) throughout the commonwealth that will treat nearly 11,000 people with substance use disorder. Pennsylvania also recently launched a prescription drug monitoring program that will allow prescribers and dispensers to query and report information regarding the number of opioids prescribed, and to whom and recently announced new prescribing guidelines for the safe and effective use of opioids.
Governor Wolf expanded health care access to 640,000 Pennsylvanians, keeping them from either not seeking care or going to the emergency room, which raises costs for insured residents. The governor's action has dropped the commonwealth's uninsured population from 14 percent in 2013 to eight percent today.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/priorities/
