Public Statements
Issue Position: Jobs that Pay
Issue Position
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Jan. 1, 2017
Location: Unknown

"We need to rebuild the middle class, and we can do that by creating good jobs right here in Pennsylvania."
-- Governor Tom Wolf
Since day one, Governor Wolf has made "Jobs that Pay" a priority in Pennsylvania. On Governor Wolf's "Jobs that Pay" tour, the governor and members of his cabinet heard from business owners, industry leaders, and hardworking Pennsylvanians statewide about what the Wolf administration can do to help them thrive.
"To rebuild the middle class, we need new ideas to create jobs that pay and policies that support our manufacturing and new growth industries," Governor Wolf said. "Coming from the private sector, I know we must make new investments in 21st century manufacturing and refocus our economic development dollars and strategies. The commonwealth can help set the table for robust private sector growth to create and retain good jobs while strengthening the middle class."
In 2015, the Department of Community and Economic Development (DCED) approved more than $1.3 billion in low-interest loans, tax credits, and grants for projects across the commonwealth and secured private sector commitments for the creation and retention of more than 135,000 full-time jobs. In the same timeframe, the Governor's Action Team completed 58 projects -- creating and retaining more than 15,500 jobs.
Governor Wolf continues to support raising workers' wages by investing in companies and projects to expand employment and raising the minimum wage, which he recently did for state employees, contractors and lessees. In order to remove a barrier to economic growth, Governor Tom Wolf announced the successful January 1 phase-out of Pennsylvania's Capital Stock and Foreign Franchise tax.
Governor Wolf has prioritized investing in Pennsylvania's roads, bridges, railways and other infrastructure to set the stage for economic growth. Read more about infrastructure investments across the commonwealth made under Governor Wolf's administration.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/priorities/
