Public Statements
Governor Wolf Commends Law Enforcement for 2,000 Saves with Overdose Reversal Drug Naloxone
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Dec. 7, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Governor Wolf today thanked Pennsylvania's law enforcement community for combating the opioid epidemic by carrying the overdose reversal drug Naloxone. To date, more than 2,000 opioid overdoses have been reversed by state and local police officers since November of 2014.
"Last year more than 3,500 Pennsylvanians died from a drug overdose, so it is critical to have naloxone in the hands of our police and first responders who may be first on the scene of an overdose," said Governor Tom Wolf. "We owe law enforcement agencies a great debt of gratitude for doing their part in battling this public health crisis."
In April of 2015, Governor Wolf announced that every Pennsylvania State Police patrol car in Pennsylvania will be equipped with two naloxone doses thanks to a combination of grants donated by Aetna, Geisinger Health, Health Partner Plans, and Highmark. Additionally, there are currently 574 municipal police departments carrying naloxone and an additional 87 departments who plan to carry soon. In December of 2015, Governor Wolf announced that the Capitol Police would be trained to administer and would carry naloxone.
"With heroin on the street becoming more potent, Naloxone is a valuable tool for law enforcement and other first responders in the battle against the opioid epidemic in the communities we serve," said Pennsylvania State Police Commissioner, Colonel Tyree C. Blocker.
During the fall session, the Wolf Administration made real progress in helping the victims of substance use disorder and the communities that have been devastated by this terrible disease. The governor and legislators made significant achievements toward fighting this epidemic by passing five major bills that will strengthen the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program, restrict the number of pills that can be prescribed to minors or in emergency rooms, establish education curriculum on safe prescribing, and create more locations for the drop-off of drugs among other important initiatives.
If you or someone you know is suffering from the disease of addiction, call 1-800-662-HELP or visit www.pa.gov/opioids for treatment options.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-wolf-commends-law-enforcement-2000-saves-overdose-reversal-drug-naloxone/
