Public Statements
Governor Tom Wolf Encourages Pennsylvania Senators to Pass 21st Century Cures Act
Press Release
By: Tom Wolf
Date: Dec. 6, 2016
Location: Harrisburg, PA

Following the United States House of Representative's bipartisan passage of the 21st Century Cures Act last week, Governor Wolf sent a letter to Senator Pat Toomey and Senator Bob Casey encouraging them to swiftly pass this legislation.
This legislation will help develop and deliver effective treatments and cures to millions of Americans suffering from chronic diseases and disabilities and fast track the availability of new treatments for patients suffering from diseases such as Alzheimer's, cancer, and substance use disorder.
"On behalf of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, I am writing to express my strong support for H.R. 34, the 21st Century Cures Act, and encourage Congress to act swiftly to pass this legislation that will have immediate positive effects on Pennsylvania and the nation," wrote Governor Tom Wolf. "It is my understanding that Congress will consider H.R. 34 this week. I applaud your leadership and would welcome the opportunity to serve as a resource on this issue, of such importance to Pennsylvanians."
During the fall session, the Wolf Administration made real progress in helping the victims of substance use disorder and the communities that have been devastated by this terrible disease. The governor and legislators made significant achievements toward fighting this epidemic by passing five major bills that will strengthen the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program, restrict the number of pills that can be prescribed to minors or in emergency rooms, establish education curriculum on safe prescribing, and create more locations for the drop-off of drugs among other important initiatives.
Additionally, the Wolf Administration was successful in securing $15 million in state funds to open 45 Opioid Use Disorder Centers of Excellence that are delivering person-centered, holistic care coordination services to more than 11,000 individuals suffering from opioid use disorder.
"While we have made investing in solutions to the heroin use and opioid abuse epidemic a priority in Pennsylvania, this legislation would allow us to bolster those efforts by infusing desperately needed federal funds into research, design, and evaluation of these programs," said Governor Tom Wolf.

Source: https://www.governor.pa.gov/governor-tom-wolf-encourages-pennsylvania-senators-to-pass-21st-century-cures-act/
