Public Statements
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008--Continued --
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 18, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (Senate - December 18, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to discuss the Omnibus appropriations bill that is before us today. Although I am supportive of a number of important items in the bill, I have serious concerns and reservations about how this voluminous package was put together and how it has reached this point. As we are all aware, none of the 11 bills in this package have ever been considered on the floor of this chamber. I believe this is a travesty and entirely contrary to our democratic process. I, for one, believe that next year we must make it a priority to consider all of the appropriations bills in regular order so that all Members can participate in the process. We are appropriating nearly $933 billion through this bill and only a select few Members in both Chambers have participated in the allocation of those dollars.
Despite my deep concerns about the process of putting this bill together, I have chosen to support it because it is within the President's budget request, it provides bridge-funding to support our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, and it contains a number of other items that I support.
I am pleased that the bill contains funds to continue Marriage Development Accounts in the District of Columbia. We began this program in fiscal year 2006 as a way to stem the erosion of marriage in DC. Sadly, marriage is all but disappearing in low-income communities in this city and across the country because couples lose important benefits such as food stamps, low-income housing credits, Temporary Assistance to Needy Families, and Medicaid merely for taking a wedding vow. In addition, these couples often have to pay higher taxes when they choose to marry. For most low-income couples, the welfare system has made marriage a bad economic decision. MDAs are one way we are making marriage a good economic decision. With an MDA, a low-income couple can save for a house, for higher education, or to start a small business and we will match those funds 3-to-1 with two Federal dollars and one private matching dollar. In just its second year of operation, over 100 DC residents have opened MDAs and 7 have already bought houses with their matched savings.

Source:
