Public Statements
Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act of 2007--Continued --
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 13, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


FARM, NUTRITION, AND BIOENERGY ACT OF 2007--Continued -- (Senate - December 13, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I join my colleague from Kansas in opposition to the Tester amendment. I appreciate my colleague from Montana offering this amendment. I respect his background and knowledge. He has worked in this field. He has lived this. He is living it in his own operation in Montana. I have a lot of respect for that and for what he is targeting. I have spent all my life in the agricultural business. I was raised on a farm, have undergraduate degrees in agriculture. I was Secretary of Agriculture in Kansas. I have worked on these issues a long time. We have all wanted to get more money in agriculture and keep more family farms operating. That is everybody's desire. I believe that is the desire and intent of this amendment.
However, in my State in Kansas, as my colleague has described, this is going to hurt family farm operations, and it will hurt people who are trying to get more money in their operation from the marketplace. I would like to briefly describe one example I recently experienced, an operation of a small family feed yard that does operate for a number of different individuals in the eastern part of Kansas. It is the Knight Feedlot. They have been operating for quite a few years in Lyons, KS. They have an innovative program. It is an alternative marketing program. They raise hormone-free, antibiotic-free cattle. They sell the meat directly from this feed yard into premium grocery stores in Connecticut and New York. It is the sort of thing many of us have been talking about. Let's get the producer closer to the consumer and sell the product they want. This is hormone-free, antibiotic-free beef. Anybody in this room who has raised cattle knows that if you are going to go hormone free and antibiotic free, you have increased your risk and the cost of your operation substantially to meet that consumer need. These guys are doing that. Any animal that gets sick, they have to pull out of the program because they have to keep the animal alive. To do it, they are going to use antibiotics, so the animal is out of the program when that takes place. It winnows down fairly fast. When you get weather fluctuations such as are taking place now, you get more problems and more animals out of the program.
But eventually, because of a contractual operation they have with a packer--because these are feeders, they are not packers--they are able to get their animals identified through the system, they are able to get the packer to deliver that meat to the counter in Connecticut and New York, because my Kansas feeders are not lined up to do that, they have a contractual arrangement to do that, and, as a result, they are able to get a substantial premium for their beef.
The consumer in Connecticut and New York can see who produces it, and the pictures of Kenny and Mark Knight are by the display counter on the beef case in these stores. They have been there, and they have been there to sell their beef. It works. It works for them, and they get a substantial premium for this beef. The consumer likes it, and they like seeing who has produced their beef.
That operation would be illegal under the direction of this amendment. I believe this amendment would generate lawsuits against that very type of operation.
I respect my colleague from Montana and his efforts to preserve the family farm operation--family farm operations like what my parents have and my brother is on. This amendment is not the way. It is micromanagement from here. One of the things I have certainly seen is you cannot micromanage America, and you should not try. The best is to set up fair playing rules. We have rules in this system. But we should not punish people who are trying to innovate to get more money for their producers in innovative fashions and using alternate marketing means and being successful at it.
The Knights had to invest a substantial amount of money to get this arrangement set. They had to hire somebody to do the marketing. They had to hire somebody and get enough cattle to be able to enter into a contractual arrangement with the packer to keep these cattle identified and keep them identified to be able to deliver to the consumers in Connecticut and New York. Without that, they are not packers, they cannot do this. This amendment would hurt their operation. As a matter of fact, it would make it illegal and bring lawsuits against it.
I urge my colleagues to vote against this amendment on a number of grounds: No. 1, it prohibits innovation, and No. 2, it really tries to micromanage something we should not try to micromanage. It is going to hurt my Kansas feeders.
For all those reasons, I urge opposition to the Tester amendment.
I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of the time, if there is any on our side on this.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I wish to use 5 minutes of that time.
I respect those who do farm. My dad does, and I have a lot of respect for him. I have a brother who farms as well, and it is tough. It is a hard life.
I went to law school, and in my background I taught agricultural law. I have written two books on it, if anybody is interested. I don't think they are still for sale because they never sold very well.
But my point in saying that is one of the key things which is always talked about in agriculture is the Packers and Stockyards Act. It was developed back in the 1920s and 1930s because of this imbalance that was developing and was really heightened at that point in time even more so than today between the packers and producers. There were a lot more producers that were a lot smaller at that point in time and taken advantage of by packers. It was a very unscrupulous setting, and they passed the Packers and Stockyards Act. It was a very important piece of legislation, particularly in farm country, and it did have a substantial impact and continues to have a substantial impact today.
The situation today is different than it was back then. What you have now are a number of producers that are, in many cases, of a larger scale and trying to get closer to the consumer. You have small producers as well, such as my family, who are small producers and who often will link up with bigger sized producers and feed yards to try to get more money for their cattle. Everybody is trying to get more money for their cattle, and that is what I want to take place: more money for the producer for the cattle.
Unfortunately, because of the way this is drafted and because of being a lawyer and being somebody in the agricultural industry--and you are taking away: regardless of any alleged business justification. So my family says we are going to try this hormone-free, antibiotic-free beef, but we have to pool together at a feed yard that is big enough to negotiate with the packers to do this, and so they do that. We have 1,000 head of cattle from everybody--all 20 or more people who are doing this--and then they are going to market it directly on forward. That is a business justification to pay my family more for their cattle. That is a business justification for them to do it.
But we have taken it right out of here. We have said: regardless of any alleged business justification.
So, now, while my family is trying to move with this packer group through the feed yard to get closer to the consumer to take advantage of this, which is a business justification, this says, no, you can't assume that in the Packers and Stockyards Act. So somebody on the other side of this, or somebody just wanting to be ornery about it says: Look, you can't do that. You can't do it. It is right here.
I know the author's intent is not that intent. I also am a lawyer. This is something you can do under this draft of it. I appreciate the sentiment with which this is made. I appreciate the history of the Packers and Stockyards Act. It has been important. It remains important today. This isn't the way to get at this. This is going to cause people to have to go back to a generic marketplace for beef. You can say: Well, I am fine with a generic marketplace for beef--most people are--but there are a lot of people who like specialty beef. That is where the producer gets in and gets a bigger slice of the pie is when he goes at the narrow marketplace for a specialty-type product and segments his marketplace. This, I honestly believe, is going to cut off these types of arrangements for farm families in my State, and I believe a lot of other places, to be able to get into them.
I understand the intent. I look at it on the surface, and we could probably say good idea, but this is something whereby lawyers who practice in this field are going to see a real opportunity to shut something off, and I think there are plenty of people who are desirous of doing something like that. I would urge my colleagues to vote against this amendment.
I retain the remainder of our time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. I thank the Presiding Officer. I appreciate that greatly. I always need to watch my junior Senator and make sure he is in his place.
Mr. President, I note, properly, my junior Senator is the dean of the Kansas delegation, even if he is the junior Senator.
I rise in support of the Craig amendment. I wish to make comments that I think are pertinent and germane to the farm bill because I believe this admendment is pertinent and germane to the farm bill. I know colleagues are looking at this amendment saying it is a private property rights issue, it belongs in the Judiciary Committee and this is an issue we should track through that committee. This is an issue involving agricultural lands, which I think is wholly appropriate for the farm bill.
Also, private property issues are so key and central to farming in the United States. It is in many places dominantly private property issues. In the West, there are a lot of public lands and agricultural use in public lands areas. But private rights dominates throughout the agricultural system of our country. There was a shock sent out with the Kelo case when the Court said you now don't have to have this justification of a public use for private property to be taken and can condemn it.
Many were shocked on all sides of the aisle--right, left, middle, people in urban areas, people in rural areas. I wish to say specifically people from rural areas were particularly struck by this decision because they all feel an attack frequently from people in governmental entities to take lands for power lines, parks, land that should go back to them in some cases, if it is a railroad line that has been abandoned and the deed said the land will revert to the farmland owner and then it is taken for a trail.
People are saying wait a minute, I thought we had private property rights, basic in our constitution, basic in our philosophy, basic to agriculture.
This is a narrow issue to get at the Kelo decision. It is well crafted by the Senator from Idaho to support those private property rights. The amendment will deter States and local governments from taking working agricultural land against the will of the landowner only to designate that same land as open space. Here I think you can look at that and say, well, obviously, that is something we should protect, that private property right. If there is to be eminent domain, it has to be listed on a public purpose, like we have had eminent domain laws for some period of time now, and not just taking it to keep an open space. If that is to take place, there needs to be a different set and a different system rather than what is being allowed or expanded after Kelo by local or State units of government.
This narrows the decision of Kelo back to what it was prior to Kelo--a protection of private property rights. I think that is important. I think it is a key issue and one that is a top priority to agriculture and landowners. Indeed, the President of the American Farm Bureau Federation said after Kelo:
No one's home or farm and ranch land is safe from government seizure because of this ruling.
Well, let's make sure their land is safe. We can do that, and this is an amendment that helps to do that. I think it is an important amendment to help to do that. If you voted in support of private property rights, I would hope you would support the Craig amendment, whichever side of the aisle you are on, and say there is an appropriate way and there is an inappropriate way and the appropriate way to make sure you have eminent domain is for a public purpose and not just taking agricultural lands to maintain open spaces and reducing the value of that land or its workability as agriculture.
This is an important, good amendment, and I urge my colleagues to support it.
I yield back to the sponsor of the bill.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
