Public Statements
Governor Sam Brownback Names Appointments to Kansas Board of Regents
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 16, 2015
Location: Unknown

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback today introduced his latest three appointments to the Kansas Board of Regents. Dave Murfin, Daniel J. Thomas and Dennis Mullin will each serve a four year term.
"The work of the Regents is important in ensuring our colleges and universities educate our students and prepare them to successfully enter the workforce," said Governor Brownback. "I am grateful to Dave, Daniel and Dennis for their willingness to serve the people of Kansas."
The nine-member Kansas Board of Regents is appointed by the governor. It is the governing board of the six state universities and the statewide coordinating board for the state's 32 public higher education institutions (seven public universities, 19 community colleges, and six technical colleges).
* David L. Murfin of Wichita is the CEO of Murfin, Inc. whose interests include Murfin Drilling Company, Inc., and Murphy Tractor and Equipment Company, one of the largest John Deere construction dealerships in North America. He is a former president of the Kansas Independent Oil & Gas Association and serves on several boards, including Goodwill and the Kansas University School of Business board.
* Daniel J. Thomas, D.D.S. is a board-certified periodontist practicing in several locations including Leawood, Kan. He is active in several professional associations and also serves as the Director of the Kansas Arts Foundation and the Kansas University Hospital Authority Board. Thomas also has won numerous awards including the 2011 Professional Leader of the Year from the Asian American Chamber of Commerce and the 2007 Ellis Island Medal of Honor.

* Dennis Mullin currently serves as Chairman and CEO of Steel and Pipe Supply, one of the largest steel service centers in the nation. He is active in several organizations including the Flint Hills Christian School, the Business Advisory Council of the School of Business at Kansas State University, and is a board member of the Kansas Bank.
The Board administers the state's student financial aid, adult education, GED, career and technical education programs, and the state university retirement plans. Additionally, it approves private proprietary schools and out-of-state institutions to operate in Kansas, and administers the Kan-ed network.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2015/06/16/governor-sam-brownback-names-appointments-to-kansas-board-of-regents
