Public Statements
Location Announced for Hutchinson Veterans' Outpatient Clinic
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback Pat Roberts
Date: Oct. 25, 2007
Location: Washington, DC

LOCATION ANNOUNCED FOR HUTCHINSON VETERANS' OUTPATIENT CLINIC
Congressman Jerry Moran and Senators Sam Brownback and Pat Roberts today announced a site location for the new Hutchinson veterans' outpatient clinic. The Department of Veterans' Affairs (VA) will lease a facility for the clinic to be constructed at the southwest corner of 30th and Waldron streets in Hutchinson.
In May, Moran announced that the VA had approved an outpatient clinic in Hutchinson. The clinic is expected to open in spring of 2008 and will provide routine health care, laboratory work, radiological views, prescription services and mental health services to area veterans.
"Access to health care is one of the most important issues our veteran population faces in Kansas," Congressman Moran said. "We have worked hard to bring VA services to more Kansas communities. This new outpatient clinic will help ensure timely access to health care for our veterans who have earned it."
"The Dole VA Medical Center is delighted to have this opportunity to extend high quality basic health care services beyond its Wichita campus, and provide easier access to veterans in Hutchinson and surrounding communities," Tom Sanders, Dole VA Medical Center Director, said.
"I am glad to see this opportunity to improve the quality of veterans' care moving forward," Senator Brownback said. "With the completion of the site selection process, I look forward to the clinic's construction and the beginning of important new services to our veterans."
"I am pleased with the VA's decision to make health care more accessible for more veterans in Kansas, especially in rural areas," Senator Roberts said. "Instead of driving to Wichita for outpatient care, many veterans will be able to choose the same services closer to home."

Source: http://roberts.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressRoom.PressReleases&ContentRecord_id=d866cceb-802a-23ad-43fc-4a3df84562fb&Region_id=&Issue_id=
