Public Statements
Remarks by Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS), Presidential Candidate, at the Republican Jewish Coalition Victory 2008 Forum and Luncheon
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 16, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Remarks by Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS), Presidential Candidate, at the Republican Jewish Coalition Victory 2008 Forum and Luncheon
Copyright ©2007 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Jack Graeme at jack@fednews.com or call 1-800-211-4020.
(Applause.)
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thanks, Cheryl. I really appreciate it. (Inaudible.) Thank you. Good to see you. A pleasure to join you this morning, and thank you very much for being out and in such strong numbers. And individuals (are ?) here to talk about a very important issue, the United States -- our relationship with Israel, but also a broader set of issues of what we need to do to move the country forward.
As Cheryl noted to you, the large Jewish population in Kansas -- if any of you would like to move to my state, please come. We'd love to have you. I've noted over the history, the great -- I remember the Jewish Republican Society of Kansas -- Irving Goldstein. Great guy -- (laughter) -- then he moved back to New York when I was about 8, and that was it. So we needed to re-establish, if you're willing to do that. (Laughter, applause.)
Oh, there's then Arlen Specter, that is from my state of Kansas, from Russell, Kansas. And -- now, this is Arlen's humor, and it's his story. Arlen said that his -- (audio break) -- when his sister became of marriageable age and they wanted her to marry a nice, young Jewish man -- and they didn't believe in incest. (Laughter.) So they said, "Well, we've just got to move somewhere else," and that's Arlen's story, please. It's not my story. (Laughter.)
You guys are great to be out. I've long enjoyed the relationship of working with you. Cheryl -- I've been in Cheryl Halpern's home a couple of times; wonderful family, dedicated, devoted, wonderful American citizens doing great work on CPB as well and just a really fine bunch of people, and she has been just wonderful to be able to work with.
Last night I was in Boston speaking on a topic there that I'm going to bring in here. It's about how we stop the spread of Islamic fascism in Africa and what we need to do to really engage in that continent. I think it's a very important thing. You may have thought I was up there for the game; the game was in Cleveland last night, it wasn't in Boston. And of you Yankees fans, I'm sorry, the Sox are still in it; you're not. That -- sorry -- okay, bad topic to bring up.
Boston's sports central, though, now. I mean, with BC undefeated, the Patriots undefeated, the Sox in the playoffs -- they were just -- although they still had that Boston attitude about, "Don't jinx it, don't jinx it. You know, we may -- something may go wrong here, so don't say anything about it."
But it was a -- it was fun to be there, and it was a very interesting time to talk about.
I want to talk about the major topics, and then I want to open up for your questions and comments. I am running for president, and it's a very clear reason of why I'm running for president. (Applause.) And I want to talk about that. I'm running to rebuild the family, I'm running to renew the culture, I'm running to revive the economy so that we can grow and we prosper and we can sustain ourselves in this generation-long fight we're in with militant Islamists. And we're going to be in this fight for a generation, and we've got to have the strength and we've got to have the will to fight, to be able to win this fight that we're in for a long period of time.
I believe we're going to be in this fight the same period of time, possibly, that we were against communism. And it's going to be one of those things that we're going to need a bipartisan pulling together of this country to be able to sustain and move ourselves forward during the length of this fight that we're going to be in; and that you also have to have your cultural institutions strong enough and willing to be able to fight, to be able to have us stand and move forward and prosper during this difficult period of time that we're in.
And that's regardless of what happens in Iraq. Regardless of what happens in Iraq, we're in this fight.
I've chaired the Middle East Subcommittee for a period of six years. I've worked on these topics. We've seen this long-term push of a militant Islamist group coming into place, getting and taking over more and more power in places after -- place after place.
And then 9/11 happened, which was the Pearl Harbor of this battle. It wasn't the first battle, but it was the Pearl Harbor of it. We'd been getting hit for 10 years prior to that: Khobar Towers, two embassies in Africa, USS Cole, the World Trade Center the first time -- hit, hit, hit, hit. And what was our response? Nothing. And that invited more, and that more ended up being 9/11. And I say to that 9/11: Never again, and not on my watch, and not in this country. (Applause.)
We can fight this. (Brief audio break) -- we've got to fight this. We have to have the strength and the will to fight it.
And that's why I talk about getting the basics right. I think we've got to rebuild our family structure. Here in Washington, D.C., today, 56 percent of the children in Washington, D.C., are born out of wedlock -- 56 percent in your nation's capital. In most inner cities, you're at 65 to 75 percent.
You can raise a good child in a single parent family, but we know from all the statistics and we know in our heart the best place to raise a child is between a mom and a dad. That's the best place to get the best stable upbringing. (Applause.) And I don't say that critically of anybody, and I think we ought to get the animosity out of the debate.
And also, I think, it's a silly debate whether it takes a family or a village. It takes as many responsible adults as you can get for a child.
My wife and I are raising five children. If any of you, again, want to move to Kansas to help us out, we accept. (Scattered applause.) It takes a lot of responsible adults per child.
And this society we're in today isn't the society that I grew up in, in Parker, Kansas, population 281. I didn't actually live in town; I grew up in the suburbs. We were a mile and a half out of town. We were on city water, so we said we said we're in the suburbs.
But I was on a party-line telephone growing up.
There were eight families on our party-line telephone that I grew up on. Little Sam Brownback had no secrets. (Laughter.) There were very few ways for me to get in trouble in that atmosphere, where we farmed with my granddad, who was five miles away, my other grandparents were 12 miles away that we saw, we worked with on a daily basis. I was related to half of the county. People in Linn County said, "Brownbacks are thick as flies and just as bad."
It was a small, tight community, but that's not the case today. Now in my family we have eight telephones. I grew up with eight families on one phone; we now have eight telephones in my family. I wish I knew a little more of what was on those telephones and what took -- well, though I say that, I probably don't. (Laughter.) It would be things I don't want to know.
But still, the basics of family -- (short audio break) -- are critical. (Audio break.) And we need to support the -- (audio break). (In progress following audio break) -- basics of family.
One of the things we did here in Washington, D.C., when I came into the District of Columbia to chair the Appropriations Committee is I went to the mayor and said, "We're not having enough family formation taking place here." He said, "I agree. What do you want to do about it?" We started Marriage Development Accounts. If you're on public assistance and you'll get married, we'll put up a dollar; we'll raise two private sector dollars. If you will put one dollar in savings, we'll develop a Marriage Development Account, a three-to-one match, and you can use it to buy a car, get an education, buy a home.
But we want to encourage marriage and send the economic (signals ?), because right now if you're on public assistance and you get married, you lose all your benefits. And guess what happens then? People don't get married. People act economically rational. And I think we've got to send these signals into society. I think we've got to renew the culture here.
And here -- these can be very difficult topics, but America is a faith-based experiment. We shouldn't drive faith out of the public square. (Applause.) It is a positive that we have people of faith. I think we ought to be able to say, "One nation, under God" in our flag salute without being worried about a lawsuit. (Applause.)
And we're of different faiths, although I have a great admiration for the Jewish faith. It gave me my faith tradition and I am ever thankful for that. And I recognize it, I see it, and I just have a great admiration for the faith of the Jewish people and what they've experienced over years and years and years to give the world the knowledge of God that your people have carried. And it's a great gift that you given all of us, and I'm one of the biggest recipients of it.
I remember many years ago -- (interrupted by applause). Thank you. I remember several years ago -- and some of you have heard me tell this story, but it makes the point that I want to make here -- I was in Jerusalem and I was in a hotel overlooking the Old City, and there was a Star of David flag that was flying over the Old City. And I remember looking at that and thinking, God keeps his promises. That flag hasn't flown here for nearly 2,000 years, and it's back, and it's back in my time frame. (Applause.) That is an amazing thing.
That in and of itself is an amazing thing, because most people groups, once they are dispossessed of their land, they don't exist as a group for a hundred -- in a hundred or 200 years, they're pretty much gone.
But here, 2,000 years later, and the flag is back and it's back in a country that's one of the key allies of the United States -- Israel -- in a tough region of the world. And it's back in a democratic ally of the United States in a tough region of the world. And it's back in a place that's showing the way forward. (Applause.)
But I think we have to recognize that Israel doesn't have friends all throughout that region. It has people that it can work with, and it has dedicated enemies. And I've learned, in this business, you need to take people at their word in what they say. And when Ahmadinejad talks about a world without Israel and the United States, I think we have to take him serious. (Applause.)
I don't agree with what he's saying, but I think you have to take him serious. And I think you have to recognize that, okay, what is it that he is seeking to do, and what is it that we're doing to thwart that? And I think we have to use every tool at our disposal to be able to thwart the drive in Iran to get nuclear weapons and its existential threat to Israel. (Applause.) I think we have to do that, and these are serious times. And this is a serious topic and it's a difficult topic for us.
One sidebar issue on this that I think we've got to get right, and I see a couple people here in the audience that have been the lead workers on this, is we've got to get our energy formula right in the United States and stop being so dependent on foreign oil. (Applause.) And here -- we've talked about this for a long time. It is now past time for us to do something. Because if Ahmadinejad and Chavez get together, and let's say Putin decides to join in with it as well, and we're -- they decide to shut down the United States on energy supplies, we are highly vulnerable today, today.
And who amongst you wouldn't say that these two gentlemen, Ahmadinejad and Chavez, have the desire to do this towards the United States? And who amongst you wouldn't be planning differently, knowing that that's the circumstance? We've got to do differently on our energy supplies and we can do differently on our energy supplies.
I put forward a proposal for us to be energy-secure in North America in 15 years. North America, because I think we're going to need to work clearly with Canada and with Mexico. And secure, not independent, because I don't think we can -- in a global economy, you can look at yourselves as being independent really in any particular way, but on oil supplies in particular.
But so that in 15 years, if these guys come together and decide they're going to shut us down, that we have trouble but we're not crippled at that point in time. And we need to do a number of different things. One is, I think, we need to get more electricity involved in our car fleet.
We've got two hybrid cars in our family. It makes a difference on how you drive these cars. My 17-year-old daughter drives one of ours, does about 32 miles to the gallon; I can do 40 on it. I wish she would do 40 on it. She's gotten one ticket, and I'm hopeful there's not more coming.
But I'd like to see this next wave of cars coming out, a plug-in technology where you plug the car in at night and you do your first 20 to 30 miles off of electricity. And then switch to ethanol would be my hope, not gasoline, at that point in time. And if we can do tax credits to stimulate the production and the purchase of this type of car, a car, when it enters our fleet in the United States, generally stays in the fleet about 17 years.
So it takes a while for us to change this car fleet over. But we need to get this wave of technology moving in and moving forward. We can drop that number of people that -- or if we can raise the number of people using electricity involved in the car fleet, we can dramatically impact our oil supply and our oil demand.
Half of the country doesn't drive over 20 to 30 miles a day. None of them live in Kansas. I don't know if any of them are in this room, but this is something we can do on a dramatic basis. We also need to re-engage nuclear power generation in this country, and that's something we're going to have to do for us to move forward. (Applause.)
And this cellulosic ethanol and ethanol in general is growing rapidly. I'm delighted to see that, particularly in my part of the country. We want to see this country more dependent on the Midwest than it is on the Middle East for oil supplies and for gas supplies, and these are things that we can do. (Applause.) I think we can move forward with that.
We've got to grow the economy. One of the key things -- and I just want to hit this as a sidebar -- one of the key things that we have to do, I think, for our long-term prosperity and growth in this country is grow our economy. And in that way -- what I've seen as a senator and what I believe going in as president is that we've got to get the big systems and the basics right. You can't micromanage America from Washington, and you shouldn't try. It is the wrong thing to try to do. (Applause.)
But you need to get your big systems right. And by this, I'm pointing right at the Internal Revenue Code, the tax code -- not the service, but the code. The code tries to micromanage your life and your business decisions, and it says if you'll put a dollar here, we'll give you a credit; if you put a dollar here, we'll double-tax you. If you do this, we're going to -- it's all micromanaging of economic decisions.
One of the best things we could do to grow this economy and get the system right and not micromanage out of Washington would be for the creation of an alternative flat tax. Leave the -- (applause) -- get a different system. Leave the code in place -- although I'd rather take it behind the barn and kill it with a dull axe -- (laughter) -- but leave it in place, because there's so many incumbents that have stuff in this code, that there's -- the realtors have this, and there's a charitable group and that, so you can't take it out because you'll never get it done. But just create the optional flat tax, (somewhere ?) between 15 to 20 percent, say, (than ?) you determine what you're going to invest in. Most upper-income individuals in this country pay under 20 percent because they move the money around to places that we favor, away from places that are disfavored, but if you have a flat tax, you don't manage the system; you create incredible growth and you're going to get a growing economic system. I mean, this is the way we need to go.
And our Social Security system -- goodness gracious, we've got to go to personal Social Security accounts. This is a key thing that we need to do for us to be able to grow. (Applause.)
Now finally -- and this I'm not spending enough time on -- is the war on terrorism, the war with militant Islamic fascists. This, as I say, is the war of our generation. I think we have to be very clear- minded about it. I think we have to win in Iraq. We lose in Iraq, we send the wrong signal. (Applause.)
And you know who agrees most with that, winning in Iraq? It's the people in the military. They're the ones -- talk with anybody in the military. (Applause.) They're the ones who are saying we've got to win this. And God bless them. They are doing a fabulous job. This military is doing an outstanding job -- they're doing an outstanding job in Iraq. (Applause.)
Where I think we've gotten it wrong is that I don't think we've got a political solution on the ground in Iraq that works yet.
And this is one that's been a difficult thing from the very outset, but one thing I'm pushing now and I'm doing on a bipartisan basis with Joe Biden is a federalism approach in Iraq. We'd have the Kurds running the north, which they currently do. The most stable piece of Iraq is growing and investment's coming in. You'd have the Sunnis running the rest and the Shi'a south, and it may be in more than one Shi'a state in the south with Baghdad as the federal city, still one country. Iraq is less a country than it is three groups held together by exterior forces, and federalism is a way to a devolving power and authority to be able to hold the place together so that we can do this.
This proposal got 75 votes in the United States. It's the first bipartisan vote we've been able to have on Iraq this year. It reaches out and pulls people together, and it's something that can last. It was just endorsed by the president of Iraq, President Talabani, who is Kurdish but did endorse this federalism. It doesn't break the country up; it allows power and authority to devolve, and that's something we need in the future.
We need to get involved actively in Africa. This was my topic last night. It is a continent in play now. It is a place where the Chinese are investing heavily for natural resources; it is a place where Islamic fascists are aggressively being involved and activated in many places. United States, this next decade, this next president must be aggressively involved in Africa. It's a place that really is in play. And I've learned in this business that if you get involved with things that are starting to move, you can shape them a lot better than after they've already stabilized or established themselves. Now is the time for us to be involved in Africa on a humanitarian basis, on an economic growth basis, on natural resource, on helping governments form good governments that are not corrupt or moving away from difficulties there, and it's also on security.
This is key, and I want you to hear this because it's something we've got to do. (Applause.) We're in a long-term battle of ideas, and we need to get our ideas right. I think in Israel -- and working with the Palestinians recently I did a video piece supporting Benny Alon on a proposal that he put forward to bring the Jordanians more involved, not a second -- not a Palestinian state, but let's look at different models, and that the land for peace proposals have not worked. (Applause.)
They have not worked -- the land for peace model. If it did work, I'd be more than willing to look at it, but look what's taking place even now in the Gaza Strip, where you had Hamas run Fatah out of it in gun battles. And how stable can we expect a Palestinian Authority to be, to be able to run this very difficult area?
And for 60 years now people have been in refugee camps. Isn't it time that they be settled in places where -- that they can grow and prosper and have their lives go forward, instead of in refugee camps? (Applause.)
I think it's time we looked at other ideas. I really think it's time we look at different proposals. I've appreciated the president's road map, but they're veering significantly off of it.
And Jerusalem is the undivided capital of Israel and must remain the undivided capital of Israel. (Applause.)
Search your records. Jerusalem is the center of the Jewish faith. I believe it's mentioned 600 times in the Hebrew Bible. It's the centerpiece. It's an amazing, amazing place. I've been in the area where they found the gate that goes into the inner temple area that they uncovered, and it's just an incredible thing to see for me, I imagine for you even more so.
Thank you very much. And let me conclude, before I go to questions, on this one thought. I've talked about a lot of issues, and a lot of issues I haven't covered. There's a whole bunch -- others we could talk about. We could talk about immigration. We could talk about more Middle East. We could talk about world relations. I'd be happy to talk about any of them. I do think the next president is going to have to be engaged a lot more and from the very outset on foreign policies and dealing with this confrontation we have with Islam -- Islamic fascists, not with Islam, with Islamic fascists. I want to be very clear about that point.
But I also say we look down so much of the time when I would hope that we would look up more often. And with elections we tend to look at problems all the time, but this is the most powerful nation in the history of mankind. Where America sits today, we've got less than 5 percent of the world's population, 20 percent of the world's economy, a third of the world's military spending, and 40 percent of the research and development budget for the world -- this country, where we sit today. (Applause.) And I think we look down too much, and we ought to just look up once in a while and realize how blessed we are, how fortunate we are as a nation -- (applause) -- and yet realize that to whom much is given, much is required.
Tony Blair, when he addressed the joint session of Congress right after 9/11, wonderful speech that he gave, said at the conclusion of it -- he said: You know, I know somebody right now in New Mexico (sic; Nevada) or Idaho, a place I haven't been but would love to go, is saying, "Why me, and why now? Why is so much required of America, and why now?" And then he responded, I think, as only a Brit could respond. He said: Because it's your time and it's your destiny.
And I think it is our time, and I think it is our destiny; and that our greatness is built on our goodness; and if we ever lose that fundamental goodness to do what's right, we will lose our greatness; and that now is our moment. And I want to be president to carry that moment forward.
Thank you very much. (Applause.) God bless you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
(Audio break.)
We have some microphones up on the sides here, if you'd like to get up and ask some questions. Nice softballs are preferred. (Laughter.) I still haven't had my second cup of coffee, so I'm not responsible for everything I say.
Q Good for you. I agree with most of your -- in fact, very moved at your points. But one thing -- Colorado is your neighboring state and you failed to mention the Rocky (territory ?).
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, yeah, I should have mentioned that, that's true. And even -- (inaudible) -- Kansas territory. On the original map, Kansas went into the Rocky Mountains, so that's Kansas territory. They don't acknowledge that anymore. They made us the flat state and they gave them the hills.
One of my prime examples of wasted federal spending is they did a study comparing the flatness of my state to the flatness of a pancake. And we won. We're actually flatter than a -- there are more undulations in a pancake than in my state. Isn't that a waste, to study that?
Sir, over here.
Q Senator, you said a number of good things I really like -- the flat tax, addressing Social Security, a comprehensive energy policy -- but let's be fair about -- (off mike). There are a lot of special interests --
SEN. BROWNBACK: No-o-o-o.
Q -- but special interest doesn't mean national interest. How do you plan on -- (off mike)?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, let me take the example of the flat tax. I have been through this fight on the tax code. This is something that I've looked at for some period of time, and I know we can have a much stronger, growing economy with a flat tax. And we can do this in a fashion that's not regressive. So I've gone after the tax code itself and been knocked back, because you employ immediately every lobbyist in Washington, D.C., and then some if you go at the tax code.
So that's why I said leave the current code in place and then create an optional flat tax, or as Stephen Moore, the Wall Street Journal, says, an alternative maximum tax, a new AMT. Instead of an alternative minimum tax, this is an alternative maximum tax. Many people right now say, "You're taxing us twice anyway," with the current tax code, when they figure their AMT. What about, okay, here's the maximum rate? No credits, no exemptions, no nothing. This is it. You do this and here is the rate.
Sixteen countries have gone to a flat tax. None of them have gone back. All of them have grown their economy and increased their government revenues in going to this system.
I mean, it's much like the farm program. My family's farmed for many years. My dad's participated in a farm program. About 10 years, 12 years ago we decided, you know, we're not going to tell you, Bob Brownback, any more how many acres of corn, wheat and soybeans to plant. We're going to do Freedom to Farm. You farm what you want; we're just going to put this payment out there. Who do you think can get more out of that farm in eastern Kansas on production; the federal government telling him what to plant and what acres, or my dad? My dad wins on that.
And that's the same thing in the tax code. Who do you think can get more yield out of an investment resource; the government manipulating your decision, or you? You can. This can work, but you got to go at it smart, like what I was just describing here.
And that's the way -- the same with Social Security. I think it has to be an optional system. If you want to stay in the Social Security system, God bless you, we're going to give you every thin dime we've promised you. But right now this system doesn't work for my kids. Three of our five children are paying some payroll taxes, and they all ask me, "Man, this is a lot you're paying. What are you guys doing with this money?" And I say, "Well, go to your grandparents and tell them to say thank you to you. This is going" -- and they do, and their grandparents say thank you, but somehow that doesn't satisfy. We can do better.
Yes, sir?
MS. : There's a hand right here.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Right here. Let's go right here, sir.
Q (Off mike.)
SEN. BROWNBACK: All right -- (inaudible). I love ya. Yeah.
How are you doing, Marvin?
Q (Off mike) -- how are you doing -- (off mike)?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I could use a few more votes -- like yours would be --
Q (Off mike) -- after all the questions -- (off mike).
SEN. BROWNBACK: Only probably? (Laughter.)
Q (Off mike.)
SEN. BROWNBACK: (Chuckles.)
Q The question of homeownership -- (off mike) -- flat tax -- (off mike).
SEN. BROWNBACK: You ask about the connection between homeownership, flat tax and philanthropy. The --
Q Well, not necessarily --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yeah, but I think I understand your point is that a lot of people believe that a flat tax will hurt charitable giving or will hurt homeownership in the system. That's why I say you leave the current code in place, so you don't take those issues on directly. And if somebody says, you know, "I want to give a whole bunch of money and have a deduction for doing that," use the current code, or "I've got a home mortgage deduction and this is very important to me," because a home is the biggest asset most Americans have, stay in the current code.
But most people think: Okay, people with higher income pay a very high rate, but most will pay about 18.5 percent because they'll shovel the money around in different places that are lower income- yielding assets, and then our overall economy is not as big as it would be; whereas if they just said, you know, "I'm just going to pay my freight rather than getting it manipulated and shovelled in whole different places" -- in my background -- and I confess I'm a recovering lawyer. I took tax law courses. People shovel assets around to places that exist. But that's how we can do it without hurting those other systems.
Yes, ma'am?
Q I ask pithy questions.
SEN. BROWNBACK: All right.
Q Do you have a creative solution? Would you work with Sarkozy to do something about bringing Udi Goldwasser and Mr. Regev home?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I would work with Sarkozy. I'm -- you know, this has been a leap forward for me. I've not thought of the French as a great ally being able to work with the United States. But Sarkozy is saying many of the right things and, I think, is seeing many of the problems in a correct light. And in that sense, I say, let's work with him, let's work with him on tough situations, particularly Iran, where we've got to pull together a global coalition in dealing with this, and we've got to do it very smart. (Applause.)
I think in the next presidency we're going to see people -- and you're going to have to have this -- where we do containment and engagement strategies on an aggressive basis on dealing with militant Islamist regimes, because we have many allies in the Islamic world. We've got Musharraf in Pakistan. As many difficulties as he may have, he as worked with us. And I think we have to look in a very realpolitik fashion on some of these. Mubarak in Egypt I've had a lot of difficulty with, but he has worked with us, and the option is Muslim Brotherhood on the other side.
I think this next president's going to have to really weave through that. And then you've got the Sunni-Shi'a division and you've got an Arab-Persian division as well. I mean, I just think there's an opportunity for us to be quite wise, humble but a realpolitik era on how we move forward in both the containment and engagement.
One guy pointed out to me, and I'll get to this next question, that more terrorists come from places in the world that are not associated with the global economy. But if we can get more people in areas of the world that are associated with the global economy so their livelihoods are improving, you're likelihood is you're going to produce fewer terrorists. Not that there will be none, because there will still be terrorist elements, but we need to get them more engaged in their lives improving, their personal lives improving. And we need to help with education a lot in many regions of the world, particularly the Islamic regions of the world, seeing that people get a good, quality education, and not just one that's filled with a lot of hate.
Q Senator Brownback, I like your message; I like the way you express it. That said, and like so many other millions of people, but that said, the tired, mainstream, dinosaur, whatever media treat you as a second-tier candidate. And perhaps that ties to fundraising or other matters.
The problem however is that when you're regarded in that sense, or relatively disregarded, it shows up on the debates. It shows up on the kinds and numbers of questions you get, your placement in getting questions. It shows up on whether things about you appear above the fold or below the fold.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Or even on the fold or in the paper.
Q Right. (Laughter.)
And it seems to me that your primary difficulty in getting elected which is, after all, what you're doing right now, trying to get elected, is somehow, after having been ascribed that second-tier status, breaking through that and getting up to a different kind of status, so that your message gets out as a more important message, treated with the respect it deserves, gets to more people, and that you have a fairer chance of getting your message out. In this -- given the way that these things are run these days, particularly the debates and particularly the media, how does one go about doing that?
How can you go about doing that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: It's Iowa. You got to bounce through in Iowa. I've got a breakthrough in Iowa. That's why I recently said if I don't finish fourth or higher in Iowa, we'll pull out of the race. We've got to be able to break through there. That has been a route that others have tried and made it work before. Jimmy Carter came from a(n) unknown status. Other candidates have been able to bounce forward, but that's the place that we've got to -- we've got to be able to perform on the ground to be able to get the media to notice that I do have a candidacy. And so our assets and resources have been focused there.
If any of you want to contribute funds, I take all major currencies and major credit cards and first-born children. (Laughter.) Yes, we'll take it all.
Q I wish you well.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much.
Yes, sir.
Q Senator Brownback -- (applause) --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes?
Q I'm a fellow Kansan, and, yes, I'm one of those .7 percent --
SEN. BROWNBACK: All right!
Q I am so proud that you're my senator, so thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.)
Q And my question, though, for you is on that issue of immigration, because that is, as we all know in this room, so critical.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes.
Q I'm interested in really two aspects of it, and that is control of the border in -- I'm sorry, three aspects: Control of the border --
SEN. BROWNBACK: For it.
Q -- enforcement of current regulations, which I don't believe is being done successfully --
SEN. BROWNBACK: For it.
Q -- and thirdly, what can we do as a government to make it easier for those who want to come to our country legally to come?
SEN. BROWNBACK: That's the tough one. I'm for border enforcement, I'm for interior enforcement. I voted for the fence. I support doing -- I don't like the concept of the fence because I like an open society, but we don't have control of the southern border. We need to build the fence. We need to do this to be able to get control of the border. (Applause.)
I don't think that's enough. I think you have to have interior enforcement, and I think what the administration is trying to do with the Social Security number and Immigration Service, integrating those, is something you're going to have to go to. And that's going to have some difficulty getting it up because the Social Security number -- there's a lot of bad numbers out there, and so there's going to be difficulty in sorting through it. Still, that's a key place.
The third piece that you've talked about, that's the tough one of it because right now, this is a very difficult system to navigate through. And it's the lead casework in my office -- this immigration and travel casework. You wouldn't think -- in Kansas, your lead casework is that? But it just shows you the difficulty. I do think, over time, once we do more enforcement, that we should look at doing a simple work visa program to -- that people that want to come here and legitimately work can get in too in a fairly simple fashion, but have to be -- we have to have a system where we can know where individuals are and that they go home on a periodic basis, back to home area when they've worked here over a period of time.
One quick number on this -- this year, we'll allow in about 50,000 agricultural workers for states like yours and mine in Kansas. The marketplace demands about half-a-million agricultural workers coming into the country. That you're almost forcing -- you're almost creating a system where you're going to have people cross illegally, if that's your dynamic, if that's what you -- if that's the economic forces and factors that are in play. We need a much simpler work visa system. Thank you. (Applause.)
Over here, we'll take another one.
Cheryl -- oh, okay, she's saying I'm out of my time. (Applause.) But I get to -- oh, I can take one more. Okay, I can take one more question if there was another one left. (Cross talk.)
Q What would you do about radical Islam using local Islam within the system here to try and attempt to replace the U.S. Constitution with the Koran? (Applause.)
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I stand for the U.S. Constitution, and we will stand for the U.S. Constitution. (Applause.) And people that enter our country swear allegiance to the Constitution, that this is the law of the land. And we've got -- and we will fight for this Constitution and against Koranic or Shari'a law.
The United States Constitution is the supreme law of our land. That is something I will absolutely fight for. It's something I'm sworn to do as a United States Senator, and it's something that I will do as president of the United States -- got to fight for that document. (Applause.)
Let me -- you've been very kind with your time, and I really appreciate this, that you gave me 40 minutes in these debates. As the one gentleman noticed, that sometimes, they'll ask you a question, and the only response is you either get to hold your hand up or not, or 30 seconds. (Laughter.) So the thought of actually developing a thought and putting forward series of ones is very refreshing, and I appreciate that greatly.
Look for the person that represents your principles and the principles of this country.
This party is a party built on principles; it's not built on personality. We lose track of ourselves, and we just say, well, okay, we're going to chase after personality. We win when we're built around principles of economic growth, of strong families, of a set of core moral values, of the strong foreign policy of standing with Israel. Those are core principles of the Republican Party. Let's not forget our principles. (Applause.) We forgot them the last election cycle, and we had trouble. That's why I'm running.
And also, don't ever forget the lesson of Ronald Reagan -- that's to look up and be optimist. This is a hope-filled country, and the party or individual that offers the most hope and ideas for the future wins. I want to be that candidate, I want ours to be that party.
Thank you so much. God bless you all. (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you very much.

Source: http://www.fnsg.com/transcript.htm?id=20071016t7135&nquery=&query=
