Public Statements
Panel I of a Hearing of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee - Combating Genocide in Darfur: The Role of Divestment
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 3, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Panel I of a Hearing of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee - Combating Genocide in Darfur: The Role of Divestment and Other Policy
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman and colleagues. I appreciate your interest and willingness to take this issue up. Senator Shelby and I have spoken several times about it, and I appreciate his interest and support for it.
I've been to Darfur. I've been to Sudan. Once you're there and you see the people suffering, it's just really hard to say, "Well, I don't think maybe we ought to do this because it might conflict with something else." When you see it, then it's one of those things where you go, "I've got to do something." We've got to do whatever we can, given the status that we have in the world. This is the most powerful nation in the history of mankind where the United States sits today.
And you have people who have been run out of their villages by militias sponsored by the government, put in harm's way, dying in hundreds of thousands; and at the same time we'll probably see the Sudanese economy grow by 13 percent this year. That's the level that's projected for what the Sudanese economy will do this year, growing by 13 percent. That's primarily due to investment by Chinese and Malaysian resource companies, primarily oil companies, some of which we're investing in.
We've said often, "Never again," or we've -- and we've taken up the pledge of "Not on our watch." We also need to take up the pledge, "Not on our dime," and that's what we're asking for with this campaign and this effort.
And I have to say I'm particularly heartened by young people across America who have constantly been coming to my office saying, you know, "We want to see this end. We want to do something about it." And a group of them camped out at my home in Topeka, led by Matthew Vines and other students from Wichita East High School, and pressed the Kansas Legislature until they enacted a divestiture campaign on the Sudan from the Kansas state pension fund.
And I -- God bless them for doing that. This is a group of high school students that see it and say this is terrible and it shouldn't take place and we shouldn't be allowing it to happen and it should be -- we should divest from it.
The key here for this committee to consider, and I think Senator Shelby has been rightfully pointing out in the regular order of things, is that we need to act as a Congress to allow this to take place. And that's the key point. I mean, Senator Durbin, who has been excellent on this, has been dogged and determined on this, and I applaud his efforts.
You now have -- some of these divestiture bills are being struck down by state and federal courts saying that this steps into the purview of the Congress. The Congress by this act can explicitly say that the states can do this, and that's one of the key provisions of this bill.
One of the key ways the federal government can help is to explicitly provide the authorization for states and local governments to divest from Sudan. Doing so would address an objection that has attenuated the success of targeted divestiture movements.
And so in that sense, then, I would hope it would get to other issues raised by my colleagues: that we don't want to have 50 or a hundred different foreign policies. No, this is one. It's set by the U.S. Congress. It's authorized by the U.S. Congress. Now the states can move forward with it. And I think that's a good regular order way to move forward with this. It's a way to get our citizenry involved in a key issue of our time.
And I would also hope it would do something that Senator Reed commented about: that it would cause individuals then to start to look at their own investments and things that companies are doing, or companies that they're investing in, and saying, again, "Not on my dime."
We're going to try to do it as a federal government, which we have done through sanctions. We're going to try to do it through the states, through these targeted divestitures that the Congress would have to allow to take place. And we're going to press it as individuals and with individual companies, so that we're not allowing a genocide to take place on our time, on our dime. And I think that should be a simple, strong message.
We are seeing some early results of this, in a positive fashion. You're seeing countries -- companies from the U.K. to Germany to India have suspended or significantly altered their operations in the Sudan. I think there's good reason to believe that the government of Sudan has noticed and is nervous, somewhat, about this. They're not going to say that. But the more we can tighten this, the less they're going to be able to grow that economy, the less money they're going to have to conduct this second genocide.
And I want to remind my colleagues: this is the second genocide by this government that was started by Osama bin Laden; this government was started and put into power by Osama bin Laden; they've done a genocide in the south, where 2 million people were killed over a long period of time; that this government was actively involved in the Sudan peace agreement that was negotiated by one of our former colleagues, Senator Danforth. There is now peace in the south. People are starting to rebuild, albeit slowly. Now you're seeing this take place in the west. This is the second genocide.
These guys have had plenty of warning. We need to act to be able to allow this to take place by state and local units of government, and hopefully this will also push into the private sector.
And with that, I would just urge my colleagues to act to allow this to take place.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://banking.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=Hearings.Home
