Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Committee on Appropriations - The President's FY 2008 Supplemental Request for the Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 26, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Hearing of the Senate Committee on Appropriations - The President's FY 2008 Supplemental Request for the Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
I want to thank all of you for being here today. And General Pace, thank you for your service to the country; appreciate that, the years that you've served and the great work that you've done. And I know you'll be on to many other things that you're going to be involved with. But thank you for your service, and job well done; appreciate it.
GEN. PACE: Thank you, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Secretary Negroponte, I want to ask you about a bill we just passed, a resolution on federalism in Iraq that just passed the United States Senate, 75, I think, to 23 that the vote went through. And with your experience in Iraq, your position now at State Department, I'd like to talk through some of this with you. I know State Department has had concerns about the Sense of the Senate resolution that we just passed.
But it seems to me that this just makes a lot of sense to push this forward. And as I understand the Bush administration's objection to it, it's really centered around "We don't want to push the Iraqis to do something that they're not sure they want to do" is basically what I get the major thrust out of this to be.
And yet it's my contention, in looking at this, is I don't think they are politically capable of doing this, given the base of their support in either the Shi'a area or the Sunni area, leaving the Kurdish area aside because they've been running their own region, I think, the three Kurdish provinces. They've been -- I was up there in January. I know you know a number of the Kurdish leaders. Investment is taking place. Growth is taking place; stability. It's really moving like we'd hoped the rest of the country would move.
It seems to me that now is the moment for the political surge. The military surge has been moving forward. I think it's had some significant accomplishments. It doesn't seem to me we've had much in the way of political accomplishments taking place. And I think we need to step in -- you, Secretary Rice, bring in former Secretary Baker -- to really push a Sunni-Shi'a accommodation taking place.
And we could start on this in Anbar in harvesting the moment that the military is giving and allowing them the same sort of regional authority or pushing that for the Sunnis that the Kurds have in the north, so you don't have to federalize the whole country, but you do that in the Sunni area to capture the moment that we have there.
And it seems to me -- and I want to finish with this, and I want to give you plenty of time to answer -- that we've got in Baghdad this segregation taking place. This is a military map -- I'm sure you're familiar with it, and you are from on the ground -- but Tigris River. This is the Shi'a purifying area, if I could use that in a terrible way. This is the Sunni segregating area. It is not a perfect map and it's not happening that way everywhere. But you are seeing these communities go Sunni, go Shi'a. We saw that in the former Yugoslavia. We saw that -- we've seen that taking place in other places around the world.
Why not a political surge right now, and particularly capturing the moment of Anbar and the Sunni area so that they could -- we could try to grab the moment and decentralize a great deal of that authority in the country?
MR. NEGROPONTE: Thank you, Senator, for your question.
First of all, on the resolution that you passed, I think our concern -- you rightly characterized it. It was that we felt that we ought to be clear that ultimately it's the Iraqis themselves who have to decide this. We don't deny that there's a provision in their constitution for forming regional areas and that if that's the route that they choose, they should do it. And I believe you made a slight modification in the text of your resolution to take into account the fact that ultimately they have to decide.
SEN. BROWNBACK: We did.
MR. NEGROPONTE: Secondly, as far as regional and encouraging, empowering the provincial activities and people in the various localities, our concern -- certainly part of our assistance strategy and part of our presence strategy in Iraq goes in that direction. The very fact that we now have 25 PRTs spread out throughout the country is one way of demonstrating that.
I agree with you that the situation in Al Anbar presents opportunities. I think that the Iraqis themselves, though, ultimately are going to have to work their way through this. Clearly --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Aren't you going to have to push them to do that?
MR. NEGROPONTE: Certainly our -- I think our encouragement can be a positive factor. And certainly one of the main things that our ambassador does out there is to do what he can, within his power and within the powers of his persuasion, to foment a spirit of reconciliation and to foment these different groups working more closely together in a political way.
But I see, Senator, this is a very fundamental issue for the Iraqis, what the balance and distribution of power and authorities is going to be between the center and the provinces. I believe it's a longer-term issue in a certain sense. It's one that the Iraqis are going to have to work out amongst themselves. And it's going to take a certain amount of time, just like it takes other countries time to sort out their constitutional systems.
But there are things that can be encouraged along the way; for example, the possibility of local elections, provincial elections. And there is pending before their legislature now, I believe, the question of arranging for local elections, which would give an opportunity to some of these groups like the Sunni groups that boycotted the 2005 elections to participate more actively in the political process this time.
So, yes, there are things to do. The Iraqis, I think, are the ones who basically have to do it. But we can play an encouraging role, I think, with not too high a profile, if I might add.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let's put that other map up. Before my time expires, I think we've got to play a more aggressive role in it, because it seems to me that their own political base, the Shi'a, aren't going to allow them to move too far towards some of the Sunni leadership in some cases, and the Sunnis the same way. It's going to take us really hammering it.
And I just want to show you a map of -- this is a 1914 map in the region. You're probably very familiar with this, being a good student of history; former Mesopotamia. It's a southern Shi'a region. It's a center that's a Sunni region; northern Kurdish region that's in this area, with Baghdad as a federal city.
I think there's some natural tendency and some history with this.
And it seems like instead of fighting this situation we ought to kind of flow and push it more this way into this politically stabilized environment because the current setup I just don't think long term could work. And the Maliki government's having difficulty holding things together; it's having difficulty with its ministers. I think this decentralized approach has some reflections in history to it and it has some reflections of the situation on the ground. I'd hope we could then pull our troops back more from the front of the line and policing if you had more regions like what the Kurdish region is right now.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://appropriations.senate.gov/hearings.cfm
