Public Statements
Governor Sam Brownback Signs Bill Marking the Return of Uber Ride Service to Kansas
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 22, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Sam Brownback today signed Senate Bill 101 clearing the way for the popular ride-sharing service, Uber, to return to Kansas. Uber plans to reinitiate service within an hour of the bill being signed.
"This is good news for Kansas and Kansans," said Governor Brownback. "Kansas welcomes innovative businesses and the economic growth that comes with them. I was pleased to sign the bill that allowed Uber to return to our state and put its drivers back to work."
Following the bill signing, Governor Brownback met with customers who had relied on the service before Uber left the Kansas market in early May following an override of the Governor's veto of the original bill.
The Governor also became the first person to use the ride sharing service following its return to Kansas. For his first ride in Kansas, the Governor was connected to Vince Weston, a military veteran from Olathe, who supplements his income as an Uber driver-partner. Weston advocated for reasonable regulations for ridesharing in Kansas and met with the Governor to urge him to veto Senate Bill 117.
In addition to Kansas City, Uber will serve the communities of Lawrence, Leavenworth, Manhattan and Topeka.
"Thanks to Governor Brownback and Kansas legislators who worked with us to bring ridesharing back to Kansas, hundreds of drivers will hit the road today to start earning a new income," said Kenny Tsai, General Manager of Uber Kansas. "We are thrilled that Uber now has permanent home in the Sunflower State and look forward to contributing to the state's economy and quality of life for years to come."
The Governor has now signed 66 bills into law this session and vetoed one. By law, the Kansas governor has 10 calendar days to sign the bill into law, veto the bill or allow the bill to become law without his or her signature.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2015/05/22/governor-sam-brownback-signs-bill-marking-the-return-of-uber-ride-service-to-kansas
