Public Statements
District of Columbia House Voting Rights Act of 2007
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 18, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the DC Voting Rights Act today. It is a tough issue. It is one with which I am familiar. I have chaired the DC Subcommittee both on the authorizing and the appropriating side. I have worked in the District of Columbia on a number of different issues. I reside here when I am not in my home State of Kansas. My home is in Kansas, but I have an apartment that is here, so I am living in the District. I have talked with many people about the Voting Rights Act issue. I am sympathetic with the people of the District of Columbia not having an elected delegate to represent them, although I know very well the lady who is representing them in the House, ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON, who is an outstanding Representative for the District of Columbia, although she does not have the right to vote on the floor. I have worked with her on many issues to rebuild the family structure in Washington, DC with things such as Marriage Development Accounts. I worked with her on revitalizing the District of Columbia with an economic revitalization bill that passed when I first came into the Senate in 1996. I worked with her and others on the schools in Washington, DC, and the deplorable state of the schools in Washington, DC.
I have worked on all these issues and I am familiar with this issue and the Voting Rights Act of 2007. Yet I cannot support this bill. I can and would support a constitutional amendment allowing the District of Columbia the right to vote in the House of Representatives, but I cannot support this Voting Rights Act. I want to speak here on the floor this morning and outline why I cannot vote for it.
Congress has long recognized we can only grant District residents the ability to participate in Federal elections through constitutional amendment. Congress has recognized that. Prior to 1961, for example, District residents were not permitted to vote in Presidential elections. Article II, section 1 of the Constitution expressly provides that the electoral college should be comprised of electors from each State, in a number equal to the State's combined congressional delegation. In the face of this express constitutional language, Congress recognized that a change in the law would require a change in the Constitution itself, looking at the plain meaning of the statute and the plain meaning of the Constitution. That is why, when we granted DC residents the right to participate in Presidential elections, we went about it the right way, by passing what would become the 23rd amendment to the Constitution, allowing DC residents the right to participate in a Presidential election.
We saw the plain meaning of the Constitution and we did the right thing; we amended the Constitution. Just as article II of the Constitution, which deals with the Presidency, limited the right to appoint Presidential electors to the States, article I, which deals with the Congress, clearly and repeatedly limits representation in the House and the Senate to the States. That is what it says. Article I says that the House:
shall be composed of members chosen every second year by the People of the several States, and the Electors in each State shall have the Qualifications requisite for Electors of the most numerous Branch of the State Legislature.
It requires that each Representative:
when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State in which he [was] chosen.
It mandated that:
each state ..... have at Least one Representative,
and provides that:
When vacancies happen in the Representation from any State, the Executive Authority thereof shall issue Writs of Election to fill such Vacancies.
Rarely do we have an issue in the Senate that has so much plain language from the Constitution involved. This one has a lot of plain language from the Constitution. I believe in strict construction of the Constitution. I think it would be hard for me to call myself a strict constructionist and say that we can, as a Congress, bypass the clear words in the U.S. Constitution and say we are just going to grant these rights to the District of Columbia to have an elected representative voting in the House of Representatives, even though I support that. That is something we should do, but we should do it the right way by amending the Constitution and not the wrong way by passing a law here that is clearly unconstitutional--and I will go through the court cases that have declared it unconstitutional--and then say: We will let the courts sort it out. I am a Federal officer, sworn to uphold the Constitution. I need to do so in this body and not just say I will hand it off to the courts.
Congressional Democrats in 1978 recognized this fact. That year, Congress passed an amendment giving District residents a voting seat in the House. When the House Judiciary Committee, under the leadership of Democratic chairman Peter Rodino, reported out the amendment, the accompanying report properly recognized that ``[i]f the citizens of the District are to have voting representation in the Congress, a constitutional amendment is essential; statutory action alone will not suffice.'' Sadly, the 1978 amendment failed to garner the support needed from the States to secure ratification.
We all recognize that amending the Constitution is difficult, but it still remains the right way to deal with something of this nature. I am certainly not alone in concluding that this bill, although well intentioned, violates the plain language of the Constitution. The very court that will hear challenges to this bill under its expedited judicial review provision has previously ruled that District residents do not have a constitutional right to congressional representation.
In Adams vs. Clinton in 2000, a three-judge panel of the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia concluded that the Constitution plainly limited congressional representation to the States. The court explained that ``the overlapping and interconnected use of the term `state' in the relevant provisions of Article I, the historical evidence of contemporary understandings, and the opinions of our judicial forebears all reinforce how deeply congressional representation is tied to the structure of statehood. ..... There is simply no evidence that the Framers intended that not only citizens of states, but unspecified others as well, would share in the congressional franchise.''
The District residents who brought suit in Adams v. Clinton appealed their case all the way to the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court affirmed the trial court's ruling. That is the same court which would hear this case.
When Congress granted the DC and territorial delegates a broader role in the House by allowing them to vote in committee, several House Members sued to challenge the delegates' expanded power. In Michael v. Anderson, the Federal court for the District of Columbia Circuit took care to note that their expanded roles passed constitutional muster only because they did not give the essential qualities of House Representatives to the delegates.
In light of the Constitution's clear limitation on House membership to representatives from the States, I cannot vote for cloture on the motion to proceed to this bill. I don't believe we in Congress should act to pass legislation that we know violates the Constitution, essentially passing the buck to the Federal courts to strike down what we never should have enacted in the first place and to strike down what they have already spoken on as recently as 2000. When we neglect our duty to the Constitution, we fail to uphold our oath as Senators to defend this great document.
My friends in the Senate who support this bill rely primarily on two arguments, neither of which outweighs the clear mandate of article II.
First, they claim that another provision in the Constitution, the so-called District clause, allows Congress to essentially grant any sort of legislation related to the District of Columbia, including legislation to give DC residents a voting House Member. This clause permits Congress to pass laws to provide for the general welfare of District residents. This bill, however, does not propose to provide for the welfare of DC residents; it seeks to alter the fundamental composition of the House.
Second, they correctly point out that there are certain instances in the Constitution where references to ``citizens of the states'' have been interpreted to include District residents. Many of these cases, though, involve individual rights, and it is obvious that DC residents do not lose their rights as citizens of the United States by choosing to live in the District. For example, they retain the right to trial by jury. They may bring civil suits in Federal courts against citizens of other States. This bill, however, is not a bill about individual rights such as the right to free speech, freedom of religion, or due process of law. This is a bill about the makeup of the House of Representatives itself. It is about the delicate balance our constitutional Framers struck in affording representation to the States in the House and the Senate. It is about the fundamental structure of our Government. We simply cannot override the clear language of the Constitution which limits congressional representation to the States simply by legislative fiat.
While I sympathize with the supporters of this bill, I also take seriously my duty to the law, to upholding the Constitution. I will support and do support a constitutional amendment allowing DC the right to gain the vote. I do not support this bill as I do not believe it to be constitutional under the clear reading of the Constitution and under recent interpretations by the court.
I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
