Public Statements
Hearing of the Financial Services Subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee - Toy Safety Standards
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 12, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


HEARING OF THE FINANCIAL SERVICES SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE
SUBJECT: TOY SAFETY STANDARDS
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate your holding this hearing and appreciate those that are here to testify. I look forward to a good exchange and a good dialogue. I won't cover again the same statistics, but I do want to put up an initial chart because I think it does show some of the problems that we're dealing with that we've heard anecdotally about, whether it's the toy problems or toothpaste or pet food.
But just look at this chart on consumer product recalls that we've had from countries. And you can see the big one, and it is China, far and away the most number of consumer product recalls that we we've had from December, 2006 to August of 2007. Unfortunately, as some others have already noted, made in China has now become a warning label. And we're seeing this in the charts, and we're seeing this in the products, and it's got to stop. And we're not going to let this continue to take place.
The American consumer is the most discerning consumer in the world, and I believe that given the imminent and potential harm to American consumers and the real harm by these products, their purchasing power will act as a powerful deterrent and disciplining mechanism for these products. At the same time, the regulatory agencies must aggressively do their part. Given the sheer volume of defective products coming from one main source, more than 70 percent of the defective products that we're seeing coming from China, we have a big regulatory challenge. As the chart showed, this is a troubling and dangerous picture.
I agree with you, Mr. Chairman. The Consumer Product Safety Commission could and should provide additional oversight and inspections and that independent testers -- like an underwriter's laboratory for toys, I believe as one of the panelists is going to suggest, would give consumers more confidence. I think that's a good idea. But I firmly believe that the problems we're now seeing with Chinese-made toys and other consumer products is just a symptom of a much larger problem that must be dealt with in a swift and vigorous way.
I think it's fair to say that an open and transparent system of government like ours is less likely to produce defective products. It is more likely to catch those that are. As one expert put it to me, the democratic countries are better at producing safe products than non-democratic ones. In one of the ways in which a non-democratic country like China is usurping the way in which business is being conducted around the globe is through manipulation of its production system and particularly of its currency.
And I realize that finance is a convoluted topic, but in this case I think it's quite simple. Ever since we granted the Chinese government PNTR, back in 2000, the Chinese government has implemented capital controls to manipulate its currency as a matter of state policy. With an increasingly and alarmingly higher number of consumer goods being made in China, as much as 80 percent of the items in retail chains like Wal-Mart and Target, a currency that is undervalued by 40 percent relative to the dollar is a systematic, systemic danger to the U.S. economy, if not to the international financial system. By unfairly keeping the yuan undervalued, the Chinese government has boosted China's exports and has unfairly sucked foreign direct investment and export production facilities, much of which come from the U.S. firms.
This chart that I'm putting up now shows how $1.3 trillion have rushed into China over the past decade through foreign direct investment and trade. Every year we buy more goods than we sell them, and every year more American investment dollars are sucked into China. This is not surprising given that the Chinese currency is held at these artificially low levels. You can see what that chart has done and trended.
Now, Mr. Chairman, I wanted to show another chart that is extremely troubling as well, and it's I think a part of the overall symptom here. As hundreds of billions of U.S. dollars flowed to China every year, China in turn sends support to bad actors around the world, like Iran, Sudan, Burma, Zimbabwe and North Korea. As we know, these are dictatorships which commit acts of genocide and promote terrorism. Most disconcerting is that the Congressional Research Service has confirmed that China's sales of weapons, small arms and munitions to Iran have ended up in the conflicts involving U.S. forces in Afghanistan and in Iraq.
The chairman and I are both concerned about what's taking place particularly in Sudan and the genocide in Darfur, and strongly promoting divestiture campaigns for those countries and those companies investing in Sudan, lead of which is China. And I think we have to point out that that is taking place as a part of this overall symptom and problem. Do we really want to stand idly by as the Chinese government manipulates its currency to give itself an unfair economic advantage, to suck in this foreign capital to support other bad regimes around the world and sell defective products to the United States? I don't think so.
Do we really want to keep the floodgates open as unsafe Chinese products made under coercive labor conditions enter this country? I don't think so. And do we really want U.S. consumer and direct investment dollars going to support Chinese sales of weapons to dangerous dictatorships around the globe, some of these weapons we're facing on the battlefield today. I don't think we want to continue to see that taking place.
I think we need to do more on consumer safety products here. I think we must require it of Chinese products. But I don't think we can stop there. There are clearly other things that are happening and that have been happening for some period of time. And while I support this hearing and I'm delighted to see this hearing taking place, I hope we don't just focus on one narrow issue, but go at the broader set of issues that are being done and what is being done by the Chinese government.
Mr. Chairman, it's time to end the status quo, business as usual relationship with China. We must act to apply U.S. countervailing laws to non-market economies and to make exchange manipulation actionable under such laws. Some will cry out that we can't afford to take such actions as these, and they say that such actions will hurt American consumers by increasing prices. I say we can't afford not to take such actions. American consumers have already been hurt in the worst way. Their lives and their children's lives have been put at risk by unsafe products produced in Chinese manufacturing plants that are so suspect that they keep American inspectors out. American consumers have been hit over their head with a two by four. We can't allow this to continue to take place.
I look forward to the comments by my colleagues and by those involved in the industry, and I look forward to us addressing this problem, consumer safety problem, and underlying problems as well.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chairman Nord, I want to make sure I understand. You're saying serious actions will take place if the Chinese do not comply with the lead paint rule that you're putting in place. Is that correct?
SEN. DURBIN: No, what I said was that we reached an agreement that the Chinese would take immediate steps to eliminate the use of lead paint, and at our summit over these last two days the Chinese went through and listed a number of actions that they intent to take, and I'd be happy to --
SEN. BROWNBACK: What I want to understand from you is that if lead continues to show up in toy products, what will your commission do?
SEN. DURBIN: Well, I think that we have to address not only this issue, but the whole question of unsafe imports with respect to toys, as I said earlier, in an organic way, because I think you can't look at one kind of activity and say that's going to solve the problem because this is a problem that needs to be solved at a number of different levels. I've outlined --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Chairman, what I want to hear is you say these products are not going to enter our shores if that's what you continue to find.
MS. NORD: Well, I'm happy to say that. That, sir, almost goes without saying. We have been trying to enforce this lead paint ban, and that's why you have seen these recalls. However, in order to more effectively address the question of unsafe imports, what we want to do is make sure that the product is manufactured safely in the first place, and that requires, first of all, the Chinese government getting together with us and backing this. And I'm hopeful that our activities over the last two days resulted in that or at least pushed forward in it. We've got to make sure that Chinese manufacturers and exporters understand their legal obligations. We need to make sure that the toy industry is working. And then we have to enforce the law.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But isn't the best way to tell them that is look, any lead in any of these products, the products don't enter America, period.
MS. NORD: Well, that is the law, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: -- and that that's what you're going to enforce.
MS. NORD: That's absolutely correct, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay, and including just identifying factories that are producing products like this and saying no more products coming from here until you clean this problem up.
MS. NORD: That's part of what was agreed to over these last couple of days.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, here's where I got a little problem.
MS. NORD: Okay.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I worked in the trade field in '90, '91, and then we were pushing the Chinese to protect our intellectual property rights. So, you know, we put a movie out, and before it's shown here, it's being sold on the streets in Beijing. I've actually been in Beijing and been offered a movie for sale by a counterfeiter before the movie came out here. So I've actually experienced this. And we started this back in the early '90s, and they said yes, yes, we'll enforce intellectual property rights, and here we are in 2007, and they still don't honor our intellectual property rights.
But now we're on something that has a consumer safety issue with it. This is about the safety of the children, the safety of the consumer, the safety of pets in this country. And we could just have zero tolerance, and I think we need to start pulling the club out and just say, you know, look, we're going to start shutting all these down if these products are not coming in and we can be sure that they're good. And I think you have to just really pull a heavy club out and say that's just -- period. That's the way it's going to be, and I'm going to use every tool I've got to make sure that happens.
MS. NORD: Well, sir, I think I gave you a very long-winded answer to get to that point. That's exactly what we're trying to do.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And it's what you will do.
MS. NORD: You have my commitment, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And if you need any additional legislative authority from us to do it, let us know.
MS. NORD: Sir, I greatly appreciate that. I sent up to the Hill a proposal, and I hope that we will see forward action on legislation.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And also of any personnel that you need.
MS. NORD: Of course.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Are you having any trouble getting into Chinese manufacturing facilities to review products, or do you have that authority and capacity to even do that?
MS. NORD: We don't have that authority. We don't have that capacity. Sir, we don't have people --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Would you like to have that?
MS. NORD: We don't have people in China.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Would you like to have -- do you think that is important, because you've said we need to get at the base of the manufacturing. Do you need to be able to inspect those plants there?
MS. NORD: Well, we wouldn't have the authority to inspect the plants there, but certainly I have been talking actually internally for some time about what we could do to get some presence in China.
However -- well, let me just let it go at that.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Do you want that? Do you believe you need that authority to be able to enforce these standards that you've articulated?
MS. NORD: Sir, legally I'm not sure how we would be able to do that. Our statute allows us to enforce our law against importers, everyone in the stream of commerce within the United States. But I don't think that we would legally be able to go in and enforce a manufacturing standard in China itself.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Right, well, that's what I'm asking, whether that's something we should look at.
MS. NORD: Well, we don't have that authority now, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Chairman, I'd like another round if we could when --
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thanks. Madam Chairman, you're hearing from us a great deal of frustration is just reflective of how much frustration there is around the country. You know, first I think just this massive wave of products coming in from China in a sense that we're losing a lot of the manufacturing base as a result of that.
One of my - we have two 9-year-old children, and my daughter asked me why is everything made in China? And I said, well, it's kind of a long story. (Scattered laughter.) But there is this sense that there's been this huge wave of products, and there is, when you look at major retailers that get 70 (percent), 80% of their products from China. And then you see that these defects that are taking place. And China is a closed system, so it doesn't have a free press. It's always kind of openly looking around at the factories and places. So things happen and then we're the recipients of it. And there's just this huge frustration that, okay, we've lost jobs, we're losing economy, they manipulate their currency, and now the products aren't even safe. And we're letting all of this take place.
What are you doing about it? And that's the - I hope you're sensing the real frustration that we're giving you which is just straight from the countryside. And I - we've just -- we've got to actually do something. We can't just talk about it. It has to - that's why I talked about bringing a club out. Maybe it's putting tariffs or maybe it's shutting whole factories down -- that you just say, we're not going to accept it from this factory.
MS. NORD: Uh-huh.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Now, for instance, in other countries -- and this a bit of a lecture here, but I want to get it off my chest -- we've had our food exports banned from several countries for some period of time. And I've hosted Japanese inspection teams into beef packing plants in my plant to look at it, say, look, here it is. Look at our system. It's an open system and they'll keep throwing up another barrier, another barrier, another barrier and it gets very frustrating. Now we're looking at China selling us defective, unsafe products and we don't know what's going on in the factory.
And we're not even sure, from what you're saying, if they have any level of concern on lead. I mean, we tell them what you can send into here but we don't know that they have any concern at all. There's not a free press that's there; it's a dictatorship government, and we're importing billions of dollars. And we're getting all these bad products. And it seems like somebody somewhere along the line ought to say, well, wait a minute, this isn't the way we're going to operate anymore. And the only way you get their attention is by shutting the market off.
And that's what we - happened to us on their beef exports. Got the market shut off. And -- okay, now wait a minute. Now let's talk. Here's some - you want to bring inspectors in, fine. And the Chinese, I would hope, would welcome us to have inspectors into these plants; would ask you to send an inspection team. I don't know that you'd discover that much but at least get some openness to it.
And right now I think we should do everything we can, whether it's banning whole sets of products that come in until we are sure that there is no lead in any of these products, period.
And that that's what we're going to do. And if they say, well, you can't do that under your trade agreements, tell them take us to the trade courts then because hat's what other countries do to us on products. And that we just get very stern and clear, and hit them where it hurts. Hit them in the market. Because I think it reflects a bigger problem we have where we've had all of this cash, foreign investment that's flown into China and it's not a transparent system whatsoever, and now you're seeing this product come out the other end of it.
That's why I would hope that you would take every bit of aggressive action you can. If you need any more statutory authority on it, and you've said you'll ask that for us, that you'll use it like a club. And that we would move forward with putting tariffs on until they let the currency float, so that they don't get this artificial flow of currency into their system, which they - they don't get all of these markets, because they're artificially holding their currency down.
Work with us on this because we've just got to deal with it. And the country is fed up with it. We're fed up with it. I'm sure you are, too. But we've got to start using the club on this.
MS. NORD: Sir, may I respond to that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes. I'd be delighted if you would.
MS. NORD: I so appreciate hearing your sentiments. And what I've been trying to convey to you is the fact that our very tiny agency has been trying to work aggressively within our statutory constraints and within our resource constraints to address this.
I can't emphasize to you enough how important it is for our committees to work cooperatively together here to make this happen. Just as an example, sir, last year in the Port Security Act, there was an amendment that unfortunately was deleted, that would have directed the Customs and Border Protection to work with us to put in place a training program so that the CBP people and the CPSC people worked together in a better way.
I think it was very, very unfortunate that that was dropped because I think that would have been a very strong signal for this Congress to send that they expect, you know, the federal agency to work across agency lines to address the system holistically and systemically. And I think we've got to do that. I just appreciate hearing your remarks.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, if I could, Mr. Chairman, as we do the mark on our bills moving forward, I hope in appropriation process we can insert some of this language so that we not only increase the funding for the agency, but we give it the authority that's necessary in order to be able to do this. And let's put it in an appropriation bill. This needs to move and it needs to get going forward.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Greenberg, I hope you'll work with us on statutory authority that I hope we can put in the Appropriations Bill and that the authorizing committee will agree with so we can move that through rapidly, so that you'll advise us on what else needs to be put in.
MS. GREENBERG: I'd gladly do that.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I've been, Mr. Storch, in many of your stores often. With two 9-year-olds, I'm familiar with Toy R Us. The information I've looked at says that 80 percent of your products come from China. Is that correct from your stores --
(Cross talk.)
MR. STORCH: Let me give you some -- Mary and I, your staff, were discussing that yesterday. So let me give you some background on that, because I went back and did some investigation after our discussion. And as in many consumer products categories, a majority of the products do come from China in toys, like they do in category after category now, as you pointed out in your earlier remarks.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What is it in your store? What percent of your products come from China?
MR. STORCH: Let me give you some breakout or some conception of that by category, because it varies based on the category. We sell multiple categories of products in our stores for kids. Products like juvenile products, for example diapers or baby care products, these typically are made by U.S. manufacturers like Procter & Gamble, et cetera.
And outdoor products and the indoor playhouses, the blow molded and --
(Cross talk.)
SEN. BROWNBACK: Right, right.
MR. STORCH: -- large houses, these also are typically domestic manufactured because of the transportation costs are so high, they tend to be made in the U.S. Video games is another big area, and those, the hardware is made in Asia and various places, and the software is typically, the disks are actually stamped out in the U.S. or Japan.
Construction toys, things like Legos, for example, or K'NEX, some of those are made in the U.S. Some of those are made in Mexico. They're made in various locations. Some are in Canada.
Now, the category that most people are focused on here would be things like dolls and action figures and the trains that we've seen the recalls on, and for those somewhere between three quarters to 80 percent of the products are made in China.
I would point out that we operate in 35 countries, and if someone believes that there are sort of secret factories out there in these countries and France or England, where we're the leader in toys, or in Spain, it's the same in those countries, where almost all of these categories of toys are manufactured in China around the world today. So our focus is on making the toys safe wherever they're manufactured.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And I appreciate that. Mr. Eckert, how about in your products, what percent of those come from China?
MR. ECKERT: We manufacture half of our own toys and vendor source about half of our toys. Looking across both of those systems, roughly 65 percent of our toys are made in China and 35 percent are made in other countries.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Ms. Greenberg pointed to a systemic problem. My guess is you gentlemen have been going back and forth to China for many years. Mr. Eckert, last five years, how often a year do you go to China?
MR. ECKERT: I -- probably a couple of times a year.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Storch.
MR. STORCH: China hasn't been a place that I've tended to visit.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It is not, or it has been?
MR. STORCH: As a retailer, again the manufacturers have their facilities over there, and they're making products over there. And as a retailer, we don't have operations in China.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So you don't go and visit these factories where a big percentage of your products are from?
MR. STORCH: We have a very large staff. We have an office in Hong Kong, and we have, for example, a gentlemen here, Rick Rupert, who is our executive vice president, who is over there almost all the time looking at the factories there.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So yourself, you're not going?
MR. STORCH: No. I am not, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay. I think it would be wise to, where you're getting so much of your product from one particular area. Mr. Eckert, when you back and forth to China, one of my growing concerns has been just this concentration of our manufacturing and of our economic activity associated with China, which is a closed system, and it's battling corruption. Even the Communist Party is talking about corruption within China.
So then, when you get into a manufactured set of products, it seems to me you almost are set up to see these sort of things taking place. And then, when we get this level of concentration, typically what you'll see taking place in the economy is you get that level of concentration, you do get people manipulating the marketplace when they get that level of concentration taking place.
So you've got a closed system battling corruption and having corruption, a market concentration in the 60 to 80 percent ratio. You're set up almost to see problems taking place, just if you're looking at an overall system.
I'm sure this is something that you've thought about. Have you tried to break out of the sourcing in this one place or do you just not see that there's these endemic problems or likelihood that things like this might take place?
MR. ECKERT: First, we do manufacture in markets other than China. Secondly, I've personally seen a lot of success in the growth of capitalism, if you will, in China as jobs are created and they start going through the industrial revolution there.
Many of the people who work in our facilities in China are people who have come from the agrarian society and literally this is their first job. But we make sure we enforce our own standards. That, to me, is what's important here.
As an example, since 199 --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, that didn't work, did it?
MR. ECKERT: Well, since 1997, we have had outside independent auditors go into our facilities and check who is working on our products and what conditions they have. And we publish those on Mattel.
com, so anybody can go look at independent auditor reports and what we've done to correct things, to make sure we impose our standards, regardless of what someone else does.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But it didn't work.
MR. ECKERT: Well, in the case of -- if you're speaking specifically to lead paint testing --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes.
MR. ECKERT: We didn't test sufficiently to catch that product. I don't know that's a question of where the product was made.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You don't see the setup of the macro situation as being a good possibility of producing a problem like this?
MR. ECKERT: I see it from my perspective, just as a manufacturer, what systems do I have in place regardless of who owns the plant or in which country it is. That's my viewpoint of this.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I would ask you to think about the macro situation for just a minute. Ms. Greenberg identifies it. I think this is a likely situation that would evolve in that type of setup that's taking place.
And my hope is, is that we can do things here in giving the Consumer Product Safety Commission more authority to deal with it. But also, that you as manufacturers would look at these types of settings that you're in and at the likelihood that situations like this would evolve.
And you can do spot testing and random testing; that's good. I'm glad that we do. But if the system is flawed and the setup in it, I think we're asking for problems, and we've got them. So I would hope you could work with us and look at other places and maybe even looking at other countries that have more open systems as a way and place of going.
And there's been this huge flush of capital going into China. So you've had this huge manufacturing growth taking place that I don't think has necessarily served the rest of the world nor has served the United States well.
You have your free choice. You're a free company to do with as you see fit, and you will, and you should. But I think we're asking for problems in this. Mr. Chairman, thank you for letting me go over.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Eckert, I want to talk with you about some of your meetings in China, if I could, and officials. You meet with Chinese officials, I would guess, regularly on production and on manufacturing and on standards?
MR. ECKERT: I wouldn't say regularly, and certainly not on standards. I meet with local officials around our facilities or the facilities I visit, and I, on occasion, am in Beijing.
But most of our facilities are in the southern part of China, and that's where I spend most of my time, by far.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Meeting with local officials there?
MR. ECKERT: Yes.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Do you ever meet with people with the PLA, People's Liberation Army? Have you ever met with officials from the PLA?
MR. ECKERT: Not that I'm aware of.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Do any of the plants that you have have associations with the PLA? Do you know that?
MR. ECKERT: I don't know that to be the case.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Do you know who runs the plants or who owns the plants 100 percent in the cases of what you're dealing with in China?
MR. ECKERT: As it relates to our plants, yes. As it relates to these large vendor plants, yes. Some of the issue though, that we found this year, is vendors. And we wouldn't be here if a handful of vendors didn't violate our rules. Some of these vendors have subcontracted and further subcontracted some of these components. And I don't know, and that's one of our issues we're tracking down, who are those people and why are they here?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I'm not putting the bead on you. You're here, and I'm asking you these questions, but what I'm looking at is the systems and a system problem that arose that seems it's not just producing problems in toys but producing problems in other product areas and what I'm trying to get at there.
I was just looking at, and this is an old article. It's a 1998 International Herald Tribune article, but they were estimating that the armed forces ran some 20,000 industrial production and service companies in China, and that's why I was curious about if you knew if you had met with or if they continued to run any of the facilities that you're a part of or that your vendors have any association with.
MR. ECKERT: Not that I'm aware of. There may be. I'm just not aware of it, and I've certainly never met with anybody that has identified himself as being that type of person.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I hope we can, in looking forward, do laws here to try to correct and get at the situation -- put in standards in place so that people can buy and be assured of their products.
And then also, push the Chinese government, whether through communications with you and certainly through communications from our government that we will not tolerate this level of problems on our products and that we're going to do everything we can to stop these problems, period. And the products aren't coming in if they're not good.
And I hope we treat them the way we get treated in other countries around the world. If our product is seen as having any quality problem, we get shut out of the marketplace, shut out. I think that's what we ought to do here until we are sure that the system has changed and won't produce the same sort of products that we've seen.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Bhatia, yeah.
MR. BHATIA: Senator, if I may, I would like to seize this example that you just raised to make a point. I think we need a systemic fix, which goes beyond just lead or small parts. If we have an evaluation and accreditation process, if we have a system that looks at not only the manufacturer but the supplier and the sub- assembler and the sub-supplier, we have techniques available which register and record the manufacturing location. They record the sub- and sub-contractors as part of the certification or accreditation process.
And these problems can be handled; they have been successfully handled, in other sectors. We are just in need for looking to these types of options, integrate them with what we have that works in other areas, and work with our industry, work with our regulatory framework. We need to strengthen that for sure.
But we have mechanisms that are available designing the proper system and then making sure that we inspect often, we audit often, we validate often, we accredit often. I think that's what's going to be needed to get this done. And the small parts are one component that has been regulated for many years. The regulations are meaningless unless somebody actually checks compliance to them, and that's what we need to focus on.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://appropriations.senate.gov/hearings.cfm
