Public Statements
Governor Sam Brownback Signs Two Bills Into Law
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 18, 2015
Location: Unknown

In signing HB 2061, Governor Brownback issued the following statement:
"I firmly believe that protecting individual property rights is fundamental to preserving liberty and freedom. By signing this bill, the Kansas Department of Agriculture will have the ability to work with local watershed authorities to establish and manage watershed easements while private property rights are preserved. The state of Kansas will not own more private land under this law. Rather, the State will merely hold the easements which will remain under the control and management of the original property-owner. Meanwhile, the Department of Agriculture will continue to work with federal authorities to eliminate the regulations which necessitate this legislation.
"Onerous federal regulations have been inconsistently applied across the nation. By signing House Bill 2061 into law, the Kansas Department of Agriculture will be empowered to hold easements as a third party, at a much lower cost by allowing the local watershed districts to manage the easement. This bill does not interfere with the ability of private industry and nonprofit organizations to possess the same legal authority to purchase and maintain conservation easements. It is my hope that private entities and non-profit organizations will continue to work with local authorities to conserve our natural resources.
"In signing this bill, we will better equip the Department of Agriculture to find a Kansas solution that removes burdensome regulations from local organizations and conservation efforts."
The Governor has now signed 57 bills into law this session and vetoed one. By law, the Kansas governor has 10 calendar days to sign the bill into law, veto the bill or allow the bill to become law without his or her signature.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2015/05/18/governor-sam-brownback-signs-two-bills-into-law
