Public Statements
Boston Globe - Brownback: Private accounts best option to save Social Security
News Article
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 4, 2007
Location: Manchester, NH


Boston Globe - Brownback: Private accounts best option to save Social Security
By Philip Elliott, Associated Press Writer
MANCHESTER, N.H. --Presidential hopeful Sam Brownback said the current Social Security system "stinks" for younger workers -- including his children -- and instead should be shifted to optional personal accounts.
Article Tools
Brownback, a Kansas Republican, expanded his Social Security plan during a campaign swing through key early voting state New Hampshire. His appeal mirrors one President Bush has made, but opposition from AARP helped scuttle private accounts in 2005.
"It's a system that worked great for my grandparents. It's working pretty well for my parents," Brownback said. "It's working so-so for my generation, the Baby Boomer Generation. It stinks for my kids."
He said the system is making unfair promises to younger generations, missing an opportunity to make itself solvent and failing to offer any meaningful support for older Americans. He said the United States faces three options: either raise the deficit to meet its obligation, raise taxes to cover spending pace or admit the system won't meet its obligations.
"One of three options starts kicking into place in 2017. And while that may sound like a long way off, it's 10 years and you're talking trillions of dollars. When you're talking trillions, you need some timeframe to back into this thing," he said.
A grim future looms for Social Security. As post-World War II baby boomers begin retiring, the system won't collect enough taxes to pay for retirement benefits. When the program began, 16 workers paid taxes for every beneficiary. Now, about 3 workers are paying into the system. That ratio will move to 2-to-1 in the year 2040.
"There's too much going out and not enough coming in," said Bill Shipman, a Brownback adviser on Social Security. "There is something that does solve and address the problem. ... It moves from a tax-based system to a savings-and-investment-based system."
Brownback noted three of his five children are paying taxes to support the Social Security system, but they aren't getting a fair deal. They are paying their grandparents' Social Security benefits.
"I say to them, I want you to go to your grandparents and say to them, they should thank you for paying payroll taxes. ... But somehow that doesn't suffice with them," he said.
Brownback's plan would take cut by about half the 10.6 percent residents pay in Social Security taxes. He would allow Americans to put 5 percent of taxable income into personal accounts.
"We will guarantee that everyone in Social Security or soon to be in Social Security or wants to be in Social Security will get every thin dime they've been promised," Brownback said.
"It would be your money and it would be limited where you could put it for safety and soundness."
Brownback badly trails his better known rivals in polls and organization in New Hampshire, but said when voters start paying attention to substance, he will find a boost in the polls. He said he knows any discussion of Social Security comes with danger.
"It's called the 'third rail in politics.' You die. Now I'm running a presidential campaign talking about this," he said. "I'm running, but I'm running on issues. I'm sure people get tired of the horse race. People will talk to you all day long about the issues because they want to hear what you're doing with these big issues and on details."
Brownback has made fiscal conservatism one core of his campaign. He wants an alternative flat tax, personal Social Security savings accounts, a commission to identify and eliminate government waste.

Source: http://www.boston.com/news/nation/articles/2007/09/04/brownback_private_accounts_best_option_to_save_social_security/
