Public Statements
Remarks by Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS), Presidential Candidate, at the Livestrong Presidential Cancer Forum
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 28, 2007
Location: Unknown


REMARKS BY SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE, AT THE LIVESTRONG PRESIDENTIAL CANCER FORUM
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let me fast-forward to 1995. I'm a freshman member in the new Republican Congress. We're on the August break. I've just been down to speak to Ross Perot's convention that was talking about a number of issues at that time, getting a rousing reception and applause. I come back to Topeka, Kansas. I've noticed a small growth that's on my abdomen, on my side. The doctor takes it off, a few days later he calls, and he said, "Well, I'm afraid this isn't good news. We're going to have to do something else here." It was melanoma; for that, in our case -- my case, we had gotten it early. We just took a big hunk of flesh off my side. But I tell you, the mental battle in dealing with that was significant for me.
I have to say at the end of the day, because of what I went through with that experience, it was one of the great blessings of my life, actually. It changed me, made my faith real, gave me a boldness with life, realizing that we all die at some point in time. But more than that, it changed me from a person that was just in the pursuit of power to somebody in the pursuit of what we can do with a purpose. It changed me, moved my purpose into glorifying God and serving others, and it was a great blessing to me. (Applause.)
Cancer affects everyone in America; one in two men, one in three women in America will get cancer. We are about to see a tsunami of cancer in America. With the aging of the baby boomer generation, this will be a tsunami if we don't do anything. If you see a tsunami coming, what should you do? You should prepare for it, and if anything possible, you should try to prevent it and work with people that are in the way of that tsunami. That's what we have to do. As president, I will not only declare war on cancer, I will declare war on cancer before it kills us. We've got to get after this disease. We've got to pull together as a country.
And I want to say something else here. This is something that is bipartisan, nonpartisan; cancer does not know a partisan affiliation. It affects everybody. And yet the American people are tired of seeing their government fight all the time over things that often don't affect the American public in a direct way or they don't feel like it affects them in a direct way.
Cancer does. What better way, what better way for the federal government to show that they are working for the American people than to take on the objective of ending deaths by cancer in 10 years and us working together, Republican and Democrat, to fund, to finance, to change the laws in a way to get this done and show the American public that we can make their government work for them on something that's important to them. This pulls us together, it doesn't divide us. This moves us forward. This is an American-size goal that probably only America can get done, and that's why I want to see us take on this objective. (Applause.)
I want to say a couple of quick things. Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat from California, and I have the National Cancer Act of 2007, a comprehensive cancer bill. I also want to say, I think we have to increase research, and we have to give access earlier to people who are in terminal cancer position and they in their position agree to use experimental drugs at a tier one phase. The Abigail Alliance is a group that's pushing this. I put forward a bill called the Access Act in 2005. We will reintroduce it after the break here and try to get a bipartisan group onboard. Because if people don't have a choice, we need to provide some options, and this is a way that we can get out and in front of this and dealing with this by giving more treatments.
If you have a tsunami coming -- (interrupted by applause) -- if you have a tsunami coming, you don't just wait to count the dead bodies, you get prepared. We need to prepare, and we need to do it, and we need to get after it now, and I will do it as president.
Thank you. (Applause.)
MR. MATTHEWS: Well, Senator, thank you.
You know, I've always been amazed by Iowa because you have a great senator -- conservative senator like Senator Grassley, and you have an old-line liberal like Tom Harkin. And it's the same voters. I don't quite get it. Somebody will explain it to me one of these days. (Laughter.)
But let me ask you, you suggested that there's no partisanship to the issue of cancer, but yesterday we heard from four Democrats, and they all called for a national health care system basically run by the government. What's the Republican alternative or answer to that question of national health generally?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think you've got a different viewpoint of how we ought to address the question of health care coverage in the United States. And a number of Democratic candidates are saying we need more government involved in this, and a number of Republican candidates, including myself, say we need more markets involved in this. And let me give you a couple of things of what I would do and what I think we need to do to get more markets involved in this situation.
Allow people to buy health insurance across state lines. If they find a policy that fits them that perhaps has a lower premium that they can afford, let them buy it across state lines.
Second, an expansion of Health Savings Accounts. As we've started the health savings system, one in three people that use HSAs now were uninsured previously, and that's the big zone we're trying to get after is that 46 million Americans that don't have health insurance today. Health Savings Accounts allow you to save money, buy a high-deductible, low-premium health insurance policy that's more accessible.
Plus, I think we need to do electronic -- or individual medical record banking, to where you take your medical records with you, and so you're not a captive of a particular office or a hospital. Or if you're like me -- you work in -- I live in Topeka and work in Washington -- you get health care in both places, be able to take it with you.
And I'd like to see more price information disclosed. So you disclose by zip code what Medicare reimburses for a procedure. Hip replacement in Cedar Rapids -- what is it? So people can use their own money. Lower premiums, market transparency, I think, are the ways we get more people covered by health insurance. It's not a direct on- point on the cancer issue, which I think -- I've got another set of answers I'm putting forward on cancer.
MR. ARMSTRONG: I think I'll just cut, you know, cut to the -- start at the top. And I did not know that your father was a cancer survivor; I knew that you were. And I appreciate you renewing the war on cancer. Of course, yesterday, we heard what that meant and what -- in terms of financial commitment, what that meant. As a survivor myself and as somebody who lives in this world a lot, we know that it has to be backed up with funding. So my question to you, outside of your commitment to renew the war and to end suffering and death due to cancer, what kind of a budget are we talking about at the NCI, at the federal level, and over what period of time?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think you're looking at -- I think you're looking at a substantial increase, but here's, I think, one --
MR. ARMSTRONG: Can I just say one other thing very quick? Just for the audience, I'm sorry.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yeah.
MR. ARMSTRONG: Just because -- just to give you a little perspective, I don't know who was here yesterday or hot. But the disease costs us over $200 billion a year in terms of medical costs and lost productivity. And that's not accounting for the loss of life, which, you know, nobody wants to suffer that. And that's not accounting for loss of future productivity. So for something that costs us so much, to spend 5 (billion) or $6 billion a year at the federal level seems like an odd number.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I agree, and it's fixing to cost us a lot more --
MR. ARMSTRONG: Yeah, of course.
SEN. BROWNBACK: -- because of the boomer generation aging and hitting years where it's likely to have more incidences of cancer. So this is going to cost us more in the future.
But Lance, I think the answer here is not just to say, okay, I'm going to double this, because it may require tripling of research funding. I think the answer here is to set a clear objective that the American people want to see you achieve. And I know what I'm talking about and I've talked with you personally about this: ending deaths by cancer in 10 years, that a lot of researchers don't want to take that on, because what if we don't make it? Well, what if Kennedy doesn't make it to the moon, you know what I mean? This is how you move the American public, is by setting a very high objective.
And even if we didn't get there totally -- because this is not one disease; it's 200 diseases -- what if we got 50 of them knocked out in that 10 year time period? And then wouldn't the American public cheer that you got 50 of these, even if you still have 150 left? But the way to move the budget numbers forward is to set an objective that the American public really wants to see.
And that's what -- and you can't just have it as one of 50 objectives for the government. It needs to be in the top three.
MR. ARMSTRONG: Yeah.
SEN. BROWNBACK: This needs to be one of the things the new president comes in and stares at the camera to the American public and says, "This is something I want to do: end deaths by cancer in 10 years. And here is what we've got to do to get this done."
MR. ARMSTRONG: And the only thing I would add to that is the reason that I think the scientific community might look at the goal of ending deaths due to cancer by 2015 is because they see that ambition, they see that goal, and they think, "Well, of course we're for that." But at the same time, they see that for the second year in a row, the budget at the National Cancer Institute has shrunk. One out of 10 proposals or one out of 10 grants are actually funded. Young investigators are going elsewhere, going into other fields. So they're not given a whole lot of hope and optimism in terms of budget and funding and all of these things that give them the tools that they need.
So that's -- I think that we -- I love a big goal.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Can I argue with you --
MR. ARMSTRONG: Listen, I'm a goal guy, so --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Can I argue you with you on this?
MR. ARMSTRONG: Sure.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Because -- look, if John F. Kennedy -- if President Kennedy says, "I'm going to double the NASA budget because I think we ought to try to go to the moon," does that stir the American public, or is it him saying, "We're going to the moon," and then that drove an increase in the NASA budget. NASA budget at that point in time, as a percent of the total budget, was enormous.
MR. ARMSTRONG: Yeah.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But it's the objective that drives the money --
MR. ARMSTRONG: I agree.
SEN. BROWNBACK: -- because the American public will say, "Now that's my objective." They're okay with doubling funding for research on -- I'm okay with doubling -- I think may take a tripling, particularly on things like lung cancer, where we have just a very small funding, I mean, a -- what, 20 million (dollars) for the biggest killer that we have in cancer, of lung cancer? What are you doing with this little money on this big of a killer? But the objective is, we're going to end deaths by lung cancer.
Now, what is that going to take? Then your objective drives the money, and that's the way it should be. (Applause.)
MR. MATTHEWS: Let me ask you about the economic -- you know, I sat here -- you're the fifth candidate for president to come in there and say you're going to spend more money on cancer. And I understand that objective, but let's talk about what will really happen if one of you is president.
You have an OMB director, a budget director, that comes in and says, unlike in the time of Kennedy's administration, when Jack Kennedy was trying to spend more money and was looking for places to spend it, because he believed in fiscal stimulus, and he was trying to use Defense or his space program to do that, right now we're under fiscal constraints. We've got a war. We've got a budget policy of big tax cuts that have to be continued after 2011.
If you're president, and you've got to choose among continuing the Bush tax cuts; continuing the Bush forward-leaning foreign policy, which is very expensive; and increasing cancer spending, where are you going to be? Because that's the trade-off. You can't just say there's going to be more money coming out of somewhere unless there is a somewhere. What's your somewhere?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I've got a great answer for this, and we've got a bill on it that has 20 cosponsors.
Chris, the spending -- and you've heard I don't know how many politicians say, "Well, we're going to get after wasteful government spending." And you've heard it for years, and it never happens.
My proposal on this is, you take that BRAC military base-closing process, where we've been able to close military bases and put that money in higher-priority bases, take that system and apply to the rest of government; so that you have an annual BRAC process for all of government, a culling, and says, "These 300 programs should be eliminated," and gives Congress one vote, without amendment, limited- time debate -- deal, no deal -- eliminate them all, keep them all.
Has that process reduced military funding? And the answer is no. What it's done --
MR. MATTHEWS: Have you introduced this bill?
SEN. BROWNBACK: It is introduced, and it has been. It has nearly 20 cosponsors.
MR. MATTHEWS: Where's it going?
SEN. BROWNBACK: We haven't been able to get it through.
MR. MATTHEWS: Well, then what's the point of this conversation?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Because the point of this conversation is, this is what the American public wants to see happen. The point of this conversation is --
MR. MATTHEWS: I've been hearing these things for years, "I'm going to cut 1 percent from every program." These are gimmicks, Senator.
SEN. BROWNBACK: They are not gimmicks.
MR. MATTHEWS: They never happen.
SEN. BROWNBACK: The BRAC (never happened ?).
MR. MATTHEWS: You've got to choose. Leaders choose. Where are you going to choose to cut the spending? If you're not willing to say we're going to do it, you're trying to get some machine to do it for you, some scythe, some big combine to go through all the government programs and cut out all the waste. You have to choose. Where are you going to cut the money to bring to cancer?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Why didn't the -- why weren't we ever able to close the --
MR. MATTHEWS: Just name a program you're going to cut, name one, and you're going to cut by $5 billion or $10 billion to bring to cancer research. Just name one.
SEN. BROWNBACK: We can cut a number of programs. But Chris, why didn't -- why didn't we do the BRAC earlier? And the BRAC process has worked, wouldn't you agree? Why can't we take that to the rest of government?
MR. MATTHEWS: Yeah, until somebody comes along with enough clout to save a base, sure. And if these programs weren't popular, they wouldn't exist. And if we could hire some machine to come in and run the government for us brilliantly, we probably would have brought that machine in. But it takes you to make these decisions.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And it takes you to realize --
MR. MATTHEWS: And I'm just asking you to name where you're going to -- are you going to limit the Bush tax cuts after 2011? Are you going to limit the aggressive foreign policy of this administration? What are you going to do -- if you say shift priorities, define your shift. That's all I'm asking; define it.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I have defined my shift. That basis of what I talked to you about has reduced military base spending 40 percent.
MR. MATTHEWS: Well, then we don't need a Senate, we just need this big machine. Why have a Senate if all these decisions can be made by this electronic transfer of responsibility.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Chris, you understand the system.
MR. MATTHEWS: And I know that this won't work, because if it worked, you would have passed it by now.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You know it has worked. The BRAC process.
MR. ARMSTRONG: Let's --
MR. MATTHEWS: Okay.
MR. ARMSTRONG: I've never even heard of the BRAC process. (Laughter, applause, cheers.)
Now, just so you know, my friend, I don't know if you watched yesterday, but he was the same exact way yesterday. (Laughter.)
SEN. BROWNBACK: (Laughs.)
MR. ARMSTRONG: We went to dinner --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Chris -- (inaudible) -- the BRAC process.
MR. ARMSTRONG: -- the other night. He was the same way at dinner. (Laughter.)
MR. MATTHEWS: (Inaudible.) I think it's a brilliant process for the military because I think there's a recognition, as there is about cancer --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let's go on to the next question.
MR. MATTHEWS: No, I think there is a recognition -- to make your point for you -- there is a recognition that we have a lot of bases around the country that are kept up for local political reasons, and they're not for military reasons.
SEN. BROWNBACK: There's a lot of wasteful government spending programs.
MR. MATTHEWS: It's just that I know you're here to appeal to this crowd and say the right things here, and the question is, when you get into a budget meeting as president -- as you know, Lance -- these guys make -- "Oh, I didn't know the factors involved when I made these promises beforehand, but when I realized there were these budget crunch, then I couldn't do it."
MR. ARMSTRONG: Thank you, Chris.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I have voted to double NIH funding, in case you want to look into the record of where my vote and support has been.
MR. ARMSTRONG: Because we talked about -- you touched on prevention, you touched on lung cancer, I'm just going to have to go straight to the tobacco issue because we know that that's a huge issue, and not only is it a huge killer, it's by far and away the biggest killer in terms of cancers, bigger than prostate cancer, breast cancer and colon cancer combined. We know that, in my opinion, the country's been a little lax on tobacco control. I'd like to hear your position in terms of prevention and tobacco control, regulation at the FDA level, a smoke-free America.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I want to see it continue to move forward as it is. We're seeing -- I ran a little state office in Kansas years ago as ag secretary. We made it a smoke-free environment. This was years ago. It was controversial at the time. I remember having to fight with different people. I remember employees in the office -- I would walk around and I would see desks smoking, because as they saw me coming by, they would throw their cigarette in the desk drawer. Not a very safe way to go.
But that's all changed now. You have many places that are smoke- free environments.
I want to see it continue to progress the way it has been. It's been on state-by-state local basis. I wouldn't doubt if Cedar Rapids has a smoke-free ordinance for Cedar Rapids. I think that's the way for this to move on forward.
MR. ARMSTRONG: And can I just say, the thing that kills me about smoking -- maybe if you're around it enough would kill you -- but the thing that really disturbs me is, number one, it is bad for somebody's health. Number two -- and I think even more importantly -- is that if you have a room of 10 people and you have nine non-smokers and you have one smoker, so he gets his thrills and he gets his fix, but meanwhile the other nine people are completely miserable sitting in this room full of smoke. So not only are they made miserable -- (interrupted by applause) -- which -- and I don't want to say -- if somebody wants to smoke cigarette, that is totally fine with me, but I don't want to sit in a room of non-smokers as a non-smoker and have to smell that and breath that and risk my health.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I agree.
MR. ARMSTRONG: And by golly, if I'm there with my kids, we're getting up and leaving the room. And so -- (applause) -- I think it's a big issue.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It is a big issue. Can I -- there's another big issue here, and we haven't talked about it. Before I lose my time, I'd love to see us talk about this Access Act and being able to get access to tier one drugs, and so I think this is one of the big pieces of this equation that we haven't talked near enough about. And most of the FDA is focused on a lot more testing, and we need to have a lot of testing. But if you're in a terminal situation and you don't have any other options, I really think we should allow people to have access to tier one -- these are the ones that have just cleared through their first set of human trials.
And there was a great Wall Street Journal editorial about two weeks ago by the Abigail Alliance people talking about the hundreds of thousands of Americans that have died waiting on key drugs to be approved by the FDA. This is -- to me, this is a no-brainer that we should do. If you're in a terminal position and you and your physician agree to do this, then you really should. We lost the court case of the D.C. Circuit, it's going to the Supreme Court. I've put in a bill on this; I'm going to introduce it after the break as well. We really need to do this. (Applause.)
MR. ARMSTRONG: I agree with that.
MR. MATTHEWS: Let's take an electronic -- there's a video question for you, Senator Brownback. Let's listen.
Q (From video.) My name is Jim Swanstrom. I'm president of Community Health Charities of Iowa representing a federation or coalition of 19 premiere health-related organizations in Iowa. As a person involved in the health care community, I'm keenly aware of the high cost of chronic disease management in this country. In fact, statistics tell us that three quarters of every dollar spent in the health care industry is spent on chronic disease management.
As president, what will you do to address the high cost of chronic disease management in the health care system administered by your administration?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Good pointed question. I think a couple of things that we need to do on dealing with the cost within the system, one is on a state-by-state basis, and then I want to back up broader.
On a state-by-state basis, some states are reimbursed as high as other states are for their coverage. For instance, Iowa's a low reimbursement state, as is my state of Kansas. I think you need to get those reimbursement levels up equal around the country so you don't drive health care providers to other places. (Applause.) And we were always told in Kansas, well, it's because you provide it cheaper. Well, wait a minute. You know, if we're doing a better job, don't punish my health care providers and drive them to other states, that it might be more expensive, which is part of the question here.
We don't need to drive people to other places where it might be more expensive to provide.
And then I would hope we could also, with this -- and I want to dovetail this back into your earlier answer -- get involved more in market solutions in this. To me, that's part of health savings accounts -- disclosure information about what we are paying by ZIP Code for major process, major procedures, and so we can get more market forces involved to help hold those down.
MR. MATTHEWS: Let me ask you about something that Senator Clinton, your colleague, said here sitting in that chair yesterday. She said that President Bush is involved -- in fact, is waging -- I think her quote was, "A war on science." Your reaction to that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I absolutely disagree. I guess that's based upon that there's this difference between faith and reason; that's an old, old debate. But that is not taking place.
I'm one that had -- that -- I believe in stem cell research. I believe in adult, I believe in cord blood, I believe in the placenta stem cells. I don't believe you should kill a young life to do this. (Applause.)
Now, is that science versus faith? Now, we're having a huge debate in the country about this. But I believe all life is sacred. I believe it's sacred early, I believe it's sacred if it's somebody on -- that has cancer, and that you fight for both of these lives. That's why I put in these bills like the National Cancer Act of 2007 and why I fight to protect young life. (Applause.) I talk about this being pro-life and whole-life, but I don't think that's science -- that it's a war on science. I think that's us trying to say that there are some boundaries here.
I am going to aggressively fund science. I believe in science, and I don't think there's a conflict between faith and reason. And if there is, you should check your faith or check your reason.
MR. MATTHEWS: So basically the dispute comes down to something very particular as well, as a metaphysical argument, which you've raised well. Hillary Clinton and the other Democrats here yesterday would say that those fertilized human eggs which exist in these fertility clinics -- and we're all learning about this, that this a fact of how they help people have children who want to have children and have difficulty conceiving -- that those eggs shouldn't -- those fertilized eggs should not be used for science, you argue.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I agree.
MR. MATTHEWS: I mean, that's your position, whereas they say they should be.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That's correct.
MR. MATTHEWS: Now what about this --
SEN. BROWNBACK: That's a legitimate debate, but it's not a --
MR. MATTHEWS: It's another debate that's growing. I talked to Bernadine Healy the other day in getting ready for this discussion, and she said that in the scientific community -- and I pretty much thought we were going to be on this, because many people are -- this idea of actually fertilizing human eggs for the purpose of using to harvest stem cells -- you would be against that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Absolutely.
MR. MATTHEWS: I think the Democrats --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Because you're talking about the creation of human life for research purposes. I carried the bill, the fetal farming ban.
MR. MATTHEWS: Well, I couldn't get an answer out of John Edwards about this yesterday. He was hesitant to respond to that question.
SEN. BROWNBACK: We've banned this. It's called the Fetal Farming Prohibition Act, that you can't farm young human life for the purposes of research. And this is a -- (applause) -- Chris, this is a tough debate. I recognize that. But we can find answers that don't object to our moral problems. We can find these sort of answers, and we need to pull together doing it.
MR. ARMSTRONG: And I think that -- and I'm not sure that -- just to defend the senator, I'm not sure if Senator Clinton was referring to stem cells specifically; I -- obviously, I think it was --
MR. MATTHEWS: I think it was a general assault.
MR. ARMSTRONG: -- but also a funding issue, because you have to look at the NIH and the NCI and all the other health institutes and --
MR. MATTHEWS: I think she's talking about general discussions of the philosophical points you raised, about --
MR. ARMSTRONG: But it's a tricky --
MR. MATTHEWS: -- climate change; she was talking about obviously evolution, things like that.
She was talking -- it was a broad attack on your party's position, I think. I think that's fair to say.
MR. ARMSTRONG: I think it -- and this is as political as I'm going to get. But I think it's difficult to look at that -- and I have three kids through IVF, so I understand the sensitive nature of having frozen embryos and what you do with those. But at the same time, if you spend 10 minutes with somebody that's late-state Lou Gehrig's, it is one of the most depressing and devastating experiences you will ever go through. And I mean, and that's just Lou Gehrig's alone.
I mean, if you -- I mean, Michael J. Fox is a great friend of mine. Just spending time with him, you think, oh, my God, this man does not deserve that. So -- and I'm not a scientist so I don't know the answer there but I think that's why it's such a debate. Because on one end, you have a very young life and on the other end, you have an older life that's going to come to an end, unfortunately.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And both are sacred.
MR. ARMSTRONG: Both are, of course.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Both are sacred, but some would say this young life is not sacred. But you and I both started that way, and you end our life at that point, we don't go forward. Plus, I think it's a false choice. We are making progress to the point that people are being treated for Parkinson's with their own adult stem cells. The problem of it is, they're having to go to other countries to do it, because other countries are funding it more than we are.
MR. MATTHEWS: But let me bring up a question from another -- this is an e-mail question from Fred Beltry (sp) from Tucson. What is your position, Senator, regarding making it viable for citizens with a pre-existing condition, cancer, to purchase health insurance at an affordable rate.
And I was thinking of our friend Tony Snow, who's leaving public service, obviously a high-profile position. But he's going to go into the private sector, and maybe he has a lot more advantages than most people. But when you go into a private sector job at middle age and you're trying to get a job and you're saying to the employer, oh, by the way, can you get me a health insurance policy that covers my cancer, which is at an advanced stage, you've got a challenge.
MR. ARMSTRONG: Which could mean, just so you know, I mean, advanced stage cancer could literally mean millions of dollars to treat. So what --
MR. MATTHEWS: What do you do to help that -- is that person helpable financially by the federal government?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think they're helpable by government. In many governments, for instance in my state, you have a high-risk pool that people can be able to get -- they get insurance in that. And I think we should do things of that nature so that people can have access to health insurance that have very difficult pre-existing conditions.
The question that people have more on that is that, okay, I'm fine with your high-risk pool, but I would really rather get into the regular pool at the office, for as far as that our company has this health care plan, and I want to be able to get into that. The problem there is you probably drive the premiums up for a lot of people if you have a small organization and you make this as a requirement within it. If you have a large organization, you can share that risk -- (off mike.)
MR. MATTHEWS: (Off mike) -- case for a very broadly shared risk like a national health insurance program that shares everything with everybody?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Or if we need to, to help states run high-risk insurance pools to the point that they all can have a high-risk insurance pool that can be affordable. But I think that -- what they're trying to do is to keep premiums down for as many people as possible, because we know the sensitivity of health insurance coverage and premium costs. You drive those premium costs up, you drive down the number of people with health insurance. And so you've got to keep -- you've got to do everything you can to keep those premiums down, and then that's why you get in situations like this. I think the issue here really is, having those high-risk pools is the better way to go.
MR. ARMSTRONG: And just to add onto that, would you be in favor of having screening be a part of that?
Just -- as we know, an early diagnosis --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes.
MR. ARMSTRONG: -- oftentimes leads to a cure. And so --
SEN. BROWNBACK: In Dianne Feinstein('s) and my bill, the National Cancer Act of 2007, we talk about that and particularly screening for populations that aren't getting screening. Typically lower-income populations, frequently in the inner city, are not getting the screening levels that you're getting or that I'm getting. And we know this: if you catch it early, your options are much greater and much higher of success, and if you get it later, your options just go way down.
MR. MATTHEWS: So should we require a vaccination for cervical cancer among schoolgirls?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I don't think so.
MR. MATTHEWS: But that -- you just made the point -- early detection, early action. Why do you demur on this thing?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I think it's still developing as an issue and we're seeing --
MR. MATTHEWS: But it's got a hundred percent effectiveness rate, this vaccine.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It has a high --
MR. MATTHEWS: So why not let -- or have kids take advantage of that safety valve?
SEN. BROWNBACK: You've got -- you have a number of people that they are hesitant about this at this point in time. So as to require it --
MR. MATTHEWS: Where are you?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I'm -- I want to watch it for a little bit. I think this is great, that we have this vaccine that prevents the HPV, the human papillomavirus. I think that is excellent. I think if people want to take advantage of that, they should. I think we should make it as cheap as possible for them to take advantage of it.
But for us to step out at this point in time now and require that at a federal government level -- I'm hesitant about doing that at this point in time. But I am delighted we have this available, because HPV has spread broadly in the population, it is the lead cause of cervical cancer, and here's a way we can head it off in a lot of places.
MR. MATTHEWS: But that's -- that is what I think we're talking about here in terms of a real philosophical divide, because the liberal Democrats will say the secular goal here should be prevention of disease, cervical cancer, and the more conservative cultural view would be, let's not suggest any kind of encouragement of sexual behavior by young people. I mean, there is a cultural divide here, isn't there?
SEN. BROWNBACK: There is, but I'm not in that yet. I think this is one -- I want to look and study this one for some -- for a period of time yet. But I want this available to people, and I want it easily available and accessible and cheap, so that people can get access to it.
Just -- I'm -- the step I'm not willing to take yet is requirement that this be given -- that people have this vaccine.
MR. MATTHEWS: Governor Romney's not here today, but like another -- like other candidates that responded to Lance Armstrong's call for a public statement about the war on cancer -- and they've been responsive -- what do you make of the fact that Governor Romney, who chose not to come here today, would make a commitment -- that he said that the federal government has been not giving breast cancer enough concern, enough attention?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I wish he were here. I wish all the Republican presidential candidates and all the Democrat presidential candidates were here. (Applause.) I think they should be here at this forum.
This has been a big topic for me. I co-chair the Cancer Caucus in the United States Senate with Dianne Feinstein. And this is personal with me.
Plus I just look at it, Chris -- I travel a lot -- round a lot, running for president, and a lot of people don't think their government works for them anymore. They're -- they've given up hope. What a way to change that if we took on cancer and deaths by cancer, I mean. And there's no partisan break on it. It's not "Okay, Republicans are for it; Democrats are against it," or the other way. I mean, to me, this is really about restoring confidence in the government, and that's why I wish more of the candidates were here to move this on forward.
I do want to thank you guys for doing this, because I think you're going to elevate the position of cancer in this debate. And I just hope that the public will start to grab on to this idea that we can do something here, that this is achievable.
And here's a guy that wins Tour de France seven times, and before you won your first one, if you had asked anybody, can anybody do this, my guess is they say, "No way to do this." We can do this, and we've just got to start believing we can do it and then setting the objective and getting it done. (Applause.)
MR. MATTHEWS: Thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you. Appreciate it.
MR. MATTHEWS: Thank you very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thanks, Chris. Good seeing you again. Thank you. Thank you guys. (Continued applause.)

Source: http://firstread.msnbc.msn.com/archive/2007/08/28/336222.aspx
