Public Statements
MSNBC Interview with Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS), Republican Presidential Candidate, Subject: Attorney General Alberto Gonzales' Resignation
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 27, 2007
Location: Unknown


MSNBC INTERVIEW WITH SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS), REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
SUBJECT: ATTORNEY GENERAL ALBERTO GONZALES' RESIGNATION INTERVIEWER: JOE SCARBOROUGH
MR. SCARBOROUGH: Do we have Sam Brownback with us? We have --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Good day, Joe.
MR. SCARBOROUGH: -- a good friend of mine, Sam Brownback, also a member of the Judiciary and, if you've been sleeping for the past nine months, also a guy who is running for president of the United States.
SEN. BROWNBACK: (Laughs.)
MR. SCARBOROUGH: I guess I need to call you Senator. Senator, what's your reaction to Alberto Gonzales' resignation today?
SEN. BROWNBACK: You know, it's -- it was probably something that was needed to take place -- probably, actually, overdue. I had not called for his resignation, as I felt that was an issue for the attorney general and for the president to decide. But his effectiveness, Joe, had just been diminished so much that I think this is proper and it's probably a little past due. And it's time for us to get an attorney general that can be in a position to be able to do the job.
MR. SCARBOROUGH: Well, Sam, as you and I both know, Tom Coburn, Senator from Oklahoma, doesn't always take his lead from -- (chuckles) -- from the White House or party leaders. He came out on your committee, the Judiciary Committee, calling for the resignation of Alberto Gonzales some time ago. But Republicans have been quietly grousing about his poor performance before your committee, haven't they, for quite some time?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, people had. And mostly, Joe, it's about a management style; they just felt like that he really wasn't managing the department. And then the U.S. attorneys fiasco, which should never have been a fiasco in the first place. U.S. attorneys serve at the will and the pleasure of the president. They can be fired for any cause or no cause at all.
And then for this to blow up into a political maelstrom, you just look at it and you go, "How could this possibly happen?" And it was mostly a management issue. And I think that's really what, in the end of the day, got him.
MR. SCARBOROUGH: Looking forward, Sam, we understand the solicitor general may be the acting attorney general as we move forward. Michael Chertoff's name has been tossed out there, despite the fact that would create two vacancies at two extraordinarily important federal agencies. Who do you believe the president should appoint as the successor to Alberto Gonzales?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think you look more towards the solicitor position because of the very thing you pointed out. During the last year-and-a-half of this administration, to try to get through two key position through a Senate that has not been willing to work with the president on hardly anything at all is going to be tough.
I mean, getting the attorney general's position filled is going to be tough enough without asking for a second high profile position.
MR. SCARBOROUGH: And that, of course, would cause a review, what, then, of not only what's happened in the attorney general's office but also the Department of Homeland Security.
All right, Senator --
SEN. BROWNBACK: It would do that. And on top of that, that's all really that the Democrats want to do, is just review the administration. I think that's why some of their poll numbers are so low for this Congress; I mean, they're half of what the president's are. And you kind of have to try to get that low of poll numbers. And I think what they're doing is just reviewing the administration rather than doing their job. And this would just give them more fodder to go after the administration, even though I think that's bad for Democrats to constantly be doing that.
MR. SCARBOROUGH: All right. Presidential candidate and U.S. senator and Judiciary member Sam Brownback, thanks a lot for being with me. Greatly appreciate it.
END.

Source: http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/3719710/
