Public Statements
ABC - "This Week With George Stephanopoulos" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 12, 2007
Location: Unknown

MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Good morning, everyone. Rudy Giuliani wasn't there. Fred Thompson wasn't there. John McCain wasn't there. But Mitt Romney was and he walked away the big winner in yesterday's Iowa straw poll. Let's put all ten candidates up on the board. About 14,000 votes were cast. Romney got 31 percent of them. Followed by Mike Huckabee, Sam Brownback, Tom Tancredo, Ron Paul, and then you'll see the national frontrunners -- Rudy Giuliani, John McCain, Fred Thompson way at the back of the pack.
But here with us this morning from Des Moines is the third-place finisher, Senator Sam Brownback. Welcome back to "This Week," sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, George. Good to see you for a second Sunday in a row.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Exactly. You made a big effort at Ames --
SEN. BROWNBACK: We did.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: But you came in third behind both Mitt Romney and Mike Huckabee. Disappointed?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I wanted to win it. But we're still in it. And I think third is a ticket on forward to the caucuses. And so, in that sense, I think we are still in. We are still moving on forward. It has been a slow, long building campaign. But now things are going to speed up because the caucuses are going to come up at an earlier stage in time. And I think we are still in it. And I think we are still in a position to be able to win.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I was going to ask you about that. Are you okay with the caucuses moving into December, if necessary? Or you don't think that's going to happen?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I guess I'll do my Christmas shopping in Iowa. But if it is, it is. I think now this week, Governor Culver was talking about still keeping it in January. Although, there may be some, you know, really if they're going to maintain their same space that they've had to the other races, you probably have to move it into December. It's still not set. It's just going to be the first in the country. And you've got to be here. And I think our performance yesterday at the straw poll, third, puts us in position to be able to do, really, I think, pretty well in the caucuses.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: You need Iowa to be first, don't you?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think it is helpful for me. I think for as far as the Midwestern perspective, but the country trusts Iowa, too, George. You have been through this process. You've worked on it. You worked as a person, what you are doing now, and as a candidate or supporting a candidate. Iowa is a great place. Good people, common sense. They think about things. They look at it. They take politics very seriously. And I think that's why the country trusts them so much with this process.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let me ask you another question about Mitt Romney. As I said, you went at him really hard, we saw at the debate last week on the issue of abortion. Yet, he won a fairly solid victory, anyway. Has he put that issue away?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I don't think he's put it away. I think he's really maxing his vote. And I want to say at the outset though, too, George, congratulations to him. They put together a great team and great organization. They did very well yesterday. And I congratulate him for that. But it's not over. We still go forward on the caucuses.
And as you see the process, Iowa, there's ten candidates on our side that entered this field. We're down some now. There will be a couple more that will come in, possibly. But there are probably three or four tickets out of Iowa. I think I can be one of those. I think Mitt Romney has probably hit up on top of his ceiling. And I think I've got a lot of room to grow and be able to introduce myself to a lot more people.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: How about Governor Huckabee? He did squeeze by you yesterday. You are both angling for the conservative vote. Why should conservative voters choose you over him?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Foreign policy experience I think is a key one that doesn't get played a whole lot in primary elections. But I've worked these issues. I've chaired the Middle East Subcommittee. And I really think, George, this next president needs to go into office knowing foreign policy and not learning it on the job.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let me get into foreign policy a little bit more, then. We saw General Douglas Lute, the president's coordinator for Iraq and Afghanistan make a little news this week. He was asked on National Public Radio if he thought a draft would make military sense. He started out saying he thought the all-volunteer Army was doing exceptionally well. But he also said this. Take a listen.
GEN. DOUGLAS LUTE, COORDINATOR FOR IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN: (From videotape) I think it makes sense to certainly consider it. And I can tell you it has always been an option on the table. But ultimately, this is a policy matter between meeting the demands for the nation's security by one means or another.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Are you are you prepared to consider a draft?
SEN. BROWNBACK: No.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Why not?
SEN. BROWNBACK: We don't need a draft. It is not the right way for us to go on a draft. We need to keep moving forward with the volunteer Army. I think the key issue here is getting a political solution in Iraq. So we can start pulling our troops back from the frontline. That's the key policy issue here. Not starting a draft, but getting in a political solution on the ground in Iraq. When General Petraeus reports out here in the middle of September, I think he's going to say we've made excellent military progress. And we have. We've made zero political progress on the ground. And I think that's where we need this surge, is on the political end of things.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, you've been saying that for several weeks, actually several months now. But we haven't seen any progress -- any political progress, as you point out, in Iraq. There's not going to be any significant progress between now and the time that General Petraeus reports. Your opponents in this race, Mitt Romney, Rudy Giuliani, certainly John McCain are indicating that they are likely to consider supporting the surge anyway.
Will you?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I've had trouble with the military surge because I thought it would further divide us as a country. I'm delighted to hear of the progress we are getting on the military surge. I'm going to keep pushing hard and harder for a political surge because we just don't have an adequate political solution on the ground. And that is the key on Republican or Democrat side of the aisle. But certainly for the country, for us to move forward in Iraq, is to get a durable political solution there. I really think after the middle of September, what we ought to do is let's continue militarily. But we've got to get a better political answer on the ground.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: So what would you do that President Bush is not doing?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I'd send Jim Baker right now as a political surge individual to park in that region and to pull together the key people from the Kurdish, Sunni and Shiia area and say "We're going to knock this deal out. We are going to get this thing done and we're going to sit here until we get a political solution that you guys can work with and agree to."
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: The Baker Commission report suggested withholding support from the Iraqi government if they didn't make those compromises. Are you willing to do that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I would be very much willing to do that.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: In what way?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Whatever we need to do pulling back. But I think the key issue on that is probably financial resources to the Maliki government and saying if you're not going to make progress in this area, we are not going to keep funding this.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Is that a distinction, do you think, now, between you and the frontrunners this race?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, it's something, obviously, as you know, I have been pushing for some period of time. But it's also something that now comes into play nationwide with the Petraeus report coming out in the middle of September. I think you are going to see progress on the political front because it's going to become so obvious that is where we need the surge.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let me ask you a question about the economy. While you have been in Iowa, there has been turbulence all across the financial markets this week. And it's been caused by a credit crunch that could turn into a crisis. If you were president right now, how would you respond?
SEN. BROWNBACK: What I would do is I think we need to keep looking at these issues in the subprime lending market. And I think we need to go at those that those individuals that have unscrupulous lending practices and make sure we have better disclosure and prosecuting some individuals.
But I would not come in with some sort of bailout of the subprime lending market. I don't think that's the answer we should do. I don't think that it is the way we should move forward from this point in time.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: One final question, Senator Brownback. You do now have, who knows, maybe four or five months until the Iowa caucuses. What kind of adjustments are you going to make in your strategy to move up?
SEN. BROWNBACK: We haven't appraised that yet. I'm heading out from here tomorrow to New Hampshire and South Carolina. I'm going to be going into some of the earlier -- some of the other primary states. We'll appraise what happened at the straw poll and how we build. To me, it's a two-step process. We had to get in the ticket to the caucuses. We did that at the straw poll. Now we've got to surge on forward here to do well in the caucuses. And we'll reappraise. But we haven't made that yet.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Okay. Senator Brownback, thanks very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, George.

Source: http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/
