Public Statements
MSNBC "Hardball With Chris Matthews" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 10, 2007
Location: Unknown

MSNBC "HARDBALL WITH CHRIS MATTHEWS" - Transcript
MR. MATTHEWS: We begin tonight with Republican presidential candidate Sam Brownback, who's out in Iowa.
Senator, is this an auctioning of votes, or is it a real democratic case of picking the best guy, the best person, because people really independently choose to vote? Or is it 35 bucks a head, a thousand bucks a volunteer, whatever?
SEN. BROWNBACK: What I think it actually is and what we're treating it as is building a grassroots organization across Iowa. Now, we're not spending the kind of money that Governor Romney is spending. We don't have that kind of money. But we are building a grassroots organization, and I think it's going to serve us well into the caucuses, whatever the performance is tomorrow on it.
That's the way we see it. It's kind of a two-step process of a power lift. This gets it up to the shoulders as the straw poll, and you move it on forward into the caucuses. And now, with the caucuses taking place very early in January, I think it puts a premium on participating in the straw poll.
MR. MATTHEWS: You know, we're trying to spread democracy. It's very controversial, this whole nation-building thing. The president said he didn't believe in it before he became president. Then, after 9/11, he says he does believe it, and he was very clear about that the other night where you have to create democracy to remove the conditions that lead to people that kill us on 9/11.
I understand the philosophy. But do you think we are really setting an example of democracy with this kind of purchasing of votes, 35 bucks a head tomorrow, Senator, to vote? You have to pay to vote out in Iowa; the fact that they're paying so-called super-volunteers a thousand bucks a head. One guy out there is making $200,000 from Romney. It doesn't seem like the kind of example we want to set and that our soldiers are fighting for, is it?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I don't think it's the kind of example --
MR. MATTHEWS: (That ?) wouldn't put it aside.
SEN. BROWNBACK: -- you want to set.
MR. MATTHEWS: Yeah.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But --
MR. MATTHEWS: So what is it? Is it democracy?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, it is democracy. But I think it's really about building a grassroots organization. And I don't really think, at the end of the day, on the caucus night, not on straw poll but on caucus night, that you can buy the vote.
You can pay people to get organized. You can pay people to get organized on the straw poll or even on the caucuses. But I don't think you can buy the vote, and I particularly don't think you can buy the vote on an early state like Iowa that looks at this process as a very important one that they are the key winnowing ground of candidates.
You know, many politicians enter Iowa and few leave. There are probably three or four tickets out on both sides of the aisle. And I don't think you can, at the end of the day, buy it. You may be able to buy it at the straw poll. I don't think you can at the caucus.
MR. MATTHEWS: Do you have to come in second tomorrow, Senator?
SEN. BROWNBACK: No, I don't have to come in second. But I think we have to build organization. I think we have to show capacity. I think we have to show people like yourself that, you know, look, there's a possibility that he can take off with this organization and with this consistent message, because this party, the Republican Party, is primarily built around a message around principles, not around personalities. And so the caucus-goers are looking for that consistent message and a package that they believe can win.
MR. MATTHEWS: It seems to me there's a vacuum at the top of this fight for a true conservative, a heartland conservative, if you will. Fred Thompson has been talked up, but he's not in the race yet. Can you win that title? Can you win that subdivision of true-blue heartland conservative? Because Rudy's not going for it. Romney's a latecomer to that competition. Can you win it?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think I can. I think I'm the dark horse in the field. Or as I've said many times here, I'm the tortoise in the race that's crawling and moving every day forward, and particularly the further I think that Governor Romney is in the field and his inconsistency on so many of the core issues the party is built upon. I think it's tough to lead on a topic that you haven't been consistent on yourself, and that's why I think he'll have difficulty as we wear on into this to the caucuses.
MR. MATTHEWS: The contradiction, the Catch-22 I keep noticing in Governor Romney's appeal, is he said it was a mistake for him to be pro-choice when he ran for senator and then governor of Massachusetts, which is a pro-choice state, generally speaking. And yet if he hadn't played that card, if he hadn't gone that way, he wouldn't now have the credential of being a governor to run for president. So why does he keep saying, "I wish I had done it the other way"? If he had done it the other way, he wouldn't even be this far.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I think that's --
MR. MATTHEWS: It just seems to be a contradiction in terms. He got elected in Massachusetts because he said he was pro-choice. Now he's saying that was a mistake to say he was pro-choice. Well, isn't it a mistake to use the title "governor"? He ought to drop using the title then.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I'll leave that to them. But I think the key issue here is, Chris, is how do you lead on this, what I believe is the lead moral issue of our day, if you haven't been consistent on the topic when you've been in leadership positions? And how are the people going to trust your leadership on it if they don't believe that you believe it?
That's why I think this is such a key topic, particularly in a Republican Party primary, but also for the country. Do we believe human life is sacred, and sacred at all stages? And I'm talking about being pro-life and whole life, from the very beginning to the child in Darfur to somebody in poverty. I want to expand the pro-life message to be much more inclusive and, I think, embracing at that point.
MR. MATTHEWS: Do you think you could run with a Rudy Giuliani and balance out that ticket as a pro-lifer?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, with him as vice president, I think we can get that done.
MR. MATTHEWS: Ha!
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes.
MR. MATTHEWS: Ha! You're not being tongue in cheek at all here, are you? You mean it.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I'm not.
MR. MATTHEWS: You're going to be numero uno and he's going to be in the side saddle there.
SEN. BROWNBACK: He's a good man. He's a good man. I'll certainly look at him.
MR. MATTHEWS: Let me ask you about the president and this war. It doesn't seem to get better. I guess we can argue that we're going to get a decent 50-50 report from Petraeus. But listening to the president at the press conference yesterday, he sounded like his commitment to this war in Iraq isn't a matter of something that can be changed next month or by a report or a failed economic or a failed political progress over there or a failed military campaign. He sounds like he's in it to the end.
Are you? Would you stick it out in Iraq all the way until we get a working democracy over there, no matter what the cost?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, your last statement is the thing that I think is troubling on it, Chris -- a working democracy. And I think we're going to see in the Petraeus report is he's going to say excellent progress on the military side; little if no progress on the political side in Iraq. And that's where we have the ineffective answer.
MR. MATTHEWS: Well, then, what are we fighting for? What's our Army fighting for over there? What are we asking the Iraqi army to fight for if, behind it all, there's a nondemocracy there? There's not something to fight for.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think what you fight for is a three-state solution that can get you to political stability. And within those states, like the Kurdish state, they've been operating separately for some time, and it's somewhat of a working democracy. I think you have to do that in the Sunni, the Shi'a area, with Baghdad as a federal city and a weak federated system. That's a political solution that can build on the military space that's been given. That's a political surge. Really, I think that's what we need.
MR. MATTHEWS: It sounds like you and Senator Biden on the Democratic side should get together, because both of you --
SEN. BROWNBACK: We already have.
MR. MATTHEWS: -- agree on what looks like a reasonable alternative to what we have, and you're the only guys that are really pointing to something that might offer a brighter prospect than continued war forever.
SEN. BROWNBACK: We have a joint resolution that Joe Biden and I are doing on it. And that's one of my frustrating points on this, Chris. We're going to be in this war with militant Islamists, I think, for a generation. And we need to come together as a country, Republican and Democrat, on a strategy for how we contain militant Islamists. It's not a majority of people who are Muslim, but it is a dedicated force. And we need to have the same sort of bipartisan long-term strategy that we had to contain communism for this militantized Islamist push.
MR. MATTHEWS: And we have to pick our fights.
SEN. BROWNBACK: We do.
MR. MATTHEWS: Anyway, thank you very much, Senator Brownback, who's fighting hard --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
MR. MATTHEWS: -- in the Iowa caucuses tomorrow.
Get out and vote for Senator Brownback.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.

Source: http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/3036697/
