Public Statements
State Finance Council Provides Additional Funding to Kansas Schools
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 5, 2015
Location: Topeka, KS

The State Finance Council today reviewed eight "exceptional needs" requests during its regular meeting for a total of $1.1 million in requests. Funding was approved for five districts for a total of $478,016.
The exceptional needs fund was established as part of SB 7, the historic K-12 education block grant passed by the legislature and signed by the Governor. The fund allows school districts to request additional funds to meet specific needs resulting from the following specific circumstances:
Extraordinary increase in enrollment
Extraordinary reduction in assessed valuation
Extraordinary reduction in revenue to the school district
Unforeseen circumstances which substantially impact the school district's general fund budget.
"Each of the school districts that requested additional funding has already received more money from the state this year than last year," said Governor Brownback." Going forward schools will have more flexibility in determining their priorities when spending their money. We recognize unexpected circumstances may arise, therefore it's good that we have this process to address the needs."
While it is convenient to blame the block grant bill for increased funding that is less than desired, it is not accurate. The two school districts claiming the block grant law forced them to close early, each received an increase in funding from last year to this year. Also some schools citing a reduction in the number of students eligible for free and reduced price lunches are losing funding as a result of the last remnants of the old funding system.
School districts have claimed that funding was reduced this year because they are comparing fundin. to the amount to which they believed they were entitled. The source of this claim involves two types of state equalization- local option budget state aid and capital outlay state aid. The basis of the "reduced funding" claim comes from two types of state equalization - the local option budget state aid (LOB) and capital outlay state aid.
Last year, the Kansas legislature increased total equalization for LOB and Capital Outlay by $134.5 million to a total of $473.7 million for the 2014/2015 school year. This was done to resolve court issues over equalization, resulting from a lawsuit that was filed many years ago. Education funding in Kansas has been subject to litigation for 40 years. After all the 286 Kansas school districts developed their budgets for that year, the total impact for LOB and Capital Outlay increased from the $473.7 million approved by the legislature to $527.3 million, a difference of $53.6 million.
Districts believe they were entitled to $527.3 million, a total increase of $188.1 million. The Legislature expected last session to provide a $134.5 million increase for LOB and Capital Outlay. This session, the Legislature revised the funding to where it ended up being a $138.5 million increase. While it is not the $188 million school districts wanted, it is difficult to understand an argument that says a $138.5 million increase is a cut to funding.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2015/05/05/state-finance-council-provides-additional-funding-to-kansas-schools
