Public Statements
Craig Thomas Rural Hospital And Provider Equity Act
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 14, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


CRAIG THOMAS RURAL HOSPITAL AND PROVIDER EQUITY ACT -- (Senate - June 14, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I thank my colleague from Colorado for this recognition. I am a cosponsor of this amendment, and he is the lead sponsor of the drive electric amendment. This is an exciting bipartisan proposal. It has 26 cosponsors. It does one narrow issue, but it is a big one, and that is this: It gives consumers another option in the marketplace.
Right now, we are 97 percent dependent on oil for our transportation fuel. We are trying to expand that into ethanol, having more ethanol in the marketplace, and I think that is key. What this amendment focuses on is getting another option out there, a great one--it is an electric option--and to put it forward so we can have more transportation running off electricity.
I think one of the key things for us to do in our future is to be able to reduce our consumption of oil, particularly foreign oil, and one of the key ways for us to do that is to have our transportation fleet become more electric--a plug-in technology where you plug the car in at night in the garage and you drive the next day. About half of the Nation doesn't drive over 30 miles a day. Having plug-in cars that can go that first 30 miles off electricity and then switch over, I would hope, to ethanol, E85 ethanol at that point, in fact, could reduce aggressively, substantially, and quickly our dependence on foreign oil.
This amendment is a part of an overall strategy that a number of us have put forward. One of the amendments of this strategy was passed on Monday, where an oil savings plan was put forward and accepted by this body in the overall bill.
Let me go to the specifics of this particular bill, if I could, and I know the Senator from Colorado will get to these more in depth, but the DRIVE electric amendment would expand the advanced transportation technology program in H.R. 6 and augment the energy storage competitiveness program in section 244 of the bill. The funding of $125 million would be authorized for the near-term deployment, market assessment, and the electricity usage provisions of the amendment.
The point of this is, if we are to rapidly expand plug-in technology, where the car is driven initially, or the pickup is driven initially off of electricity and then on to gasoline or ethanol, we need to get storage technology in the batteries. We need to get drive train technology to be able to do this, and it is within reach. I talked to a representative of General Motors yesterday about having the first wave of plug-in cars in the marketplace as soon as possibly 2008 or 2009.
These are exciting prospects, but you have clear hurdles that we have to overcome in the process. Those are identified in this bill, and we provide funding for the research in those areas to go forward. We also urge the Federal Government in fleet acquisition programs to establish under the Energy Policy Act of 1992 an assurance that fleet operators subject to that law can choose electric drive transportation technology, including hybrid electric vehicles, for compliance.
This amendment is endorsed by a large group, certainly electric companies, as you might suspect, but also others interested in stretching our fuel usage, our oil usage in this country, and getting it from other sources. I might point out, too, one of the things people ask about: OK, if you are going to switch to electric, you are going to have to build more power-generating units, and that may happen in the future. But initially we can handle this by using the power grid we have now in offpeak hours.
Most of the plug-ins will happen at night. Most of the recharging will happen at night. So you don't have to build additional capacity to be able to do this. It is good for the environment, reducing our CO
2 emissions overall into the atmosphere, and it is good for the economy. It develops a new way of moving forward on personal transportation on a mass quantity basis for us to be able to do it in this society and then sell that technology globally. So it helps our car manufacturers to be able to compete.
I think this is a win all the way around, and I am delighted to be a cosponsor of the amendment with my colleague from Colorado, Senator Salazar, and many others.
I would urge my colleagues to adopt this amendment as a key provision to how we become energy secure in the next 15 years, while at the same time growing our economy and helping the environment. All together it is an exciting and excellent amendment, and I urge my colleagues to support it.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
