Public Statements
Brownback will Compete in the Ames Straw Poll
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 8, 2007
Location: Des Moines, IA


Brownback will Compete in the Ames Straw Poll
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today announced that he will compete in the Ames Straw Poll on August 11, 2007.
"I am excited and honored by the opportunity to participate in the Ames Straw Poll and I reaffirm my intention to compete in Ames," said Brownback. "I stand in solidarity with the Iowa Republican Party leadership in recognizing the importance of this event. I look forward to going head-to-head against Mitt Romney. Iowa voters have a great responsibility and have always been influential in choosing the Republican nominee. People deserve to know where a candidate stands, and you don't declare yourself the winner before the game is played. I am confident that my message of uniting social and fiscal conservatives will resonate with Republicans across the Hawkeye State, and especially those attending the Straw Poll."
Brownback challenged Romney and the other candidates participating in the Straw Poll to a series of debates across Iowa that will highlight the candidates' differing stands on the issues prior to the Straw Poll.
"This will be a great contest between a Midwestern conservative farmer and a Northeastern liberal Republican who has flip-flopped on fundamental issues and will find limited support in Iowa as the summer goes on," said Rob Wasinger, Brownback for President campaign manager. "The Brownback campaign looks forward to this match-up as it will be a great opportunity for Iowa conservatives to decide the direction of our country and our party. In this regard, we expect to be very competitive."
Brownback made the announcement at his Iowa campaign headquarters in West Des Moines.
Brownback also announced a new website, www.brownbackevents.com, that will help organize his grassroots support for the Straw Poll. Anyone wishing to attend the Straw Poll can contact the Brownback campaign for a free ticket and bus ride at the web address above or at 515-221-1001.

Source: http://www.brownback.com/s/NewsRoom/PressReleases/BrownbackwillCompeteintheAmesStrawPoll/tabid/371/Default.aspx
