Public Statements
Brownback Offers American Leadership and Solutions at NH Debate
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 6, 2007
Location: Manchester, NH


Brownback Offers American Leadership and Solutions at NH Debate
United States Senator Sam Brownback participated in the New Hampshire presidential debate on Tuesday, calling for a political solution in Iraq, fixing our nation's broken immigration system and a pro-life nominee for the Republican Party.
Brownback's strong performance was noted by the Chris Cillizza of the Washington Post who noted, "...Sen. Sam Brownback (Kans.) and former Gov. Mike Huckabee (Ark.) made the biggest and best impressions."
Brownback offered strong leadership on the issue of Iraq, announing that he will introduce legislation tomorrow that would offer both a political solution to the war, and a political consensus amongst politicians in Washington.
"...We've got to put forward now a political plan," Brownback said. "It's about getting the situation to a point that we can turn it over to Iraqis and then us pull back from the front of the line. That's why I'm putting forward tomorrow a bill 혰 and this would be about a three-state solution in Iraq 혰 a Kurdish state, a Sunni state, a Shi'a state 혰 with Baghdad as the federal city, in a loose, weak, federated system, oil revenues equally divided, and it's a bipartisan bill. We will have bipartisan support. We've got to pull together here to win over there."
Brownback also offered harsh words towards Iran, calling them the lead sponsor of terrorism and the need for aggressive confrontation.
"Iran is the lead sponsor of terrorism," Brownback said. "Ahmadinejad just this past week called for the destruction of Israel, continues to call for attacking of the United States. I think we have to confront them aggressively for what they are, which is the lead sponsor of terrorism in the world. I think we need to push the sanctions forward more aggressively. And I think we have to show that purpose and resolve 혰 that we're going to confront these guys, and we're going to stand with our allies like Israel, we're going to stand against them oppressing and pushing us and trying to fund terrorists against us."

Source:
