Public Statements
Brownback, Bayh Introduce Iran Special Envoy Bill
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 25, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback, Bayh Introduce Iran Special Envoy Bill
U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Evan Bayh (D-IN) today introduced a bill that would establish a special envoy at the State Department to focus on improving human rights and democracy-building efforts in Iran. "The Iranian government's flagrant disregard for basic human rights is directly related to its nuclear ambitions," said Brownback. "The Iranian regime represses its citizens at home and wants to use nuclear weapons to assert itself abroad. By making human rights and democracy-building a top priority, we can support the efforts of the Iranian people to end oppression and chart their own future." "The vast majority of the Iranian people want to live in a more open, democratic country and do not support the extremist policies of the current government," said Bayh. "This bill supports Iranians who dream of living in a free society. We bolster our own national security by countering the influences in Iran that support terror and the development of nuclear weapons." The special envoy would be appointed by the President and report directly to the Secretary of State. The envoy would make Iran's human rights record a top concern of U.S. policy and would work with pro-democracy groups to support efforts to improve the basic human freedoms and rights of Iranians. Additional responsibilities of the envoy would include:
* Serving as a point of contact for outside opposition and diaspora groups;
* Coordinating efforts across the U.S. government to promote Iranian human rights and democracy;
* Supporting multilateral efforts with the United Nations and European Union to promote human rights and political freedoms in Iran;
* Overseeing funding for U.S. broadcasts into Iran; Reporting back to Congress on an annual basis.
Senator Evan Bayh is a member of the Armed Services Committee and the Select Committee on Intelligence. Brownback is an original cosponsor of the Iran Counter-Proliferation Act of 2007 and the Iran Sanctions Enabling Act, and is a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=275174
