Public Statements
'Roe' Endorses Brownback for President
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 24, 2007
Location: Des Moines, IA


'Roe' Endorses Brownback for President
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback announced today that he has enlisted the support of Norma McCorvey, the now pro-life "Jane Roe" of the infamous Roe v Wade decision, for his presidential campaign.
In 1970, Norma McCorvey, then an impoverished pregnant woman, was convinced by a team of ambitious lawyers to be their plaintiff in a case to challenge the state law prohibiting abortion in Texas. This case, Roe v Wade, was eventually appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court and led to one of the most tragic judicial decisions in American history, essentially giving the consent of the nation's highest court to tens of millions of abortions since 1973. In 1995, realizing her error and touched by the neighborly love of a number of her pro-life opponents, McCorvey abandoned her pro-abortion activism and became a vocal pro-life Christia n. In 1997, she founded the pro-life ministry, Roe No More. In 2005, McCorvey formally petitioned the Supreme Court to overturn the 1973 decision that bears her name.
Senator Brownback is deeply honored to have earned Norma McCorvey's endorsement. "Norma McCorvey knows firsthand the darkness of the abortion industry - its danger to both unborn children and their mothers. Her experience as the poster child for the abortion movement exponentially increases the power of her pro-life testimony. I stand with her in her quest to overturn Roe v Wade," Brownback said.
Norma McCorvey said, "I know the hurts of countless women who have been lied to and manipulated by the abortion industry in this country. Our nation needs a President of strength, courage, and moral fortitude - one who will lead our society on a path that respects human life and human dignity. Senator Sam Brownback's love for all Americans at every stage of development is unquestioned, and his le adership of the pro-life movement if unrivaled. Sam Brownback is the right person, in the right place, at the right time for our nation as we seek to embrace a culture of life."
Brownback continued: "I am encouraged by Norma's story of hope, I am emboldened by her great courage, and I am deeply blessed that she would stand with me in my bid to become President of the United States."
McCorvey further stated: "As the lead plaintiff in one of the most tragic Supreme Court decisions in U.S. history resulting in abortion-on-demand, I can appreciate as much as anyone the importance of the pro-life movement accepting converts. However, it should give us great concern when certain politicians join the pro-life movement just prior to announcing a run for president in the Republican primary. Conversions are critical, but so is sincerity. Sam Brownback is a candidate that we can trust to fight for life, because he's already done so for many, many years."
--
Today, Brownback has scheduled campaign events in Council Bluffs, Sioux City, Des Moines, Ames and Davenport with Christian activist and historian, Dave Barton. After a morning event in Cedar Rapids, Brownback will address activists for his "Iowa Headquarters Grand Opening" event tomorrow at noon.

Source: http://www.brownback.com/s/NewsRoom/PressReleases/RoeEndorsesBrownbackforPresident/tabid/359/Default.aspx
