Public Statements
Comprehhensive Immigration Reform Act Of 2007
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 23, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (Senate - May 23, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the immigration bill, the underlying amendment.
I am delighted we are taking up this issue dealing with immigration. I am glad we are debating this important issue in the Senate and that the majority leader has dedicated 2 weeks to do this bill. I think we need at least that period of time to delve into this issue. I have worked on it before. I have served on the Judiciary Committee. It is a tough topic, and it needs a lot of debate.
Immigration is an issue which has seized Americans across the Nation. People are torn trying to balance two fundamental American principles: one, of being a rule of law nation; and, second, trying to be a compassionate society. Here I think we do not need to mitigate either of these desires, that we can do both of them. But it is difficult and the details matter.
America is a nation of both justice and compassion. The two are not mutually exclusive. But reconciling the two is sometimes difficult, as we find in this debate.
Currently, we have, we think, somewhere around 12 million illegal immigrants in our country. The number is growing.
In 1987, there were roughly 4 million undocumented immigrants in our country; in 1997, there were roughly 7 million; and today, in 2007, there are somewhere around 12 million. In addition, according to the Pew Hispanic Center, annual arrivals of illegal immigrants have exceeded the arrival of legal immigrants since 1985. That is not the trend we want.
The reality is our immigration system is seriously broken and needs to be fixed. Some people think the solution is to grant undocumented immigrants amnesty as we did in 1986, but that won't work. Others think the solution to the problem is to simply enforce the laws we have and kick everyone out. We have taken a serious look at this option, and although our enforcement efforts over the last year have dramatically increased, I do not believe this answer alone will work either.
The office responsible for detaining and removing illegal immigrants is the Office of Detention and Removal, DRO. It is a division of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the largest investigative agency in the Department of Homeland Security. You may be surprised to know that the DRO is actually quite large, despite the relatively small impact they are able to have. DRO includes 6,700 authorized employees, including nearly 5,300 law enforcement officers and 1,400 support personnel. To put this in perspective, the number of DRO law enforcement officers is just under half as large as the number of FBI special agents. With these resources in 2006, ICE, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, removed 187,513 illegal aliens from the country--a record for the agency and a 10-percent increase over the number of removals during the prior fiscal year. If you do the math, though, that works out to roughly 28 illegal aliens deported per DRO employee per year or 35 deportations per law enforcement officer per year. At that pace, if we shut down the border to a point at which no one crosses illegally, and successfully end 100 percent of the visa overstays and double the number of DRO agents, then it will take us 25 to 30 years to deport the estimated 11 million to 13 million illegal aliens who are currently in the United States.
As a matter of national security, we can't afford to wait 30 years to know who is in our country illegally. For the sake of our national security and our Nation's future, we need to solve the immigration problems facing our Nation now. The comprehensive bill before the Senate goes a long way toward
enabling us to fix our immigration system and the problem of illegal immigration. I might point out that people are not opposed to immigration, they are opposed to illegal immigration, and we need to get the legal system to work and fix the problems in it. I believe we need a multifaceted approach to the complex immigration problem we are facing, and the compromise bill before the Senate now will enable us to take significant strides toward fixing the problem.
That said, there are certain aspects of the bill I wish to change. I look forward to the opportunity to do so through the amendment process and to see whether I can support the final product.
With respect to solving the immigration problem, we must first and foremost secure the border, and this bill appears to do that. Section 1 of the bill ensures that we don't repeat one of the biggest mistakes of the 1986 amnesty of implementing immigration reforms without increasing border and worksite enforcement. The triggers in section 1 require the DHS Secretary to certify in writing the following border and worksite enforcement measures are funded, in place, and in operation before--before--initiating a guest worker program or issuing Z visas to current undocumented immigrants. These are the triggers: 18,000 Border Patrol hired; construction of 200 miles of vehicle barriers and 370 miles of fencing; 70 ground-based radar and camera towers along the southern border; the deployment of 4 unmanned aerial vehicles and supporting systems; ending catch and release; resources to detain up to 27,500 aliens per day on an annual basis; the use of secure and effective identification tools to prevent unauthorized work; and the receiving, processing, and adjudication of applications for Z status.
I go through the details because the details really matter in this bill.
In addition, the bill authorizes enhanced border enforcement, including a national strategy for border security, 14,000 new Border Patrol agents by 2012, doubling the current force; 2,500 new Customs and Border Protection officers by 2012; 3,000 new DHS investigators by 2010; 24,000 new detention beds by 2010; enhanced surveillance, using unmanned aerial vehicles, as I mentioned; cameras, sensors, satellites, and other technologies.
That is not enough for just taking care of the border. We also have to go to the workplace. Most people are attempting to enter the United States illegally to work. I think we have to focus on what we do at the workplace. I think we need to implement a smart worksite enforcement system, smart and tough. The primary reason for illegal immigration, as I stated, is employment. If we eliminate a person's ability to unlawfully gain employment, then we will dramatically reduce the incentive for illegal immigration. This bill includes several measures that enhance our ability to enforce immigration laws at the workplace: increasing penalties on employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants; requiring DHS to issue a tamper-resistant work authorization document with biometric information; allowing the Commissioner of Social Security to share information with DHS so they can go after those who use fraudulent Social Security cards to gain employment; creating an employment eligibility and verification system that requires employers to electronically verify a prospective employee's work authorization.
The robust worksite enforcement system included in this bill fixes a huge hole in our current system and should curtail the use of false documents to fraudulently obtain employment.
Now let's look at the immigration system reforms. The most significant immigration reform this bill makes is the implementation of a merit-based immigration system--and this is a big shift--to choose the best and the brightest of those coming into our country. This doesn't mean we should only allow rocket scientists or brain surgeons, but education is and should be a factor. The merit-based system under the bill does that. It sets up a system in which immigrants can earn points in four categories: education, employment, English proficiency, and family.
In addition to the merit-based system, this bill ends chain migration for extended family, while preserving family unification for the immediate family. I think that is an important distinction, that we want family reunification for immediate, nuclear family, but we don't want the chain migration system for extended family members. This is an important change.
I am one of the staunchest supporters of family in the Senate. I don't think our immigration system should blindly favor, though, non-nuclear families such as siblings and adult children over skilled workers who are coming to apply their trade and contribute to our economy. It seems to me this is an appropriate balance. Throughout this bill, what we are trying to accomplish is an appropriate, workable balance for the good and the future of this Nation.
On the temporary guest worker program, once we are able to secure the border and implement worksite enforcement enhancements, we need to reform our immigration system to create sufficient legal means for well-meaning workers to come to our country and to work. The temporary guest worker program in this bill does that, while at the same time protecting American workers and wages by: requiring employers to advertise jobs to U.S. workers first; requiring employers to advertise pay, a wage equal to that of an average wage for the particular job or industry, particular in that region of the country; and prohibiting a temporary guest worker from working in a county that has 7 percent unemployment or higher.
I think there are some important changes that need to be made in the bill. As I have said, the compromise bill before us does a lot of good, but I think it is far from perfect and needs improvement.
To give some examples, section 601(h) of the bill gives certain immigration benefits to undocumented immigrants who seek ``probationary'' status, and states that an undocumented immigrant can obtain no probationary benefits until the alien has passed all appropriate background checks, or until the next business day, whichever is sooner. So you have a 24-hour check period. That is insufficient, if they want to look into the background of an individual seeking this probationary status. I will seek to change that particular provision. The impact of this provision is that 12 million or more undocumented immigrants could receive lawful status, the right to work, and other such benefits even if a background check cannot be completed in time.
I think the problems with this provision are significant and obvious. First, in a post-9/11 world, it is misguided at best and dangerous at worst to grant millions of people unlawfully present in the United States lawful status, even if a background check has not been completed. That is not wise. Second, there is no evidence that the Department of Homeland Security is capable of conducting cross-departmental and cross-governmental background checks, let alone a million of them, or millions of them, in a 24-hour time period. Third, many records relevant to a background check are not electronic and/or are not in possession of or otherwise accessible to the Federal Government, suggesting that more than one business day may be required for a thorough check, and a thorough check we must do. This is an important issue with potentially grave consequences for our national security.
I have filed an amendment to change this provision so no one would receive any immigration benefits without passing a background check. I would urge my colleagues to support this amendment.
In addition, I think the bill should require followup background checks when Z visa holders apply to extend their visa beyond the initial 4 years. As the bill is drafted, it leaves that decision to perform a background check up to the Secretary of Homeland Security.
I think we need to be able to have removal proceedings for ineligible Z visa applicants. Section 601(d) of the bill lays out certain grounds of ineligibility for a Z visa, which include multiple criminal convictions, controlled substance trafficking, trafficking in persons, and even terrorist activity.
The very same section also states:
Nothing in this paragraph shall require the Secretary to commence removal proceedings against an alien.
The obvious question is: Why not? Why should DHS not be required to immediately begin removal proceedings against someone who is ineligible for a Z visa because they are a criminal or a terrorist? I think DHS should be required to begin removal proceedings or at the very least take steps toward removing such people from the country.
The two main reasons for providing undocumented immigrants the ability to obtain a Z visa are to separate those who are here with good intentions to work and support their families from those who intend to do us harm; and second, to create a system where people have a legal status. In order to successfully do this, this provision needs to be changed so when an individual is found to be ineligible to remain in the country legally under this program, they are removed.
In conclusion, I look forward to continuing this debate on this bill on these issues I have identified and others to strengthen this bill. As many Members have said, this bill is not perfect and can certainly be improved in ways I have noted and in others. But we can't use the bill's imperfections as an excuse for doing nothing for a system that is clearly broken.
I look forward to offering these amendments to improve the bill, and I look forward to hearing some of the ideas my colleagues in the Senate have as well. At the end of the day, I hope we can pass a bill the President can sign, so we can say we did something to improve America by enacting immigration legislation that secures our borders, restores respect for our laws, and creates an immigration system that works.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
