Public Statements
WIBW - Kansas Leaders Respond to Fort Riley Terror Arrest
News Article
By: Lynn Jenkins Sam Brownback
Date: April 10, 2015
Location: Topeka, KS

by Nick Viviani
Elected officials in Kansas are reacting to the arrest of a Topeka man on charges that the 20 year-old tried to provide material support to the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS or ISIL).
The complaint alleges that John T. Booker planned to detonate a bomb at Fort Riley.
Booker, who also goes by the name "Mohammed Abdullah Hassan," becomes the seventh individual to be charged with material support in the last 10 days, CBS News' Paula Reid reports.
Following the arrest, Gov. Sam Brownback (R-KS) released a statement complimenting the efforts of law enforcement and urging those in "America's Heartland" to stay vigilent:
"I appreciate the diligence of the FBI and members of the Joint Terrorism Task Force, including the Kansas Highway Patrol and Kansas Bureau of Investigation, for working together to successfully thwart this potential attack. The state has worked hard to enhance the collaborative efforts of local, state and federal partners in matters of homeland security and to protect Kansans.
"The investigation is ongoing and today's arrest serves as a reminder that even here in America's heartland we must remain vigilant against threats to our nation."
Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins (R-2nd Dist.), who represents the district encompassing Fort Riley and Booker's hometown, said she was "shocked" when she heard of the arrest, adding that his actions "stand in stark contrast" to the support Kansans have for the military.
I was shocked to hear a Topekan was arrested today for allegedly plotting to bomb Fort Riley on behalf of ISIL. While he may reside in Topeka, his actions stand in stark contrast to the attitude of support for our military of everyday Kansans. I commend the counterterrorism and law enforcement officials for their efforts. This is a close to home reminder that we must remain vigilant against terrorism, and Congress must do everything it can to eliminate and destroy ISIL."

Source: http://www.wibw.com/home/headlines/Kansas-Leaders-Respond-To-Fort-Riley-Terror-Arrest-299362631.html
