Public Statements
Remarks by Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) at a News Conference Regarding the Kansas Torando Aftermath
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 7, 2007
Location: Greensburg, KS

Remarks by Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) at a News Conference Regarding the Kansas Torando Aftermath
Copyright ©2007 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Jack Graeme at jack@fednews.com or call 1-800-211-4020.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
Thank you, Governor.
Sam Brownback, one of the U.S. senators for Kansas. I'm delighted that the director of FEMA is here. We traveled out today from Wichita together.
This is a total disaster. It is a difficult thing to see, and I'm sure it is a much more difficult thing to live through for the residents of Greensburg and the entire area. We wanted to make sure in getting here that they had all the assets they need on the ground. We had a good meeting with the people at emergency response here. They say they have all the assets that they need. If there are more, we want to do whatever we can to get them here. The president of the United States will be coming out on Wednesday. And I'm delighted to see that he'll be coming out and also making a point that we're going to do everything we can to see that Greensburg comes back, moves forward.
Our hearts to out to all the families that lost loved ones and that, obviously, have had this enormous impact on their lives. But you can't help but to note the spirit of the people that want to rebuild, and they're going to rebuild, and they're going to rebuild Greensburg into even a better and stronger community into the future.
So I'm delighted that the director is here today. We're going to keep pushing to make sure that everything comes that they need, that the people of this community need, and it will be there and be there in a timely fashion.
I'm glad to call on my colleague, Congressman Jerry Moran, who's been out in the area and working hard to make sure that the assets are in place.

Source: http://www.fnsg.com/transcripta.htm?id=20070507t0922&query=Brownback
