Public Statements
ABC "This Week with George Stephanopoulos" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 29, 2007
Location: Unknown

MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: We're back with Democratic Senator Russ Feingold and his Republican colleague, Sam Brownback. Gentlemen, welcome back to "This Week."
SEN. FEINGOLD: Good to be on the show.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thanks, George.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Feingold, let me start with you. You heard Secretary Rice there. She said any deadlines for withdrawal, any timelines in the bill, the president is going to veto it. After the veto, are Democrats willing to drop that requirement?
SEN. FEINGOLD: You know, I'm just stunned to listen to the secretary of state talk for all that time and she never referred once to the will of the American people. It was expressed in November or it was expressed the this week by both houses of Congress and that is the American people want us to provide the funds that the president has asked for but they want us to end this war. And the only way to do that is to have some kind of an approach such as a timeline in this bill. So I'm just amazed that this administration has such disregard and disrespect for the will of the American people here and I don't think we should back down.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: But, Sir, even your Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Carl Levin, on this program two weeks ago said, "Okay, we go for the veto but after that we have to get the soldiers the money they need. We have to drop the deadlines."
SEN. FEINGOLD: The only person that is standing in the way of the funding for the troops is the President of the United States. His idea that he only wants the money if it's exactly the way he wants, with an unending war in Iraq, is outrageous and we need to stand up to a president who says, look, unless it's exactly the way I want it, unless I can keep this war going as long as I want, you folks in the Congress and the American people have nothing to do with it. I think it would be a mistake to just say, "Okay, Mr. President, have your way." The American people spoke in November and their will should be respected.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: So I'll take that as a "no" for now, even after the veto.
SEN. FEINGOLD: That's a "no."
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Brownback, what about the idea of putting benchmarks into the bill? The secretary did seem open to that.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think that's where the discussion goes. After the veto has taken place, I think we discuss things like that. One of the things I think we need to do, though, George, is get a political and a diplomatic effort that's as aggressive as the military effort and I think we've really got to push much more aggressive on the Maliki government to resolve these sectarian strifes. I would hope even the Secretary of State would really push aggressively, even maybe convening the Sunni and Shia and the Kurds together and really pushing them aggressively on these topics.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Wow. Let me stop you right there. You think the Secretary of State of the United States should go and try to achieve a political reconciliation among the different groups warring in Iraq? I would think an Iraqi would look at that as a tremendous breach of sovereignty.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, look what we need to do to take place here. We've got U.S. troops, we've got U.S. troops on Iraqi soil. And I don't think a deadline is the thing to do. A deadline, I think the day we pass it, al Qaeda declares victory over us and much of the world will agree. But we've got to get as aggressive on pushing a political solution particularly between Sunnis and Shia and we've got to push them very hard and our time lines, I think, are very short.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Feingold, you said "no." No dropping of the deadline. You're at odds then with the Chairman of your Armed Services Committee. Many other Democrats who think this is political suicide for the Democrats to continue this fight after the president's veto. They think you should pocket the victory now and then move on and live to fight another day.
SEN. FEINGOLD: This is Washington insider talk. What this is about is not who is comfortable, or who is uncomfortable. Whether we can all hold hands. This is about the fact, George, that American troops are dying for no good reason at this point. They are in a situation where they're being sacrificed because people want political comfort in Washington. This surge isn't working. The situation in Iraq isn't working. Even the things that my friend, Senator Brownback, is talking about, various political solutions, in my view, can't happen as long as we have 150,000 troops on the ground. The idea that we all have to sort of get together and agree flies in the face of the reality on the ground.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Do you agree with Senator Reid that the war is lost?
SEN. FEINGOLD: You know what I think? I think Senator Reid was talking exactly about what General Petraeus said, which is that a military strategy here is not working and it's not going to work. This war was won militarily years ago, but if we're talking about this occupation succeeding, if this situation is getting better, if our troops are there for a good reason at this point, the answer is "no." And most importantly, George, we are losing ground against al Qaeda, which is our real enemy in this situation. We are losing ground against them internationally as they exploit the situation. This is their recruiting and training operation, recruit and train against American troops on the ground. We are totally playing into their hands and in my view only through a deadline to get our troops out of there will we stop al Qaeda from being able to gain ground on us.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Brownback, I know you're against the deadline but how much time do we give the Iraqis? Let me ask you the same question I asked Secretary Rice. Come September if they still haven't met these political benchmarks that you just said you think are important, is that the time for the Congress to say to the Iraqis, to the president, "we have to change course here, there has to be real consequences?"
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I don't know if that is the time to set but I don't think we have infinite time. The secretary said that and I think the American people are saying that and they want to get us on a political track towards some sort of political equilibrium in Iraq so we can pull our troops back from the front line and stop losing so many U.S. lives. That's the thing that drives us nuts. I don't know that we can sit here today and say we have a year, we have, whatever, a year and a halftime period to take place but it's not long and I think we've just got to push much more aggressively. Somewhat really like what the Democrat leadership in the Clinton administration did in the Bosnia courts and Dayton where you bring their political leadership together and you force them to make the hard decisions on the tough issues, on oil, on debathification and I would suggest even a three-state, one-country federated solution in Iraq.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: That has also been called for by Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden and this could be something relatively unusual in American politics. You're a Republican candidate for president proposing that. Senator Biden is a Democratic candidate for president proposing that. Will you move forward together making this joint proposal now?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I have reached out to Senator Biden. I've talked with him a couple of times about it. I think it is the only long-term durable political solution for us to move forward. We can do it bipartisan. We can do it in the aftermath of this veto and it's something we can pull together on in a diplomatic, political, military -- because you're going to need a long-term military solution and presence for us to see this on through to have it take place.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Feingold, let me finish here. How far are you going to carry this fight? You say that you're against dropping the timelines or the deadlines. Does that mean you are going to try to defeat any war funding bill that doesn't include a timeline for withdrawal of American forces?
SEN. FEINGOLD: Unless there is some other binding proposal, not just benchmarks, or something else that begins to end this war and shows a real plan for ending the war, absolutely. The American people are being asked to support something here that is simply outrageous, in light of the lies that got us into the war, and I'll tell you something, when I listened to the Secretary of State right now it's the same thing again. The same distortions, the same myths, supporting something that isn't working and is weakening our country against our enemies. It has to stop and I will fight to stop it.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Brownback, you get the last word.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, this isn't the way to go. This is assured defeat. Defeat will happen in America, not in Iraq. That's not what the American people want. And there is a different route and it involves both Democrats and Republicans and that's what we've got to come together on and stop the partisan bickering and say "how do we win this" and get it in a durable, long-term situation.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Brownback, Senator Feingold, thank you both very much.

Source: http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/story?id=3098479
