Public Statements
Brownback Hails Today's Pro Life Victory
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 18, 2007
Location: Alexandria, VA


Brownback Hails Today's Pro Life Victory
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, the leading pro-life voice in the U.S. Congress and Republican candidate for President, today applauded the Supreme Court ruling to uphold the federal ban on partial birth abortions. On the Senate floor, Brownback stated: "I'm delighted that the Supreme Court is moving forward to see the expression of life in the Constitution. I hope that some day we'll see all life respected at all stages and protected in this land and around the world." Brownback also added: "I am very pleased that the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled to uphold the ban on partial birth abortions. This ban was enacted to put an end to one of the most grotesque forms of abortion, and it is completely in line with the respect for life that is at the very heart of our Constitution. This is a great step forward for our nation's citizens, born and unborn." Brownback continued: "I applaud the Court for finding that the Constitution 'expresses respect for the dignity of human life,' and hope that this decision signals the Court's willingness to revisit and reverse Roe v. Wade." U.S. Senator Sam Brownback has been a champion of the pro-life movement since he was first elected to the U.S. Congress in 1994. Brownback is unequivocally pro-life, and believes all innocent life must be defended from conception until natural death. Brownback has led the fight in the U.S. Congress to confirm strict constructionists to the bench, like Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito, and to overturn Roe v. Wade. Brownback has also worked to end taxpayer funding of abortion, ban partial birth abortion, require notification that an unborn child experiences pain during late-term and partial-birth abortion, oppose taxpayer funding for life-destroying scientific research, ban human cloning, ban fetal farming, and ban human-animal hybrids. Brownback also opposes doctor-assisted suicide. The pro-life movement made significant gains today, a reminder of the importance of electing a pro-life President in 2008. U.S. Senator Sam Brownback, a strong and consistent pro-life Republican, is the clear choice.

Source: http://www.brownback.com/s/NewsRoom/PressReleases/BrownbackHailsTodaysProLifeVictory/tabid/337/Default.aspx
