Public Statements
Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 11, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (Senate - April 11, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for the debate, and a good one, we are having on a very important topic. The differences in this debate remind me, though, of a proverb that says there is a way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way of death. Unfortunately, if we research on young human life, it puts that young human life to death and at the same time does not produce the results for cures that we had hoped would be taking place.
I respect my colleagues who are on another side of this issue who feel as though we should research on young human life. I do not feel that is right or ethical. I will discuss that aspect here today with some of the time I have, and I also wish to discuss the exciting breaking developments that are taking place even today on the adult stem cell area that continues to produce treatments for humans.
I ask unanimous consent to enter into the Record after my statement an article from the Chicago Tribune online edition.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so ordered.
(See exhibit 1.)
Mr. BROWNBACK. It is dated today. It is about the latest diabetes treatments that have been taking place. A report came out from Northwestern University in the Chicago area about a new diabetes treatment developed at Northwestern University which has allowed some patients to stop taking insulin for more than 2 years. They have raised questions about this process. It was done in Brazil rather than in the United States. Thirteen of the fifteen patients in this adult stem cell study went off insulin for at least 6 months, as they note, prompting cautious excitement from some researchers who have seen the results. Dr. Gordon C. Weir, a diabetes researcher and head of a transplantation program at Harvard's Medical School, Joslin Diabetes Center, said this:


Source:
