Public Statements
Statements On Introduced Bills And Joint Resolutions
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 29, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS -- (Senate - March 29, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
By Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself, Ms. LANDRIEU, Mr. ALLARD, Mr. BUNNING, Mr. BURR, Mr. CHAMBLISS, Mr. COBURN, Mr. CORKER, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. DEMINT, Mrs. DOLE, Mr. DOMENICI, Mr. ENSIGN, Mr. ENZI, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. HAGEL, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. KYL, Mr. LOTT, Mr. MCCAIN, Mr. MARTINEZ, Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. THOMAS, Mr. THUNE, Mr. VITTER, and Mr. VOINOVICH):
S. 1036. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to prohibit human cloning; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak on bipartisan legislation that Senator Landrieu and myself are introducing, the Human Cloning Prohibition Act. We do this today with 26 other cosponsors. It is important to talk about this matter as we set up for the bioethical debate which will be taking place after Easter and discuss some of the parameters and issues surrounding this topic. We have a continuum of discussion points, as this body and the rest of the country and, indeed, the world is engaged on the subject.
There is an ethical way to move forward on stem cell research that is producing treatments and applications for human maladies, now in over 70 areas. The science continues to grow, and it is promising. I have held press conferences involving people with spinal cord injuries who could not walk and are walking again with the aid of braces. I have hosted people at press conferences who are suffering from congestive heart failure yet are now able to go up flights of stairs they couldn't even imagine previously with treatments utilizing their own adult stem cells. I have visited with cancer patients who have been treated with cord blood stem cells who are cancer-free now.
We have new discoveries taking place. For example, in the amniotic fluid surrounding the child in the womb exists an abundant supply of stem cells that are malleable into many different types of cells. We just learned about this breakthrough less than 6 months ago, and there are no ethical problems with it whatsoever. It is a beautiful science that is developing. In the near future, I believe we are going to see these adult stem cell advances taking root and moving forward in a glorious fashion: so that people can literally walk again who were not able to walk; so that people can literally be cured of heart conditions who had no cure and were only hoping for the possibility of a transplant; so that people, instead of having a mechanical bladder control on their side, are able to have a bladder grown of their own adult stem cells around a matrix and a frame that can be inserted back in the body that would be functioning again. The science is beautiful.
The ethical quagmire is significant as well: if we decide the route to pursue is to clone human beings; if we decide the route to pursue is to treat some humans as property, as a commodity to be researched and to be used. Human cloning and treating some humans as property are not the way to go.
What we are seeing from the clear science that has taken place in the past and the present is that human embryonic stem cells produce tumors. This has occurred in cloning situations and in noncloning embryonic stem cell situations. Embryonic stem cells produce tumors. A tumor in this situation is a growth of tissue that doesn't fit the intended purpose. Scientists are experiencing significant problems in this embryonic area. While we are developing treatments and applications using adult stem cells, cord blood, and, hopefully in the future, amniotic fluid, we are not seeing the same success using human embryonic cells.
The legislation that we put forward today, with 28 sponsors, would affirm that the United States places tremendous value on the dignity of each and every human life at whatever stage that life is in, from the very earliest moments to the very end of life. It would recognize the dignity of human life in this country and around the world. We don't want to see people recruiting women in a foreign country to give eggs on a massive scale for research purposes for the development of human clones. This legislation affirms that we stand for human dignity, from the very young human embryo to vulnerable women who could be coerced into donating eggs at potentially significant health risk to themselves. The legislation would make clear that the cloning of human persons is not something that we as a society will accept.
The Brownback-Landrieu Human Cloning Prohibition Act is endorsed by the President. It will bring the United States into conformity with the United Nations, whose General Assembly called on all member states ``to prohibit all forms of human cloning'' by a strong 84-to-34 margin. The problem with cloning human beings is that it violates the inherent dignity of a human being on so many levels. Cloning transgresses our heritage's sacred values about what is good and what is true and what is beautiful.
Western civilization is built on the tenet that every human life has immeasurable value at every stage. Human beings are ends in themselves. It is wrong to use any human purpose as a means to an end. Upon this principle are our laws founded. Without this principle, much of our law has little basis. That inherent beauty and dignity of each person at every phase of life, no matter where they are or who they are, no matter what they look like, no matter what their physical condition is, they are beautiful and unique. They are sacred. They are a child of a loving God, period.
Human cloning for whatever purpose is wrong because it turns humans into commodities or spare parts or even research animals. In recent debate, human cloning has been referred to as therapeutic cloning, research cloning, or simply SCNT, somatic cell nuclear transfer. These are presented as contrasts to reproductive cloning. But it should be noted that ``therapeutic,'' ``research,'' and ``reproductive'' are merely adjectives used to describe what is done with a human clone or with a cloned human. SCNT is just the scientific description of the cloning process. It is like calling a butterfly a lepidoptera--it still is a butterfly.
A CRS report for Congress notes:
[A] human embryo produced via cloning involves the process called somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT). In SCNT the nucleus of an egg is removed and replaced by the nucleus from a mature body cell, such as a skin cell. In cloning, the embryo is created without sexual reproduction.
That is the CRS report definition of a human clone.
Stem cell pioneer Dr. James Thomson has said:
If you create an embryo by [SCNT cloning] and give it to somebody who didn't know where it came from, there would be no test you could do to that embryo to say where it came from. It is what it is. .....If you try to define it away, you're being disingenuous.
These quotes note that the SCNT process is cloning.
With reproductive and therapeutic cloning, human beings are turned into commodities or in some cases spare parts to be dissected in the laboratory, with the claim that some day they may be administered to other humans to
provide a treatment. Treatments are praiseworthy but not at the expense of the destruction of other members of the human family. We all want to treat people. I want to find a cure for cancer. However, it is wrong to turn humans into a means to an end.
It is also wrong to exploit women for their eggs. That is the other side of the human cloning story. SCNT cloning, as proposed by proponents of the technique, would require millions of human eggs. Poor and disadvantaged women in particular would be vulnerable to exploitation via financial incentives for donation. This is troubling because retrieving such eggs violates the dignity of a woman and may cause serious harm to her health.
The Brownback-Landrieu Human Cloning Prohibition Act is the only effective ban on human cloning. Any other so-called human cloning bans outside of this one are bans in name only and, in fact, most of them provide for human cloning for research purposes. So, under other bans, you can actually create a clone. They won't call it a clone; they will call it a product of SCNT. They will say you may create and do research on the clone; we just won't let you implant it. What is the clone, then, at that point in time? Is it in the human species at that point? Is it genetic material at that point in time? Indeed, it is. Biologically, it is a human.
Others would only regulate what could be done with a human clone, normally requiring its destruction, but they do nothing to prevent the process of human cloning, which inherently violates human dignity. We should take a stand against turning young humans into commodities, research animals, and spare parts. We should not destroy young human lives for research purposes.
That is why I urge my colleagues to support this human cloning prohibition ban.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, today, I introduce the National Cancer Act of 2007, along with my colleague Dianne Feinstein. Thirty-five years ago, President Richard Nixon signed the original National Cancer Act, and today, we are moving forward with a new, comprehensive bill that takes us one step closer to ending death and suffering from cancer within 10 years. This bill addresses impact-oriented issues such as the development of cancer prevention drugs and a screening for the most lethal cancer.
Lung cancer is the number one cancer killer in America. Individuals afflicted with lung cancer historically have had only 15 percent survival rate. Our legislation includes a new demonstration program to continue research on a screening that uses a spiral CT scan. Screenings using this tool and appropriate follow-up procedures have shown very encouraging results in early detection.
We also include accountability mechanisms in this bill. We request a report from the Federal Government regarding the manner in which Federal cancer research funding is being spent by requiring an estimate of the number of individuals who have benefited from such investment and the number of new treatments developed.
Another issue our legislation addresses is the fact that less than 5 percent of adults diagnosed with cancer each year will be treated through enrollment in a clinical trial; this is often due to lack of awareness. Our bill creates an education program about the availability of clinical trials.
Our legislation also includes efforts to ensure the availability of compassionate access options. Making decisions about treatment options for cancer is a decision best made between the cancer patient and their doctor. Compassionate access offers cancer patients, who have exhausted all of their treatment options, access to promising investigational treatments that have not yet received full approval by the Food and Drug Administration.
Finally, our bill includes measures to accelerate the progress of the National Cancer Institute's initiative of mapping the genome of the most lethal cancers in America, which will lead to earlier cancer diagnosis and the use of personalized medicine.
I look forward to working with my colleague Dianne Feinstein and others in moving forward with this legislation in the Senate.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
