Public Statements
Gov. Beshear Celebrates New Addition to Adair County High School's KY Tech Satellite Campus
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 19, 2015
Location: Columbia, KY

Governor Steve Beshear joined local officials and students today to celebrate the addition of a new welding center at Adair County High School's KY Tech satellite campus. The new facility offers students a wide-range of vocational curriculum and career readiness education.
"Our students need an education system that provides job-training and varied learning opportunities that will give students the necessary skills to be successful once out of school," said Gov. Beshear. "I applaud Adair County for recognizing the changing landscape of today's workforce, and implementing hands-on job and career training directly into the classroom."
The nearly 3,000-square-foot welding classroom and shop is fully outfitted with modern equipment, and is an addition to the school's existing vocational wing. The new facility is a satellite program of the Lake Cumberland Area Technology Center, which is overseeing the day-to-day operations and classroom training.
In the past, Adair County High School was transporting students to an area technology center to take welding courses. Now, welding, metal fabrication and health science courses are offered on-site and more than 100 students are currently enrolled in the expanded program.
"In Adair County, we are highly committed to our young people, education and creating an environment that attracts new businesses and jobs to our community," said Adair County Judge Michael Stephens. "The new KY Tech facility will give our students valuable training and experience when seeking employment, and will show prospective businesses that Adair County is focused on educating a highly-skilled workforce. Thank you to Governor Beshear and all of the federal, state and local partners involved in building this new facility."
Currently, Adair County is certified by the Kentucky Workforce Investment Board as a Work Ready in Progress Community. The certification is an assurance to business and industry that the community is committed to providing the highly skilled workforce required in today's competitive global economy.
"Adair County's focus on alternative education and creating a skilled labor force proves they are centered on the future," said Department for Local Government (DLG) Commissioner Tony Wilder. "This new satellite campus not only enhances career-readiness education, it assists the community in its efforts to achieve Work Ready Community status and attract new job-creating businesses and industries."

Source: http://migration.kentucky.gov/Newsroom/governor/20150319adair.htm
