Public Statements
Congressional Budget For The United States Government For Fiscal Year 2008
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 22, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008--Continued -- (Senate - March 22, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank the Presiding Officer for staying here late this evening. I hope anyone who is not watching this is watching the KU-Southern Illinois game on right now, which is quite a barn burner going on.
I have an amendment I want to talk about, because we are going to go into the long voting session tomorrow and will not have a great deal of time to talk about it then. But it is an important amendment. It is an important amendment for the budget. It is an important amendment for the long-term process.
A lot of my colleagues will be very familiar with the BRAC process, the Base Realignment and Closure Commission process. It was enacted at least a dozen years ago, probably a little more than that. It is a process by which we have a commission look at military bases. They consider the military bases, consider whether they are useful where they are currently located, if it would be better for them to be realigned, if it is better for a base to be closed and that money put somewhere else.
It has been a very effective process for us to be able to take spending and put it in higher priority areas, whereas historically if you tried to eliminate a military base, it was virtually impossible to do, because you would go at the military base in a particular State, and it would not matter how old the base had been or whether it was out of position, the Members of that State would defend it.
We were rarely able to close a military base. So we enacted the BRAC process. That process created a commission, and they looked at all the military establishments. It then said that these 65, 125, 233 bases should be closed. We have higher priorities for this money. The process is chopped off on by the President, and then it comes to Congress, one vote up or down, agree, disagree, deal or no deal. By that means, we have realigned over $40 billion in annual appropriations, total appropriations on military bases. It has been a very good process to eliminate wasteful Federal spending in places where it is not needed. We need that process for the rest of Government. We spend about $2.9 trillion on an annual basis. We have not found effective ways to eliminate wasteful Federal spending.
I have yet to find somebody running for public office at the Federal level--or any level, for that matter--who says they are for wasteful government spending or they are for duplicative government spending. If everybody is saying they are against it and they are against waste, fraud, and abuse and they keep looking for that line in the budget to wipe it out, here is a realistic way we can deal with that, take that BRAC process and apply to it the rest of Government.
What could it yield? Let me give some examples using this quick report card. Regularly, the Government puts out a report card on the effectiveness of our own Government spending programs, whether they are hitting their targets or not. They score them. You can look here at a few of agencies. For the State Department, they reviewed 40 programs for this OMB report card. They score them for effectiveness in what the program was targeted for. They were at a median score of 77.93 percent. I gave them the letter grade of a C-plus, based on the regular report card system. Here you can see the Department of Education, HUD, EPA. For the Department of Education, 74 programs were scored. They had a median score of 44.5, which I gave a letter score of an F. That is what my kids would get. That is what I would give if I were teaching, saying: This is not an effective Government program. Why is it we can't go in and find some of these education programs that are not being effective and eliminate them? It is because the system is built to spend.
There is an old maxim that Ronald Reagan used that there is nothing so
permanent as a temporary Government program. Once in place, they seem to sustain themselves. They get a support group around them, and then the specific controls over the general. If it is a program that somebody in Vermont wants to maintain or Kansas wants to maintain, even though maybe its effectiveness is very low, we defend it because it is for our States. That is the specific. If the general interest would say this should be eliminated, let's change the system so they can save money. We can do so using the military base-closing process and use that money for higher priority needs.
I want to eliminate deaths by cancer in 10 years. This is going to take a real research effort and focus. To do so, we spend $2.9 trillion in the budget now. We have enough money, but it is not in the right places. Let's use this system to reduce and eliminate wasteful spending and then be able to target higher priority areas.
This is a program which both Republicans and Democrats, in whatever philosophical position you may put yourself, would say is a good idea. This is something which is bipartisan, nonpartisan, and it is for good governance and good government. It changes the system because the system is built to spend. It is built to spend almost perennially. It needs to be adjusted.
I want to quote from former President Clinton's adviser Paul Weinstein, of the Progressive Policy Institute, who testified before the Senate about this approach:
Our organization has believed that the best way to achieve comprehensive reform in the executive branch is to combine the commission function with a mechanism to require Congress to vote on its recommendations. Senator Brownback's CARFA [Commission on Accountability and Review of Federal Agencies] legislation would provide this type of commission.
Here again, we have to realize the difficulties of this system. The strength of the system is spending money. The strength of the system is not saving money. Change it to combine both a commission and a requirement for legislative action.
Under the CARFA proposal, once every 4 years an agency would be reviewed for recommendations being made on whether eliminations should be made in that agency. It would then be put together in a package and sent to the President to either agree or disagree. It would then go to the Congress for the Congress to look at, as we do the BRAC process now. It would then be required to be voted upon with a limited time period for debate without amendment. You look at it, and then you get a chance to look at the overall practices and the package, and then you can say I agree, vote yes, I disagree, vote no, deal or no deal. This is a process which has worked.
I submit to my colleagues, both sides of the aisle, all persuasions, we have a lot of high-priority needs. We don't have the money focused in the high-priority areas. Too often, it is focused on things that we are maintaining from the past that maybe have less saliency today but still have a protection group around them, and we haven't found a way to eliminate them or get in and do it. Here is a way to do it, and it doesn't favor one side's program or the other's. It says: We are going to have this in a bipartisan commission, and we are going to change the process so we can save the money. Then that money will be used for higher needs.
This is an effective way for us to move forward. I urge my colleagues, when we get a chance to vote on my amendment, to look at this and say: That is something which I want to endorse, something I want to support, because it is going to allow us to more effectively spend the Federal money. One of the things people tell me that drives them the most crazy about Federal spending is wasteful Federal spending. Here is a way. We redesign the system to get at it. I urge my colleagues to support it.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
