Public Statements
Congressional Budget For The United States Government For Fiscal Year 2008
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 21, 2007
Location: Washington, DC

CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (Senate - March 21, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for having this discussion on the budget.
I am ranking member on the Joint Economic Committee. I wish to discuss some of the things Senator Schumer was talking about on economic performance. What I would like to do in making this presentation--I will speak for 10 minutes now and 20 minutes later--is to talk first about what has taken place in the economy recently and then to talk about human capital development that is important for us to develop more and into the future.
I think we have a bit of a different presentation on the factual setting of what has happened as a result of the tax cuts. I believe there would be agreement that if the economy has not substantially performed as well as some may suggest, as the Senator from New York suggested, then the answer is certainly not a big tax increase. That would clearly not be the case if what we want to do is stimulate economic growth. I believe there would be
a broad basis of support and a realization of that from economists and people around the world. If your economy is not performing well, the answer is certainly not to put on a trillion-dollar tax increase to try to stimulate that economy to perform better. That would be clearly the wrong answer. Yet we are finding that in this budget.
I am here to discuss what has taken place in the economy. One of the key questions the Senate will address during this debate is what procedural rules to put in place to help instill budgetary discipline on this institution. Unfortunately, those proposed fiscal discipline measures which appear in this budget amount to a little more than a guaranteed tax increase for the American public on the magnitude of $900 billion to $1 trillion.
As my colleague from New Hampshire has noted, it is the largest tax hike ever on American workers and their families--the largest ever. That certainly would not be the prescription I would hear from most economists as to how to get the economy performing better, to put on a $1 trillion tax hike.
As part of the majority's rhetoric, we will hear much talk about how the fiscal policies--most notably the pro-growth tax policies--of the past 6 years have not benefitted everybody in this society. To substantiate that assertion, one can only rely on bits and pieces of data and not the full view and the big picture of what has happened in the economy, which is what I would like to cover, and cover now, and cover with charts, to let people see what the facts are and draw their own conclusions.
It is undeniable our Nation was heading into recession during the year 2000, the last year of President Clinton's administration. I was in the Senate, and one could certainly see that in the economic data. The dot-com bubble was bursting; economic growth turned negative in the third quarter of 2000. The unemployment rate bottomed out in April of 2000 and began its rise. In the period from January 2001 to August 2001--the first year of the Bush administration--only 1 month registered positive job growth. In that period, 700,000 jobs--nearly three-quarters of a million--were lost.
Then came the horrors of 9/11, and the Nation's economy tumbled further. It was like hitting a brick wall and falling. From September to December more than a million jobs were lost. We all remember the trauma to us as a country, and the trauma to the economy at that time.
I have a number of charts I will present today, and I hope they will put some perspective on our debate. We can argue about the degree to which pro-growth and pro-job tax relief enacted in 2003 caused the economic turnaround. I think that is a legitimate debate. I would note, however, that recent economic conditions display a striking contrast to the conditions that prevailed prior to enactment of pro-growth tax relief under the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 that was passed in May of 2003.
Consider these charts and the data behind them, and then draw your own conclusion.
Let's look at this chart on economic growth since 2000: inflation-adjusted annualized GDP growth. You can see where we were prior to and then in 2000 and 2001 with negative economic growth rates taking place. You can see anemic growth rates taking place afterwards. You can see what took place: tax relief enacted in May of 2003 and the strong spike, continuous spike in growth that took place.
Since the enactment of tax relief in 2003, annualized growth in the inflation-adjusted GDP, our gross domestic product--that is, the size of the pie, the size of the economy in the country--has averaged a robust 3.5 percent growth rate. That compares with the relatively tepid average of 1.3 percent from the first quarter of 2001 to the second quarter of 2003.
So you look at this period before tax relief: 1.3 percent; you look at the period since the tax cut enactment: a 3.5-percent average growth rate. I would much rather have a 3.5-percent growth rate than a 1.3-percent growth rate.
What about investment? That is a key part of our growth, to make productivity grow, to make wages grow. Business investment is a key component of economic growth.
Since the enactment of tax relief in 2003, growth in real business fixed investment has averaged 5.7 percent. With tax relief enacted. You can see where we were beforehand, negative investment; afterwards, positive investment at a nice rate, 5.7 percent.
Prior to the enactment of tax relief, from the first quarter of 2001 through the second quarter of 2003, business investment declined at an average rate of 5.6 percent; but it increased 5.7 percent on average afterwards--a direct mirror opposite with the investment and tax cuts that took place.
Let's talk about unemployment rates. That is certainly a key. We want to have people employed in this economy, and employed at an aggressive growth rate. The unemployment rate has declined from a peak of 6.3 percent in June of 2003, when tax relief was implemented, to 4.5 percent in February of 2007.
So you can see again, with tax relief enacted, a decline in the unemployment rate takes place. At 4.5 percent, the unemployment rate stands below the average rate of the 1960s, the 1970s, the 1980s, and the 1990s. Where we sit today stands below those average unemployment rates.
Again, tax relief was enacted. We can argue about, did that cause it or not, but I think you have to clearly say we have had a nice improvement that has taken place in the time period following enactment of tax relief.
What about payroll employment changes since 2000? There have been 42 months of consecutive gains in payroll employment. Close to 7.6 million new payroll jobs have been created during the period since September 2003--again, that period when we did the tax relief.
From June of 2003 through February 2007, payroll employment gains have averaged a healthy 169,000 per month. In contrast, 91,000 jobs were lost on average in the period between January of 2001 and May of 2003.
Again, you get this mirror situation where you were losing jobs prior to this time period, and you are growing them at a nice, strong, clip and engagement rate which is taking place after the enactment of tax relief. Good, positive rates have taken place.
With that, Mr. President, I believe in our time agreement I had until 12:50, and then I have 20 minutes at a later point. I will go through a series of additional charts later, but my colleague from Pennsylvania, I believe, was going to speak. I do not know if the manager would like to take the time of Senator Casey at this point in time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. I thank the Senator.
Mr. President, let's look at these numbers, the Institute for Supply Management activity indexes. This indicates whether expansion or contraction is taking place. The Institute for Supply Management indexes of manufacturing and non-manufacturing activities signals expansion or contraction taking place in the economy. When it is above 50, there is expansion. When it is below 50, there is contraction. This, again, displays robust expansion following tax relief. In contrast, it displays contraction or tepid growth prior to tax relief.
So you can see, again, the tax relief point that took place, as shown on this chart. You had some growth. You had some decline taking place at this 50-percent point. Where it is below that 50-percent point, you have contraction. Where it is above that 50-percent point, you have expansion. After tax relief, you have a strong expansion rate, which is taking place in these numbers.
While correlations do not imply causality, there has been a clear and striking turnaround in a wide array of economic indicators from signals of contraction or tepid growth prior to enactment of the pro-growth tax relief in 2003 to signals of strong expansion and robust growth following tax relief taking place.
One final point. A key to increases in incomes, wages, and living standards is growth in productivity, as this chart clearly shows.
Again, we have a period where there is productivity growth and real hourly compensation going up. Pro-growth tax relief, such as that enacted in 2003, lays a solid foundation for continued strong growth in the productivity of American workers. That growth is ultimately what boosts the wages, salaries, benefits, and living standards of American workers and their families--built on a solid economic basis. Raising taxes--raising taxes--as some on the other side are suggesting--is not a productive way to proceed in us increasing real wages, real incomes for individuals to stimulate the economy. In fact, the other route is the way to go: get the economy growing built on fundamentals and built on cutting taxes.
With that, Mr. President, I know my colleague from Pennsylvania is in the Chamber.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I appreciate the chance to talk about some of these economic issues, and I join my colleagues from Minnesota and Pennsylvania in a discussion of these items.
I note from the discussion of my colleague from Pennsylvania that he focuses on human capital, which I absolutely agree with. I have a few charts I will cover in a few minutes about an investment in human capital I hope we can all agree on, and that is trying to encourage and rebuild the family structure in the country. This is something I have worked on across the aisle with my colleagues, particularly in the District of Columbia when last year I was chairman of the DC Appropriations Subcommittee. We were deeply concerned about the lack of family formation in the District of Columbia, so it became the key area and the initial place to begin to develop human capital being within the family structure.
We are finding in the District of Columbia and in many urban areas in particular, and all across the country, but in the District of Columbia in total we had 63 percent of our children born out of wedlock. This puts a child in a situation where it is more difficult to develop human capital. You can develop a child and a child can be raised well in that setting, but it becomes much more difficult. I worked with the Mayor at that time, Mayor Williams, and I worked with Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton, and we put together a program called the Marriage Development Account. If you were at 85 percent of poverty or below and got married, we would put in a Federal dollar, raise two private sector dollars, and you as a couple would put in a dollar. We would match this 3 to 1 to encourage the formation of married units--a family--around which to build a family.
This has broad bipartisan support, left and right support this, and I am hopeful we can look at ways in reforming welfare programs in particular to encourage the formation of families as one of the key and vital steps for human capital development and growth. This is something we ought to be able to agree on across the aisle. We have agreed previously, and I hope we can do that now, because we have to develop human capital. We particularly have to do it now, and the best place to start is the family and developing the human capital there. Clearly, one of the best ways we can break the poverty cycle is forming more family units. That shows up in all of the data. It is broadly supported in a bipartisan fashion and it is something where we need to change the welfare policies.
I wish to also look at this idea that tax policies since 2003 have been more beneficial to upper income households and less beneficial to lower income households in the United States. Here again, I have a series of charts. I will first start with conditions under the Clinton administration and look at impacts of Federal policies as far as a share of the overall economy. This is an instructive chart when you look at income, after-tax income, distribution data during the Clinton years. Let's consider the distribution. The data for all of these charts comes from CBO's December 2006 historical effective Federal tax rates. The data are from 1979 to 2004. First, it is interesting to look at what happened to after-tax income between 1992 and 2000. These would be the Clinton administration years. The only group of households that saw a share of the Nation's after-tax income increase was the top 20 percent. Their share during the 1992 to the 2000 time period--you see these arrows all going down: the lowest 20 percent, the second lowest 20 percent, middle, second highest, everyone is down, down, down; up is the top 20 percent. Their share of after-tax income went up during the Clinton administration years and their tax policy.
Now let's postulate the same question--because the charge is often made that the tax cuts have only benefitted--the wealthy in this country. I have seen the charts repeatedly, and it is important to discuss what the data have shown. What happened for 2000 through 2004 is the opposite of what happened during the Clinton years as far as who grew what share of after-tax income that happened during 1992 to 2004. It went the opposite. The only group that didn't see a share of after-tax income increase was the top 20 percent. Everybody else saw their share of the after-tax income grow: the lowest 20 percent, the second lowest 20 percent, middle, the second highest. The only people who went down were the top 20 percent.
It is important to point out, when we have talked about these things in generic numbers and phrases--about only the upper income households having benefitted--but we ought to look at the actual data we have available to us.
Again, I will go back to what happened in 1992 and remind people these are the Clinton years. The lower income all saw their share of after-tax income decrease; the upper income group saw theirs go up. In 2000 to 2004, we saw a reversal of those arrows under these tax policies that are being so castigated as being against lower income. The share of after-tax income received by the top 1 percent of households grew 42 percent, from 10.9 percent in 1992 to a peak of 15.5 percent at the end of the Clinton years. Again, we are talking about the Clinton years, the share of after-tax income, the top 1 percent of all households, up 42 percent during the Clinton era and the Clinton years. That is what took place.
What happened from 2000 to 2004 is after-tax income received in the top 1 percent of households actually declined. This declined at the end of the first Bush term. They do not support the assertion that there has been a massive shift of income to the highest income households since 2000. The data don't support it. The critics of the pro-growth tax policies enacted after 2000 assert that the highest income households have disproportionately benefitted. That simply is not supported by the data.
Let's look at the top 10 percent of households paying their share of income taxes. Since 1984, the top 10 percent of households have paid an increasing majority of all Federal income taxes. In 2004, the final year of data available in CBO's report, the share of Federal income taxes paid by the top 10 percent of households reached a high of 70.8 percent--70.8 percent. So you can see it was continuing to grow.
It is worth noting that in 2004, the bottom 40 percent of households paid a negative share of Federal income taxes. I want to show that chart. That is, they received resources from the income tax system. In other words, they were paid by the income tax system--not paid into. They received from the income tax system. Since 2000, the ``relative Federal income tax burden,'' or the share of all Federal income taxes paid compared to the group's share of all income, has declined for all income groups except the top 20 percent--except the top 20 percent. So again we have these tax lines going in a different direction.
Striking is the fact that the relative Federal income tax burden of the top 1 percent of households declined for 1992 to 2000 during the Clinton administration. So again we have this comparison of Clinton policies to Bush policies. This is the relative Federal income tax burden of the top 1 percent of family households income. That declined, the percentage, their share that they paid of the overall tax burden, and it went up in 2000 and 2004 in the Bush years. In 2004 it not only increased but it was higher than in 1992 when President Clinton took office.
The CBO's report also reveals that for the time period from 2000 to 2004, the effective total Federal tax rate reduction has been the highest on a percentage basis for the lowest income groups. In other words, you have the most decline as far as the Federal tax rates for the lowest income groups. I think that is as it should be. We shouldn't be critical of the tax policy saying it is harming low income and benefitting disproportionately high income when the data don't support that.
The same is true if you look at the income tax rate reductions. Again, the lowest 40 percent of households have a negative effective income tax rate and a negative income tax share. In other words, they were paid back by the Federal income tax system.
Clearly the tax policies enacted since 2000 have benefitted all income groups and have not resulted in a shift in income shares in favor of high-income households or in tax burdens toward lower income households. Indeed, the data say the opposite. The top 10 percent of households are paying a bigger share of total Federal taxes and total Federal income taxes than in any prior time covered by the report.
I appreciate my colleagues' indulgence, but the falsehoods about tax cuts and a bigger share of the pie for the wealthy need to be addressed. I think it is important that we do address these.
I also note in yesterday morning's Wall Street Journal in discussing this budget, it says the Senate Budget Committee chairman is pulling off a neat magic trick--and here I am quoting the Wall Street Journal:
..... of claiming his budget includes ``no tax increase,'' even as it anticipates repeal of the Bush tax cuts after 2010.
These are the same tax cuts I have been discussing, the tax cuts that have helped stimulate growth, that have helped stimulate employment, that have helped reduce the tax burden on the lower income people in the United States.
The Wall Street Journal goes on to say:
How does he pull that rabbit out of his hat? By positing what amounts to a giant asterisk where the tax increase is supposed to go and hoping no one will notice.
In other words, the taxes go up after 2010, since the tax reductions put into place in the Bush tax cuts are not continued.
The article continues that the chairman has:
..... no intention of extending the Bush tax cuts, which he voted against and whose repeal would slap the economy in 2011 with the largest tax increase in U.S. history. But Senate Democrats don't want anyone to know this, at least not before the 2008 election. ..... All of this is really sleight-of-hand to disguise that Democrats are intent on repealing the Bush tax cuts.
What would the impact of that be? People talk about it in generic terms, but let's unpack it a little bit. The Wall Street Journal reports that:
This would raise the tax on capital gains to 20 percent from 15 percent, more than double the tax rate on dividends to 39.6 percent from 15 percent, and sharply increase marginal tax rates at all levels of income.
This will hurt growth, this will hurt investment, this will hurt job creation, and this will hurt wages. This backdoor tax increase sends a bad signal to the economy. That bad news, if allowed to stand, will be bad news for the economy throughout for the working men and women of this country. This isn't fiscal responsibility; it is bad tax policy that hurts people.
This budget will only increase the burden on families. We need to step back and be willing to get control of entitlement spending and across-the-board spending. We need policies that encourage the formation of families, and support the preservation of traditional families, as a way of developing human capital.
We need to help those who need a hand, but we are quickly reaching a point where we are asking too few people to carry too much of a burden on the tax rates. We are on the verge of killing incentive and initiative.
We need to get serious about reforming a tax system that even the most educated Americans cannot comprehend. We need to put in place an alternative flat tax and let people choose a tax system. This current tax system is unintelligible, burdensome, manipulative, and it needs to be changed. We are in desperate need of a tax system that is simple, efficient, and globally competitive. We need to just have a fair system. Our tax system needs to treat everyone the same, not heap dizzying layers of regulation on top of regulation or carve out loopholes for the privileged who have the ability to hire lobbyists.
Despite the chairman's call for simplifying the Tax Code, there is nothing in his budget that promotes greater simplicity. Despite the chairman and his colleagues in the majority being fully aware of the need for entitlement reform, they choose to totally ignore our looming fiscal problem. They choose, in this budget, to completely ignore the urgent need to address entitlement reform, especially as the first baby boomers begin retiring next year. This budget does not contain any proposals that, on net, would reduce mandatory spending or the debt. The majority, evidently, wishes to simply wait for a fiscal train wreck to happen.
If we sit on our hands and let this budget and its ``magic act'' budget enforcement provisions take effect, all we will do is impose the largest tax increase in American history at the worst possible time--when the fiscal train wreck begins as the baby boomers enter their golden years of retirement. That is not a budget; that is recipe for disaster.
I look forward to further debate on this budget, and I really hope we can start working together on it in a bipartisan fashion to address the clear problems we have. We can do that, and we need to do it. Now is the time. The sooner we act, the more options we have.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
