Public Statements
MSNBC Tucker-Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 14, 2007
Location: Unknown


MSNBC Tucker-Transcript
CARLSON: Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas is also running for the Republican nomination. No one would call him front runner. Very few suspect that he‘s going to win the Republican nomination, much less the presidency. But he did speak today and gave a very interesting speech. I caught up with him shortly after.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
CARLSON: Is it your impression that the Republican party is changing rapidly?
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK ®, KANSAS: I think parties are always changing, by people that come in and are searching for ideas that they want emphasized or deemphasized. The core philosophy of the party is not. It‘s for pro-growth, smaller government, social conservative, strong foreign policy. That‘s been the core of the party.
CARLSON: The government has grown under this Republican president and this Republican Congress, and the front runner, at least judging by every poll taken in the last three weeks, is someone who is not socially conservative, so what does that tell you? If the president is not for limited government in his actions and the front runner is not for social conservatism, is it the same party?
BROWNBACK: What it tells you is that we have been at war since 9/11, which this administration—that will be the history on this administration, is 9/11 and the war on terrorism, and the growth that took place surrounding that. I think that we have a long campaign before this is decided about where the Republican party is.
I can tell you, as I am campaigning in Iowa and South Carolina and across the country, people there are conservative, but they don‘t know where the stances of all the candidates are. We‘re in March of the year before. So there‘s a long time for that to be figured out.
CARLSON: But I‘m seeing polls that show that even self-described evangelicals, religious people, church goers, are willing to vote for an aggressively pro-choice candidate. What does that mean?
BROWNBACK: Well, I haven‘t seen those polls. And that hasn‘t been my experience either. I think people do want to know where you stand on the issues. I think that is a big deal, for particularly a Republican party base voter, but also for us to win in the general and have our folks really mobilized to push forward to win in 2008.
CARLSON: I have watched a lot of Republican speeches, Republicans vying for the nomination. You‘re the only person I ever heard mention the word abortion, ever. Why is that?
BROWNBACK: It‘s at my core. I believe that life is sacred. And I think it‘s something we should stand boldly for. And a big part of the reason we haven‘t matured about more is we haven‘t talked about it. It‘s been in code words. We should talk about what this is really like.
CARLSON: Do you think Bush has been good for the Republican party or bad?
BROWNBACK: I think he‘s been good, but he‘s at the end of his second term, and quite frankly, most presidents are not particularly popular at that point in time. And Iraq has consumed this presidency.
CARLSON: But they typically have a vice president who is then running for president. This president decided that he didn‘t want a vice president who would be trying to achieve greater political power, for whatever ever reason, some say because he‘s insecure, or for whatever reason. But it leaves the party in a pretty tough place, doesn‘t it?
BROWNBACK: Well, I don‘t think so. It leaves the party in a place to be able to discuss new ideas, and to say, what direction should we be going.
CARLSON: What do you think of Hillary Clinton?
BROWNBACK: Fine lady, intelligent, sharp, smart. I look forward to the battle of ideas with her, because I don‘t think her ideas are in the majority bloc of where the U.S. public is.
CARLSON: So you think she‘s an ideologue? She has certain—she is a person who is governed by her ideas primarily?
BROWNBACK: I think there are clear ideas that she stands for and I think once those are out there and the public gets to choose, and that‘s what a presidential race is about, a battle of ideas. I think the ideas that I represent, represent a majority, a center right majority, where the country actually is.
CARLSON: Are you proud of voting for the war in 2002?
BROWNBACK: I am, because I am proud of the troops that have served.
I am proud of what they have done in moving forward democracy and liberty in a part of the world that has never known her. But we have a long way to go for this to be stable, and we are not going to stabilize it just militarily. It must be a political solution.
CARLSON: So you think it was worth it? If you could do it again, what I hear you saying is that you would do it again. You would vote for the war again.
BROWNBACK: Yes, because I don‘t think you can go back and say, OK, what I know now, would I have done that. That‘s not fair to do that. It‘s not fair to the troops that have committed their lives. We have to see this on through. This is the leading edge of the battle in the war on terrorism.
CARLSON: Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, thank you very much.
BROWNBACK: Thank you Tucker.
http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/17628660/
