Public Statements
Conservative Political Action Conference - Transcript
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 2, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


Conservative Political Action Conference - Transcript
SEN. BROWNBACK: (Cheers, applause.) Thank you very much! Thanks. Hi guys! Hi everybody! Great to join you. (Cheers, applause.) Thanks! More, more, more! Have a seat. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
And it's a pleasure to join you today. And what an exciting crowd! Thank you guys for being here! (Cheers, applause.) And it's great to see a packed audience. And I would say for the television cameras, it looks like 75 percent under the age of 30. Young crowd, young conservative crowd. Powerful ideas. (Cheers, applause.) Momentum to move forward and to win the country! And while we may have had a setback back in 2006, we're going to win in 2008! (Cheers, applause.) And let's move together. And with your young legs and your ideals, we're going to move forward.
I want to recognize at the very outset of this, some of the people that have gone before us that have made this movement possible. This is the largest CPAC that there has ever been in attendance-wise. Congratulations to you.
But those are -- this movement is built on the shoulders of those that have gone before us, people like Barry Goldwater. (Cheers, applause.) Ronald Reagan -- (cheers, applause) -- who was my own impetus to get into politics when in 1976 he runs for president of the United States and I'm a student at Kansas State University, and I campaign for him because I said that guy is right, and he was true to principles, and he said it with a smile. Conservatism with a smile, principled leadership that moves forward is what he did. And then we have modern leaders that were there with him that continue to lead, people like Phyllis Schlafly. (Cheers, applause). Gentlemen like Paul Weyrich, who I've worked with. Or how about Nellie Gray, that has led the Right to Life March since 1974. (Applause.) Or David Keene here with CPAC and leading it. And many, many others.
Our movement is built on the shoulders of giants, and we thank them, and we appreciate them.
I am Sam Brownback. I am running for president of the United States, and I'm taking the yellow brick road to the White House. (Cheers, applause.) I want to be known as the family president. I think we need to rebuild the family in America. I think we need to renew the culture in America. And let me just spend a few minutes with you telling you why I think those centrally are important and what we need to do in this society.
First and just as a philosophical format, in a healthy society, righteousness and justice travel together. Righteousness the plumb line, justice the level; righteousness -- the knowledge of right from wrong, good from evil, justice -- its application. Those are the two foundational principles that we move forward in a healthy society, the knowledge of what's right and what's wrong, what's good and what's evil and justice -- its application.
It applies today. And I submit to you those are guiding principles that we should live with. It is right and it is just for us to oppose militant Islamic radicals who seek to kill us and to kill others. That is the right and the just thing for us to do. (Applause.) We must win this war on terrorism. We cannot lose this war on terrorism. (Applause.) We must pull together. We cannot cut and run from the frontlines of this. We must stay in this, and we must fight. It is both right and it is just.
And let me as well here that the war on terrorism, I believe, is a bit of a misnomer. Terrorism is a tactic. It's like planes, it's bombs -- it's a tactic. It is who we're fighting that we really need to discuss. The war on terrorism, that's a tactic, but who is that's using this? And it is a militant definition -- radical, militant definition of Islam that we're confronting, and I think we have to recognize that. And go on the websites of the people who seek to do this to us, and just look and see what they say on their websites about us and about their objectives, and it's very clear. It's a two- part objective that they have.
Number one, drive us out of the Middle East, and number two, establish an Islamic caliphate in the region. It's on their websites. If you don't believe me, go and look. We must confront those who seek to do us harm and work with those who seek to work with us. It's not everybody that's -- that is involved in Islam by any means. It's not a majority, but it is those -- and there are some people that seek this radical definition and to attack us.
We must pull together here in the confrontation that we have with the war on terrorism. We must pull together here. We must push a solution in Iraq, and we must support our troops who are fighting strongly, who are fighting well in this war on terrorism. We've got to stand with them. (Applause.)
I was there six weeks ago. I was in Afghanistan. I was in Iraq. I was in Baghdad. I was in Erbil. I was in Ethiopia in the latest front in the war on terrorism. And our troops our fighting bravely, and they are the most courageous troops of our generation. And they are some of the most courageous, best troops that this country has ever seen. And every time you see one, I -- please, I ask you, go up and just tell them thank you and that you appreciate them. And God bless them for serving. And it's good that they're serving. (Applause.)
I have a nephew that's just finishing up Marine basic training and joining. And he helped sign his sister up, who's also joining the Marines, and we're proud of them.
They're the best and the finest we've got. (Applause.)
It is right and just for us to control our borders and insist that people who enter America enter legally and not illegally. (Applause.) That is appropriate. It is right and just for us to do.
I was just on the border 10 days ago, between Mexico and Arizona, and meeting there with border guards, and I applaud their efforts. I was meeting with National Guard members that were stationed on the border, watching and protecting our borders. And I applaud their work day and night to secure our border. They are doing a great job. We need to back them up. We need to support a fence. We need to build a fence. It's not sufficient.
We also need to get involved the Social Security system, so that when somebody applies for a job in the United States, everybody shows up with a Social Security number. We should tell that employer immediately whether this is a good number or a bad number; a red light, green light, whether you can employ this person or can't. And then if they do employ somebody that has a bad number, there should be immediate penalties and pursuit of this. We've got to help with the system.
And I also want to say, it is right and just for us to grow our economy. I want to show you something that is a monstrosity. This is the Internal Revenue Code.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Boo.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you. (Booing, laughter.)
This is a monstrosity. This should be taken behind a barn and killed with a dull ax. (Cheers, applause.) This doesn't work. It doesn't help us in the economy.
I'm serious about -- this is just the code. If I had the regulations here that interpret the code, it would stack this high. That's what it would be. That's how the manipulation of what you're doing in the economy is done by the federal government. It's through this.
Now we need a flat tax, okay? (Cheers, applause.) We need to go to a different system. And I say this, and yet we've pursued that for some period of time, as a Republican party, as a conservative movement, and we haven't been able to get it done, because everybody in this town has been working for years to get 6050E or A, Subtitle 1 in the code. They've worked to get their little nook and cranny in this thing, and we haven't been able to get it done. So I said, okay, let's leave this code in place, and let's provide an alternative flat tax that you can fill out on one sheet, and then you pick. Do you want to stay with this code, or do you want to go with a flat tax: one rate, no exemptions, no deductions, no credits, that's it. You choose. You choose. (Cheers, applause.)
This is a common sense approach. It's approach that you choose. And it will cause growth to take place. All the economists point to the fact that a flat tax pushes growth. Instead of a government manipulating your economic choice, you pick and the same tax rate applies to whatever it is you pick. That will create growth. And I trust free, moral people to decide these issues rather than centralized government planners to decide these issues. We can do it, and it's a key way for us to move forward. (Applause.)
On Social Security -- and President Bush, God bless him, started this debate in discussing personal Social Security accounts.
We need to move forward with these personal Social Security accounts and providing you the choice and the option of what you would choose to do. (Applause.)
The Social Security system worked great for my grandparents. It's working well for my parents. It's an okay deal for me. And I believe it stinks for my kids. It doesn't work for them. And they should be provided a choice.
Again, you choose. Nobody would be forced out of the system at all. You choose. If you want to stay in the current system please, God bless you, go ahead, and everything you've been promised will be granted to you, will be given to you. But if you choose a personal Social Security account, you can do this and you can have that and the government won't be able to spend your Social Security money in a personal Social Security account. (Applause.) We can do this, and we need to do it.
On spending, on spending we have to get federal spending under control. (Applause.) And that's something that has not happened. I want to propose a systems change to you. I think Ronald Reagan got this one right as well, when he said that there's nothing so permanent as a temporary government program. It gets in place, it continues, and it has been very difficult, if not impossible, to remove.
So I say let's change the system. I come from a farm. And if you go out in the field to farm a field, you want to take the right piece of equipment with you. If you go out to harvest a field of corn, you don't go with a cultivator, you come in with a combine to do that. If you go out with cultivator, you're not going to pick much corn. I say let's get the right tool in place.
And the right tool has been the BRAC process for military base closing commissions, where we've been able to close military bases and put that money to higher priority. And BRAC reviews a whole set of military bases, recommends this 100 should be eliminated, sends it to the president for his mark-off, then to the Congress. One vote without amendment, limited subject, limited on debate; do you agree, disagree? Eliminate all 100, keep all 100. Deal or no deal. (Laughter.)
Let's take that process to the rest of government. To the rest of government. (Applause.) A systems change that can reduce spending.
On energy, we need to move forward with energy security. And I want to give you an example of something I've picked up in Iowa about energy security -- I've been there a few times lately; it's delightful weather -- (scattered laughter) -- a little piece of a carpet that I want to show to you. Got this from the Iowa Corn Growers Association, and it's made out of corn, carpet out of corn. I don't think you can pasture it, but my point in showing this -- most of these synthetic fibers are made out of an oil base. When oil gets up or around $50 a barrel starch substitutes can substitute. We can do things here to be dependent on Americans and be more dependent on the Middle West than on the Middle East. (Applause.) We can do this, and we need to do this.
We need to support ethanol. The Department of Energy announced the first plants yesterday of cellulosic ethanol. We have corn-based ethanol, and this would be cellulosic-based ethanol, grass to gas, and I'm not talking about marijuana. (Laughter.) I'm talking about cellulosic material, the first plants being announced. We can get 10 percent of our fuel needs off of grain-based ethanol, 30 percent off of grass or cellulosic ethanol.
We also need to expand nuclear energy production in this country. (Applause.) We're going to need to do that. We need as well -- and we need as well, in a conservation-minded and environmentally sound fashion, be able to drill in more places in the United States. (Applause.) We need to be able to do this. And we can do it, and we can do it environmentally sound and sensitive.
I say as well we need to take on some American-sized goals, like eliminating deaths by cancer in 10 years.
Now just think about this just for a moment, and I want your thoughts on this. Deaths by cancer have gone down the last two years. My dad's had cancer at an early age. I've had melanoma. If men here live a normal life expectancy, some of the numbers show that as many as one out of two men will get cancer sometime in their lifetime. It is the leading cause of fear in America today.
You know what number two is? Public speaking. (Soft laughter.)
I point this out: that this is an American-sized goal. What if we said: Let's pull together, everybody, Republican and Democrat, and let's say we're going to put this killer to death. We're going to go at this. We're going to get earlier detection systems. We're going to put more effort into this. We're going to allow treatments to be tried at an earlier phase for those who have no hope. We can do this. And this would be a great gift that we could give to the rest of the public and to the world. We can do it.
It is right and it is just for us to rebuild the family in America. I am pro-life. I believe that life begins at conception. (Cheers, applause.) I believe that life should be protected. I believe that all life is sacred, period.
And for the life of me, I find it hard to understand why it is that this is a controversial issue. Life begins at conception, biologically. This isn't a theological question. If any of you were killed at that very early phase, you wouldn't be here today. And we stand for life. We believe it is sacred. It's unique. It's beautiful. It's a child of a loving God. That applies to the child in the womb, and it also applies to the child in Darfur. This is a full definition of life. And we fight for life. And what is controversial about that, that we want to support life?
One of the reasons I'm so pro-life is a little girl -- I've mentioned this before -- that I met about seven and a half years ago in China, by the name of Chenyi Dan.
She was dropped off at an orphanage at two days of age. We had a chance to meet her. And with any luck, in two nights I'll get home in time to be able to tuck her in and give her a kiss goodnight. Her name is Jennifer Joy Brownback now. (Cheers, applause.)
I mention her -- I mention her because somebody, who I will probably never meet, fought for her. Some woman in China, who I probably will never meet, fought for her. And because they fought for her, I get to give a little eight-year-old girl a kiss goodnight. And she's smart, too. She won her third grade spelling bee -- if I could throw that in as well. (Applause.)
We should fight for life and never be apologetic about it. And to look in each of these -- each life we save in this fight is a precious soul of infinite value. And this fight is worth it. And to continue it, we need to get judges on the Supreme Court that will support life and vote to overturn Roe versus Wade! (Cheers, applause.) And we can do that, and it's important that we do it.
I think President Bush planted two tall oaks on the Supreme Court in John Roberts and Samuel Alito. Wonderful men. (Applause.) We don't know how they'll vote, but with any hope, we're only one vote short in the Supreme Court today of overturning Roe versus Wade. And let me say very clearly here -- (applause) -- very clearly here, there is not in the Constitution a fundamental right to abortion. That is not in the Constitution. (Applause.) It's not there. And when it's overturned -- and when it's overturned, the issue returns to the states. That's what happens.
We need to fight for institutions like marriage as well. And marriage is a union of a man and a woman. (Applause.) It's important. And these are tough discussions to have, I recognize that. But it is a vast social experiment to redefine a fundamental institution like marriage. And the early results we're seeing from other countries that have redefined this fundamental institution are not hopeful, it's not encouraging. What has taken place isn't that that many same-sex couples of gotten married, but the number of heterosexual couples that have gotten married has plummeted. And you can say, well, that just happens. But the problem with that is, you now have some counties in those countries where 80 percent -- 8-0 percent of the first born children are born out of wedlock. And you can say, well, that just happens. But the problem is, the best place to raise a child is between a mom and a dad bonded together. And we know that. (Applause.) It's not -- it's not the only place. And some people struggle heroically and do a very good job in raising children. But we know from all the social studies and we know in our hearts it's the best place, and it's the thing we should be pushing for our children and for raising of the next generation.
It is right and just for us to be able to express faith in the public square. (Applause.)
(Applause.) I think we need to be able to say in our Pledge of Allegiance this is one nation under God. And we shouldn't have to apologize for that. (Applause.)
And I also believe that a city or a school district across the country shouldn't be blackmailed with attorneys fees if they decide to put out a nativity scene or if they decide to sing Christmas carols. (Applause.) So I've got a little bill to remove attorneys fees in these establishment clause cases. And this is something that we should do and I think it will be important for us to do.
Faith is a good thing. And let me say here as well, I am not for a theocracy. I think it would be bad for religion and bad for government. But the separation of church from state does not mean there is a removal of faith from the public square. Those are different issues and they are different things. (Applause.)
You know, and also, faith is a good thing. We're a faith-based experiment. As one of my colleagues in the Senate has noted, America is a faith-based experiment. Our motto is, "In God We Trust." Faith is a powerful thing. It's worked through people in a powerful, positive way. Through Martin Luther King, who was a reverend and led the civil rights movement. Through a guy by the name of William Wilberforce, who hopefully will you're seeing his movie on "Amazing Grace" and about ending the slave trade in Great Britain. He was a man of faith who brought his faith to the public square to do good, to end slave trade in Great Britain in the early 1800s. It was his faith that powered it.
It was faith that powered people like Mother Teresa, who I had a chance to meet about eight months before she died. I remember seeing her, and she came on Capitol Hill and she kept asking all of us to pray for the sisters, pray for the sisters. And of course we said, "Yes, we'll do that."
But I kind of wondered, well, why are you asking a bunch of politicians to pray for the sisters? But we'll do it. I thought, well, ask us for something harder, like a billion dollars. But she wanted to get the most powerful thing we could give her, was our prayers. And I ask that from you, as well. We need them and your country needs them, for wisdom and strength and humility to do what's right in a troubled, difficult time.
When I went to put her -- (applause) -- thank you. When I went to put her in her car at the end of her time with us on Capitol Hill, and she was very frail at this point in time, I went to put her in her car, and I was thinking at that time that I had caught her in a weakened state.
You know, so her body was frail; she was fighting the illnesses, but this was a great person.
As I put her in her car, she grabbed my hand. She said three words four times. She said, all for Jesus; all for Jesus; all for Jesus; all for Jesus. Her faith powered her. Faith is a good thing. It's not a bad thing. It's something we should celebrate; it's something we should lift up; it's something we should live and bring into the public square and not be ashamed of it.
This is our time and it is our place. Tony Blair, speaking to a joint session of Congress right after 9/11, gave one of the most patriotic speeches I've heard, American patriotic speeches I've heard in recent time. He ended his speech the way I will end this speech, by talking about America's time and place.
He talked about it like Ronald Reagan talked about America's time and place: us being a great nation between two oceans, filled with people from every country and every race and nationality from around the world, called together by a series of ideas and ideals; a great place, a great nation, blessed by God, with five percent of the world's population but nearly 20 percent of the world's economy and a third of the world's military spending and 40 percent of our research and development budget from around the world; a great, wonderful nation that is great because she is good.
And we've got to remember that fundamental: We are great because we are good. Tony Blair ended his speech by saying, I know right now that there's -- somebody somewhere in America is wondering, why us and why now? Why is so much called of America, and why now? And he responded very simply -- it is your time, and it is your destiny. And I believe this is America's time, and I believe it is our destiny, and that to whom much is given, much is required, and we're up to the task.
Thank you. God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.)

Source: http://www.conservative.org/pressroom/2007/speech_brownback.asp
