Public Statements
FOX News "Fox and Friends" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 2, 2007
Location: Unknown


FOX News "Fox and Friends" - Transcript
MS. CARLSON: A little politics now: Our next guest speaking at a conference today that brings together the country's top conservatives.
MR. DOOCY: He's also a 2008 presidential candidate from my home state of Kansas. Senator Sam Brownback joins us live.
Good morning to you, Senator.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Good morning, Steve. How about those Jayhawks?
MR. DOOCY: Yeah, how about those Jayhawks? That's what I'm talking about right there: the waving of the wheat.
SEN. BROWNBACK: (Laughs.)
MR. DOOCY: So Senator, you know, it seems as if we're hearing a lot about presidential politics and Rudy Giuliani and John McCain and Mitt Romney, but you're in there. Tell us a little bit about why you're the right man for the job.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I think I've got the positions that best reflect, really, where the Republican Party is and I think where the country is. I'm an economic conservative, very much pro-growth, lowering taxes, alternate flat tax, personal social security accounts. I'm a social conservative. I believe in life that begins at conception and marriage that's union of a man and a woman. And I'm a compassionate conservative. I've worked on a number of issues dealing with poverty and prison recidivism and human rights. I think that's the package that best reflects the base of the party, and I think it also reflects the majority of the country.
MS. CARLSON: And one of the things, Senator, that you are not along the same vein with with regard to McCain, Giuliani, Romney, is your position on Iraq. You frankly do not agree with the surge, right?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I don't support the surge. I want us to win in Iraq and we cannot cut and run, and what -- we must be in there for the long haul. But I think we've got to get a political solution there, which I've been supporting the three-state, one-country solution to be -- allow some division for the Sunni and Shi'a. And I think we've got to start pulling together here. We've got to reach out to Democrats and say, "What will you support?" because this is something I think we're going to be in for some period of time.
MR. DOOCY: Well, Senator, a moment ago when you were talking about stuff you were for, you mentioned "flat tax". A lot of people are behind you on that. Explain your plan.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, we've tried and made runs at the tax code, and this thing is a beast, Steve.
MR. DOOCY: Tell me about it.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I mean, it is a big one. It ought to be taken behind a barn and killed with a dull axe.
MR. DOOCY: Okay.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But we haven't been able to get rid of it because so many people are vested in it. They've got a credit, they've got a deduction that's tucked in somewhere in the tax code and they don't want to get rid of it. I say leave it in place and create an alternative flat tax and then let people choose which one they want to be under.
MS. CARLSON: Have you been talking to Steve Forbes about that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I've been talking with people around Steve Forbes. I've been talking with Stephen Moore, who has done a lot of work on this and has been part of Club for Growth and The Wall Street Journal editorial page now.
MR. DOOCY: All right. Well, we thank you very much, Senator, for joining us live. And good luck over at the CPAC conference later on today.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
MR. DOOCY: All right. Good luck to you.

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/foxfriends/index.html
