Public Statements
FOX News "Your World" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 28, 2007
Location: Unknown


FOX News "Your World" - Transcript
MR. ASMAN: On back now to the business of the market. Investors breathing a sigh of relief as trading came to a close, but Tuesday's 416-point plunge by the DOW is putting the spotlight on our economy -- what it needs to keep it humming. My next guest says: even more tax cuts!
With us now, Republican presidential candidate Senator Sam Brownback.
So we need more tax cuts?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Absolutely.
MR. ASMAN: We don't even have the last one's permanent, by the way.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, we should do that as well. But I think we also -- we need a different tax system. That's why I've been pushing forward this idea of an alternative flat tax. Leave the current code --
MR. ASMAN: -- Forbes.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, yes. But we haven't been able to get that tax code -- rid of it. Even I think it ought to be taken behind a barn and killed with a dull axe. We haven't been able to get rid of it because so many people have things in it that they want or that they like. So I say, let's just create an alternative flat tax and let people choose. This will create a lot of growth!
MR. ASMAN: So you give people a chance to choose between a postcard and a 40,000-page document.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes, sir.
MR. ASMAN: Guess what -- how many people are going to take the document? Very few.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I think they will. I mean, I think most people will move over to a flat tax and it will create great economic growth. But we haven't been able to repeal the current income tax code. And you've got to ask yourself why this monstrosity -- we haven't been able to do it, but --
MR. ASMAN: Lobbyists?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Lobbyists. And there are so many incumbents that say, look. I got this credit, this exemption, this deduction in the tax code. It's set for my industry the way I want it. Don't mess with it. All right, fine. You want to stay in that system, God bless you. Here's a different system. We're not going to let people bounce back and forth.
MR. ASMAN: Are you the only Republican presidential candidate that's announcing you want an end to the IRS tax code?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I'm the only one currently. I would suspect that down the road, others will. But look, this system really is a convoluted mess, by experts, by everybody that looks at it. And we've known that for some period of time. And the frustration level that people have with the system is incredible. People want a different system.
MR. ASMAN: What do you think would happen to the stock market, if in fact, you announced your system? You got it -- somehow you got through the lobbyists and all the special interests and got it passed?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think what would happen to it is what's happened in other countries when they have gone to a flat tax. And what's happened is the economy has grown and revenues to the government has gone up at the same time.
MR. ASMAN: Now, the supply -- this is the supply-side theory that if you lower tax rates, you'll actually have more money coming in in tax revenues. Has that proven to be true in the past?
SEN. BROWNBACK: It has! You look at when we've lowered capital gains tax rates. Now, not all tax cuts are created equal. Some create more growth than others, but if you do things like capital gains tax rates, dividends, items that we've done, you lower the tax rates and that has increased government revenues and it has grown the economy. And in other countries that have gone to a flat tax, it has increased revenues to the government and it has grown the economy.
MR. ASMAN: While I got you here, I do want to talk about a couple of other subjects that are playing into the presidential election. First, Iraq: What do we do about it?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think what we've got to do is push to a political solution in Iraq. We cannot cut and run and we need to stay there to move this process on.
MR. ASMAN: But a political solution with whom? You don't want to negotiate with al Qaeda, do you?
SEN. BROWNBACK: You can't. But I think we ought to move this towards a three state, one country solution. Have a Kurdish area, a Sunni area and a Shi'a area with Baghdad as a federal city. The Sunni and Shi'a do not get along. The Kurds already have their separate region. This is provided for in the constitution.
MR. ASMAN: But when have had partitions historically -- I think of when India and Pakistan separated there were a million deaths. It was an awful situation. Sometimes partitions don't work well.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And look at the former Yugoslavia and what took place there. You pulled off this military apparatus off the top of that and guess what? Folks don't get along. Look at Sudan today -- you've got countries that were forced together by colonial powers that really don't belong together.
MR. ASMAN: By the way, final question: Is Joe Lieberman going to become a Republican?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I'd love to see it take place. He was my candidate for the Democratic nomination when he ran for president and that's why he didn't get it. But he is a great guy and he's a wonderful senator and I'd love to have him in our party.
MR. ASMAN: Senator Sam Brownback. Thanks for coming in.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, David.

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/yourworld/index.html
