Public Statements
CNN Late Ediition-Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 25, 2007
Location: Unknown

CNN Late Ediition-Transcript
BLITZER: Republican Senator Sam Brownback speaking last month against President Bush's call for more troops in Iraq. Welcome back to "Late Edition." I'm Wolf Blitzer in Washington. Joining us now from his home state of Kansas is Senator Sam Brownback. He announced he's running for the Republican presidential nomination. Senator, welcome back to "Late Edition."
BROWNBACK: Thank you, Wolf. Pleasure to join you.
BLITZER: Thank you. You still think this is a mistake, this policy of sending in more troops to Iraq?
BROWNBACK: Well, I don't think this is the way to go. I think we have to get to a political solution and that we cannot impose a military solution. I also think we've got to come to a bipartisan agreement here of what we can support there for us to actually be able to move forward.
The worst thing, the worst thing to happen would be for us to precipitously pull out. But if we don't start coming together here, Republican and Democrat, and pushing a political solution there, then I don't think we're on the right track to move this to some sort of conclusion. We can start getting fewer of our troops killed in Iraq.
BLITZER: Here's what the White House press secretary, Tony Snow, said on this program last Sunday. I want you to listen, and then we'll talk about it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TONY SNOW, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Hey, you guys have been supporting General David Petraeus. The Senate confirmation vote was 81 to nothing. Why not give him the reinforcements he says are necessary to get the job done?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BLITZER: All right, you voted to confirm General David Petraeus. What do you say about that?
BROWNBACK: Well, I met with General Petraeus here several times. He was commander here at Fort Leavenworth in Kansas, his most recent assignment. And we talked a lot about this, talked about it last fall. He talked then about a political solution, that we need a political solution.
And that's what I continue to press that we've got to have. Wolf, I really think we need to push in Iraq for a three-state, one- country solution. A Kurdish region, a Sunni region and a Shia region, with Baghdad as the federal city. It's provided in their constitution. It is the sort of political arrangement that we can start to get this thing moving forward instead of constantly falling back. That's what we really need to press him on now is that form of solution.
BLITZER: That's similar to what Senator Joe Biden has recommended, what some are saying is already, in effect, happening right now, a partition, an autonomous Kurdish area in the north, an autonomous Shia area in the south, a Sunni area in the central part, to the west, if you will, and some sort of new arrangement for Baghdad. But the administration says that's a bad idea.
BROWNBACK: Well, it's certainly not a perfect idea. I recognize that altogether, but what other option do we have? I mean, we are not going to be able to over time impose a military solution in Iraq. That's not going to work.
We're not going to be able to put in the level of troops over the time frame necessary to impose a military solution. And we're seeing this taking place in other places. You're seeing it happen today in Sudan, where in three or four years you're going to see the south probably vote to secede.
You saw it take place in the former Yugoslavia, where, when you took the military apparatus off the top of it, the people didn't get along, and they had to go into separate areas. I think you're going to see a very similar situation in Iraq, and that we need to press for that now, before we lose all will as a country to continue to see this process on through.
BLITZER: One area of concern, though, the administration keeps worrying about Turkey. If the Kurds have their own effective state in the north, the Turks may not like that -- Turkey being a NATO ally, a close ally of the United States -- given the large minority Kurdish population in Turkey itself. How do you allay that concern?
BROWNBACK: I was there in Irbil about six weeks ago, and I met with Mr. Barzani, the head of the Kurdish group. And the Kurds would like to have a separate country, but they recognize the realities there with Turkey, and they're not pressing for a separate country.
Again, Wolf, what I'm talking about is one Iraq, but it has three separate spheres or states where you have a dominant Kurdish, Sunni and Shia group. That should be something we ought to be able to work out with the Turks.
BLITZER: I don't know if you heard the interview I did at the top of the hour with Mowaffak al-Rubaie, the Iraqi national security adviser. He says they have new information... BROWNBACK: I didn't.
BLITZER: ... saying the Iranians are not, are no longer aiding the militias, the Shiite militias and going after American forces, Iraqi forces inside Iraq. That has all stopped. That was news to me, but I wonder if you've heard anything to back that up.
BROWNBACK: I have heard nothing to back that up. I am very skeptical of that taking place. The Iranians for the past several years have been the lead sponsors of terrorism around the world. It is hard for me to envision that they wouldn't be doing that in Iraq, given a Shiite population that's in a majority status, and their desires, the Iranian desires to really have the region not be stable so that they can have a greater influence.
I find that very hard to believe. And Iran is a group, is a country, and their leadership now is one that we've got to take a great deal of focus on.
BLITZER: Should the U.S. be talking directly to Iran right now?
BROWNBACK: I think in the sense that we talked to them before we went into Afghanistan, but not with diplomatic arrangements, I think that could be useful, as recognized in the Iraq Study Group report and proposal.
I think it will be rejected by the Iranians, and I think more of what we have to do is confront them. Confront them economically, confront them multilaterally with the Europeans, confront some of their weaknesses -- they import 40 percent of their refined fuel products. There are some vulnerabilities that are there -- and put more pressure on them the way they have been putting a great deal of pressure and difficulty on us in that region of the world.
BLITZER: Tell us why you think you're going to win the Republican presidential nomination.
BROWNBACK: I've been in this kind of race before, where my poll numbers are lower than some of the other candidates', but my positions are consistent with where the base of the party is. I'm an economic conservative. I'm for pro-growth and an alternative flat tax and personal Social Security accounts, restraining federal spending.
I'm pro-life. I believe life begins at conception, should be protected, and that that's a broad definition that should help us do things like reducing prison recidivism. And I support marriage as the union of a man and a woman, and the ability to worship in the public square. Not a theocracy, but the ability to say things like one nation under God in the flag salute.
Those basic positions are where the base of the Republican Party, and I believe the base of the country is. And as we move through this campaign cycle, those will become more and more apparent. And I think I'm going to gain more and more steam as we move along. My poll numbers are moving up. It's a long race in a big country, and I think we're going to do very well. BLITZER: Here's part of what The New York Times had today in a major article on the front page on what it called the "Christian Right Labors to Find an '08 Candidate." And it suggested there were doubts, serious doubts among many of the top Republican hopefuls.
One quote about you: "Foes of illegal immigration objected to Brownback's support for a temporary guest worker program, and some faulted him for touching only briefly on the threat of Islamic terrorists."
Do you support, first of all, the president's plan for a temporary worker program and a pathway towards citizenship for some of the millions of illegal immigrants right now in the United States?
BROWNBACK: Well, I was just on the border this past week in Arizona, and working with Border Patrol, talking with them about this issue. I think first and foremost, we have to secure our borders and get more interior enforcement, particularly at the workplace. That's number one.
But I do think over time we're going to need to increase the number of legal immigrants we allow in the United States and make the system simpler, if it's some sort of guest worker program or other to try to reduce this tide and this draw into this country. We've got to enforce the borders, but I do think, over time, you're going to need to see us raise the number of legal immigrants allowed into the United States.
BLITZER: And some of those who are here right now should have an opportunity to eventually become citizens?
BROWNBACK: Well, I don't know if I would go that far. We're drafting a Republican proposal now in the Senate that I'm hopeful to be a part of. We have to, I believe, draw the people out of the shadows into a legal system.
It may be, Wolf, that could be a guest worker-type program that people could get drawn into as we increase more enforcement at the workplace and make it more difficult for people here illegally to be employed in this country.
BLITZER: Senator Brownback, a major issue where you differentiate yourself from, let's say a Rudy Giuliani or some of the other candidates, is the issue of abortion. A supporter, a campaign worker for Mitt Romney said this the other day.
He said, "Just like Sam Brownback, Mitt was once pro-choice but changed his views upon being elected to office. When Brownback was elected to office, that is when he also had a conversion and voted with the pro-life movement." Is that right?
BROWNBACK: That is not right. I am pro-life. I have been pro- life. I ran as a pro-life candidate in 1994. It's really kind of a silly debate, and if anybody's has been pushing or leading on the pro- life issue in this country in the U.S. Senate the past several years, I'm right up at the top of the pack in doing this. So that's just an inaccurate statement.
BLITZER: Are we going to see you, Senator Brownback, in New Hampshire when we televise the first Republican presidential debate?
BROWNBACK: I think so. We're looking at that on the schedule, and I don't have that in front of me and I didn't look at it just before coming on here, but I'm looking forward to participating in the debates, and I would anticipate doing it at that one.
BLITZER: Senator Brownback, thanks very much for joining us here on "Late Edition."
BROWNBACK: Thank you, Wolf. Good to join you.
BLITZER: Thank you.
http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0702/25/le.01.html

Source: https://admin.votesmart.org/loadCandidateSpeechDetail.do?candidateSpeechId=269075
