Public Statements
Tribute To Charlie Norwood
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 15, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


TRIBUTE TO CHARLIE NORWOOD -- (Senate - February 15, 2007)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I want to speak briefly on one other issue aside from the war effort, as that is the one that really needs to, and does, occupy our time. But a good friend of mine has just recently passed away, Congressman Charlie Norwood. Charlie and I came in together in the House of Representatives in the 1994 election cycle. He recently passed away due to complications in his liver from a long battle that he had with pulmonary fibrosis and the difficulties that he had.
His legislative accomplishments are significant, and those are in the Record and well known. What I want to talk about is the person because he was a beautiful man. He served in Vietnam as a dentist. He had this beautiful, folksy way of presenting a tough topic. He would boil down the essence of a difficult topic in a folksy sentence or two, and you would listen to it and you would say: You know, I think that is about accurate.
He could take difficult things and boil them down. He cared a lot about health care issues, and he worked a lot on health care issues. What I remember is a kindly gentleman who was very active and involved in the issues of the day and who cared about other people. He taught adult Sunday school classes. He worked as a small businessman. He was a dedicated public servant, even as he felt that the Government had grown too big and was taking over too much authority.
It reminds me that, as we leave these places--and we all will--when you look back on it, there is a legislative career, and there are a number of legislative items that each of us are associated with, and the cares and concerns and the passions that we have of the day, but there is also a person who is there, and the soul and the character of that individual. In this case, Dr. Charlie Norwood had a beautiful soul. He was someone who touched people in a positive way. I am not sure you can say a lot more at the end of our days than that.
Congressman Norwood is survived by his wife Gloria, sons Charles and Carlton Norwood, and grandchildren, all of Augusta.
During his life, Norwood has served as a Member of Congress, longtime patients' and individual rights champion, dentist, Vietnam veteran, and small businessman.
Norwood, a seven-term Member of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1995 to 2007, served most of east Georgia at some point during his congressional career due to redistricting in 1996, 2002, and 2006. He won re-election every year since 1998 by landslide margins, and was elected to the 110th Congress in November by a 68 percent margin. His 10th District seat will be filled in a special election to be scheduled by Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue.
Norwood achieved national recognition after introducing the first comprehensive managed health care reform legislation to Congress in 1995, which subsequently passed the House of Representatives in both 1999 and 2001. Norwood's Patient's Bill of Rights legislation became a key issue in the 2000 presidential election, and will likely be revived in the 110th Congress.
Norwood was instrumental in health care reform for military retirees and veterans as well as patients-at-large. The former Army dentist was co-author of the Keep Our Promises to Military Retirees Act in 1999, which provided fully funded health care for life for the Nation's military retirees. The majority of the bill was enacted as part of the Defense Authorization Act of 2000.
In addition to his longtime national advocacy for patients, Norwood succeeded in passing reforms across a broad range of public policy areas, spanning education, private property rights, telecommunications, and environmental regulations.
Norwood is further recognized as the father of the Nation's current Class A broadcast television service, by authoring and passing into law the Community Broadcasting Protection Act in 1998.
In congressional oversight action, Norwood played a key role in the 1996-1998 Teamster's investigation, the 1998-2002 investigations of theft and fraud at the U.S. Department of Education, and the impeachment of former President Bill Clinton in 1998.
Norwood received a bachelor's degree from Georgia Southern University in Statesboro in 1964, and a doctorate in dental surgery from Georgetown University Dental School in Washington, DC, in 1967, where he was elected president of the Dental School Student Body in his senior year. He married the former Gloria Wilkinson of Valdosta in 1962 while attending Georgia Southern.
After dental school, he volunteered for the U. S. Army and served as a captain in the Dental Corps from 1967 to 1969, beginning with an assignment to the U.S. Army Dental Corps at Sandia Army Base in Albuquerque, NM. In 1968 he was transferred to the Medical Battalion of the 173rd Airborne Brigade in Vietnam, and served a combat tour at Quin Yon, An Khe, and LZ English at Bon Son. In recognition of his service under combat conditions, he was awarded the Combat Medical Badge and two Bronze Stars.
After Vietnam, he was assigned to the Dental Corps at Fort Gordon, GA, where he served until his discharge in 1969. Norwood was awarded the Association of the United States Army Cocklin Award in 1998, and was inducted into the Association's Audie Murphy Society in 1999. He remained a lifelong member of the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the Military Order of the World Wars.
Dr. Norwood began private practice dentistry in Augusta immediately after his discharge. During his dental career, he served as president of the Georgia Dental Association and was a delegate to the American Dental Association.
In addition to his dental practice, Norwood also founded Northwoods Nursery in Evans, providing trees and shrubs to wholesale outlets throughout the Central Savannah River Area, and Augusta Dental Laboratory, which manufactured dental devices for patients.
He became a stalwart supporter of small business and property rights interests in Congress, receiving the 1995 Fighting Frosh award of the United States Business and Industrial Council, the Guardian of Senior's Rights Award of the 60 Plus Association, the Friend of the Family Award of the Christian Coalition, the Friend of the Taxpayer Award of Americans for Tax Reform, the Guardian of Small Business Award of the National Federation of Independent Business, the Spirit of Enterprise Award of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Thomas Jefferson Award of the U.S. Food Service Council, the Champion of Property Rights Award of the League of Private Property Owners, the Taxpayer's Hero Award of the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste, and the Taxpayer's Friend Award of National Taxpayers Union.
Dr. Norwood and his wife Gloria were longtime members of and taught adult Sunday school at Trinity-on-the-Hill United Methodist Church in Augusta. He was also a past board member of the Augusta Opera Society and a member of the Augusta Symphony Guild.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
