Public Statements
Iraq
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 15, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


IRAQ -- (Senate - February 15, 2007)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the issue that is presently before this body--whether it will be here formally or not we will see--the issue of Iraq. I think it is critically important we discuss it. I am glad to see we are having private discussions about it, but I think it is time to engage.
I want to say, as one who does not support the troop surge, I think it is important we have a full process. I think it is important we have a full process where amendments are allowed and where people are allowed to bring forward different ideas and thoughts. It is the key issue of our day. It is an important issue of our day. It is something that shouldn't be drug out, but I don't think asking for three, or four even, amendments to this resolution is something that would drag it out because that is what allows full discussion, and we certainly need a full discussion on the record on the ways forward.
I think it is also appropriate for us to do that in light of the division of powers between the executive and legislative branches. The President is the Commander in Chief, and he or she must move forward in that capacity. We are the funding arm, the legislative body. We are entitled to put forward our ideas, but there is one Commander in Chief. I think it is important we have this discussion to put forward our ideas, but it needs to be a full discussion of the ideas.
I would urge the Democratic leader, the majority leader, to bring this issue forward in a way that we could debate various options. I have been in this body certainly during debate on contentious issues wherein we are given different viewpoints to allow people to vote, and on one that is so important and so critical, I think it is important for us to have multiple viewpoints put forward. So even as one who does not support the troop surge, which I don't believe is the wise route to go, I believe this body should have options.
