Public Statements
FOX News "Your World" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 1, 2007
Location: Unknown


FOX News "Your World" - Transcript
MR. CAVUTO: (From videotape.) Hugo Chavez in Venezuela is going to be taking over a lot of businesses by the end of the week. He will effectively be a dictator, and you have urged that U.S. companies affected be compensated. If they are not?
PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH: (From videotape.) Well, that's a hypothetical. My worry, of course, is that the nationalization of industry will make it harder for Venezuelan people to be lifted out of poverty. It will make it harder for the people to realize their full potential. I'm concerned about the Venezuelan people.
(End videotape segment.)
MR. CAVUTO: Well, someone named Hugo must have been watching that yesterday; blistering reaction from him today. Hugo Chavez firing back saying President Bush is the dictator and the bigger threat to the democracy, adding, and I quote, "if he had any dignity, the president of the United States would quit. The U.S. president doesn't have the political or moral capacity to govern."
Reaction now from Republican presidential candidate Senator Sam Brownback. Senator, what'd you make of that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I think it's a ridiculous comment by Chavez to say that, but we're used to it, particularly his presentation at the U.N. that he gave. I guess that's even actually a mild statement for his standards of what he's done before. I think, though, look, you've got to see what Chavez is doing. I mean, nationalizing all these industries, consolidating power, trying to spread that vision in Central and South America. I think this is overall a dangerous thing and a dangerous trend that he represents.
MR. CAVUTO: Nevertheless, we're trying to get some clarity what the U.S. position would be, Senator, if he does not compensate U.S. interests for taking over companies. The president kind of dodged that but did hint that it would be a bad thing to do. What do you say?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I think it would be a terrible thing for him to do to nationalize these industries. And what does he expect is going to take place for investment in the future if these dollars are not protected or compensated for? What's he going to attract as capital from around the world? And what's that going to spread around the region? I think it's something we need to take very seriously. But I'd also say, Neil, I think we've got to be more aggressive on our Central and South America strategy and being more engaged and talking more and visiting more and engaging more in that region, because there's some trend lines there that are not going the right way.
MR. CAVUTO: All right. Well, he's engaging some of his fellow Latin American leaders to try to take on his anti-administration cause. How would you respond to that? You're running for president. What would you do?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I would engage more in the region. And I think we need to go --
MR. CAVUTO: Who would you engage? Who would you engage?
SEN. BROWNBACK: The countries that would be willing to engage with us. And I think you obviously have to look at the Brazilians, the Mexican government, not that they are going to wholeheartedly welcome us. And I think the president's got an overall good idea on a trade initiative in working more through the rest and into South America. I think that's a good idea for us to do. I also think, Neil, we need to just go and listen and to say what is it that you're interested -- what can we do working together between South America and the United States?
MR. CAVUTO: All right. Now, would you engage Chavez himself? Or is he now a lost cause? He seems to hate us, doesn't want to deal with us.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think it's pretty difficult to engage Chavez himself given some of the statements that he has made. I think we always should try to be as open as we can to engaging individuals and engaging countries. But I don't know if Chavez is one that's going to be able to reciprocate given his statements.
MR. CAVUTO: Well, would he be any less of a vocal Chavez if there wasn't a President Bush in office? In other words, could you see a changing or an opportunity for a changing if there were just a different man or woman in that White House?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I think it gives a chance to reset the table. And I think it gives us a chance particularly to reach out to other countries that have not had such a vocal leadership that is so anti-American in place. And I think we'll have a chance, and we'll need to take that opportunity. We are so focused on Iraq, and we need to be, but I think then that tends to end up slighting things in South America and Central America. That ends up hurting us in the long run.
MR. CAVUTO: Let me ask you -- when I did talk to the president yesterday, Senator, we took up the issue of folks like yourself who challenge him within the party on issues like Iraq. He didn't seem to take direct offense to it, or certainly nothing that he shared with me. Do you think he was being truthful?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think he is being truthful. I've worked with the president on many issues and have worked with him and continue to work with him on Iraq. I sponsored and helped support some of the initial efforts on Iraq. I just think is we've got to emphasize and work together in a bipartisan fashion here -- be united here -- to be able to stand long-term as we need to over there. Plus, I think we need to look at a three-state, one-country solution in Iraq to give each of these groups -- the Kurds have their area, Sunni and Shi'a with Baghdad as a federal city -- for us to get to some sort of political, durable situation in Iraq.
MR. CAVUTO: So, you're in that camp that he's not the sole decider.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, he has areas that he decides in. He is the commander in chief. I don't agree with the troop surge. I do agree with us being in Iraq, and I think we need to be there, and you can't pull out precipitously. The Baker-Hamilton tried to find this middle ground. And these are some of the wise heads on both the Republican and Democrat side of the aisle to try to get us somewhere between stay the course and cut and run.
MR. CAVUTO: Senator, thank you very much for joining us.

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/yourworld/index.html
