Public Statements
Vote Explanation
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 24, 2007
Location: Washington, DC


VOTE EXPLANATION -- (Senate - January 24, 2007)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I regret that I was unable to vote the evening of January 18 on a very significant amendment offered by my colleague from Utah. During consideration of S. 1 last week, I was concerned with section 220 of the bill, which would have severely undermined the ability of Americans to be informed about what is happening here in the Capitol and, thereby, to petition the Congress with their thoughts. I applaud Senator Bennett for offering his amendment to strike these so-called grassroots lobbying provisions from the ethics reform bill, and I thank Senate Republican Leader MCCONNELL and Senator Bennett for their leadership in ensuring this amendment's success. I ask that the RECORD reflect that, had I been here, I would have voted in favor of Senator Bennett's amendment No. 20 last Thursday night.
Additionally, I applaud the Senate's careful consideration and passage of S. 1, the Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act. Although I was unable to attend the vote on final passage of S. 1, I support the bill and hope that a conference to resolve differences between the House and Senate passed bills is convened soon. Scandals involving lobbyists and members of Congress from both sides of the aisle have shaken the American public's confidence in Congress's ability to do business objectively and judiciously. Although S. 1 fails to address transparency for so-called 527 organizations and fails to provide the President the authority to veto wasteful pork projects, passage of this bill is an important step toward broadening transparency in the legislative process, and I look forward to sending a balanced bill to the President's desk. I ask that the RECORD reflect that, had I been here, I would have voted for the bill, just as I voted for a similar ethics reform bill on March 29, 2006.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
