Public Statements
MSNBC - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 23, 2007
Location: Unknown


MSNBC - Transcript
SEN. BROWNBACK: (From videotape.) My family and I are taking the first steps on the yellow brick road to the White House. I'm declaring today my candidacy for president of the United States. (Cheers, applause.)
MS. MITCHELL: That was Republican Senator Sam Brownback from Kansas announcing his run for the White House over the weekend. Among Republican voters, however, Senator Brownback does face a steep uphill climb. According to a Washington Post poll, he gets only 1 percent of the vote, well behind front-runners like Rudy Giuliani and John McCain, and about equal with potential candidates like former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee.
Senator Brownback joins me now. Good morning, Senator. Welcome. Good to see you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Good morning, Andrea.
MS. MITCHELL: Well, first of all, I wanted to ask you about Iraq because you are a social conservative, you clearly are filling a vacuum on that part of the equation for the Republican Party candidates, but you have split with the president on Iraq, on the war. Why do you think that the so-called surge won't work?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I've not split with the president on the war. I support the effort in Iraq, and I think this is critical that we win in Iraq. It's just what I see is that we can't go forward in this country with one party for the war and one party against it, one party for the surge one party against it. And I think we have to come together here to be able to win over there, and we can do it, but we've got to start coming together on this. That's why --
MS. MITCHELL: Well, what would you propose?
SEN. BROWNBACK: -- I supported things like the Baker-Hamilton proposal, which I thought was a real effort to try to bring both sides together.
MS. MITCHELL: But the president has clearly rejected that, and has certainly rejected the diplomatic initiatives towards Iran. So your own --
SEN. BROWNBACK: That's not -- that's not correct, Andrea. I was just in the White House last week and the national security adviser, Stephen Hadley, said we have not rejected Baker-Hamilton. Now, there are portions of it they like, there are portions they haven't. What I think we really have got to do is get a series of meetings going between Democrat leaders and the administration to come together on this. We've got to be together.
MS. MITCHELL: Well, do you think that the president should open diplomatic initiatives or diplomatic talks toward Iran? He has flatly rejected that part of it, as has Condoleezza Rice and Steve Hadley.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yeah, well, I'm not wild about that either. They did talk with the Iranians prior to going into Afghanistan, and maybe that's a route forward to do this. But that's not the key to it, Andrea. The key is here with the Democrats, and that's coming together so we're not divided as a country because that's where the real danger of us pulling out precipitously is, is that we'd be divided as a nation on Iraq. That's the key point.
MS. MITCHELL: What would you do about troops? How many are needed, and how long should they stay?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I would work with the Democratic leadership and say, what is it you will support? And to date they've just said we won't support the surge, we don't support this. Well, what would you support so that we can keep standing and keep united? We've got to do this together.
MS. MITCHELL: How hard a job does the president have tonight coming into this Democratic-controlled -- Democratic-controlled Congress with his own popularity at record lows?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, it's a difficult setting, but we've seen presidents come through this in difficult settings before, like Bill Clinton right after the 1994 election cycle an in the 1995 State of the Union message, or at other times, and this can actually be a catapult time period to really launch the president on forward, particularly if he engages on topics where we can come to a bipartisan set of agreements, like on energy issues. These would be a classic set of ones where we could make progress, everybody pushing the same way.
MS. MITCHELL: Senator, how do you distinguish yourselves from the better-known and more popular Republicans right now in these primary races -- John McCain, Rudy Giuliani if he does get into this? What can you do to try to catapult yourself up in the polls?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I think you saw some of it yesterday in the Right to Life March is that I really am where the core of the Republican Party is on economic -- economic conservative, pro-growth, less spending in government -- and the social conservative wings of the party. And I really think, once a proper voter contact is made in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina, we're going to be moving forward. I've got a great grassroots organization that's developing and growing now.
This is a long race, too, I might add. I think we're in great position to move this on forward.
MS. MITCHELL: Senator, is it going to be prohibitively expensive? They're talking about a billion-dollar -- billion with a B -- campaign. How can you compete in that kind of context?
SEN. BROWNBACK: My experience of this and in watching these -- and whether it's Jimmy Carter in the past or Bill Clinton in the past, Bill Clinton from a small state, hadn't raised a lot of money fast -- when the person, the message and the moment lines up, people do get behind and they get behind with resources. And I think that's what I'm really looking at, am I the right person, the right message, the right moment? And that moves you on forward. And remember, again, it passes through three retail states to start off. That's really where the selection process is done, and I'm going to compete very well in those states.
MS. MITCHELL: Okay. Senator Brownback of Kansas, thanks so very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Andrea.

Source: http://www.msnbc.msn.com/
