Public Statements
ABC "This Week with George Stephanopoulos" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 21, 2007
Location: Unknown

ABC "This Week with George Stephanopoulos" - Transcript
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Good morning, everyone. Election Day, 2008 may be 653 days away, but it became clear this week that we are in for the longest and loudest presidential campaign of our lives.
Barack Obama took his first step Tuesday. Hillary Clinton -- Saturday. Later in the program, New Mexico governor Bill Richardson starts his campaign. And we begin today with a Republican candidate, Sam Brownback.
SENATOR BROWNBACK: (From videotape.) So it's with sincere humility and a determination to do good that I declare my candidacy for President of the United States. (Cheers)
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: The second-term senator from Kansas kicked off his campaign in Topeka yesterday. Like President Bush, Brownback calls himself a "compassionate conservative." He's skeptical of the surge in Iraq, but strongly supports more aid to Africa.
SENATOR BROWNBACK: (From videotape.) I've been to northern Uganda. I have seen people suffering with AIDS. I have seen people suffering by genocide. I've seen people suffering from malaria. I've seen it. And they are there. And they exist and they're in the millions.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Brownback is here in Washington to address the March for Life rally and he joins us now. Welcome.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, George. Good to join you.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Glad you're here. Senator Clinton really stole the headlines from you yesterday. How would you run against her?
SEN. BROWNBACK: On ideas and issues. And that's what I love about campaigning is it's a competition of ideas and issues. Yes, personalities get involved, but it's ideas and issues and I've put forward a series a ideas on how we can grow the economy, things we can create more opportunities, how we rebuild families, renew the culture. So a competition of ideas is how I'll compete and that's how I'll win.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I want to get to a lot of those ideas, but first I want to bring up, you know, last November the "Atlantic" magazine wrote of a meeting at a Senate prayer group called "The Fellowship," that both you and Senator Clinton attended. And it says that at the meeting you confessed to hating Senator Clinton and it goes on to say this, "Through God he now recognized his sin, then he turned to her and asked Mrs. Clinton, 'will you forgive me?'" Why did you feel compelled to ask Senator Clinton for her forgiveness?
SEN. BROWNBACK: It was wrong for me to do what I had done. I came in the class of '94 and this was a big surge for the Republicans, just like we saw for the Democrats in 2006. We were trying to balance the budget. President Clinton was standing in the way at the time. Later worked some with us and there was a deep hatred in me and hatred is wrong at any time by anybody at any place. And so I really felt like I needed to get at the root of that and the way to do it was to go to the person you had hated.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: As you got to know her, what did you learn about her that you didn't know?
SEN. BROWNBACK: She's very bright. She's a talented lady, quite committed. I do think from years of being in so much public exposure there has to develop or does develop kind of a shield that makes it a little more difficult to get to know somebody.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let me turn to the issues. You're here to address the March for Life rally tomorrow on the mall in Washington. Ever since Ronald Reagan, a constitutional amendment to ban abortion has been part of the Republican platform, but conservatives have complained that no president has ever really lifted a finger to pass it. How would you be different?
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I would talk about the issue and push the issue in a positive setting. George, I think what is key here is that we talk about that life is sacred. And it's all life and it's at every place, and it's the child in the womb but it's also the mother that's in poverty and the child that's in Darfur and it's the man that's in prison. And I think if we can present a full picture people will start to see that we do believe life is sacred and we are willing to fight for it and that this is a good thing. And I'm going to talk about it. I'm going to bring that forward.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: But would actually vote to pass a constitutional amendment?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think really the track one right now is to try to get the Supreme Court to be one that's limited in its perspective, that it remains a strict constructionist constitution group that's on the Supreme Court, that would be willing to overturn Roe vs. Wade. And that sends the issue back to the states, which is where it was prior to 1973 and I think where it really can be handled much better.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: One of your potential opponents, Governor Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, back in 1994 when he ran for the Senate was pro-choice, but he's working very hard now to send a different message and recently he put out this video. Take a look.
GOVERNOR OF MASSACHUSETTS MITT ROMNEY: (From videotape.) I've also taken action to protect the sanctity of life. I vetoed bills that authorized embryo farming, therapeutic cloning, plan B emergency contraception and, of course, a redefinition of when life was going to begin, as well.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Has Governor Romney earned the pro-life label?
SEN. BROWNBACK: That'll be for pro-life people to determine. I have worked on this issue a long time. I have been pro-life, I voted pro-life, I've worked on these issues, I've carried these bills in the Congress. I worked hard to get Sam Alito on the Supreme Court along with John Roberts. I would appoint somebody on the Supreme Court that would be a strict constructionist, no way is going to know where the individuals are on the issue of abortion, but I believe if somebody is a strict constructionist, they're more likely to interpret the Constitution in a manner that says that this issue should be resolved by the states.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Rudy Giuliani is also looking at the race. He's avowedly pro-choice. Can a pro-choice candidate get the Republican nomination?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think it's tough. I don't know that it's impossible, but you look at Iowa and the caucus-goers, I think there's 70% plus of Republican Iowaen caucus-goers are pro-life.
I think once a proper voter contact is made and I'm out there campaigning and reaching out.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Next-door neighbor to Iowa.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, and we talk much the same language. I think I'm going to do very well and I have been in this sort of situation before where you have people that a higher name I.D., but they're inconsistent with where the base of the party is on the issues. And the base of the party is there because they believe in the issues. The issues that I believe in.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let me turn to the issue of Iraq, which is the dominant issue now, of course, in the race. President Bush and Senator John McCain both back this idea of sending more troops to Iraq right now. So does Mayor Giuliani, so does Governor Romney. Last month, you also supported the idea.
SEN. BROWNBACK: (From videotape) If we need to put in short- term more troops into the area to get Baghdad to stabilize, then that's up to the military leaders and the president's discretion and I will support that.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: But last week, you spoke out against the idea. What changed?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I went to Baghdad. I was there last week. I was there the week before last, rather. I met with the military officials. I met with the Sunni and Shiite leaders, none of which really supported the idea and then the capstone on all of it was I went to the Kurdish region, I went to Irbil and met with Mr. Barzani, the head of the Kurdish region and I asked him, "Will you send Kurdish troops, your Kurdish troops into Baghdad to quell the violence?" And he said, "Why should I get in the middle of a Sunni-Shiite fight?"
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I thought they were doing that, though.
SEN. BROWNBACK: He's not sending the core of his troops. And I asked him, "Would you send, if you were me, would you vote for more troops?" And he said, "I don't see why you would do that at this point in time."
And there's another thing on top of this, George. We have got to come together here to be able to win over there. And I think one of the biggest things we're in danger of right now is being split, one party for the war and one party against the war, and you cannot conduct a war in this country with one party for it and one party against it.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, Senator Hagel has joined the Democrats in introducing a resolution to oppose the president's sending of more troops. Will you vote for that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: No, that doesn't give us a route forward. That just says, okay, we're against this. What I think we really have got to do today is sit down with Democrat leaders and say what will you support? What will you support in this effort? Nobody wants to leave a civil war in the middle of the Middle East. What will you support? Not what are you against?
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: A lot of Democratic leaders say they're going to go for a cap. Senator Clinton has called for that. Other Democrats, Senator Obama has called for that. Other Democrats, as well, including Senator Dodd, the Democrats say they want to also begin to redeploy forces over the next four to six months. Is that what you support?
SEN. BROWNBACK: If that's what we can get together on so that we can keep standing and not pull precipitously out of the region. I'm convinced that we can win --
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: So you wouldn't cut off funding?
SEN. BROWNBACK: No, no, that is the absolute wrong thing to do. If we leave precipitously you're leaving a huge problem in this area and you're leaving a civil war that's going to break out, but I'm convinced we can win if we can keep standing and we've got to get to a political solution. One thing I think is key it's that we're going to need to see, and I think you will see, Kurdish regions, Sunni regions, Shiia regions, possibly three states in one country evolve over time so you can give each of these groups some space.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: So that sounds like Senator Biden's plan. Do you support that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: He's put forth proposals along that line. And I would support something along that. I just think eventually that's what you're going to see for us to get to some political equilibrium in Iraq. We cannot impose a military solution there.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let me turn to another issue that's caused some consternation in conservative ranks. And that was when Mary Cheney announced last year she was going to have a baby with her female partner. Many conservatives called that "unconscionable" and James Dobson of "Focus on the Family" wrote this in Time magazine. He said, "Our conviction is that birth and adoption are the purview of married heterosexual couples. When that divine plan is implemented, children have the best opportunity to thrive. That's why public policy, as it relates to families, must be based not solely on the desires of adults, but rather on the needs of children and what is best for our society at large." What was your reaction to that news?
SEN. BROWNBACK: It was a personal choice on her part. I do believe that the best place to raise a child is in a family of a mother and a father, male and a female, bonded together for life. We know that from all the social data. I said that yesterday in my announcement speech.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: But do you believe it should be legal for gay and lesbian couples to adopt and bear children?
SEN. BROWNBACK: That's been decided on a state-by-state basis and it should remain in those hands.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: And in the state of Kansas, what would you vote for?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I try to stay out of state issues where I have a federal mandate and I'm going to stay in that area. And George, this is a reason I'm not going directly at your question. So many of these issues, we get right to the heat-seeking point of it instead of backing up and saying, "We need more families in the United States and we need stronger families." And what I want to campaign on are ways we can build families and encourage people and draw them in, not push people away.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: So you won't take a position on this issue?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, that's why I talk about things like marriage development accounts that build married couples rather than ones that try to push people away.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: You've also said you want to be a true --
SEN. BROWNBACK: This is important, really, George, and I'm sincere about this --
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I appreciate it, because you're explaining why you don't want to answer the question.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It is key that we start to try to engage people and not push people away and that we try to say, now wait a minute, it is important we have more and bigger and stronger families -- not bigger, more stronger families in the United States. We've got 36% of our kids born out of wedlock in this country, we've got 60% of our kids under the age of 18 that will spend a significant part of their life as a child in a single parent household. We need more, bigger -- we need more stronger families.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: You've also called yourself a compassionate conservative and said that compassionate conservativism is an area that lacks development. Has President Bush fallen short on the promise to be a compassionate conservative?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think 9/11 shorted him on a lot of things that he would like to have done and made him a wartime president. I think this area has a great deal of promise and opportunity. I spent a night in Angola prison in Louisiana. Here's a faith-based effort, in some regards, that's reduced prisoner violence rates from about 450 instances a year to down below 100. Really working. Impressive results. And I think we can really engage in some of our toughest societal problems and lift us up.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, we'll have you back to talk about that some more. Senator Brownback, thanks very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, George.

Source: http://abcnews.go.com/?Thisweek/
