Public Statements
FOX News "Fox and Friends" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 12, 2006
Location: Unknown


FOX News "Fox and Friends" - Transcript
MS. CARLSON: Well, he committed no crime -- (laughs) -- so why did our next guest spend the night behind bars at Louisiana's notorious state pen? Joining us now is Kansas Senator Sam Brownback.
Good to see you, Senator, in the studio.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, it's great to be on, yes, and it's good to be here. I've joined you from Washington, but not from here before.
MS. CARLSON: So you spent the night last Friday night in the pen.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yeah.
MS. CARLSON: Why?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I wanted to highlight what they're doing there. This is a phenomenal story. It's 5,000 of the most hardened criminals you'll find anywhere in the country, and they've dropped their violence rate amongst prisoners from about 500 a year to under a hundred, and they've done it through this -- really moral reformation program. They really get with these guys and work with them. And it's a great story and it's something we really ought to highlight on a big problem we have.
MR. DOOCY: Absolutely. And a lot of these guys -- they're in Angola. These are the worst of the worst. So it's like, well, what do they have to gain from this? Everything, because they're up against the wall.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, they are. And this is a tough situation that they have -- and I was there because I've been pushing a bill that we're trying to do to get the recidivism rate down. Right now once you go to prison, two-thirds of you are going back, and your children are five times more likely to be involved in crime.
So I really want to try to start breaking this cycle if we can. And I think a lot of it is you've just got to work very personally with the person; treat them as a person. And then I think you need to deal with their soul. You need to say, you know, that you're a whole person and we want to work all of you.
MR. DOOCY: It really makes a big difference when you -- if you're going to legislate on something, if you've actually been there. It's not theoretical. It's like, "Yeah, I've slept on a steel bed, and I smelled it, and it's not good."
SEN. BROWNBACK: It does bring a different feel to it than any report you can read about it. It's like going to Iraq to look and say, "Well, okay, let's see what" -- or it's going to Darfur and saying, "All right, this feels a lot different."
Plus, it just -- it penetrates you then at that point in time when you can see the realness of it.
MS. CARLSON: You said, "There probably a lot of votes for me there," in the prison, but you did say, "Hey, there can be a lot of prayers." Right?
SEN. BROWNBACK: And there were. And these men -- they're very spiritual. You can imagine the circumstances that they're in that they might be, but before they weren't and they were much more -- very predatory before -- just kind of, "Let's form a gang here; let's do this there to protect ourselves." And now, you know, it's just people that have opened up and opened their hearts up.
And this is a big issue. We've got nearly 2 million people in prison in the United States, most of which who will get out. And when they get out they're likely to commit another crime if we don't start working with them while they're in jail.
MS. CARLSON: Exactly.
Well, speaking of votes, are you going to be running for president?
SEN. BROWNBACK: We put the exploratory committee in a week ago yesterday. I've been out exploring. I'll be traveling to Iowa this afternoon. And it looks good. I've gotten a good reception so far.
And I want to talk about a lot of the issues. And I'm a full- scale conservative. I believe in the full agenda -- the things that we can do really from that end of the spectrum, and I hope to put those ideas forward.
MR. DOOCY: What's the number -- if you were president, what's the first thing you'd do?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, we've got to get the situation in Iraq under control. That is the big elephant in the room. And to me, I think we're going to have to see us get out of the way of the sectarian violence, and you're probably going to see the country split more into Sunni, Shi'ite, Kurdish areas. We've seen that happen in other places, like Yugoslavia. When you pull the military apparatus off, it's about the only way, a lot of times, you can get to a political equilibrium.
Past that, I really think we've got to rebuild the family and renew the culture. At the core of what we've got to get done here is we've got to really strengthen some of these foundational institutions.
MR. DOOCY: When you decide to run, will you come back here and do it live on our show?
MS. CARLSON: That's just what I was going to say.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I can't commit to that. (Laughs.)
MR. DOOCY: Oh, come on. Come on, I'm from Kansas. Help me out. (Laughs.)
MS. CARLSON: Come on, Senator. (Laughs.)
SEN. BROWNBACK: I'd love to do that, but we'll see. I'm not committing to anything now. (Laughs.)
MR. DOOCY: All right. So he's officially announced he will announce maybe his announcement on this program.
Sam Brownback, senator from Kansas. Thank you, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Steve.

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/foxfriends/index.html
