Public Statements
CNN The Situation Room - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 12, 2006
Location: Unknown


CNN The Situation Room - Transcript
BLITZER: And joining us now from Des Moines, Iowa, Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas. He wants to be president of the United States.
Senator, thanks very much for coming in.
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R), KANSAS: Happy to join you, Wolf.
BLITZER: Let's talk about Iraq, first and foremost, the key issue right now on everyone's agenda.
Increasingly, we're hearing a lot of concern from many of your fellow Republicans, whether Senator Gordon Smith, or Chuck Hagel, or Susan Collins, or Kay Bailey Hutchison.
Is it over, as far as you're concerned? Can the situation in Iraq still be fixed?
BROWNBACK: Well, I think it can still be fixed, but we have got to get on a new course, and I think that's what you're hearing everybody say. And it's also -- it's the right time to be saying it. The president is looking at different options right now. He's going to be announcing some new options, I hope, here before Christmas. And I think now is the time, really, for people to be speaking out, as I have been saying, that we can't face the public in a similar situation in 2008. And we have got to get the situation there to some form of political equilibrium in the fairly near future.
BLITZER: The president is not going to be announcing anything before Christmas -- the White House now saying he's going to wait until January. He needs more time to, apparently, review the various options.
His critics are already suggesting: You know what? More time is going to result in more American lives lost.
BROWNBACK: Well, this is a big course correction, if you want to call it that, a course adjustment, that he's making. And I think he needs to take every bit of time that he needs to have. We cannot be in the middle of a sectarian fight between Sunni and Shiites in Iraq.
I think we have got to figure our way out of this thing, and be also conveying to the Iraq leadership, government, and the countries in that region that, you know, look, we're not in this forever, and there is a certain timeline.
We haven't specified one. And we're going to start to use, I hope, the Iraq Study Group, as a way to get a bipartisan buy-in and a regional buy-in on a new strategy, moving us forward, and us back out of the way in Iraq.
BLITZER: You were quoted in "The Washington Post' the other day as saying this -- and I will read it to you -- "I think you may end up having a Kurdish, a Sunni, a Shiite area and Baghdad being a federal capital. Hopefully, you can maintain it in one country."
The Iraq Study Group, as you know, says that that's not necessarily a good idea. It says, "The costs associated with devolving Iraq into three semi-autonomous regions, with loose central control, would be too high."
What do you say?
BROWNBACK: Well, what I say is, let's face reality, Wolf. You look at the former Yugoslavia. When they took the military apparatus off the top of that, it broke into multiple sets of countries.
You look at Sudan today, where you have got southern Sudanese, northern Sudanese that just don't get along -- and likely for that to break apart.
I think, if you just look at what reality is, and if you're not willing to put a military apparatus sitting on top of Iraq -- either we're not willing to do it, or the Iraqis aren't capable of doing it -- you're likely to devolve down to some three types of regions, Sunnis, Shiites, and Kurds.
BLITZER: And some experts are suggesting that already, for all practical purposes, is the case, but it's going to continue, the bloodshed, for some time.
Let's talk about presidential politics for a moment or so. You have announced you're -- you have created an exploratory committee to run for the Republican presidential nomination.
In our most recent poll, Rudy Giuliani tops the list, with 29 percent, among registered Republicans; John McCain, 24. And then it goes down. You're down below. You're only at 2 percent. You have a major uphill struggle ahead of you, Senator.
BROWNBACK: I do, but I think you know what the game is. And it's these early primary states. And I'm in Iowa. And it's also about ideas. And I think, once there's a good voter contact that's made, I think we're going to move forward strongly.
Plus, you can look at the history here. Who knew Jimmy Carter when he got started? Who knew Howard Dean, on the Democrat side, two times ago, when he got started -- one time ago, when he got started?
I think we have got a really good chance on the ideas that I have been putting forward. I'm a full-scale conservative. Once a proper voter contact is made, I think we're going to move up, and I think we're going to move up very strongly.
BLITZER: Could you support Rudy Giuliani if, and it's obviously a huge if he were the Republican presidential nominee?
BROWNBACK: Oh, I think so. I believe in a big-tent party. I believe in a party that binds people together, even though we don't agree on all of the topics. And, so, I think I could do that.
But I think I'm going to be the nominee, and not Rudy Giuliani.
BLITZER: Even though he supports abortion rights for women and gay rights; he opposes -- he supports gun control, affirmative action, so many of the issues where you stand on the other side?
BROWNBACK: Well, I disagree with him on those issues. And I think that's why I will have more fortune in contacting the voters than, I think, Mr. Giuliani will.
But he is a quality American. He's led a large city in the United States. He's been very strong on crime. But, that having been said, this is about a competition of ideas. And I like the ideas that I represent. And I think those are winning ideas.
BLITZER: And what differentiates you from John McCain, your Republican colleague from Arizona?
BROWNBACK: Well, I'm a full-scale Republican conservative, a Ronald Reagan conservative.
I have also tried to grab a number of new ideas, and tried to deal with these with a compassionate-conservative theme, and just really a human-dignity theme. I don't know that that differentiates me, but it says what I pursue on issues like Darfur, on issues like prison reform, on issues like ending deaths by cancer in 10 years. I have got a set of ideas that I think are going to be very attractive and very important to this country.
BLITZER: And I will just leave it with this question, because we're almost out of time. Are you suggesting that John McCain is not necessarily a full-scale Republican conservative in the tradition of Ronald Reagan?
BROWNBACK: I am not at all, and I'm not going to get into this back-and-forth, Wolf.
What this is about is a set of ideas that I represent. Each of us will put those forward. And we will have a good competition on those ideas.
BLITZER: Senator Sam Brownback, running for president, and now in Iowa, a state he's going to be visiting quite often, I suspect, in the next several months, thanks very much for coming in.
BROWNBACK: Thank you, Wolf. Merry Christmas.
BLITZER: Thank you. You, too.
http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0612/12/sitroom.01.html
