Public Statements
MSNBC "Hardball With Chris Mathews" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 8, 2006
Location: Unknown

MSNBC "Hardball with Chris Matthews" - Transcript
MR. BARNICLE: Tonight Senator Sam Brownback is going to prison, but just for the night. The Republican presidential hopeful is going to talk with inmates and sleep in a cell to bring attention to the problems facing the criminal justice system. Could he be the dark- horse pick for conservatives?
Before he went to prison, he talked with us about Iraq, 2008 and more.
(Begin videotaped segment.)
MR. BARNICLE: Senator Brownback, the Baker-Hamilton commission strongly suggested that the first quarter of '08, starting in January '08, would be a good time to begin removing our troops from Iraq. Senator Hagel, your colleague, suggested that any future strategy with regard to Iraq ought to include time frames. What's your thinking on Iraq?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think the Baker-Hamilton commission gives us a starting point to put together a bipartisan approach that hopefully both parties in this country and that can gather global support, particularly important regional support. So I think these are some good points for us to move forward on is what they're suggesting.
I also think you're going to have to look somewhere down the road to get to a political equilibrium in Iraq. You're going to have to have dominant probably Sunni, Shi'ite and Kurdish areas.
MR. BARNICLE: But time frames, not setting a date, that's not in your plan? That's not in your thinking?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I think the way Baker-Hamilton did it is about right. It's not cut and run. It's not stay the course. It is that before we face the electorate again in 2008, there is a substantially different situation, and it's conveyed to the Iraqis, "Look, we're not in this forever. There is coming a time very soon you have to run this place. And, ready or not, this is going to happen."
MR. BARNICLE: Seemingly with each page of the report, you can hear the clock ticking on Iraq. It's a terrible dilemma for this country. Your home state of Kansas, you've had 29 people killed in action, nearly 300 wounded in action.
Given the state of Iraq, given the daily drama out of Iraq, what does one say to the family of someone who was killed in Iraq? What would you say?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I met with a lady who had lost her husband of 27 years last Thursday, Kim Flautz (sp), Leavenworth. Her husband was a colonel, had volunteered for service in Iraq. She lost him; four children, the youngest of which is 11.
And all you really can say is, "Thank you very much for the service to this country, for protecting us and providing freedom for somebody else." And we're going to move this on forward to a political-equilibrium solution. And you thank them profusely for their contribution to this country.
Regardless of what you think on the political situation, our military has shown brilliantly in Iraq and they have done a marvelous job. Now we've got to get the situation to some form of political equilibrium.
MR. BARNICLE: Senator, in terms of seeking that political equilibrium -- and you just mentioned the need for bipartisanship -- the country, both sides, Republicans and Democrats, have just gone through a particularly brutal, sometimes bitter campaign. Where is this bipartisanship going to come from now?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think we get a chance with Baker-Hamilton -- a Republican, a Democrat, both well-respected on foreign policy. And I think it's a chance for the Democrats to say, "Okay, we can move forward with you this way." Plus they control now the purse strings after the new Congress comes into place. They have to decide, are they going to pull funding from the war or support funding for the war?
And I think this really is a route that gives us a chance to start building together and a regional chance around Iraq to push the regional players who play in the politics and all the other activities in Iraq to tell them, "Look, you don't want a civil war in this region. Work with us on getting this to political equilibrium."
MR. BARNICLE: You're running for president of the United States. Two of the men, supposedly, who might end up running against you in the primary: Senator John McCain, former New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. Given the ideological nature of the Republican Party, do you think that either Senator McCain or former Mayor Giuliani can get the nomination of your party?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, that's the beauty about the process. It's a lengthy campaign. People examine the positions and then they decide. And I don't think you can judge that question at this point in time. They are both great Americans. They're great heroes in this country.
But elections are about ideas and the future, and that's what I hope to present. We're in the exploratory phase. We haven't moved this on forward past that yet, but I'm going to be traveling and presenting a lot of ideas. And I love the battle and the competition of ideas.
MR. BARNICLE: And some of that competition apparently is going to come from the state of Massachusetts, Governor Mitt Romney. He's a pretty attractive guy.
SEN. BROWNBACK: He is; a wonderful American, very accomplished. Still, as I say, campaigns are about ideas and ideas for the future and where you stand. And I will put those ideas forward, and I look forward to that competition.
MR. BARNICLE: So out there on the campaign trail, you're running for president. And a month from now, six months from now, someone comes up to you and says -- you're a United States senator. Iraq is still a huge issue, let's presume, and someone asks you, "Do you favor inserting more American troops in Iraq right now?" What do you say?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I don't favor doing that and I don't think the American public supports doing that. I think we're going to have to push forward with a transition of getting this more to the Iraqis, both their military and their police force. I think that's the way forward for us and the way forward for us as a country.
And I think it's also the way we can communicate to the Iraqis, "You must take control of your own destiny and your own future, and you can do it." And we'll have embedded forces for a period of time, but we've got to continue to let them ride the bike and ride it on their own.
MR. BARNICLE: What about the level of dysfunction that seems to exist within the government? And I use that word loosely, the government of Iraq. How do Americans on the ground in Iraq, no matter what we do -- staying there, slowly withdrawing -- how do we protect the people on the ground there, given the dysfunction that exists in Iraq?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, it is a tough question. And it is a difficult situation because you have that Sunni-Shi'ite conflict that's taking place. That's why I point towards, at some point in time, I think, to get to a politically stable situation.
You're going to have to have a dominant Sunni, a dominant Shi'ite, a dominant Kurdish area, a weak federal government and a strong state, if you will, federalized type of system to get there to where you can provide a secure, stable atmosphere. The Kurds have been running their region for years in a pretty stable situation. There's been growth taking place. That's not a bad model within the country of Iraq.
MR. BARNICLE: Senator Sam Brownback, thanks very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you. All the best. Merry Christmas.

Source: http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/3036697/
