Public Statements
CNBC "Kudlow & Company" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 7, 2006
Location: Unknown


CNBC "Kudlow & Company" - Transcript
MR. KUDLOW: Some political pundits say there is no totally conservative candidate yet on social issues, economic or defense issues. Our next guest, Senator Sam Brownback, is a Republican from Kansas.
Mr. Brownback, welcome back. And I guess the question is, A, are you going to throw your hat into the presidential ring? But B, is there a conservative vacuum that you can fill?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, A, we formed the exploratory on Monday, and that is a process building towards I hope to get into this field. But the final, final, final decision hasn't been made. But we're building the organization to be able to get that done and moving on forward. Hope to make that move -- transition -- within the next month or two if the exploratory phase goes well. B, I think there's room for a solidly clear conservative candidate that is a fiscal conservative, an economic conservative, a social conservative and a compassionate conservative. And these are topics that I've embraced during the time period that I've been here in Washington, that I believe in, that I lead on. And I think there's room for that in the field.
MR. KUDLOW: I don't want to talk horse race. I want to talk issues and ideas.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Good.
MR. KUDLOW: Because I think ideas really matter in political campaigns.
SEN. BROWNBACK: They do.
MR. KUDLOW: At this stage, what is your principal idea? What's your principal message?
SEN. BROWNBACK: My principal message -- and this is basically the question of, why are you willing to do this to yourself or why do you want to be president? I want to save lives, rebuild the family and renew the culture. And in my gut, that's what I think we need to do. And that is a broad-based agenda, but it's also a powerful one of what we need to do to move forward as a country and be the leader in the world.
MR. KUDLOW: How do we have -- in this same context, can we have a more humane approach to a vexing problem, namely immigration reform that's going to come up in this Congress? Can we have a humane approach to immigration reform rather than a hateful approach which I think cost Republicans at the polls last month.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, it is a huge topic, and yes, we can. And I think indeed if we're to hold to the best traditions of the United States, we must. I mean, this is a country whose greatness, I believe, is built on its goodness. And if you move off of that goodness, of the view of everybody at every place in the world is a unique, beautiful soul that deserves liberty and protection, I think we lose a lot of what we're about. We have to have that kind of a -- I do think we need to enforce our borders and do that first. But then I think you're also going to have to deal comprehensively with this issue, because the current system is broken, and it has to be fixed.
MR. KUDLOW: Can we have an equally humane approach to hardworking men and women who go to their jobs every day and to the hardworking men and women that own their own companies, namely lower tax rates across the board, which I regard as a humane approach?
SEN. BROWNBACK: And I regard as a human approach but also very good economics, as you report all the time.
MR. KUDLOW: All right.
SEN. BROWNBACK: If we will get those tax rates down, particularly pro-growth tax cuts, we grow the economy and we create jobs, we create opportunities for people. And this is clearly the right way and the right route to go. And for balancing the budget, no better way than to get this economy moving at a higher growth rate.
MR. KUDLOW: Okay. Growth will certainly get the revenues to balance the budget. But can we have an equally humane approach in getting rid of these special interest and often corrupt budgetary earmarks, which is still an unfinished agenda item in both houses.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It is, and I think it's also something that cost us a lot of our support. People thought we were the party of fiscal restraint, and then they started seeing things taking place they didn't agree with. Yes, I think what we need to do on that is get an authorization bill. It has to pass before you can get an appropriation -- A. B -- and this is really an idea that I think we've got to do -- let's change the system, Larry. The place is built to spend and it rewards spending. And we need to move that dynamic around. So, I've been proposing and pushing take a military base closing commission process -- the BRAC process -- apply it to the rest of government. So, you have a commission report that says this --
MR. KUDLOW: -- and the BRAC put into place in the '90s, I think. So, we should do this with a whole bunch of programs --
SEN. BROWNBACK: We should do it with the rest of government.
MR. KUDLOW: Wow.
SEN. BROWNBACK: One commission, and then it goes through the whole of programs and says, are these programs are they redundant or are they effective? If they're not, we're proposing its elimination, and Congress, you get one vote up or down without amendment. Do you eliminate all 233, or do you keep them? And that has proved effective for us on military bases where we've realigned $40 billion in spending.
MR. KUDLOW: Final one, final one -- can we have a humane approach around the world, and especially in the Middle East, with respect to human rights and freedom and democracy? Is that still passable despite all of the miscues in the Iraq war?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Absolutely. It's not impossible; it's required. The fall of the Soviet Union happened when we confronted them militarily, but we also delegitimized them with their own people, because we said you're not providing freedom to your own people. I think we've got to stand for freedom and human rights everywhere, and it's required.
MR. KUDLOW: Sam Brownback, Republican from Kansas, throwing his hat into the ring, or at least exploring throwing his hat into the ring.

Source: http://www.cnbc.com/id/15838446/site/14081545/
