Public Statements
ABC "This Week with George Stephanopoulos" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 26, 2006
Location: Unknown

ABC "This Week with George Stephanopoulos" - Transcript
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: And we are back now with the number two Democrat in the Senate, Dick Durbin of Illinois and Republican Sam Brownback of Kansas. Welcome back to "This Week," to both of you, gentlemen.
SEN. DURBIN: Thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thanks, George.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Durbin, let me begin with you with a question I asked King Abdullah. Is it time for President Bush to deliver an ultimatum to the Iraqi prime minister?
SEN. DURBIN: I think it's past time. When you consider the fact that we have given basically a blank check to this Iraqi government. The president has said repeatedly, "Don't worry about what you hear in America, we're there for the long haul. We're going to stay with you." I don't think that creates an incentive on the part of the Iraqis to stand up and defend their own country. The fact is 150,000 of our best and bravest American soldiers are caught smack dab in the middle of a civil war in Iraq. That isn't what we bargained for. We were going to depose Saddam Hussein and watch as democracy would thrive in this country. And here we are now in a war that's lasted longer than World War II, having lost 2,782 American soldiers, with no end in sight. It is time to tell the Iraqis that unless they're willing to disband the militias and the death squads, unless they're willing to stand up and govern their country in a responsible fashion, America is not going to stay there indefinitely.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Brownback, I know you've resisted calls for a withdrawal, but wouldn't that kind of a threat reinforce the president's diplomacy?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I think it would do that, but it would also probably strengthen the militias, George, if you really look at the facts on the ground. When we threaten to withdraw and on a very short timeframe, people start saying, "Well, what am I going to do when this security vacuum is present?" And the answer is, well, we're going to have to form up militias.
I think, though, realistically, George, clearly we are in a short time frame. We cannot face the public again in 2008 with the current situation still in hand for the United States. We have to get to a political solution in the region. We have to push a political solution in the region and I think we've really got to start pushing people there on the ground and in the area to come together, to work together, because we can't have the same situation 18 months from now facing the United States.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, that's exactly what the White House is doing right now with this diplomatic push. They have Vice President Cheney in Saudi Arabia yesterday. President Bush heading to Amman. I guess the question is how much time do they have and what should the United States do if Prime Minister Maliki simply can't bring these divided forces in Iraq together?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I think what we've got to do is go around the Maliki government in certain situations. Let's do some of our reconstruction money through the military people that we have there on the ground. Let's work with other groups and let's get regional buy- in to this. Now, we've had difficulty with that all along. But I think like King Abdullah was talking about, you've got a whole set of issues in the region and I would think it would be in the region's interest now, George, for them all to come together and say, "Let's deal with this together. We may have had problems or difficulties on issues in the past but we've got to start dealing the new realities that are here on the ground and bring everybody, including if we can the Iranians and Syrians together in some sort of discussion of how we deal with all of these issues in a political framework."
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Durbin, it does appear that that's what former Secretary of State James Baker is likely to propose, part of his proposal. My question to you is if the Baker Commission either fails to come to agreement or comes up with a plan that does not include a phased withdrawal of troops as you recommend, will Democrats in the Senate get behind it or go their own way?
SEN. DURBIN: Well, I think overwhelmingly the Democrats in the Senate have said this has to be a year of transition. Carl Levin, who will be our new chairman of the Armed Services Committee and Jack Reed, our Senator from Rhode Island, who served in the military and went to West Point, came up with a proposal that 80 percent of the Democrats supported, that basically said we have to start a year of transition. And I hope that's what Secretary Baker leads us toward.
But put it perspective here. We are dealing with the worst foreign policy decision that's been made in America since Vietnam. It is a terrible situation, not easily resolved and not quickly resolved. When the Democrats take control, you're not going to see a change overnight. We have to work very carefully with our Republican friends and with the administration to find the best way to bring this to a close.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I know you want to work with the Republicans in the Senate and in the administration, but I guess -- I mean, that's the idea behind the Baker Commission, as well, kind of a bipartisan agreement. And that's why I want to ask the question again. If that bipartisan commission does not recommend phased troop withdrawal, will the Senate Democrats get behind it?
SEN. DURBIN: I think what you're going to find first is a series of hearings which I think are very important and long overdue. And we've had soon-to-be chairman Levin of the Armed Services Committee and Joe Biden of the Foreign Affairs Committee, they are going to have a series of hearings about just exactly how we should address this. I don't think you're going to see anything that is precipitous or is done in a manner that doesn't take into consideration the delicate balance that King Abdullah referred to in the Middle East, but yes, there is a strong national sentiment for change and new direction and yes, the Democrats in Congress want to work with this administration and move us toward that day more quickly.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Brownback, one of your Republican colleagues, Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, has an op-ed in the Washington Post this morning where he says it's time to leave Iraq honorably. He says we have to begin to prepare for a phased withdrawal, then goes on to say this, "We are destroying our force structure which took 30 years to build. We've been funding this war dishonestly. Congress has abdicated its oversight responsibility in the past for four years. It is not too late. The United States can still extricate honorably from an impending disaster in Iraq." How do you respond to Senator Hagel?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I wouldn't agree with what all he is saying there.
I just think what we've got is a situation that we have to have a different situation within probably the next 18 months, outside two years. And I think we've got to be starting to deal with that in the current realities. And if we need to separate ourselves somewhat from the Maliki government, go through our military leaders in reconstruction, we should do it. We've got to get people involved in the political solution. We need to push a reconciliation process between Sunnis and Shiites.
Clearly, things have to be different and we've got to move in a different direction. I don't think I agree, though, we all of his premises that he puts forward.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Durbin, let me switch subjects to the issue of judges. Both you and Senator Brownback sit on the Judiciary Committee and a lot of your colleagues have already said -- Democrats -- have already said that President Bush is going to have to come up with dramatically different picks for the federal courts if he expects to get them through in his final two years. Is that your approach?
SEN. DURBIN: Absolutely. And when Senator Harry Reid and I met with the president, this was one of the issues. We really urged the president, look for centrists, more moderate candidates to serve on the federal judiciary for these lifetime appointments. Let's not get into a cat fight over some extremists who really shouldn't be nominated to the court. The president kind of laughed when we made this suggestion, but I hope he took it to heart. This is a lesson learned by the Clinton administration when they lost control in Congress and had to send up more moderate nominees. I think that is a lesson that most American people would agree with. Let's not have someone too far to the left or too far to the right. Let's try to find more moderate people who can serve our nation well.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Brownback, you're actually standing in the way of one of those consensus nominees right now, Judge Janet Neff, of Grand Rapids, Michigan. She was nominated by the Democratic Senators. President Bush went on to nominate her formally. But you're putting a block on her consideration because she once attended a commitment ceremony for a lesbian couple. Judge Neff says that was purely in a personal capacity. It was in the state of Massachusetts where she has no jurisdiction, anyway. Do you accept her explanation and will you release that block?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, myself and several others, and I'd also point out that when Senator Durbin talks about people too far to the left or too far to the right, this is the president that nominated John Roberts and Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court who I think have done outstanding, are key individuals. I'm still looking at the Neff situation and I will in the future.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: But let me press you on that. What's wrong with attending the commitment ceremony of someone who was her next door neighbor? Why should that disqualify someone from the federal bench?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I don't think it necessarily does. But what I want to know is what does it do to her look at the law? What does she consider the law on same-sex marriage, on civil unions? I want to consider that.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Durbin?
SEN. DURBIN: This has, unfortunately, been kind of the playbook that we've been living by for the last several years. If you happen to check box that says "I was a member of the Federalist Society," if you made certain that you did certain things during campaigns in the past, you have a much better chance to make it to the federal bench.
I think we ought to step back here and try to move away from this political agenda for a moment. You know, these are important lifetime appointments. These men and women who serve on the bench, we really trust their judgment and their wisdom. And giving these political litmus tests, I don't think is in the best interest of justice in America.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Just to be clear, Senator Brownback, you're saying now that the attendance at the commitment ceremony is not a reason for Judge Neff to be blocked from the court, even though that's what you said in your letter to her when you announced the block?
SEN. BROWNBACK: That's not what I said in a letter to her. What I said was that's something I want to see what is the factual situation and I also want to consider and see what is it that she would look at in that area of the law? This is an area of the law that's developing. It's an area of the law that's contested about what is it that civil unions are to be regarded as in this country? And I was curious about her viewpoint of that and does this indicated her viewpoint of how she would review a civil union, a same-sex marriage when it comes in front of the courts.
To me, these issues should be decided by the legislative bodies, not by the judicial bodies and it seems to me this may indicate some view of her on the legal issue. And that's what I'm concerned about here, is her view of the legal issue involving same-sex marriage.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Durbin, let me turn to the issue of congressional ethics. The Democrats in the House have said that their number one piece of legislative business when they come in is to pass ethics reform, a ban on gifts from lobbyists, meals from lobbyists, travel from lobbyists. Number one, will the Senate Democrats also do that? And two, will you add to that an independent ethics board to oversee the issue of ethics in Congress?
SEN. DURBIN: The first item of business in this new Senate is going to be ethics reform. I talked to Senator Harry Reid just yesterday about this and we are committed to it. We passed a good bill in the Senate. I think we can pass an even better bill in the future. I happen to support the position. I don't speak for Senator Reid out of the caucus, but I support the position of Senator Obama for this independent ethics board. I think that it'll start to restore some confidence in the public in the people who serve.
And I'll just tell you, George, overwhelmingly, the men and women who serve in the House and the Senate of both political parties are honest, hardworking people. But clearly, the image of Congress is terrible, with people going to prison and all sorts of allegations of misdealing. So we need to more forward first in restoring confidence in the integrity of Congress. And then get down to the important work that lies ahead.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Brownback, can you go along with that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Absolutely. And I think anything that we can do to clean up and to straighten the system, I think it's important that we do. The people that have violated the law are going to jail and that's important and that's as it should be. But if we can get some major ethics reforms on through, I think that is good. I think it's good for the system. I think it's good for the country.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Over the next couple of weeks, you are going to be taking a public AIDS test and spending a night in prison. That is not standard constituent service for a senator, Senator Brownback. Why are you doing it?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, it's important issues, though, that are coming up. One is a big conference that I'm doing with Rick Warren and Senator Obama's going to be at that. It brings together the left and the right to discuss issues of poverty in Africa and global health care issues and one of the things we're going to do is to take an AIDS test to show to people that we should be doing that, particularly in particular areas that may have had the exposure.
The second is on prison reform. This is an issue that's I've dealt with for some period of time. Right now in America, if you go to prison, two-thirds of the individuals that go in once will be in a second or more times. We really need to reduce that recidivism rate and so I've been trying to highlight alternatives, particularly faith- based prisons that have got that recidivism rate down below 10 percent. That's what I'm going to be highlighting on that trip.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Durbin, you kicked off Senator Obama's nascent presidential run about six months ago in June. You kind of urged him into the race. He certainly seems to be taking it seriously. Any decisions over Thanksgiving?
SEN. DURBIN: No. Not that I know of. Although I did speak to Barak just a few days ago in Washington and I know that he and Michelle were sitting down and making some hard choices at this point. It's an important personal and family decision. But I'll tell you this, during this last campaign, Barak Obama was the most sought-after Democrat in campaign after campaign across America. He visited 30 different states, 50 different public meetings. Red and blue states alike. And the crowds that he drew in those states were amazing.
This broadcast today is coming from St. Louis. And the Sunday night before the election he was at a rally for Claire McCaskill here in St. Louis for 3,000 people. He came back the next day, bone weary, and told me, "I think she's going to win." It just tells you what he means to these campaigns that that was the knock-out punch, the closing act in terms of Claire McCaskill's campaign in one of the battleground states. Now translate that into the presidential race and you can see the potential.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, if he's listening to you, he's going to run. Senator Brownback, you said you'd decide about your own presidential race before the election. Have you made your decision? What's it going to be?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, we're very close with announcements. My wife and I and our family have spent a lot of time thinking about this, praying about it. And really considering whether we could bring a message to the country that needs to be discussed. I think there is room on the Republican side for somebody that's a full-scale conservative, that's an economic and fiscal and social conservative and I think there's room on our side and need on our side to develop some new plays, particular on the compassionate conservative agenda. So we'll be making some announcements soon about that and then you'll be one of the first to know, George.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, I can tell from that smile that you're in. That's not very coy at all. Senator Brownback, Senator Durbin, thank you very much.

Source: http://abcnews.go.com/?Thisweek/
