Public Statements
United States-India Peaceful Atomic Energy Cooperation Act
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 16, 2006
Location: Washington, DC

UNITED STATES-INDIA PEACEFUL ATOMIC ENERGY COOPERATION ACT -- (Senate - November 16, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Indiana, Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. He has done an outstanding job. He has been a leader and a foreign policy voice on Capitol Hill. His leadership is measured, and he is very knowledgeable and quite good. I appreciate his wisdom, counsel, and leadership--and his leadership on this bill as well.
I recognize my colleague from Virginia who has done an outstanding job for many years in many capacities on foreign relations. I know that he knows the issues on the United States-India relationship. Many people I have worked with on India have worked with the Senator from Virginia. I deeply appreciated his work, knowledge, interest, and passion on pushing these issues. It takes people such as that to build relationships. You have to always be pushing people together. I appreciate his willingness to do that.
I rise in support of this bill. I rise, as my colleague from Virginia has done, in support of the bill but without debilitating killer amendments associated with it.
I rise as someone who has chaired the South Asia subcommittee for a period of time and worked in building relationships with India.
I rise as the Senator who carried the initial bill to allow the administration to lift sanctions against India when it tested nuclear weapons during the Clinton administration. It was a big brawl of discussion we had at that point in time.
Let me take my colleagues back a little bit. That was the point in time when India was starting to shift away from its former focus on the Soviet Union, then Russia, and whether it was going to join the West and work with us. There was a big debate going on within Indian society as to whether they were going to pull along alongside the United States. It was a very heated debate, a very important discussion. It became the signature moment as to whether the United States would be a partner with India.
You will recall that for many years the United States and India had what was best described as a prickly relationship. There was not an easy, favorable one even though the fundamentals underneath seemed like they were something that would be very good. India is equal. It has the largest democracy and we the oldest. We are the two largest democracies in the world. It would seem to be that this would be a very easy and logical relationship. Yet they had gone into the Soviet sphere. We had built more of a relationship with China than with India even though the fundamentals under India were much better for us than they were with China. There has been this separation and division for some period of time.
India decided they needed to have a nuclear basis. They tested. Pakistan tested in response to that. We had a series of sanctions that immediately kicked in with that testing. Then our entire relationship with India was viewed through the nuclear nonproliferation issue. We had all these other issues that we needed to discuss--economics, spread of terrorism, a series of issues, human rights items. Everything went through the nonproliferation portal. If you couldn't clear it through, we wouldn't be able to develop the rest.
Finally, we were able to provide the relationship, the administration, and the capacity to waive this series of sanctions. It was a difficult discussion and decision within the Congress. We were able to pass it through. Then let us get into a broader range--and the relationship flourished. It expanded enormously.
Now I think we are at another step. This is another one of those key junctures in the relationship as to whether this was going be a true and budding and future-oriented relationship. That is whether we can enter into this agreement that we are discussing here today. This is being watched very carefully in India as being a key view as to what the United States is going to do in its ongoing relationship with India.
I urge passage and strong support in building the fundamentals and strengthening a United States-India relationship. This agreement is not about sacrificing the nonproliferation regime on the altar of strategic cooperation. I want to emphasize that point. I think as people look at it, the initial question they would come up with is, I am fine with the strategic relationship; I will not sacrifice the nonproliferation issue. It is not about sacrificing that. It is about recognizing the reality of India's 30-year nuclear program. Engaged in peaceful civilian--as the chairman has said many times--nuclear cooperation with the world's largest democracy, securing commitments from India to implement the IAEA standard and safeguard and affirming India's longstanding commitment to democracy and its constructive role in shaping the world in decades ahead.
There is an environmental angle on this as we look at India as being a key economy in growth. That growth is consuming much more energy. That energy is generally in the form of fossil fuels which release a lot more CO
2. If we are concerned about the release and the impact and the accumulation of CO
2 in the atmosphere, one of the key things we should do from an environmental perspective is to engage in this agreement on civilian nuclear power.
That is where we will reduce the CO
2 loading into the atmosphere.
From another nonstrategic, nonproliferation angle, from an environmental angle, this is a very positive agreement, a key agreement we can have with one of the fastest growing economies in the world that will be releasing a lot more CO
2 in the atmosphere unless they use a great deal of nuclear capacity in building that energy system.
Bringing India to the nonproliferation regime and forging a strategic partnership with the world's largest democracy makes America safer, as well. We have a common enemy in the war on terrorism around the world. India has been a key and strategic partner in their assistance in curbing the nuclear pursuits of Iran, a weaponized nuclear pursuit by Iran. We are getting help from India on that. We continue to work with Pakistan.
As a number have pointed out, either implicitly or explicitly, it is a balancing issue, a balance-of-power issue with China. I know everyone in this Senate thinks about that, even if it is not expressed often, but it is key that we build this balance of power in our balance with India in this region of the world as a democracy, as a country that is with us in the fight on terrorism.
India shares strategic interests; it also shares values. They have a commitment to democracy, with rules of law, transparency, a multireligious country. America and India, as I mentioned, are the world's two largest democracies, and India has had a functioning democracy for some period of time. Civilian nuclear cooperation is an important step in developing new and alternative energy sources.
Comparison with Iran and North Korea's nuclear programs are misleading. There are strict measures taken to ensure our cooperation will only be with India's civilian nuclear program. They have proven to be trustworthy. There is still reason to believe North Korea and Iran are clearly pursuing these for nuclear weapons and for purposes against us, very threatening to us and our interests. We need to look at the nature of the regimes. India is a peaceful, stable democracy versus authoritarian in Iran and North Korea.
Finally, this is just one of the key relationships at one of the key times. It is important we take the right steps during those points in time. I hope we have a very positive, robust debate and pass this bill by a very large margin, saying to the people of India and around the world: We are interested in partnering with you, we want to partner with you, we want to expand that partnership, and we see this as a key partnership for our future, for your future, and for global stability.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/

Source: https://admin.votesmart.org/loadCandidateSpeechDetail.do?candidateSpeechId=4112
