Public Statements
Additional Statements
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 14, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS -- (Senate - November 14, 2006)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, today I wish to publicly recognize Jerold L. Harris, president and CEO of U.S. AgBank, FCB, in Wichita, KS. Jerold will retire in January 2007 following a 43-year career in the Farm Credit System.
Jerold is a native of South Dakota, growing up near Denby. He attended high school in Gordon, NE, just across the State line. After receiving a bachelor's degree in agricultural business from Colorado State University in 1963, he went to work for the Farm Credit System, where he has served agriculture and rural America ever since.
Throughout his distinguished career, Jerold has demonstrated a positive leadership style based on cooperation, mutual respect, and trust. His focus has always been on working toward solutions that serve all of agriculture. He exemplifies a statement he often quotes, ``There is no limit to progress when people work together.'' Jerold has certainly demonstrated this throughout his career.
One particular achievement stands out during Jerold's 43 years of service. In January 2002, the Western Farm Credit Bank in Sacramento, CA, entered into a joint management agreement with the Farm Credit Bank of Wichita, KS. The board of directors named Jerold as president and chief executive officer. Under this agreement, Jerold combined the operations of these two banks while developing and implementing a merger strategy that resulted in the merger of the two banks and the formation of U.S. AgBank, FCB, effective October 1, 2003. A milestone was achieved with the unanimous approval of the merger by all voting stockholders. Following the merger, Jerold quickly leveraged the operational and financial strengths of the previous organizations and achieved the cost savings anticipated in the joint management agreement and merger. He focused the new organization on supporting associations in their objective of service to farmers and ranchers. He capitalized on the synergies created by the merger, increasing patronage and lowering costs to associations affiliated with U.S. AgBank. Significant credit goes to Jerold for establishing a culture within the new district that is based on trust and mutual respect between the bank and associations. Today, U.S. AgBank covers all or parts of 11 States and has total assets of almost $20 billion.
While leading U.S. AgBank, or one of its predecessor institutions, Jerold implemented utilization of continuous improvement strategies that resulted in streamlined Bank operations, improved effectiveness of services provided to associations, and reduced costs. He improved competitive pricing and established effective asset/liability management, new loan products, sophisticated profitability measurement, and cost accounting systems. A correspondent lending function, focused on the purchase of large loan participations, was developed under his leadership. He also led the formation of AgVantis, Inc., a technology service provider for Farm Credit System institutions. Direct lender agricultural credit associations and Federal land credit associations were formed and patronage programs that resulted in payment of significant amounts of patronage to Associations were implemented on his watch.
There is an old saying that a true warrior must be tested under fire. Many of you will remember the 1980s as a very difficult time for agriculture. From 1986 thru 1990, Jerold was the chief executive officer of the jointly managed Ninth District Federal Land Bank Association and Ninth District Production Credit Association. These entities were formed from the merger of 40 farm credit associations during that difficult agricultural lending climate. Jerold was successful in establishing an effective management structure for the new associations and achieved financial stability by significantly reducing risk and nonearning assets and focusing the organization on customer service. As agricultural conditions improved, Jerold developed and implemented a reorganization plan for the two associations, resulting in the establishment of six new production credit associations and eight new Federal land bank associations. While the 1980s may not be remembered by many in agriculture as a time of great reward, Jerold demonstrated the same ability to work with people and achieve great things in the difficult times, as he did when agriculture was more prosperous.
During his career, Jerold held numerous leadership positions of progressively increasing responsibility and impact in the Farm Credit System. Jerold has served as a loan officer, an appraiser, a recruiter and a trainer, a supervisor and a manager, a leader and a follower, but always with the same dedication and sense of purpose. He mentored a long list of people who continue to serve Farm Credit and agriculture today, many of whom are in senior positions all around the Farm Credit System.
But Jerold's service was not only on the local or district level, he also served on numerous national or system-wide boards and leadership groups. Jerold served 15 years as a member of the Farm Credit System Presidents Planning Committee, during 3 of which he served as chairman. Jerold also served 11 years on the board of directors of the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation, with 3 of those years as chairman. He also serves on the board of directors of the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives, NCFC, and is a member of the NCFC Executive Council.
Jerold is a familiar face here in Washington, DC. He has represented the Farm Credit System by testifying before the Senate and House Agriculture Committees of the U.S. Congress on numerous occasions. Jerold has always believed in honoring one's responsibilities locally but has also shown that it is possible to support initiatives that will provide benefits for the ``greater good'' of agriculture as well as those system borrowers and owners he served. His honesty and integrity, keen intelligence, and an understanding of people has earned him the respect of his peers, workers, the boards he has served, and the farmers and ranchers he has represented and served.
Jerold's tireless efforts to improve agriculture and rural America will be truly missed. His countless contributions and leadership, including his steady voice of reason, helped ensure access to credit for both those who were and many who were not Farm Credit System borrowers. His accomplishments speak volumes about his dedication to agriculture and the people who work in agriculture.
Jerold and his wife Janet are looking forward to his retirement as an opportunity to see old friends, travel to new places, and do a little fishing. It is a great pleasure for me to share his impressive record of service with my colleagues in the Senate, and I hope this U.S. Senate record will stand as an inspiration to others.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
