Public Statements
FOX News "Fox and Friends" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 13, 2006
Location: Unknown

FOX News "Fox and Friends" - Transcript
MS. CARLSON: Good to see you, Senator.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Good to see you, Gretchen. I'm glad to see those pull-ups are going -- over 2,000 in five hours, and I don't think I could get over a thousand.
MS. CARLSON: Over a thousand! Wow! (Laughs.)
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yeah, I don't think I could do over a thousand.
MS. CARLSON: Some people shoot for just 10. (Laughs.)
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yeah. (Laughs.) That's probably close to where I'd be.
MS. CARLSON: Hey, there's a Fox News alert this morning -- we've been talking about Joe Lieberman -- maybe he's going to become a Republican. I heard that you might change parties, too, because you were seen at a Young Democrats club at your daughter's high school.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, no. I am not -- and I'm announcing now on Fox News that I am not becoming a Democrat today.
MS. CARLSON: (Laughs.)
SEN. BROWNBACK: I know it's kind of big news. But I did speak to the Young Democrats group that hosted an event -- good bipartisanship. I'm not switching parties.
MS. CARLSON: But it does show that people need to maybe come to the center now after this election. Maybe both sides are finally going to get along.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Hope so.
MS. CARLSON: Do you see any truth to that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I hope so. And I think you'll get to see a chance of that this week when we go back into session. And let's see how the Democrats move forward and what they're doing on us wrapping up the legislation of this year. We've got our appropriation bills we need to do. We've got a U.S.-India nuclear agreement that we need to handle -- a couple things that could really show some bipartisanship.
I want to point out -- and I'm a bit jaded about this, in that we've been trying to be bipartisan for some period of time in putting forward bipartisan proposals, and we're constantly blocked, blocked, blocked. We had this one on dealing with the minimum wage, getting it up to the level that Senator Kennedy had proposed, and in addition to that getting a long-term solution to the estate tax problem. It's something that both proposals had over 60 votes for. We put them together -- blocked by the Democrats. It was a big bipartisan proposal and approach. It didn't get done. But let's hope maybe in the next Congress we can see some of that happening.
MS. CARLSON: Yeah. You know, it's interesting because the old guard liberals, according to The Washington Post, are giving way to a new generation of moderates. But I'm looking at the list of people who will be in charge of these committees, and I'm seeing a lot of old-school liberals. So which way is it going to cut?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, that's a good question. And I think therein lies, really, the issue, because you're seeing -- the people coming in are running a lot more like Republicans. Many of them are running pro-life. A number of them are anti-gun control. A number of them are not for expanded federal spending. So it's sounding a lot more like the Sam Brownback wing of the Democrat Party than it is like a liberal wing of the Democrat Party.
But the people that are chairing the committees are clearly the old-school liberal thought. I don't know if they know which way it's going to go.
MS. CARLSON: Senator Brownback, I know you're exploring a 2008 presidential run. Maybe you'll announce on the show. I'm going to have you back to find that out. Thanks for joining us today.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Gretchen.

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/foxfriends/index.html
