Public Statements
FOX News "Live Desk" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 9, 2006
Location: Unknown


FOX News "Live Desk" - Transcript
MS. MACCALLUM: Well, the White House is still working to confirm the claim that North Korea has successfully conducted a nuclear test; the president denouncing Kim Il's report and saying the international community will respond.
So what options are on the table for the U.S. when it comes to resolving this standoff? Kansas Senator Sam Brownback says that he may have the answer. He joins us from Des Moines, Iowa with the scoop today.
Senator, good to have you with us this afternoon on a live cast.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you. It's good to join you.
MS. MACCALLUM: Tell me what you think. You know, the president today said that there would be -- he said the international community will respond. What exactly does that mean? And what do you think it should mean?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, everybody has condemned this action by North Korean Dictator Kim Jong Il, and they should condemn this action. This is a rogue regime that's perhaps in its stages of collapsing and doing this, and it's also a regime that has sold missile technology to other rogue regimes. And we're fearful they're going to sell nuclear technology.
I think the key thing we have to do as an international community is put pressure on China. They are the country that has the actual economic vitality of what of it is left in North Korea in their hands and they can put pressure on, they can cut the oil off, and they can accept North Korean refugees walking into China and not send them back, which would be a very demoralizing thing for North Korea.
MS. MACCALLUM: So how do you that? How do you put that pressure on China?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I hope that we would step up and say, along with the Japanese and the South Koreans and rest of the world community, "China, you're the only one that has any economic leverage here. Use it and force them to stop using this technology. And if they don't, cut the oil off and don't send the North Korean refugees backs, accept them and let them pass to third countries." This would put, I think, extraordinary pressure on the North Korean regime, and it's one of the few pressure points, really, that we have left.
MS. MACCALLUM: What do you say to those, including Russ Feingold, your fellow senator, who has just come out and said that the six-party failure -- talks were a failure and that we need to speak directly to North Korea, that you don't lose everything by speaking directly to North Korea?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I don't have any problems speaking directly to North Korea. I don't have any problem with us speaking in the six- party talks context. I think that's all just a smoke screen. The North Koreans are moving forward with this as a blackmail to the rest of the world, and they want the rest of the world to give them money and resources for the nuclear weapons development. And I don't think we should fall for the blackmail.
MS. MACCALLUM: You know, what do you say to those who talk about what they consider to be the failures of the Clinton administration in terms of giving North Korea too much in the way of handouts to get them to sort of back down, and also of the Bush administration over the past six years, that we've all sort of known that this threat was growing and now we see evidence and proof of it, and not much to show for it?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, it's really an issue of what are your options. You have a military option, which I don't think is a realistic option towards North Korea. You have an economic option, which much of the rest of the world, outside of China, has used. And now I think it's time for us to use our leverage against China to force them to use their economic leverage.
I think you're really left with very few options. The Clinton administration didn't do much, and even while they were negotiating with the North Koreans, the North Koreans were continuing to develop nuclear weapons.
So I think you're left with really not very many options, and the key ones are ones that I've described.
MS. MACCALLUM: All right. Senator Brownback, always good to have you with us. Thank you, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: My pleasure, Martha.

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/livedesk/index.html
