Public Statements
Secure Fence Act of 2006 - Motion to Proceed
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 21, 2006
Location: Unknown


SECURE FENCE ACT OF 2006--MOTION TO PROCEED -- (Senate - September 21, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the pending legislation, the Secure Fence Act of 2006. I want to address this issue. I have worked on the immigration issue all this year. It has been a very difficult issue. It has been a very difficult discussion. It has been one that has involved a great deal of the time of this body.
I serve on the Senate Judiciary Committee. We worked a long time to try to come up with some form of comprehensive legislation that we put forward. It was far from perfect, even as it was passed. Before it passed, people were questioning this provision and that provision. You look back on it and say: Well, I think that is a good question, and I think that is a good point, and it is something we need to deal with in conference to be able to address those concerns and topics.
I think we could have come out with a good conference bill, but the volatility of the subject, the lateness in the session, the closeness to the elections really has just not made it possible for us to move forward on comprehensive immigration reform, as the President has requested, as most people in the country look at it and believe in some form we need to deal with immigration in a broad fashion.
Yet almost everybody I have talked with on the immigration issue--a number of whom are passionately involved in the topic--virtually everybody who looks at it will say: OK, let's first get the border secure. First, let's stop the flow of illegal immigration into the United States, and then let's talk about comprehensive reform or you get a number of people saying: I don't think you are serious at the Government level of dealing with securing the border. When you show me that, then let's move forward with comprehensive reform because I do recognize we have 11 to 12 million people here in an undocumented status. We do have a need for workers in a number of places across the United States, that there are legitimate concerns, and the best way for us to move forward is in some fashion dealing with all the problems that are associated with this issue.
