Public Statements
Family Humanitarian Relief
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 7, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


FAMILY HUMANITARIAN RELIEF -- (Senate - September 07, 2006)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, next week marks the fifth anniversary of the attacks of September 11. On this solemn occasion, we reflect upon the lives of those who were lost and the families they left behind. Images of the planes hitting the two massive towers filled with innocent Americans are emblazoned in our minds and stir our conscience. Heroic tales of firefighters, police officers and first responders falling in the line of duty evoke deep pangs of sadness yet fill our hearts with great pride for our country.
It is important that during this time we remember the families of these victims of terror. They have suffered greatly, and we continue to mourn for their loved ones and honor their memories. But there are some families whose grief is also mixed with fear. The victims for whom they grieve were immigrants working in the World Trade Center, and the families that are left behind face potential deportation. Thus, in addition to the already incalculable loss inflicted upon them by the terrorists, these relatives face yet another hardship.
It is in the context of this situation that I wish to recognize the work of Debra Brown Steinberg. For the past 5 years, Ms. Steinberg has tirelessly sought to undo this injustice and allow these relatives to grieve alongside the thousands of other victims' families without fear of arrest and removal. Ms. Steinberg has dedicated her time--pro bono--to this cause and has been recognized time and again for her efforts.
My colleagues and I introduced legislation, known as the September 11 Family Humanitarian Relief and Patriotism Act, which would provide the necessary relief for these families. Now that a year has passed since the bill's introduction, and as we approach the fifth anniversary of 9/11, it is time to bring closure for the sake of the families and for the sake of honoring the memories of those killed.
Our tradition teaches us to have compassion for the widow, the orphan, and the stranger among us. Debra Steinberg's action on behalf of the immigrant victims' families exemplifies such compassion. We have much to learn from her on this day, and I am proud to honor her achievements.
http://thomas.loc.gov
