Public Statements
Letter: Republicans
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 1, 2006
Location: Unknown

Dear Fellow Republicans:
Tonight we have taken one step closer to victory in November.
The entire Republican Congressional delegation congratulates the primary winners up and down the Republican
ballot. Months of hard work, including countless miles of travel, numerous chicken dinners and responding
to the same questions on a daily basis has now culminated with today's election. While we can only have one
nominee, you are all important to the success of our Party. You have won our admiration for stepping forward
with the courage to run, to put forth ideas, to offer solutions and to help make the Republican Party in Kansas
stronger.
We know our nominees and their supporters will be gracious in victory and welcome with open arms their
fellow Republicans who waged hard-fought battles in the primary. This evening, we will come together as one
party. Tonight is your first opportunity to embrace our nominees, to remember the bigger prize in November
and to work to ensure Republicans hold all four U.S. House seats, all statewide offices and that we increase our
majority in the Kansas House of Representatives.
As Ronald Reagan said, "Anyone who is with you eighty percent of the time is your eighty percent friend, not
your twenty percent enemy." We may have had disagreements during the primary, but we should all agree that
our Republican candidates are the better choice to move our state forward.
The delegation stands firmly behind our Party's nominees, and we are ready to help in any way we can. We
understand the importance of Republican leadership and ask our fellow Republicans to join us as we work for
victory in November. A united Republican Party can achieve much for our beloved state and this great nation.
Sincerely,
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback U.S. Senator Pat Roberts
Congressman Todd Tiahrt Congressman Jim Ryun
Congressman Jerry Moran
http://www.toddtiahrt.com/documents/Finalletter.pdf

Source: http://www.toddtiahrt.com/documents/Finalletter.pdf
