Public Statements
United States Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 27, 2006
Location: Unknown


United States Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe
SEN. BROWNBACK: Good afternoon. The hearing will come to order. Thank you all for joining us. Apologies for being a little late on getting this going.
I want to welcome everybody today to Helsinki Commission hearing on "Human Rights in Russia: Bilateral Relations and Implications for the Future." We will discuss the extent to which the U.S. can effectively promote human rights and democratic governance in Russia, while assessing the prospects for working cooperatively on issues of importance to both our nations and the limits to such cooperation when our interests diverge.
To be sure, there are many countries in the world where the human rights situation is much worse than in Russia. But those countries do not currently hold the presidencies of the Council of Europe and the G-8.
What are we to make of President Putin's hosting of President Karimov of Uzbekistan on the one year anniversary of the massacre at Andijan? Or Moscow's indifference to human rights violations in Chechnya? Or recent attempts to intimidate political opposition and human rights activists?
Clearly, it is not in the interest of the United States to ignore or attempt to isolate Russia. We should be open to working with Russia when and where beneficial, such as the war on international terrorism, eradication of weapons of mass destruction, health and environmental issues and energy supplies.
The challenge for the U.S., then, is to be true to our broad mission of promoting human rights and democratic governance in Russia, while at the same time attempting to maintain a productive and mutually beneficial relationship. This is a difficult task.
Our experts today are uniquely qualified to address these questions, and I look forward to hearing their testimony. Be pleased to add also to the hearing record a statement by Joseph Grieboski, president of the Institute on Religion and Public Policy, for his testimony.
Our first panel is Ms. Felice Gaer, chair of the Commission on International Religious Freedom. She's also vice president of the International League for Human Rights, a member of the board of directors of the Sakharov Foundation and a member of the advisory committee on Human Rights Watch, Europe and Central Asia division.
I would also note, for those watching or present, that most of the witnesses attended the G-8 or the pre-G-8 conferences, so they'd have some direct experiences to discuss.
I'm also like to note for those here or watching that we issued a press release recently between and with Senator Clinton and myself on the Senate-passed resolution on "Forbes" journalist Klebnikov. And I want to thank my colleague, Senator Clinton, who is also a member of this Helsinki Commission, for her work on this important topic.
With that, Ms. Gaer, thank you very much for being here with us today. It's been a pleasure to work with you. And I appreciate greatly your work and your contribution.
The floor is yours.
MS. GAER: Thank you, senator, and thank you for the opportunity to testify on behalf of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom.
I'll summarize the commission's testimony in my oral remarks, but I do request that the full testimony be included for the record.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Without objection.
MS. GAER: And before beginning on this, the 30th anniversary of the establishment of the Helsinki Commission, I wanted, on behalf of our commission, to express appreciation to you and each of the members of the commission and its expert staff for the excellent advocacy of human rights in the countries that have made up Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
Throughout the past 30 years, commissioners on the Helsinki Commission and their staff have worked effectively to ensure and maintain a focus on the human rights agenda in the context of this important international organization. And as Andrei Sakharov said at the time, it has changed the international climate.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It really has.
MS. GAER: So, I thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Would you please pull that microphone a bit closer to you? I don't think it's picking up as well. Thank you.
MS. GAER: Senator, as you know, a delegation from the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom -- an independent, bipartisan commission -- traveled to Russia just this last month. We visited Moscow, St. Petersburg and Kazan, the capital of Tatarstan.
We had many meetings with government officials, religious figures, nongovernmental organization representatives, legal advocates, and the like. As a result of the visit to Russia, the commission delegation found five major areas of concern.
First, the rise in xenophobia and ethnic and religious intolerance in Russia, resulting in increasingly violent attacks and other hate crimes, and the government's failure adequately to address this problem.
Secondly, the Russian government's challenging of international human rights institutions and its persistent claim that foreign funding of human rights organizations constitutes illegitimate interference in Russia's internal affairs -- familiar words we thought we wouldn't hear again.
Third, our commission found that official actions related to countering terrorism have resulted in harassment of individual Muslims and Muslim communities.
Fourth, that new amendments to the law on non-commercial organizations -- or nongovernmental organizations, which include religious organizations -- that these amendments that may be used to restrict severely their ability to function.
And fifth and finally, we found continuing restrictions by Russian authorities on the exercise of freedom of religion or belief, particularly at the local or regional level.
To elaborate on these problems, the commission is very concerned about the Russian government's failure adequately to investigate and prosecute hate crimes. Russia reportedly has 12 million migrants.
Many Russian human rights groups have concluded that crimes based on ethnic or religious hatred have become more and more violent, as demonstrated by the killings of African students and Tajik migrants in St. Petersburg just this year, as well as the knife attack in January in a Moscow synagogue that injured nine Jewish worshippers.
Although many of these attacks are motivated by ethnic hatred, some attacks against Muslim, Jewish, Protestant and other religious communities are explicitly motivated by religious factors.
This is fueled in part by the perception that Russian identity is currently threatened due to a mounting demographic crisis stemming from a declining birth rate and a high mortality rate among ethnic Russians.
Hostile articles in the de facto state-controlled Russian media contribute to this atmosphere of intolerance, as do statements of some public officials and religious leaders.
Persons who have investigated or been publicly critical of hate crimes in Russia themselves have been subject to harassment or violent attacks, including the famous case that both of our commissions have addressed, of Nikolai Girenko, a St. Petersburg expert who testified in court numerous times and who was gunned down at his door in June of 2004.
The failure to investigate properly such incidents is one that the commission is greatly concerned about. Judges, in some cases, have received death threats, and so forth.
Many Russian officials continue to label crimes targeting ethnic or religious communities simply as hooliganism. Officials from the Leningrad oblast declined to meet with our commission on our visit, because, in their words -- and I quote -- there was no government official responsible for monitoring or prosecuting xenophobia or hate crimes because they did not have these problems.
More can and should be done to ensure that law enforcement agencies recognize such crimes for what they are. Hate crimes are human rights abuses. And more should be done to ensure that they prevent and punish such hate crimes.
While vigorously promoting freedom of expression, Russian public officials, as well as leaders of religious communities, should take steps to discourage rhetoric that promotes xenophobia or intolerance.
The new mechanisms to address intolerance and related human rights issues, recently established by the OSCE, are directly relevant in this context. Due, in part, to the persistent and effective efforts of the Helsinki Commission and our religious freedom commission and the State Department, the OSCE has taken decisions in recent years obligating all member states to develop and implement policies against ethnic and religious intolerance in their societies.
Member states -- including Russia -- are required to report to the OSCE on the specific measures they have undertaken to address hate crimes, including such measures as maintaining statistics on hate crimes, strengthening legislative initiatives to combat them, and establishing training programs for law enforcement and judicial officials to deal more effectively with them. Fulfilling such obligations will do a great deal to advance the current status of Russia's efforts to battle hate crimes and other intolerance.
Secondly, the commission is very seriously concerned about the Russian government's attempts to challenge international human rights institutions and norms, and to undermine Russia's own domestic human rights advocacy.
Although Russia has ratified all the international human rights treaties, Russian officials and other influential figures have challenged international human rights institutions, as well as the validity of their advocacy of human rights in Russia, charging that they are foreign-funded and being used for political purposes.
These officials complain of double standards, selectivity and politicization whenever there is an inquiry into Russia's human rights practices. In the OSCE, for example, the Russian government has led efforts critical of the organization's election monitoring efforts and human rights scrutiny of Russia and neighboring countries.
It has become clear to our commission as a result of our visit, that the problem of rising ethnic and religious intolerance has been exacerbated by the repeated efforts of such Russian government officials to label foreign funding of nongovernmental organizations as meddling in Russia's internal affairs.
Moreover, the official branding of human rights organizations as foreign has increased the vulnerability of these very same human rights advocates in Russia, and those that they defend.
The commission heard these and similar views expressed not only by government officials, but also by Metropolitan Kirill of the Russian Orthodox Church. And we believe this is a particular cause of concern, given the increasingly prominent role provided to the Russian Orthodox Church in Russian state and public affairs today.
The third point the commission is concerned about are the increasing reports of official government actions against Muslims in Russia. The commission acknowledges, and is concerned, that the Russian government faces significant challenges as it addresses genuine threats of religious extremism and terrorism with a religious linkage in Russia.
One challenge involves protecting freedom of religion, even as counterterrorist efforts are undertaken, and protecting the human rights of all persons in such circumstances.
Russian human rights defenders provided evidence of many cases in which Muslims were prosecuted for extremism or terrorism, despite no apparent relationship to such activities. In some cases, it was possessing religious literature, such as the Koran. In several regions, mosques have been closed by Russian government officials.
These developments, according to Russian human rights advocates, are of special concern in the way that they are implemented. And of course, they're of concern, because Muslims are Russia's second- largest religious community, and any arbitrary actions, such as those described to us, could, in fact, increase instability and extremism and radicalism among the Muslim community in Russia.
Fourth, the commission is concerned that the new restrictive NGO law will have a negative effect on religious groups. And although one member of the Presidential Administration Liaison told our delegation that the new law would have little impact on religious organizations, another -- the director of the Federal Registration Service -- confirmed quite clearly that some of the law's most intrusive provisions will certainly apply to religious organizations and to the charitable and educational entities set up by religious organizations, as well as to groups defending human rights.
If violations are found of this law, the Federal Registration Service can call for court proceedings against the group, possibly resulting in liquidation of the groups. The agency's regulations on the use of its new powers have not yet been finalized.
The fifth and final concern of the commission is that the -- while religion, per se, has flourished, and the ability to profess and practice religion has grown, minority religious groups continue to face restrictions on religious activities at the regional and local level.
We were eager to keep within your time limits, Mr. Chairman, and so I'll hold comments on those specific kinds of restrictions, just to go directly to our recommendations.
The commission recommends that the president and secretary of state should work to encourage other G-8 countries to speak out more actively and with one voice on the whole, this whole set of matters, and that the president and other U.S. officials should be prepared -- and genuinely prepared -- to counter the persistent claims by Russian leaders that U.S. and U.N. efforts to advance human rights concerns constitute foreign meddling or are aimed at harming the Russian Federation.
We believe the U.S. government needs to more vigorously encourage the Russian government to take the following actions. And by vigorously, we mean including through public states.
First, to affirm publicly that all religious communities in Russia are equal under the law and entitled to equal treatment.
Secondly, to speak out frequently and specifically to the citizens of Russia, to condemn specific acts of xenophobia, anti- Semitism and hate crimes, and to avoid taking steps that could exacerbate religious extremism.
Third, to take, at a minimum, with regard to the new law on NGOs, to develop regulations that clarify and will sharply limit the state's discretion to interfere with the activities of NGOs, including religious groups.
That they implement the many specific recommendations made by Russia's own Presidential Council on Human Rights -- Russia's own official human rights ombudsman's office, and the Council of Europe's European Commission Against Racism and Intolerance, on which a Russian citizen serves.
And the issues that they could address regarding xenophobia and hate crimes would include a complete review of the residence registration system, a full implementation by local and regional law enforcement personnel of the criminal code provisions on incitement and violence motivated by ethnic or religious hatred, and the establishment of national and local mechanisms to collect and publish official statistics on such crimes, and to establish dedicated units of local law enforcement on hate crimes that will work to prevent and prosecute them.
To conclude, the commission is continuing to examine options for U.S. policy to advance freedom of religion and related human rights in Russia. We plan to issue a further report on our review and our visit this fall.
And as always, we look forward to continuing to work with you and the members of the Helsinki Commission on the situation in Russia and other OSCE member states. Thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much, as well. Appreciate that and I appreciate the succinct and pointed testimony.
Have there been a series of -- you note hostile articles at the opening of your testimony -- have there been a series of hostile articles in the quasi-official press on xenophobia, on religious minorities' expansion in Russia?
MS. GAER: There have been a series of continued remarks, criticisms and derogatory comments made about -- essentially about minorities, about strange and non-Russian groups. And that is the angle that is taken.
The argument is that Orthodoxy is Russia's true religion. And therefore, everything else -- all these strange, other people -- are not only strange and other, but they are harming Russia's true essence.
And there is - this is part of a broader anti-Western trend, and it's part of -- I mean, anti-Americanism has grown, as well. And yes, it's in the media, as well as in ordinary discourse.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What's the -- what are the officials at the Orthodox -- in the Russian Orthodox Church saying about this? What are their public statements?
MS. GAER: Well, their public statements are really quite troubling in this regard.
They have -- they portray human rights advocates as political actors paid for by foreigners.
SEN. BROWNBACK: This is the Orthodox Church statements.
MS. GAER: Yes, yes. They are -- they portray them as people who identify with the interests of those "who do not love Russia." And they suggest that only if they change will they be acceptable.
I'm looking for a direct quote for you. But what we --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Did you meet with officials of the Orthodox Church to query them about these statements?
MS. GAER: We had an extended discussion. We also met with the religious council -- the members of the four, so-called "traditional" religions, as well.
We were, I would say quite candidly, senator, shocked by this line of argumentation.
We were told human rights groups don't represent Russia; they represent foreign ideas.
We were told that human rights --
SEN. BROWNBACK: By the Orthodox Church?
MS. GAER: -- cannot be used to defame things that are holy. And the example we were given were the Danish cartoons, or the cartoons that were shown in -- not the cartoons -- the exhibit that was shown in Moscow at the Sakharov Center, dealing with the commercialization of religion.
We were told that religion could not be used to defame peoples, and it couldn't be used to somehow work against the interests of the Russian people. And we were told it couldn't be used for immoral -- to advocate immoral acts.
We were really quite surprised by the language, because what we heard were that human rights is selective and politicized, foreign- funded and not impartial.
And this is the language that I, as somebody who has spent a lot of time at the United Nations with U.S. delegations, at the OSCE with U.S. delegations -- I'm familiar with such language, but I'm not familiar with it since the demise of the demise of the Soviet Union, coming from people from Russia.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It just seems like an odd stance for the official church to take. Those comments just seem to be one that would -- you could expect, maybe, out of a government, but not out of the official -- or not out of the Russian Orthodox Church. This seems to be at odds.
When you presented counter arguments to them, those were apparently then not well received, or not considered as useful or germane? They were, again, seen as a foreign influence?
MS. GAER: They weren't -- there was no climb-down. But, for example, I raised the point that by calling human rights defenders foreigners -- foreign and foreign-funded -- one was recreating the enemy specter that one could take back to Stalin's day, or any other such period.
This is an argument that's used around the world to target and, in fact, often results in the killing of human rights defenders around the world.
And I queried why such language was being used and what its implications were. And other members of the commission did, as well. And we were told that there was no intention to bring harm to these people, that they were courageous.
And I drew attention to the fact that these very same people were the ones who helped the Russian -- Andrei Sakharov, for example -- the very same people who helped the Russian Orthodox Church fight its fight against Soviet power. And that's well acknowledged.
The argument is over what's being worked on, what specific issues are being addressed. And we were told that -- we were told that Russian human rights defenders don't work to help old people get housing and social benefits, and things of that sort -- which, of course, they do.
But a dichotomization was created, which I think is very troubling and is repeated. We found quotes by Putin, by Lavrov, by church officials, as well, with this mantra about foreign-funded, representing the interests of foreigners and those who do not love Russia.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is -- what's the root of this? You usually have some rootedness -- they do have some root somewhere. Is it a fear of the demise of Russian influence in Russia? Or the expansion of minority faiths?
What's at the root of this?
MS. GAER: There are many factors at the root of it. One -- a simple one is the whole effort in Russian society to establish so- called order, to deal with the problems of Chechnya -- which, of course, the human rights groups have, as a whole, addressed frontally -- the Russian abuses and the failure to investigate and punish those responsible.
Part of it is the changing demographics. It's useful to have an enemy when you're trying to pull people together around concepts that you may not have been able to bring them together on in the past.
So, there is a -- there are issues of convenience and there are issues of practicality. And then there, of course, are cultural and historical factors that can be used to rally people. These are not unknown in the last six or seven years in Russia.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And how is the rest of the G-8 doing on speaking out regarding human rights and some of these disturbing trends against human rights in Russia?
MS. GAER: The G-8 is not speaking with a single voice, as we would like to see it. I think probably --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Why not?
MS. GAER: Well, there are different points of view about whether speaking out makes sense. There are economic interests. There are political interests.
We have a huge concern over Russia's role right now as the arbiter with Iran. There is a -- there are lots of issues that have stilled the public voice on these issues.
The question is: can communicating these concerns privately be enough? And our view is that it can't be.
And senator, I just wanted to mention, when you asked me about the Russian Orthodox Church, I may not have mentioned in my oral remarks that we met with Metropolitan Kirill, who is the head of external affairs for the Moscow Patriarchate. So, this was not just a random conversation with a random cleric.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, thank you very much. Thank you for your continued work in this very important field.
And it's important that we keep getting information brought forward and continue to advocate for these human rights for everybody, every where in the world. Thank you very much.
The second panel will be a series of experts on Russia and what's been taking place recently. As I noted earlier, many of these witnesses attended the G-8 or the pre-G-8 conferences, so they've got some updated information to present.
Mr. Carl Gershman is a longtime friend of this committee, and myself personally. He's president of the National Endowment for Democracy. He's just returned from Moscow where he attended the Other Russia Conference during the run-up to the G-8 summit.
Mr. Thomas Melia, deputy executive director of Freedom House. He's held senior posts at the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs and was associate director of the Free Trade Union Institute of AFL-CIO. Has been -- served six years with one of my favorite former colleagues, U.S. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who unfortunately has deceased.
Mr. Fritz Ermarth, retired October of '98 as a member of the Senior Intelligence Service of the CIA. He has worked over 40 years in national security affairs and government, academia and commercial institutions specializing in Soviet strategic and regional conflict issues, and currently consults with several organizations working on national security, including nuclear weapons policy and intelligence reform, U.S.-Russian relations and regional security.
And Nikolas Gvosdev, editor of "The National Interest," and a senior fellow at the -- for strategic studies at the Nixon Center. He's a frequent commenter on U.S.-Russian relations, Russian and Eurasian affairs.
We will put all of your testimony into the record. So, I would appreciate a summary so we can have as much time as possible for questions. And I hope you can get at the direct pointedness of your comments, so we can discuss those as much as possible.
Mr. Gershman, let's start with you.
MR. GERSHMAN: Well, thank you very much, Senator Brownback. And I'm grateful for this opportunity to testify before the commission in the aftermath of the G-8 summit.
As you noted, I and others from the NED and its associated institutes were among the international participants at the Other Russia Conference that was convened in Moscow by the All-Russia Civil Congress on July 11th and 12th -- four days before the opening of the G-8.
The Other Russia Conference was organized with two goals in mind. First, to declare to the world that there was, in fact, a different, more pluralist and democratically committed Russia than the bureaucratic nomenklatura that would be on display later in the week in St. Petersburg.
And second, to rally and bring together a broad coalition of NGOs and opposition political forces to fight, as the conveners said, for human rights and for the democratic principle of organizing government and society, and against bigotry and xenophobia and a culture of bureaucratic theft. Those are quotes taken from the convening document.
I'm pleased to report that the conference achieved its objectives, and more. It received enormous attention in the international media, thereby enabling the Other Russia to have its message heard.
And more importantly, it provided a forum where Russians representing widely different points of view and areas of engagement were able to overcome a history of internal strife and mutual reproach and unite around a common vision for a new democratic state of Russia under the rule of law.
Significantly, a permanent council was established at the conference that will convene in September, and it plans to meet regularly thereafter to exchange information and opinions.
Not surprisingly, the official Russia did not take kindly to this meeting. Police and unidentified assailants physically assaulted dozens of activists en route to the conference, forcibly removing them from trains and reportedly planting drugs and bullets on them.
At the conference itself, police arbitrarily arrested four young activists, assaulting a German reporter for "FOCUS" magazine, and confiscating his camera as he tried to film them being forced into a police van.
A state Duma deputy was also knocked unconscious on his way to deliver a speech at the closing day's events.
In addition, attempts were made to prevent official participation in the conference, with an aide to President Putin warning foreign diplomats that attendance at the Other Russia meeting would be treated by the Kremlin as an unfriendly gesture.
I'm pleased to report, however, that assistant secretaries Dan Fried and Barry Lowenkron attended the gathering, along with other G-7 representatives.
I'm also pleased to note that SEC chairman Chris Cox, who is also a member of the NED board, delivered an important video message to the conference, in which he explained why freedom to say, write, publish, broadcast and think the truth as one understands it, without fear of persecution, is essential to a free capital market.
His implicit message to the Russian leaders was that they cannot hope to achieve sustained economic growth and full integration into the global economy if they continue to drive Russia backwards toward authoritarianism.
The holding of the other G-8 conference side by side with the G-8 summit graphically illustrates the hybrid, semi-authoritarian nature of the current Russian polity.
As the conference agenda emphasized, there are two Russias in conflict with one another -- a Russia of bureaucrats that is trying to hold on to power by closing off all independent avenues of political participation and expression, and a Russia of citizens that is pressing to reverse the return of authoritarianism and build a normal democracy.
As I pointed out in my own remarks to the Other Russia Conference, a hybrid system is inherently unstable, for the simple reason that Abraham Lincoln explained almost 150 years ago when he said that a government cannot permanently endure half-slave and half- free. It will have to become all one thing or all the other.
Its capacity for effective governance is also severely constrained by the absence of normal channels of participation and communication that give a government feedback from society.
As one Russian specialist said to me in his critic of "over- managed democracy," it is a little like trying to drive a car without adequate visibility -- something the Kremlin discovered in January of last year with the unrest over benefits reform.
And as the Bulgarian, Ivan Krastev explained in his own remarks to the Other Russia Conference, such a system also feeds paranoia, since leaders who don't know what people think will assume that everyone is against them. Such paranoia was certainly on display in the way official Russia treated the Other Russia meeting.
The Russian leaders speak of establishing a sovereign democracy, by which they presumably mean a Russia that is not beholden to foreign powers.
But as the closing statement of the Other Russia Conference pointedly noted, quoting from the elegant words of Article III of the Russian constitution, the multinational people of the Russian Federation shall be the vehicle of sovereignty.
And the only source of power in the Russian Federation, the so- called sovereign democracy of official Russia is an increasingly hollow Potemkin democracy that bears little resemblance to the real thing.
The United States should continue to deal with the two Russias, as it did earlier this month, by participating in both the Other Russia Conference and the G-8 summit. No one who supports democracy in Russia and desires the best for the Russian people should want to return to the enmity of the old days.
But effective relations with official Russia will not be possible if we do not demonstrate strong support for the Other Russia, which is especially threatened today by the harsh new NGO law. The $180,000 tax just levied on the International Protection Center, which helps Russians take cases to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasburg, is an example of how the new law can be used punitively to silence independent NGOs.
The Russian government justifies this and other repressive measures -- and I think this speaks to the question you raised earlier about root causes -- by claiming that they are a necessary defense against foreign enemies, chiefly the United States.
We should respond, in my view, by showing our clear and unambiguous solidarity with those who are fighting for a free Russia under the rule of law. Supporting the aspirations of Russian democrats will not only refute the argument that we are against Russia, it will also make clear to the Russian people that we have no illusions about the direction the current leadership is taking the country.
The Other Russia has taken an important step toward building a new, unified, democratic movement. This is a significant development that we need to understand and support -- one that holds promise for Russia and U.S.-Russia relations and for the cause of democracy in the world.
Thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much. Mr. Gershman, I look forward to talking with you some more about this issue overall.
Mr. Melia, thank you for joining us very much today.
MR. MELIA: It's good to be back, senator.
Freedom House appreciates this opportunity to testify about the situation in Russia today, its implications for the future and the American response.
It's important to note that we gather today, not only in the immediate aftermath of the G-8 summit in St. Petersburg, but in what one might call the opening days of the campaign that will culminate with critical parliamentary elections next year in the Russian Federation.
Having spent a week in Russia last month, I can offer some personal observations, as well as reflect the analysis presented in our institution's reports.
We went to Russia last month in the run-up to the G-8 meeting, precisely in order to engage with a broad range of Russians, inside and outside of government -- journalists, human rights groups, scholars and NGOSs -- including some people sympathetic to Vladimir Putin's administration.
While there, we released our most recent report on Russia from the survey, "Nations in Transit," at a well attended press conference on June 14th. And so, these findings were conveyed to at least some Russians through the dwindling array of still-independent newspapers and radio stations in Moscow.
And that report documents the continuing decline of freedom in Russia during the past year. We have copies of that to be submitted to the record, as well.
That report focuses on several specific developments that have been prominent in the last year: the resurgence of corruption in the growing state-owned economy; the development of the NGO law, that further curtails civic activity and obstructs international efforts to assist; and the adoption of election laws that will make it even more difficult for opposition parties to win seats in the Duma next year and virtually impossible for independent monitors to observe the electoral process.
But there's a larger, even more important story to be told, when one looks at the accumulated series of reports on Russia over these last number of years in the series, "Nations in Transit."
Scores for Russia's democratic performance have been declining in every year since 1997.
The deterioration is -- or, I was going to say, the deterioration of democracy, although it's probably the dissolution of that country's democratic potential -- has been a serious, deliberate and long-term project. It's not something that has just happened on President Bush's watch, nor even since Vladimir Putin became president of Russia.
The recent, much publicized effort to hamstring the civic sector in Russia comes on the heals of previous, successful efforts to eviscerate political parties and render hollow the electoral process, to concentrate power in the hands of the Kremlin by altering the constitution to allow the president to appoint governors who had previously been elected, efforts to cow the business community through strong arm tactics by the Putin administration, abetted by the courts that have led to the re-nationalization of major corporate assets that had been privatized in the '90s, and the campaign to intimidate business leaders to desist from supporting political parties and candidates they might prefer through a selective prosecution epitomized by the incarceration of Mikhail Khodorkovsky, who was previously the principal financial backer of several rivals to Vladimir Putin's United Russia.
There's also -- we've also witnessed the effort to control the national media, quite explicitly in the case of television and most radio, which are now under government control once again, and indirectly in the case of the print media, which one by one are being bought out by interests sympathetic to the Kremlin, after the independent minded publications find their advertisers being discouraged by the Putin administration and friends, until they become financially untenable as businesses and are sold to people who the government finds more to their liking.
Russia is not yet a consolidated dictatorship. It may well be what Carl Gershman describes as a semi-authoritarian polity.
But it is an autocracy. It is an authoritarian polity with nuclear weapons, fast accumulating wealth through its oil and gas reserves, increasingly assertive and self-confident in its work on the international stage, and more importantly, perhaps, one governed by a community that is convinced that the United States wishes to see Russia fail as a state.
This paranoia about what our motives are comes through in private conversations and public statements alike, and needs to be acknowledged in any serious conversation about Russia.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Can I -- let me ask you about that.
MR. MELIA: Sure.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That just makes no sense to me. Why on earth would people think we want Russia to fail as a state? And what is it going to be replaced by? I mean, it's not going to be ungoverned.
MR. MELIA: Well, that's -- that's the question.
Why do they hear us in a different way than we think we're speaking?
They hear us -- when we talk about democracy and human rights, they hear us uttering anti-Russian statements. This is the community around the Kremlin. This is the elite that now governs Russia.
When we talk about human rights and democracy, and they take that as a challenge to the state they're trying to build. So, they think we're being anti-Russian, when we think we're trying to be pro- Russian. We think we're trying to advocate for the interests of the Russian citizen.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And they honestly believe we're trying to be anti-Russian?
MR. MELIA: They do.
SEN. BROWNBACK: We're still in the Cold War?
MR. MELIA: They think that we're in a confrontation with them, and that this is a battlefield that we're engaged on, in support for civil society and for democratic practices. They see that as something that's hostile to their interests.
And so, yes, it is seen as something that's done by us in response to the rising power of the Russian state under Putin and with this growing oil wealth.
They think that we're discomforted by their growing strength. And that that is the motivation for our discussion about democracy.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Please proceed. I'm sorry.
MR. MELIA: And they point -- directly in this context -- they point to the enthusiasm that many of us in the West showed for Boris Yeltsin's governments in the '90s, when many Russians now believe Russia collapsed, lost its great power status and fell into disarray at home and abroad.
While we thought we were embracing an admittedly chaotic situation that would sooner or later get through its convulsions and onto a path towards stable democracy, many Russians came to believe that we actually sought the chaos and insecurity and impoverishment that was so widespread during that period.
And this view is reinforced in the minds of some Russians by what they perceive as a selective policy of democracy promotion by the United States.
Many Russian democrats took heart from the bold speech delivered by Vice President Cheney in Vilnius in May. But the wonder why it wasn't delivered in Russia itself, or by President Bush himself, and why it was so conspicuously undermined by the president's warm welcome of Azerbaijan's President Aliyev to the White House in May, and by the vice president's subsequent visit to Kazakhstan and his embrace there of a leader who governs the country that Russians know is less free even than Russia, in Kazakhstan.
So, I will skip forward to offer a few concluding observations as a basis for discussion.
I think it matters to Russia's democrats that we in the outside world continue to call them as we see them. The reports that we've issued and that others do -- the Commission on Religious Freedom, the Helsinki Commission, the State Department's reports, statements by members of Congress -- these are paid a great deal of attention to by Russians, in and out of government.
And it's important that we continue to be straightforward and public in our analysis and commentary. It matters to Russia's democrats that the major governments -- and most conspicuously, the United States -- maintain credibility in the democracy discourse.
I've talked about the seeming contradictions in our treatment of Russia versus Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan.
But keep in mind that every inconsistency in our dealings is publicized broadly in Russia by the official media -- often with a smirk, an editorial smirk. Every misstep and mistake in Iraq is sell publicized throughout Russia as an illustration to the Russian public of what we really mean by democratization.
Every time a Ukrainian or a Georgian official takes issues with Russian policy, it confirms that the real reason for our support for democratic reform in those countries was about installing anti-Russian governments.
If our democracy promotion policy is seen in the world as a weapon to be used mainly against unfriendly governments, rather than a goal pursued more broadly and consistently, then we will have lost credibility and alienated those in places like Russia who could be our allies and who are our natural allies, in some cases.
If Russians become convinced that our goal is not a truly democratic Russia, but instead a weak, impoverished or divided Russia, then our promotion of democracy will come across as punitive and insincere. And it's not clear that our message now is getting through to very many Russians.
The third and related point is that it's important, therefore, that we not permit Russia to be further isolated from the international community. This is exactly what some in the Kremlin are seeking to do with the new punitive legislation regarding NGOs.
Carl mentioned the hefty tax bill, suddenly presented this week to one of the important NGOs, the Center for Assistance in International Defense.
According to the NGO, Memorial, several smaller NGOs in Russia's regions are being overwhelmed by paperwork from the tax service, in order to comply with the new NGO law, and are considering shutting their doors, because they can't keep up with the bureaucratic obligations being imposed on them.
Russia's autocrats want to isolate Russian democrats, civic activists and human rights defenders from their natural support networks in the international community.
So, we need to think about how to overcome that isolation. This means that Russia needs to be a major topic of discussion with European and other allies, so that a principled and consistent engagement with Russia is a high priority for the West generally.
We need to think again about the current U.S. investment in democracy promotion in the country. For the size of the country and the nature of the issues, a rather modest investment of about $40 million is being made by the State Department and AID. And it's slated to decline to about one-third of that -- or by one-third -- by next year.
This does not convey the message that we're serious about investing in Russia's democrats who want to work with us.
And perhaps most urgently, Congress ought to reexamine the budget proposal that proposes elimination of Voice of America's Russian language radio, leaving it to RFE and Radio Liberty alone to serve the Russian-speaking radio audiences.
There are Russians who want to listen to American radio. Let's not cut them off.
Another point would be that more members of Congress -- you personally and institutionally -- ought to engage more often with more Russians. To the extent you can, I would urge you and the commission and other bodies in the Congress to visit Russia more often, engage with a broader range of Russians -- in and out of government, not just with the human rights defenders and activists that are most keen to work with us, although we should not overlook them.
Interestingly, and unlike what is the case in some other countries, Russians want to engage with their American counterparts. They usually don't seek our approval, but they want our respect. And they're eager to engage with Americans to determine how to win that respect.
So, we need to all of us be engaged more often and more seriously with Russians -- listening to them, as well as talking at them.
And finally, I would just say, we need to take a serious interest in the way that Russia is prosecuting its wars in the North Caucasus. A Reuters report this week said that the Russian ministry of interior has just sent a letter to NGOs working in Chechnya, to require them to report on the movements of their staff members, to obtain permission from the FSB in advance for trips into Chechnya, to report on their trips when they return to Moscow from Chechnya.
The process could be holding up much needed humanitarian aid and services to people in the North Caucasus. Just on Monday, a U.N. convoy was turned back from a trip to Chechnya, when checkpoint guards told the convoy that they didn't have the right paperwork.
These are foreboding signals for Chechens, who view the traveling back and forth of NGOs and the U.N. as their lifelines to the outside world. And just as Russians are trying to isolate Russia from the world, they're also trying to isolate Chechnya from the rest of Russia.
And I hope we can find ways to overcome these efforts.
Thank you. I look forward to the conversation.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much.
Mr. Ermarth, delighted to have you here today, and thank you for joining us and your long years of service. Look forward to your testimony.
MR. ERMARTH: Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for the opportunity to address the commission on such a very important subject, this balancing of the pursuit of democracy, promotion of democracy and human rights in Russia, and striking or pursuing a relationship that allows us to safeguard a security agenda on both sides.
We have this problem elsewhere in the world -- our relations with China and our relations with the complex worlds of Islam.
It's gotten more difficult in the Russian case for reasons other witnesses have already addressed.
Most commentary about Russia lately in our relationship has been gloomy. Kremlin authoritarianism is creeping forward. Russian foreign policy displays a defensiveness bordering on paranoia, and an assertiveness bordering on pugnacity.
"Russia is back," say many pundits with foreboding and many Russian authorities with pride. One might say old Russia is back, for the attitudes and reflexes on display have deep roots in Russian history.
The recent history is important. Putin, Putinism and the behavior of the Putin regime are very much a product of, as a backlash to, Russian developments in the late '80s and '90s -- political disorder, loss of empire and international standing, and especially the economic collapse, accompanied by rampant criminality and corruption, and the impoverishment of most Russians.
To be fair to the Russians and to the history we're talking about here, we have to recognize our role in this. Some of our actions were good and necessary, but they inevitably caused resentment.
Expanding NATO into a zone that caused two world wars, as a cause of encouraging the Westernization, the democratization of the peoples of East and Central Europe, getting out of the ABM treaty -- good and necessary, given the world we face -- and the ease of constructing ballistic missiles; expanding our influence into the former Soviet republics -- good and necessary decisions, but they inevitably caused resentment on the part of Russian elites and Russian people.
We also have to recognize the complicity in the '90s of U.S. and Western governments and businesses in the plundering privatization and bandit capitalism that robbed the state, pauperized the people and produced a hated new class of oligarchs.
Although exaggerated in Russian minds, this role was real. It was neither good nor, in my view, necessary.
Different behavior on our part in that period might not have produced different results in Russia, but they would not have produced the resentments, the deep resentments we now see in the Russian public.
I mean, it is a tragedy that, in the early '90s, no country in the world was more respected and admired by Russians than the United States. Within a half a decade that had begun to disappear, and is largely, not wholly, gone today.
This whole sordid history of the '90s and privatization -- the Russian word for privatization is "privatizatsia." But the proper word for it in Russian has a good Russian root, "prikhvatatsia (ph)," which means plundering or stealing or seizing.
All this ought to someday be thoroughly explored. Congressman Cox did a good job in 2000, but it was incomplete.
On the foreign policy and security fronts, given the landscape of Russian attitudes, the interests that history, contemporary and ancient, have produced, I believe the Bush administration is not actually -- is not doing too badly. And the Putin regime is showing some constructive realism and occasionally initiative.
On the basis of public information, I believe this judgment holds on the very important areas of cooperation in counter-proliferation and counterterrorism.
Now, I know there are negatives there. And had I the kind of access I had through most of my career, I probably would know more about them. But the public picture is pretty encouraging.
On other fronts, like energy and economic relations, like WTO, I'll recuse myself for lack of expertise. But I want to make a point or raise a question about the energy front.
Russia wants to make itself a great energy power. There's an old Russian expression that says, Russia has only two loyal allies, her army and her navy. Now the pundits say it's her oil and her gas.
The question is, does the Kremlin want to use oil and gas the way it once used armies and navies for coercion, intimidation, pressure, dominance? Some of their rhetoric and actions, like behavior toward Ukraine at the beginning of the year, suggest that they do.
But one needs to ask whether oil and gas, like other forms of economic leverage, could be used that way. If market prevail, over the long run they can't. Economic leverage requires cooperation, mutual respect for wellbeing and certainly survival among customers and suppliers.
So, it's an open question, but a hopefully open one, whether the pursuit of energy power will exercise a moderating and -- if I can say so without saying sounding patronizing -- civilizing influence on Russian foreign policy.
On many security fronts, Russian attitudes and behavior, resentment of the U.S., a desire to counter our superpower, at least make trouble for us here and there, official secrecy -- they pose big problems for us.
But Russia has rationally perceived authentic national interests which we must understand if we are to deal with realistically, even if we don't defer to them.
On Iran, for example, Russia has manifold political, geopolitical, economic interests there. Moreover, Russian leaders suspect that were they to follow the U.S. in lock step on Iran, it would not materially change Iranian behavior -- and I think they're probably right on this -- but only increase the likelihood of a conflict and regional instability, of which they are the more likely victim than we, if it escalates.
I recently convened a workshop of Russian hands that are much more expert than I. And they emphasized the need to understand, if not necessarily defer to, these kinds of interests.
Let me note in this context before turning to the main agenda, that there's been a recent development of great importance in U.S.- Russian relations on security cooperation, that has strangely been ignored by the American press and largely so by the Russian press.
Late last month, our undersecretary of state for arms control, Robert Joseph, and his Russian counterpart, Sergei Kislyak, reached an agreement to revive an official diplomatic dialogue on strategic nuclear arms issues, one task of which is reportedly already begun -- to craft a successor to the START I arms control agreement, which expires in 2009.
Now, unless superseded by a similar agreement, the provisions of START I on declaration, verification and inspection of strategic nuclear forces will also lapse. The revival of official negotiations of this kind between the U.S. and Russia is very good news, which should not be hidden under a bushel.
Successful management of the world's nuclear problem will require a sustained, frank and constructive dialogue between the world's original nuclear weapons powers about controlling and reducing their own weapons.
After all -- if I don't sound too cute about this -- survival is also a human right.
Now, let's turn to the all-important topic of human rights and democratic self-government. I just want to make a few basic points from my career perspective, really.
We -- point one -- and by that I mean the U.S. government and all concerned people and institutions, organizations, NGOs -- must make the best effort to understand what is really going on inside Russia. This is difficult.
Counting my years as a student along with a professional lifetime thereafter, I've been trying to understand that country for nearly half a century.
Despite -- and in some ways because of -- the abundance of open information, it is more difficult than ever to determine what is true, what is false, what is important and what is trivial, and what dubious assertions by authorities are sincerely meant or made cynically for political show, including "Russia is back."
Are they merely proclaiming that and knowing how weak that proposition is? Or do they really sincerely believe it?
These puzzles litter the landscape, from economic statistics to who set off the bombs that got Putin elected, or how the Chechen warlord, Basayev, really died.
Still, there are very important truths that -- big truths, if nuanced ones -- that can be appreciated.
Russia has an authoritarian regime, and if anything, getting more authoritarian. But it is a weak authoritarian regime. It is strongest at monopolizing political power and suppressing or marginalizing serious competition -- political competition.
It is not strong enough to effectively tackle Russia's real problems -- the demographic crisis, the decaying infrastructure, the backwardness of the economy outside the energy sector -- and even inside the energy sector, when you talk about, you know, fields, pipelines, infrastructure -- and pervasive corruption.
And there are important divisions and factions within the regime itself.
Russia needs, but does not have, a strong state. It has a huge, bloated, flabby state that is as much an assembly of avaricious clans and bureaucracies as a state.
A truly strong state can be built by Russians. It could be built on the -- and only by Russians.
It could be built on the basis of strong authoritarianism -- strong authoritarianism. But that would require charismatic leadership, a charismatic militant ideology beyond just Russian nationalism, and probably large-scale repressions.
This cannot be ruled out for the future, but happily, does not seem likely.
Or the Russians can build a strong state on the basis of true democracy, which is what we and a lot of Russians -- alas, too few for now -- are trying to promote.
Russia needs, but does not have, a free media environment for information and ideas. The media of broadest reach and influence, especially television, are dominated and largely controlled by the Kremlin.
Still, there are significant degrees of freedom in the print media and on the Internet. People can think and say what they please, and propagate what they think, more freely than throughout most of Russian --and especially Soviet -- history over decades and centuries.
Still, the combination of political power, limited though it may be, to squelch genuine political competition and opposition, and Kremlin dominance of the media -- mass media, the media of broadest influence -- call into serious question the meaning of upcoming parliamentary and presidential elections, even if there's no falsification or vote fraud in the usual sense.
As of today, Putin's weak authoritarianism has broad political public support, because it has brought a sense of order, a sense of pride and, thanks to energy revenues, increased economic wellbeing for many. The question is how long this will last.
Part of the reason for Putin's public support is that, for much of the population, as I noted earlier, democracy and market capitalism -- meaning the experience of the '90s -- which offered too little of either democracy or capitalism. Beyond the regime and elites, we have to find ways to address the broad population that harbors these resentments.
Point two, we need to clarify and codify for the Russian audience -- and, for that matter, for many other audiences in the world -- our doctrine of democracy in its fullest sense.
Democracy can come in many different flavors, informed by culture, tradition, rational choice among alternative institutional arrangements and procedures.
But the ingredients or requirements are the same: rule of fair and reasonable law established by legitimate representatives, chosen through authentic public participation in authentically competitive electoral processes, enacted by transparent parliamentary procedures, surrounded by the free exchange of ideas and information, and enforced by independent courts and nonpartisan police.
Democracy requires a strong state, effective in performing the proper tasks as defined by law, but limited to them, such as defense, public order, regulating commerce, supporting the deserving disadvantaged.
This doctrine is more complicated than just voting or freedom for NGOs or freedom of the press. But it's not all that complicated.
And we've got to be better -- we've got to get better -- at conveying the tapestry of real democracy to get at some of these prejudices about, well, you're promoting the American model, or Western-style democracy.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Chairman Ermarth, let's see if we could get this wrapped up, because I want to get to some questions here, if we can.
MR. ERMARTH: OK. Let me turn to the question of how to promote democracy. Let me make just two points.
We need to impress upon Russian leaders, including Putin and his successor, that our interest in -- our concern as a government, as a country, as a people -- in the democracy agenda is serious and in harmony with our security agenda.
Now, this requires style as well as persistence. Somebody who had both was Ronald Reagan, and I saw him apply this, personally. Very impressive.
Russian leaders aren't necessarily going to be moved by our protestations and our pleas, but they will take -- they will -- it's important to impress upon them that we're serious about it.
As I said earlier, the biggest -- and barring a far more authoritarian regime -- the most enduring obstacle to the democratization of Russia is a population that is somewhat hostile by -- made by the recent past, and largely indifferent, because of a mildly authoritarian regime that has brought a measure of stability and security for them.
How do we reach that and educate that audience more effectively? We need to recognize that as a priority.
How do we reach the broad audience at the level of technique and technology?
My experience is way out of date, in the Cold War -- shortwave radio, book shops for foreign travelers. You know, with the end of the Cold War -- globalization, satellite broadcasting, Internet, the information age -- we have all kinds of new opportunities and avenues for communication about which others are far more expert than I.
But I will add, note in closing, that a lot of these experts on communications are Russians. They know and share our agenda. They know how to act on it. They are programmatically, operationally, if you will, technically expert on how to do this. They're enthusiastic. They're determined. They're daring.
They don't need education on democracy or the ills of their country. They need our support.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much. Very interesting thoughts and comments.
Mr. Gvosdev, thanks for joining us.
MR. GVOSDEV: Thank you for inviting me.
I don't need to reiterate what you've already heard from every previous speaker about the very real problems for human rights and democratic governance in Russia. I don't need to repeat and enhance, that I think we've gotten a very clear picture. And it's not a pretty picture.
If this were solely a hearing about human rights in Russia, stop. We could end the discussion. But now, we've been asked also to say, how does this fit into the larger U.S.-Russia relationship and the conduct of diplomacy?
And I think we have to be very upfront to recognize that we may have to choose between a number of less than wonderful options.
I have been concerned that sometimes people in this discourse present very glib solutions, as if only we do X, Y and Z, within a matters of months the situation will change and be wonderful.
It's clear that these problems that we're seeing are endemic, they are sustained. They are not going to be overturned or changed simply by an act of will or an act of faith.
It's going to take engagement, and it is going to have to take setting of priorities, both short term and long term, for how we want the U.S.-Russia relationship to evolve and how we think is the most effective way in the long term to promote a Russian society that is governed by the rule of law and that is democratic.
I think when we're looking at the problems we're hearing today, we have to first of all recognize what I call the democracy paradox in Russia, which is that the growing authoritarianism of the Putin administration enjoys broad-based support within the population.
We can look at opinion polls, not only those conducted by Russian entities, but by those that are connected to Gallup and elsewhere, and assess that the Putin administration enjoys anywhere from 50 to 70 percent approval rating, even now.
This support for the regime is also linked by, in the minds of many Russians, that they are free enough. And the World Value Surveys and others confirm this -- a high number of Russians believing that they do enjoy a reasonable amount of personal autonomy.
We can disagree with those assessments, and certainly, I think what we're seeing is that, if you're on the margins of Russian society -- you belong to a minority religion, you want to be more politically active -- you come much more into conflict with the state.
But for many ordinary Russians, they feel that their lives are better now than they've been at any point in the past, and certainly better than what their parents or grandparents have.
Paradoxically, if we look at the polling data, Putin enjoys his highest level of support from the youngest post-Soviet generation. If you look at his approval ratings, his approval ratings are lowest among the 55-and-older crowd in Russia, and his approval ratings are highest among 18- to 24-year-olds.
This is because, as Fritz pointed out, the experience of the 1990s, for many people the sense that the '90s represented economic loss, degradation, so on and so forth, and that with the Putin authoritarian shift, this has opened up ways for opportunity.
And particularly the younger and more educated generation is also one that is able to travel. It has higher disposable income. It is more connected into the global information superhighway, particularly the Internet.
So, again, the perception that the state is closing in is less for some of them, because, if they feel that they can travel, they can study abroad, they can log on to any Internet site for news that they wish, if they have satellite TV which broadcasts all the international channels, then the perception that society is closing in on you is less.
And I think that we have to acknowledge that for many people, right now their priority -- and the opinion polls, again, reflect this -- is short-term stability, short-term prosperity. How do I get my family's income and livelihood in order? And then, over time, how do I expand this zone of personal autonomy?
I think it's important, because if we look at -- not based on hope -- but we look at simply assessing various factors on the ground, prior to the Velvet Revolution in Serbia, prior to the Orange Revolution in Ukraine, there were a number of factors that were in play, that enabled those revolutions to succeed.
Right now, as of 2006 -- and this is not because I think this is great, but just this is my assessment of what's happening on the ground -- I don't see those conditions in Russia. I don't see the conditions that led to those kinds of revolutions in other societies prior to their elections. That could change in the next several years.
My sense is that this kind of clash between a state that's closing in and a rising middle class with its sense of personal autonomy, that those trend lines probably aren't going to intersect, really, until the next decade -- maybe 2010 to 2015 -- rather than occurring between 2006 and 2008.
People talk about the oil price being the magic solution for Russia, and it certainly has. But even if the oil price dropped below $30 a barrel, the Russian economy would still be growing at about three to five percent a year, so it would still be providing a certain degree of prosperity. But I certainly don't see the oil price within the next two years going anywhere below $55 a barrel.
So, the Russian government will certainly have a lot of walking- around money at its disposal prior to the 2007 parliamentary elections and the 2008 presidential election.
And I think it's important for us to be understanding. If you're a Russian member of the middle class who lost their savings twice in the 1990s -- first in the hyperinflation of '92, second when the banks collapsed in 1998 -- it might be understanding that in this decade you might put a greater, higher priority on securing your economic standard of living first, as your first sense.
Certainly, there's a lot of discontent in Russia about corruption, arbitrariness, bureaucracy. Again, I don't see that this is leading a lot of people to conclude that they want a revolutionary change of government in the next several years.
And so, I think that we have to keep this in mind when we're looking at the Russian situation. It's not simply that there's a small clique at the top that we have to deal with, that only if it changed we would see radical changes.
I would estimate 30 to 40 percent of the current Russian population feels that it is economically invested in the survival of the current regime, which gives it a certain degree of staying power.
It also means why, if we look at elections, elections are flawed in Russia, to be sure. But if we look at the Moscow elections last year, liberal democratic forces didn't do that well in terms of winning elections, putting their candidates forward.
And if in Moscow, the wealthiest, most educated, liberal city, a city that in 1990, democratic forces swept when they had to deal with the Communist Party, it does indicate that there's a problem of message, that it's not -- the message about that democracy leads to prosperity, leads to long-term stability is not yet resonating with many people, particularly if the 1990s is their sense of experience.
My colleague, Ian Bremmer, is coming out with a very interesting study called "The J Curve," which addresses this, which is that short term, more authoritarian governments can produce a certain level of prosperity and stability. To get to democracy in the long run means you have to go down the curve.
Russia sort of went down the curve, decided it didn't like where it was going, and it's going back up this authoritarian side of the curve.
And for us to simply say, well, if you're more democratic, you'll get to this long-term vision of greater peace and prosperity, we have to be able to explain how you can minimize the impacts of going through that kind of disruption.
We didn't really do a good job of it in the 1990s, and we're seeing some of this today.
Let me just touch on several other issues briefly, since they're included in the written testimony.
With regard to foreign policy, one of the elements that I'm suspicious about is this notion that much of Russia's current foreign policy difficulties with the U.S. stems solely or largely from a more authoritarian Putin government, and that if the government were more democratic, it would be more in line with U.S. foreign policy objectives.
Again, if you look at some of the opinion poll data about when Russians are asked about questions like involvement with Iran, involvement with Iraq, other things like that, it's difficult to see that there would be a more democratically accountable government, would of necessity bring its foreign policy closer in line with that of the U.S.
What we might get -- and what would, of course, be a more desirable objective -- is a more transparent understanding of how Russian foreign policy takes place. And we certainly didn't have much of that with regard to decisions about Ukraine and gas.
But to assume that a more democratic Russian government automatically will track towards the U.S. in foreign policy, again, is not something that I think automatically occurs from the data.
With regard to this question of selective engagement, which has been put forward, that we can somehow have a back-and-forth on this, my impression from Russia, having been there during the time of both of these meetings -- the alternative, the Drugaya Rossiya, and the G-8 itself -- is that, in the end, there was dissatisfaction on both sides.
The Kremlin was dissatisfied there was an American presence, and it felt that there was a kind of -- as some of them put it to us on the side -- of an attitude that made it difficult to reach consensus with the U.S. And a number of the people associated with Drugaya Rossiya felt that the U.S. presence was anemic.
Kasparov appeared two days ago on the "Charlie Rose" program to complain that, why didn't the assistant secretaries of state, who attended, actually play much more of an active role. And he cited disagreement -- or that the British ambassador was willing to make a speech, and the U.S. delegation simply attended.
So, there's this sense of -- what I'm concerned about is that selective engagement often can result in -- as I have cited the proverb about chasing two rabbits at the same time -- you end up catching neither.
You neither develop a better working relationship with the Kremlin, if you want, on the security issues. And at the same time, the opposition doesn't feel that you've been doing much beyond providing some rhetorical support.
So I think that, in the end, one of the recommendations I would have is for us -- for the Congress, for the administration -- to really develop a better calculus of the U.S.-Russia relationship.
Are these human rights abuses -- does it mean -- is this a Russia we can still do business with, or that we can't? And if so, how we answer that question should then inform our policy.
But I think an attempt to try to say, well, we can do business with the Kremlin while at the same time be seen or be perceived as trying to undermine it or undermine the current government, I can't see that that leads to a solution where either you find a cooperation with us on things that affect our foreign policy interests, and at the same time not doing much to really advance our sense of values and democratic governance.
So, I would think that in the end with all of this, is we have to -- we'll have to come up with some degree of how we're going to prioritize. Which of these things matter? What linkage are we prepared to offer on any one of these given issues?
I don't think necessarily for me to suggest that. But I think it has to be done much more, both within the Congress and the administration, rather than sort of asserting that we can have it all simultaneously at the same time.
I think we're going to have to decide if a more authoritarian Russia is a government we can do business with. Can we live with some of these problems? If not, are we prepared, then, to diminish cooperation with Russia and to have those consequences?
And to at least have an understanding of how we can make what are going to be very difficult choices, because I don't think that we're going to have a magic solution, that in the next year all of this is resolved and we enter 2008 without having this issue in front of us.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let me pursue right off of that, because that seems to me to be the real question and the real issue here and the real art of this -- not science, but the real art of this -- which is, how do you engage Russia and at the same time push Russia?
I've wrestled with this myself a great deal, particularly in the work that I've done in the Central Asian countries -- Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan -- less recently and more previously.
But how do you engage them and yet push them? Because we want to engage. We want to encourage. And I believe strongly that you need to build the relationship to have any credibility, and that they have to believe you're (ph) there (ph) in their best interests.
But at the same time, we are not satisfied with their status. We believe people deserve to be free. We believe it's a universal right. We believe it's a God-given right.
And we're not -- the old statement, to feel fully free ourselves until (ph) everybody's chains are off and they're free.
So, how do you do that? What's the -- is there a formula you can look at? Or did we ever get this right in any time in previous U.S. history, that we could look back to that model and say, OK, here's how you model and do that?
MR. GVOSDEV: I think -- and, Fritz, perhaps you'll address more the historical side, based on your experience.
But I think right now, one of the things that's critically important is capacity building, and that includes more exchanges, more students, things going back and forth -- really having a long-term vision, though.
SEN. BROWNBACK: OK. I'll give you that.
MR. GVOSDEV: This is not going to happen --
SEN. BROWNBACK: I agree with that.
MR. GVOSDEV: I think that we need a situation where we need to be consistent in what we say and what consequences are. I think one of the problems that --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Now, let me probe you on that, because I -- because that's -- I agree with that.
MR. GVOSDEV: Take, for example, Jackson-Vanik. Let me give that as an example.
If a particular piece of legislation has specific conditions attached to it, and the conditions are fulfilled, then you move on.
If there's a sense, though -- this is the complaint, both at the U.S.-Russia dialogue in February, and then afterwards in the G-8 -- is the sense that there's a Christmas tree approach, that if Russia -- if a Russian official makes a movement on a particular area, then people will say, well that's great. You moved on this particular area (ph), but now we have these other complaints, as well. And therefore, there's -- the idea that there's workable linkage, that movement on something produces a concrete response from our side.
I think there's a growing sense, particularly among the younger people in the presidential administration -- this is what one of them told me -- it's just not worth it to deal with the Americans. You don't -- they won't -- you won't -- you won't reward movement.
And, I mean, that to me seems to be one of the issues here, that there's no reason to -- that there's no benefit now to be gained in the presidential administration for advocating, maybe we should listen to the U.S. on these concerns, because the perception is it's talk.
And Putin himself went in the other way when he said, well, they bring up these -- you know, when he said in February, you know -- they bring up these concerns and we sort of shrug them off. His famous phrase, you know -- the dogs bark and the caravan keeps moving.
So --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Gershman, answer my question, would you?
MR. GERSHMAN: I'd be happy to.
Let me start by just saying that I'm a little bit uneasy with the way Mr. Gvosdev has spoken about the problems of selective -- what he called selective engagement.
I mean, because if what he's pushing for, of course, is engagement, it means, you know, that really we should do less of the support for human rights and democracy. I think he's saying one way or the other.
And I don't think it's ever going to be so simple. And I don't think there's ever simple formula.
The U.S., first of all, is always going to be divided in how it approaches these issues. And the more autocratic a country is, the more divided we're going to become.
There'll be people who are pushing for engagement, people who are pushing more for human rights. The administration will always, probably be out front on -- more out front -- on engagement issues. The Congress is a voice for human rights.
There'll be different -- I'm just making a point -- there'll be different pressures here, and I think that's perfectly appropriate.
I don't think the United States -- as I said in my testimony -- can walk away from the relationship with Russia. But what I at least would like to see is that we don't approach it with any illusions, that we're honest, and that we send clear messages to people in Russia who are our friends, that we're going to be standing with them and that we're going to be doing everything we can to try to support them when they're undergoing a great deal of stress today, because of the new laws and the -- which is really an attempt to close off the last remaining area of independent activity, which is civil society.
And I think this is something that we can do. I think it's going to be long term. I have no disagreement that.
I think it's going to come from within Russia. I think the importance of what I saw was that something emerged from within Russia. But we were associated with it, and I think properly so, at the request of the Russians.
They make the call on whether they want the Americans or other Westerners, or people from outside to come in and to give them support. They wanted it and they deserve it, but of course it's going to have to come from within Russia.
I think, frankly, the schedule that was enunciated by Mr. Gvosdev is actually a rather optimistic schedule. I think we have to be prepared for a long-term process here, where we're going to be engaged, and we're also going to be supporting a clear democracy agenda.
And one more point. I think one of the reasons we, as the National Endowment for Democracy, were taken out of the government and made an independent entity, is so we can continue to pursue these types of issues as our government, you know, is engaged. I don't think there's a contradiction there.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It seems like to me that the situation that you want to try to do is be fully engaged, and yet always maintaining tension on the democracy-human rights agenda, until it's to a Western standard, recognizing that it's never, ever perfect in any country.
And, for instance, we just had a signing ceremony I was at today on the Voting Rights Act, the VRA, which 40 years ago there were substantial places in the United States. If you were of a certain racial group, it was pretty tough to vote. You couldn't vote.
And so, there's always that. But that we should be engaged yet always maintaining the pull, to move people forward --
MR. GERSHMAN: It was Wendell Phillips who, in 1858 -- the Abolitionist -- who said that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Or eternal tension maybe would be --
MR. GERSHMAN: Well, both.
SEN. BROWNBACK: -- could use that, too.
Mr. Ermarth, I know, I'd like -- I want to just make a statement to you, because I want to go to another point here.
I've been -- I've watched the Soviet Union for a number of years, even growing up watched it, because they were a great marketplace for our wheat at that time. Communism is a terrible producer of goods and services, but that makes great market advantage for some others.
What amazing change that that country has gone through in the years that I have observed -- the Soviet Union to Russia and the various countries. It's really breathtaking, and remarkable things that have happened.
But them looking now to use oil and gas as an economic leverage point, which I read and I see in some practice. I can tell you from practical experience in this country, when you use a commodity as an economic leverage, it will ultimately backfire on you, because the people that are on the other end of that stick, they figure this out real fast.
And even if things go back to the way they normally were, they say, we're not going to be in that trap again, so we're going to figure another way out.
So, we now have -- what have we got now -- five ethanol plants being built in Kansas as I speak, biodiesel plants going up -- I was figuring out -- cellulosic ethanol. I think you're going to see these other places go, yes, we don't like this thing.
We did it. We tried it as a country ourselves. I remember this one vividly, too, capturing the soybean market in the '70s, and with the Japanese we cancelled soybean contracts so that we could have more of the soybeans here.
That really backfired, because then they invested in Brazil and started the big soybean industry that was competing against us. That was a really smart move on our part to do that.
And so, people in hindsight they go, you don't mess with commodity markets. It's just -- those will ultimately teach your buyer you're not reliable. Not only are you not reliable, you can be punitive with this. And they will not succumb to that.
I think -- I can understand, and the tools do work and can work near term. They can work on a short-term basis and produce a real havoc and produce a real pressure. But ultimately, they produce their own solution, too.
And I think that's an unwise way for them to go, even though oil is certainly a dear commodity to the world and the global economy at the present time.
I want to look at -- and this has been a very helpful panel. I want to thank all of you for condensing the thought of what's taking place in Russia.
And I would certainly say, anybody in that country that might look at any of the things we're saying here, nobody in the United States wants a weak Russia. We want a strong, vibrant, democratic Russia. We want an open and free Russia. And we want to see the country grow and prosper.
And that is just not in our makeup. And right after the fall of the Soviet Union, this country leaned in to help in a big way to try to help see that transition. Fallout as it may have been at some points, or the U.S. gaining -- some private interests gaining financially from that. I lament that that happened.
But we want to see a vibrant, strong Russia take place.
One question I want to ask you, and I was curious about it in the last panel, is the role of the Russian Orthodox Church in supporting a move back towards more authoritarian.
If I understand the prior witness, this is -- the primary church is supporting that. That just seems strange to me, is a religious institution to do that.
Is that, indeed, the case? And should we be engaging more them pushing towards a more human rights free society?
MR. GVOSDEV: Senator --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Melia? I don't know -- or is there somebody? Please.
MR. GVOSDEV: Go ahead.
MR. MELIA: I would just add, first of all, I'd defer to Felice Gaer and the people on the commission on many of the specifics.
But, you know, it's the Russian Orthodox Church. It is part of the nationalist sort of identity of Russia. It's part and parcel of the Russian national identity for many Russians.
It's not unsurprising that the leaders of the Russian Orthodox Church share this view of Russia's place in the world, and this -- paranoia is not too strong a word, maybe a little bit strong, but it's not overly strong -- this view that they are under assault from other cultures and other countries, and that they need to be defensive.
From their point of view, their assertiveness vis-a-vis minorities -- and we see them as largely harmless or small communities of believers or missionaries, or whether that's on the religious side or, frankly, on the political side, people talking about different kinds of political ideas -- they feel besieged by this.
And I don't say that to excuse it. I say that we need to understand that, as powerful as they seem to be as a country -- and they are in many ways -- they feel like they're coming out of a period of profound weakness in these last 15 years, and they're trying to find their sea legs again, as a country and as a society.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So, here's the anchor for the sea legs? Here's the solid ground we can stand on?
MR. MELIA: That's part of it, yes. I don't know the degree of religiosity in Russia. I don't know how important it is to much Russians, but I think it's part and parcel of that.
It's not a church in confrontation with the Putin administration. It's one that I think shares some of its ambitions.
MR. GVOSDEV: And senator, I'd like --
MR. MELIA: I'd defer to better experts on that.
MR. GVOSDEV: Just to give you maybe a point of reference, the hierarchy of the Russian Orthodox Church, in terms of its theological outlook, in terms of questions of democracy, human rights, is very similar to where the Roman Catholic Church was prior to Vatican II.
They would probably be similar to the mindset of a Pope Pius XII. You're suspicious, to some extent, of pluralism. You're suspicious of things that seem to be eroding traditional bases of authority.
Again, the experience of the '90s fed into that.
Also, to the extent that the Russian Orthodox tradition, as it was expressed in the diaspora, largely has, in terms of theological movements, which are largely akin to what occurred at the Vatican II Council in Russia -- or sorry, at the Vatican II Council in Rome -- have not as much permeated Russia itself, which is the theological underpinnings of human rights and other things based upon the notion of the human being as created in the divine image.
It's present in Russia. It's present in the 2000 social doctrine that the church issued. But you can see that when you read the social doctrine, it's only a backhanded endorsement of democracy as basically being better, perhaps, than other alternatives, if it assures the church the ability to carry out its functions. But it's not quite a ringing endorsement.
So that's why we think maybe it might be useful to think of where the Catholic Church was prior to Vatican II, in the 19th century and its questions on democracy. It's theologically still working its way through.
At the local level -- and this goes to the questions of religiosity -- Russia is largely a very secular society. You're only looking at about five percent of Russian citizens, and these are both ethnic Russians and non-ethnic Russians who happen to be of Orthodox nationality.
It's only about five percent attend church on anything that can be described as a regular basis. About half of Orthodox believers never attend church, other than to attend baptisms, weddings -- you know, hatched, matched, dispatched -- and not even coming necessarily on Easter or Christmas.
That's where you then get this nationalist sense, where you have people who don't necessarily know what the religion teaches, but say, to be Russian is to be Orthodox. And therefore, if you're not Orthodox, you're not Russian.
But I can't really tell you much about what the theology is, or what it means to be as a person, or anything like that. So, you do have this phenomenon. And, of course, not limited to Russia, of where religion also becomes a marker of national identity.
But you do have relatively low levels of religiosity, in terms of who goes to church on any given Sunday. And that does --
MR. MELIA: If I could add -- could I add one diplomatic layer to that very helpful commentary by Mr. Gvosdev?
There is now underway in international diplomatic circles, around, for instance, the U.N. Human Rights Council deliberations, a discussion in which some governments of Islamic majority countries are finding common cause with governments in places like Russia, to talk about religious pluralism as a threat to culture. And that religious diversity is seen as a threat to their sovereignty and to their national sense of identity.
And so they, for instance, defend blasphemy laws in some countries that make it illegal and punishable by some very harsh means, to advocate for different religious interpretations, even of Islam in certain Islamic countries.
And that instinct to control the debate, to punish people who have different views, that we see and can understand in one dimension when it's on a religious plane, easily spills over into the political arena.
If you're not allowed to challenge the official view of Islam or of Russian Orthodoxy in different countries, because that's blasphemous or, you know, culturally disrespectful, then you can be accused of being blasphemous or culturally insensitive for other things that get beyond sort of standard religious discourse, like complaining about laws on family policy or social laws that have a religious connection to them.
But this is slippery slope. And once states, especially, begin to embrace certain religious perspectives -- that they have the right view of the world and universe -- and can use the power of the state to control religious dialogue, then it also is a political issue and constricts freedom.
And we see that emerging in this way in Russia, as we have seen in some other countries. It's a resurgent, active discussion. This may well be part of the discussion at the next session of the U.N. Human Rights Council in September in Geneva.
There'll be an effort by the Organization of Islamic Countries to push the envelope on getting an endorsement for a view that religious pluralism is a threat to their status in their cultures.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That's an interesting point.
I have great respect (ph) for Orthodoxy as a faith. I think it's beautiful, and I have a great respect for it. It's just -- it just seems to me at odds with one of the great -- I don't know -- I guess theological debates.
But a number of people would assert that one of the most difficult decisions God ever made was to give us freedom. So that this is one that is to be so cherished, because it was such a difficult thing.
And it's one for us to protect, and it's one for us to guarantee for others is just freedom. Freedom to do as we choose -- or nothing -- their (ph) freedom to do nothing.
And that's what -- you know, I look at it and I go, that just seems to be so central to faith is the freedom to choose regardless. And then, you may choose wrong. A lot of us do at many different times in our life. And that's why it just seems a bit odd to me.
It also, I think, does outline that one of the real, key, difficult issues of our day is to get that understanding of freedom within a religious context for a global society. I mean, that this is a very basic human right. It's the very basic human freedom, and it needs to be guaranteed for everybody to choose to do however they choose to do.
And we need to continue to be really vigilant and respectful of all faiths, supportive of all faiths, but also pushing that the very foundation of this is that you're free to choose whatever, or to choose nothing, if you so choose.
Very good.
MR. MELIA: Amen, so to speak.
SEN. BROWNBACK: A very interesting panel. I appreciate your outlines, your thoughts and how we can continue to move all of this forward.
The hearing record will remain open, if additional questions need to be supported or put forward by members, or if statements that you want to correct for the record need to be put forward.
I appreciate very much the presenters. The hearing is adjourned.

Source: http://www.csce.gov/index.cfm?Fuseaction=ContentRecords.ViewDetail&ContentRecord_id=377&Region_id=0&Issue_id=0&ContentType=H,B&ContentRecordType=H&CFID=3808321&CFTOKEN=88027346
