Public Statements
Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 20, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


FANNIE LOU HAMER, ROSA PARKS, AND CORETTA SCOTT KING VOTING RIGHTS ACT REAUTHORIZATION AND AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2006 -- (Senate - July 20, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the Voting Rights Act, and I thank my colleague from Massachusetts who was here before me for allowing me to now speak briefly on this particular issue.
The right to vote is quite literally the bedrock of the representative democracy we enjoy today. We must enable American citizens to fully participate in the political process if we are to truly be a government of the people, by the people, and for the people. It is central, and it is central that everybody is given that right in equal regard.
The importance of the Voting Rights Act cannot be underestimated. It has transformed the face of our Republic and vindicated the noble values of our Nation. America has come a long way in the last four decades, and it is my hope that the reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act will help us to continue to extend the promise of democratic participation to every American.
I have had the chance, twice now, to do the civil rights pilgrimage that the Faith in Politics group has sponsored to Selma, AL, to Montgomery, to several different places, and to hear from the firsthand experiences of individuals who were involved in the civil rights movement and in the freedom trails of the bus rides and in the protests, about the importance that the VRA was to them, was to getting involved, and is central in getting everybody participating in the democracy and a true opportunity to register to vote and to actually vote. It was and is critical. It is critical that we extend it.
I also want to recognize and thank the Senator from Massachusetts for the central role his family has played in fighting for this particular language, this legislation. And it is important.
Out of a strong desire to achieve this goal of everybody participating equally in this democracy, a bipartisan majority of Congress passed, and President Johnson signed, the Voting Rights Act of 1965. The aim of the act two generations ago was to fulfill the democratic promise of the Civil War amendments to the Constitution--a promise left unmet for a century after that terrible war had ended.
The civil rights landscape has greatly improved in the country since 1965, thanks in great part to the Voting Rights Act. The act has resulted in a tremendous increase in the ability of minority citizens to fully and fairly participate in our political system, both as voters and as candidates. The number of minority legislators has grown substantially.
I am pleased to be a cosponsor of the pending Voting Rights Act reauthorization bill which the Judiciary Committee reported out unanimously yesterday. This bill recognizes the achievements of many and particularly of three champions of the civil rights era: Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King. I believe we have a responsibility to carry on the work of these great Americans by reauthorizing the expiring sections of the Voting Rights Act.
The bill does provide a flat bar to unconstitutional racial discrimination. It speaks clearly, aggressively, eloquently, and importantly on this topic. We cannot have racial discrimination in this country, period. We are extending this act. It is an important act. It is one that has helped make the values of democracy real on a tangible basis to individuals, and it is important that we extend it into the future.
Mr. President, I am delighted to be a cosponsor of this bill. I urge my colleagues to pass it. I believe it will pass overwhelmingly.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
