Public Statements
Fetus Farming Prohibition Act of 2006
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 18, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


FETUS FARMING PROHIBITION ACT OF 2006 -- (Senate - July 18, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I ask the Chair to advise me when I have 2 minutes left. I want to start with a picture of Dennis Turner because this is a real-life case of Parkinson's disease. The prior speaker, Senator Vitter, talked about his dad dying of Parkinson's disease; it is a terrible disease. It is incredibly debilitating. I met with a friend of mine last week who has something similar. It is not Parkinson's, but it is also debilitating.
Dennis Turner testified at a hearing we had in the Senate Commerce Committee. He had been cured of his symptoms for 5 years. We had difficulty getting him in because he was out doing fun things such as safaris. After a period of 5 years, the symptoms started to return. He had received an adult stem cell therapy, not embryonic stem cell therapy. His symptoms went away for 5 years, and then they started coming back. He needed to have another treatment; he could not get it. International doctors--to try to get their help and support, we need to fund that type of work, which is working, for people like Dennis Turner.
My colleagues say we need to do this with embryonic stem cell research, that that is going to cure Dennis, Dennis Turner will be cured that way. I want to remind some of my colleagues that they said this about fetal tissue research about 10 years ago in this debate. In 1993, this was a typical statement debate at that time:
There is substantial evidence that fetal tissue research--
Taking a human embryo, fetal tissue, and let's work and mold and work with this and put it inside a person, and let's deal with issues like Parkinson's this way.
--will offer new hope of prolonged life, greater quality of life, perhaps one day even a cure for many of these diseases, and a tremendous economic and social cost-saving to the country.
So we funded fetal tissue research for a long period of time, like we are funding embryonic stem cell research, to the tune of half a billion dollars over the last 5 years in human and animal models.
We funded fetal tissue research. Now, this is tissue and cells that are further developed than embryonic cells. They are further differentiated and they are more stabilized, so they go off in fewer tangents. So if they are put in some particular area of the body, like they come from the brain, from the fetal tissue, and you put them back in the brain, they are more stable. We did this research. We funded this. We even tried it in humans, to disastrous results--disastrous results.
This is Parkinson's research set back by failure of fetal cell implants. Disastrous side effects are the quotes from the people who did the testing. Absolutely devastating. It was tragic, catastrophic. It is a real nightmare. And we can't selectively turn it off. My goodness, this is strong wording that is taking place, to be catastrophic for fetal cell implants. Catastrophic? What happened? These cells, the fetal cells, formed tumors, and in some cases these tumors, they were implanted in the brain, the fetal cells implanted in the brain, and these tumors ended up being fingernail or hair that was in the brain, and we can't selectively turn it off.
Think about this just for a minute, if we could. Everybody is saying we want to cure people. I want to cure people. If we have a route that is working in 72 different disease areas with the adult cord blood--and here is real research we funded. We tried it in humans even, with fetal cells. These are further developed cells than embryonic. They formed tumors, to disastrous results in Parkinson's patients.
Yesterday, I entered into the RECORD a series of six one-page--this is the front-page summary of peer-reviewed articles on the formation of tumors using embryonic stem cells, and these were all articles saying: OK, we use embryonic stem cells; they formed tumors.
Now, I am not a scientist, but it seems that if you got it in fetal tissue, which was further developed cells, and you found out that these are wild and they grow too fast and they form in other areas, and you back it up to embryonic stem cells and they are even younger, more malleable, and less formed, and we now have research saying they are forming tumors, you would look at that and say: Well, I don't think this is working particularly well.
Now, it is interesting science. We may learn something of how the cell works in this process. I don't deny that at all. But if I am looking for a cure for Dennis, and I have--I want a cure for Dennis. I want something that works for him, and he has had a treatment that has worked for 5 years in him, in the adult field, and I have research that says, in the embryonic field, it is going to form tumors, and I have research earlier in fetal tissue that says it did form tumors in humans, how am I going to cure Dennis in this case by putting more into embryonic stem cell lines, taking precious dollars from adult stem cell work and cord blood and putting it into a speculative field, the embryonic field, which is producing no results and, in fact, the results it is producing are producing tumors? That doesn't seem to make much sense to me as far as how we would invest these sorts of dollars.
People are talking about spinal cord injuries, and I think we should because we are going to deal with this area. I hope that in the next 10 years we are going to see for people, once they get a spinal cord injury, there is an immediate therapy they have and it starts to knit that spinal cord back together, so they are not waiting years and letting it further atrophy but immediately there is a therapy.
The therapy you see right here in Jacki Rabon--I have had her in to speak at a press conference. This was a spinal cord injury accident--paraplegic from the hips down. Now she has feeling in her spinal cord. She had to go overseas to get this treatment. It should have been done in America. It wasn't. Adult stem cells from the base of the nose--olfactory--taken, harvested, and put in. She is getting feeling. My guess is she is going to need several treatments.
Now, one of the greatest dismays we have is that a number of people are citing a rat model that has been shown on television of embryonic stem cells helping a rat to walk again. And that is fine. I am glad people are showing it. But a lot more people know about this rat model than know about Jacki Rabon. It seems as if there has been a media blackout on the adult stem cell successes and treatments and cord blood, and this rat has gotten all the publicity, even though we know that if you do this in humans, you are going to form tumors. Why? Why wouldn't we embrace what is working and has no ethical problem?
I wish to close this section with a letter from a child. This is the first snowflake baby. This was a frozen embryo
that was adopted--Hannah. She wrote this last year. It is her letter. She is a pioneer. She says: ``We're kids. I love you.'' X's and O's--hugs and kisses. I love these letters. When my youngest daughter Jenna does them, they are absolutely precious. Then she draws three faces. This is her face as an embryo. She is happy. She got adopted. She is no longer frozen. Here is a sad face as an embryo that is still frozen, and her explanation of this letter is he is sitting there frozen, hoping somebody adopts him. Here is a third face with a straight line, and her explanation is this is a young embryo saying: What, you are going to kill me?
This is a child's explanation of a frozen embryo. A frozen embryo that is life, that is human life. If you destroy Hannah at this stage, you don't get any sweet letters from Hannah to her parents. And we have a lot of frozen embryos.
We are saying: Well, let's make some utility out of them. Isn't that against human dignity, to say, We will just research on this, when this could be this child? This is this child? We don't need to do it. Even the research we are funding in this area isn't working.
I ask my colleagues to vote against H.R. 810.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
