Public Statements
Fetus Farming Prohibition Act of 2006
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 17, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


Fetus Farming Prohibition Act of 2006
SEN. FRIST: Good afternoon.
You and I stand united in a belief that human life is sacred. It's a gift from God, and it is to be protected. As a doctor and scientist, I hold enormous hope that the march of science will open doors to new life-saving cures and discoveries. I also believe that ethics should never be checked at the door to the lab.
We need to do all we can to promote and accelerate medical advances and breakthroughs, but this can only be done through channeling research efforts in a manner that protects human life and dignity. We can never create a life, then take a life in the name of healing.
Yet in the fervor to discover new treatments, there are some who will attempt to push the doors of science in ways that disregard this principle. The practice of fetal farming is one such example.
Tomorrow, the Senate has an opportunity to act with foresight to ensure that fetal farming never becomes a human reality. There is an opportunity to establish a firm guideline by which research in America's labs must abide.
This week, as we consider legislation to strictly prohibit the abhorrent practice of gestating an embryo in order to abort it and use its stem cells, we're seizing that opportunity. I hope that tomorrow the Senate will pass this legislation and ensure that we place this important moral guardrail to help guide future research. While we may have differences in our positions at times, I am glad that we can come together to ensure that research does not push us over this moral divide.
I want to thank everybody for being with us, coming to the table to support this vital initiative. You will be hearing from each of us as we come forward.
I want to thank my colleagues, Senator Brownback -- who is with us today -- and Senator Santorum for leading the effort to send this bill swiftly to the president's desk.
I want to thank everybody for being here and for all that you do to protect life day in and day out.
Sam.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thanks, Senator Frist, and I appreciate very much your bringing these bills to the floor.
The Fetus Farming Prohibition Act is intended to prevent the exploitation of women, and the creation and gestation of human beings for the purpose of harvesting spare organs, body parts and tissue. In an ideal world, such a bill would not be necessary. However, we've seen some willing to push these ethical guidelines to the very limits. Just in the past few years, there have been at least four scientific publications reporting on a proof of principle studies with animals demonstrating the viability of their research methods -- such things as a cloned calf gestation so that its kidneys -- kidney tissue could be harvested; cloned mouse gestating so that its fetal liver stem cells could be harvested; and on. Such proof of principle studies precede actual work in humans.
Now, why would anyone want to go down this route of harvesting organs from unborn human children? It's a serious question, and I don't think there is a legitimate answer.
One answer that does seem to make some sense, though, is that still it's morally wrong research. It is wrong to harvest a young human. It's wrong to do this.
Now, some researchers are looking and saying embryonic stem cells are not working sufficiently because they're not differentiated enough and they're forming tumors, and so what we need to do is to grow the cells further. We need to stop this before it moves on forward.
Human beings are ends in themselves. It has always been wrong to use a human as a means to an end, and it is beneath human dignity to turn humans into commodities or organ factories, as would be the case with fetus farming. Just as it would be wrong to harvest organs or tissues from death row inmates, so too it is wrong to harvest organs or tissues from a human being in the uterus.
I should point out that even though I would disagree sharply with research on aborted babies, the Fetus Farming Prohibition Act would not affect this type of research. This bill addresses only the area of organ, tissue and body part harvesting through pregnancies in humans or non-human uteruses.
I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of the Fetus Farming Prohibition Act.
(Intervening speakers not transcribed.)
SEN. FRIST: Let me thank everybody for coming. Again, today we have with us Tom McCleskey from Family Research Council; Richard Doerflinger from the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops; Doug Johnson, National Right to Life; Wendy Wright, Concerned Women for America; Marjorie Dannenfelser from the Susan B. Anthony List; Barret Duke, Southern Baptist Convention.
Let me just close by restating what Barret just said, and that is the forward-looking nature of this piece of legislation. As I've said on the floor today twice, we have rapidly advancing science today across the board, but especially in developmental biology. Many people have said this will be the century of the cell, which is very exciting in terms of healing, in terms of curing, in terms of giving hope and giving promise. In all legislation we have to be very careful not to overpromise. In all of the legislation on the floor, one of the objectives is to set an ethical framework that is to be defined as we debate on the floor, and I think this particular bill is the forward-leaning bill that says what is inevitable as you look ahead at current trends in science today and what makes sense for us as legislators, as representatives of the American people, to define as that ethical construct, that ethical framework.
So I want to thank all of -- all of our participants today, especially my colleagues, Senators Brownback and Santorum, who've taken the lead on this very important piece of legislation. We'll be having other press availabilities over the course of the next 24 hours. I want to thank everybody for coming today. Thank you.

Source: http://www.fnsg.com/transcripta.htm?id=20060717t3429&query=Brownback
