Public Statements
Flag Desecration Amendment - Continued
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 27, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


FLAG DESECRATION AMENDMENT--Continued -- (Senate - June 27, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise today in full support of S.J. Res. 12, the flag desecration resolution introduced by Senator Hatch. The Senate has given this bill adequate consideration and it is now time to pass it and send it to the States for ratification.
I have heard a lot of critics of the flag amendment incorrectly characterize it as stifling free speech. Nothing could be further from the truth. First, the amendment itself does not prohibit anything. The constitutional amendment we are considering today restores to Congress the power to protect the flag--a power the Congress freely exercised until 1989, when the Supreme Court handed down 5 to 4 decision in Texas v. Johnson. This decision struck down a flag protection statute in Texas, and effectively invalidated similar statutes in 48 States and the District of Columbia, as well as the Federal statute. In 1990, in another 5 to 4 decision, the Court struck down a revised Federal statute.
The Court's decision in Texas v. Johnson was notable for a powerful dissent authored by Justice Stevens. I would note that Justice Stevens provides consistently one of the most liberal votes on the Court. Justice Stevens found that neither the States nor Congress had acted improperly in passing the statutes in question. He was on the mark in his dissent when he said:
The case has nothing to do with disagreeable ideas; it involves disagreeable conduct that, in my opinion, diminishes the value of an important national asset.
Justice Stevens is absolutely correct in recognizing that a prohibition on certain forms of conduct is a power long held by Congress and the States and in no way infringes on the right of any individual to express an idea. He went on to say:
Had he chosen to spray-paint--or perhaps convey with a motion picture projector--his message of dissatisfaction on the facade of the Lincoln Memorial, there would be no question about the power of the Government to prohibit his means of expression. The prohibition would be supported by the legitimate interest in preserving the quality of an important national asset.
Then-Chief Justice Rehnquist also questioned the communicative value in desecrating the flag, saying that such conduct ``is most likely to be indulged in not to express any particular idea, but to antagonize others.''
Prior to these rulings, Congress, with the support of a majority of the American people, had the power to protect our Nation's symbol. Respect for the flag is not something that falls along ideological lines or party affiliation; it is shared by Americans from all walks of life. In these polarized times, the flag remains a unifying symbol.
Last month, as chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, I chaired a markup of this bill. We had an energized debate, and passed the amendment with a bipartisan 6-to-3 majority. Two-thirds of the membership of my subcommittee not only supported the amendment but were, and are, proud cosponsors.
I would like to thank my good friend and ranking member, Senator Russ Feingold for his cooperation in scheduling a markup. He doesn't support the amendment, but I know he believes amending the Constitution is a very serious matter, and I appreciate his cooperation in having a fair and honest debate. I would also like to thank Senator Feinstein. She is one of the strongest supporters of this amendment and is also a member of the Constitution Subcommittee. I commend her for ignoring powerful special interest groups and diligently fighting for what's right.
We should be very careful in considering amendments to the U.S. Constitution. It is not something that should ever be taken lightly, but the Court has left us with few options. It is unfortunate that we have to consider this amendment, but I do believe that in light of the Supreme Court's decisions it is the appropriate action.
The amendment has broad bipartisan support here in the Senate, and is supported by Americans from both ends of the political spectrum. Poll after poll indicates that the people of this country want their flag protected. I have been contacted by numerous veterans groups from my home State of Kansas, as well as across the country voicing strong support for this amendment. We ask a lot from our men and women in uniform. They sacrifice their safety and risk their lives so that each of us can remain free in this great Republic. Their defense of the principles and liberties embodied in the red, white, and blue preserve the freedoms enumerated in the Constitution.
Passing this amendment and sending it to the States allows for the American people to have their voices heard on this important issue. The House passed the flag amendment by a two-thirds majority vote last year, and it is now our turn to do the right thing and give the States and the people of this great Nation the opportunity to decide whether to grant protection to our national symbol. If ratified by three-fourths of the States, then we can debate an appropriate statute concerning treatment of the flag.
There is a lot of misinformation regarding this amendment that should be cleared up. If ratified, the text of the Constitution would not prohibit flag burning. The amendment states:
The Congress shall have power to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States.
Even if the amendment passes, the Congress may decide not to prohibit flag desecration. But we will have corrected a wrong decision by the Supreme Court.
Article V to the Constitution does not give nine unelected Justices the right to amend our founding document. This power rests solely in the democratic process. Restoring this power to the people and their elected representatives in Congress preserves this process. Protecting the integrity of our national symbol should not be left to a handful of unelected judges. Why would any Member of this body vote to limit our power and expand the power of the Court?
The Founding Fathers wisely devised a process for the people through their elected representatives--not the courts--to amend the Constitution. It is our duty as elected Members of Congress to exercise this constitutionally granted power when necessary and appropriate. Justice is not served when we remain silent and allow unaccountable judges to exercise this power for us. If, as Members on both sides the aisle repeatedly claim, we truly oppose judicial activism, we should send this amendment to the States for ratification.
I am proud to have cosponsored this amendment in every Congress since I became a Member, and to have consistently cast my vote in support each time the bill has made it to the floor. I urge my colleagues to support this bill, so that the American people can choose whether or not to bestow protection to their flag. There is no symbol that has the power to unify us like the flag, which is why a majority of Americans continue to support this amendment. It is time to restore the traditional meaning of the first amendment and send the flag desecration resolution to the States for ratification. I urge my colleagues to vote for this important amendment.
Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Oklahoma for his great work on this amendment. This legislation passed the Constitution Subcommittee 6 to 3. It passed the full Judiciary Committee and is now ready for this body to vote, and we need to have a positive vote on it.
I flew in to Washington today. There were cloudy skies, but one could still see the monuments when flying in. The beauty of the monuments never ceases to strike me. Whether it is the White House, the Washington Monument, the Lincoln Memorial, National Cathedral, there are just certain landscape features one looks at.
When you are flying in on the so-called river run that the pilots so often do, you get to see these monuments, and it is just so striking.
I was preparing for this debate and thinking about the Lincoln Memorial. What if somebody today, yesterday, or some other time had taken spray paint and sprayed on the Lincoln Memorial: ``We want freedom'' or ``Death to tyrants'' or ``Down with the flag''? Let's say they wrote that in big spray paint on the Lincoln Memorial and defaced the memorial and then was caught and was brought to trial and claimed: Wait a minute, I have a first amendment right to say what I want to say, and I believe it is important that I say it anywhere, and I want to say it on the Lincoln Memorial. I want to make my message known, and I am going to spray-paint it all over here; this is free speech, and I ought to be able to do that and this is the place to do it, and Lincoln would approve of that; he believed in free speech, so he wouldn't mind that the memorial was sprayed upon, that it was defaced.
We would all recognize that as being something wrong, violating the law, and something there should be a law against.
We don't have a problem with a person standing on the Lincoln Memorial and shouting at the top of his lungs for as long as he wants whatever he wants to say--if it is about the war in Iraq, if it is about the President, if it is about somebody in the Senate, if it is about myself, if it is about the Chair, if it is about anything he wants. We don't have any problem with that. But if he defaces the memorial, we do.
It is interesting, that was the dissent Justice Stevens used in the Texas v. Johnson case. He made that same point. We have no problem with a person speaking on the Lincoln Memorial. We have a problem with him defacing the Lincoln Memorial. We have no problem with people speaking against the flag. We have a problem with them defacing the flag.
Justice Stevens in his dissent--which I think was rightly said--said:
Had he chosen to spray paint or perhaps convey with a motion picture projector his message of dissatisfaction on the facade of the Lincoln Memorial, there would be no question about the power of Government to prohibit this means of expression. The prohibition will be supported by the legitimate interests in preserving the quality of an important national asset.
That is what we are talking about today: preserving the quality of an important national asset that people follow into battle, that we have had and honored for years and years, and until recently the court has held up as saying: Yes, this is something that should be protected and is protected by the laws of the land, and these laws are appropriate and are not limitations on free speech.
I think if you follow this court ruling, where does it end? If you say actions are speech, wouldn't you have a legitimate objective in defacing the Lincoln Memorial, particularly if it was some form of political free speech that you wanted to express and put forward?
We have held many hearings on this topic. This is not a complicated issue. It is about whether we are going to have some authority and ability to be able to limit and to be able to honor and to uphold something so precious as our American flag. I think we should do that. I think because of the people who follow this flag and because we are a nation of symbols, and symbols are what unite us, and because of the words and thought that are conveyed by this flag, we should be able to uphold this mighty national asset. I think it is important that we be allowed to do that.
I have had a chance to speak on this at length in committee. I have carried the amendment in our subcommittee. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment and let the States vote on it. Let the States decide what they would choose to do.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
