Public Statements
FOX News Channel - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 27, 2006
Location: Unknown


Fox News Channel - Transcript
MR. GIBSON: This is a Fox News alert. In just a few minutes, the Senate is set to vote on a Democratic alternative to a constitutional amendment banning flag burning. It comes from the Senate's number two Democrat, Dick Durbin of Illinois. The Senate this week is set to vote on the constitutional amendment to ban any other desecration of Old Glory. Opponents say it's all about election year politics, but supporters say it is a salute to veterans.
Joining us now, Republican Kansas Senator Sam Brownback.
Senator, thanks very much for being here.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Sure.
MR. GIBSON: I haven't noticed a huge outburst of flag burning. Maybe I missed it. Why is this constitutional amendment needed at this moment, in your view?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think we need to do it as an honor to our veterans and recognition of this important national symbol. And it's something that -- when you're amending the Constitution, a lot of times these things take a long time. It was protected -- the flag was -- by this country and was regarded as being able to be protected under the Constitution until 1989 when the Supreme Court took a big about face, 5-4 ruling, said you could desecrate the flag. And so the effort has been ongoing since that point in time.
John, the House has passed this five times, and we think we're within one vote of being able to pass it in the Senate.
MR. GIBSON: You're that close at this moment, so you may get it passed.
SEN. BROWNBACK: We think we will, and then it goes to the states. And the important point here is, John, this was protected until 1989. It is about a symbol -- a unifying symbol. It's not about free speech. If somebody wants to yell at the flag all day long, they're welcome to doing that, but there are certain things that do unify us symbolically and this is one of those important symbols.
MR. GIBSON: Senator, when it goes off to the legislature, it has to -- what is it? Two-thirds of the state legislatures?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Three-fourths of the states.
MR. GIBSON: Three-quarters. That could take a long time. So let's just say everything goes your way and it works its way through the state legislatures. How long do you think it would be before this would be a constitutional amendment?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think you'll see veterans groups all across the country really push their states to pass this. Now, while it could take a long time, it also could happen in one or two years, moving across the states. And this amendment itself simply gives Congress the authority to protect the flag. It doesn't say what that would be. It gives Congress that authority to pass it.
So I actually think that once it passes the Congress, you'll see either very rapid uptake across the country, or it's probably not going to happen. But I think your time frames are going to be actually fairly short. It's a direct and pretty simple issue.
MR. GIBSON: Senator, there's a lot of criticism that this is Republicans trying to stir up the base as we approach an election year. There's really no need for this, but it gets Republicans excited. How do you respond?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I think that's just complete foolishness. We have passed this five times. Ask the American Legion if they think this is foolishness. Ask the veterans organizations who have stood behind this flag in battle, do they think this is foolishness. And they would both say resoundingly no. We have followed this flag in battle. It is an important unifying symbol for us as a country. Let's take care of it and let's honor it, let's not desecrate it.
MR. GIBSON: Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas.
Senator, thanks very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, John.

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/index.html
