Public Statements
Hearing of the United States Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (Helsinki Commission) - Human Rights, Democracy and Integration
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 15, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


Hearing of the United States Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (Helsinki Commission) - Human Rights, Democracy and Integration in South-Central Europe
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I'm delighted to have you here and your expertise is well known and appreciated, I think, on this set of topics.
The purpose of the hearing is -- and I associate my comments with Congressman Smith -- is to look specifically at the human rights situation and the degree of democratic development in Albania, Bosnia Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia in the hope of encouraging these companies to take the additional steps that will make integration possible.
The hearing is not about debating the future status of Kosovo, but about making Kosovo a place where human rights and democratic principles are respected. There is a lot that needs to take place before that statement is fulfilled in that region.
Congressman Cardin, did you have an opening statement you'd like to make?
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: The first panel is the deputy assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs, Rosemary A. DiCarlo. She currently serves in that position. She's a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, who previously served as director for united nations affairs at the National Security Council. She's the Washington deputy to the U.S. permanent representative to the U.N. She served in a number of other key positions.
We're delighted to have you here today and look forward to your statement. We'll put your full written in the record if you want to summarize your position, but thank you very much for being here.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your comments and your attention to the region. I think it's critical that it continue to take place, and particularly I appreciate your highlighting the trafficking problem in the region, which is well known and needs to be emphasized and kept on top of because so many peoples' direct lives are involved with that.
We've got a good panel of members here. I just want to ask one question and go to my colleagues. I get a number of people coming to my office talking about the continued ethnic cleansing -- that's not the right term -- ethnic intimidation taking place in the region, frequently through attempts to destroy symbolic institutions or places.
You get members from the Orthodox Church coming in and saying, well, the church is being destroyed while forces are in the region and that these are efforts to intimidate and move people out of the region.
I would wonder how you see that set of issues and what can be done to address them?
MS. DICARLO: Well, first of all, there certainly are vulnerable populations, vulnerable religions in the region. We tried very hard to work with all the governments in the region in first ensuring that they have the proper laws in place, and then in seeing that those laws are implemented.
I will give you an example, in the case of Kosovo, we pushed very hard on the provisional government to adopt a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to violence against minorities.
In Macedonia, for example, we have worked very hard with the government of Macedonia on its treatment of the Roma. The U.S. Agency for International Development funds a number of programs and funds a number of programs in not only Macedonia aimed at Roma, but throughout the region, to increase awareness, tolerance and proper treatment of minorities and protection of human rights.
It's a problem, it's one that needs to be addressed very seriously. It will take a lot of time and obviously will involve also civil society organizations, which re really just beginning to grow in south-central Europe.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you. Congressman Smith, and let's run the time clock at five minutes, so we can keep everyone informed of where they are.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you. And I do appreciate all of your interest and focus in the region and Senator Voinovich is somebody that I certainly turn to on dealing with things in this region, because of his knowledge and his work in it.
I do hope on that last point that that's something we can emphasize, because one of the big problems, it strikes me, in the region has been this ethnic intimidation. And it seems to go on in lots of different ways and places, and any time we can be helpful of slowing that or stopping that ethnic intimidation from taking place, it seems like that's to help long-term benefit to have in an ethnically diverse area. And not just, OK, we sort this group that way and that group sorts this way is not a long-term solution I don't think anybody's looking for, but yet that seems to be what's taking place.
I found it interesting that you talked about the incentives the Croatians are putting in place to get people, I guess, there. I did not realize that was taking place, but I hope we can be helpful in keeping the diversity where it is.
Secretary, thank you very much for joining us. I appreciate your being here and appreciate your good work.
MS. DICARLO: Thank you. Thank you very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I call up the second panel now, Daniel P. Serwer, the vice president, Center of Post-Conflict Peace and Stability Operations, U.S. Institute of Peace; Janusz Bugajski, director of new European democracies project and senior fellow of Europe program, Center for Strategic and International Studies, CSIS; Nicolae Gheorghe, senior advisor, Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, Office for Security and Cooperation in Europe; Joseph Grieboski, founder and president, Institute on Religion and Public Policy. And that's an excellent panel that we appreciate people being here.
As I understand that Mr. Gheorghe has landed at the airport, is rapidly speeding this way, even as we go forward. We'll go on with the panel and hopefully he'll be here in time to present as well.
All of your statements will be placed in the record fully. If you would like to summarize them, I will run a time clock at five minutes each to give you an idea where you are. If you needed to go some over that, that's not a big problem at all, but I want to give you some idea of where you are on time.
Mr. Serwer, thank you very much for joining us and the floor is yours.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much, sir. We've got a vote that's on in the Senate now, and I don't know if our House colleagues are coming back.
What we'll do is we'll put the hearing in recess until either they can get back in from the House side or that we're back from the Senate side. It unfortunately takes a little time to walk over and get back. And I apologize to our witnesses and those in attendance, but just really can't avoid it any other way. So we will be in recess until either Congressman Smith or myself or Senator Voinovich gets back here to bring us back out of recess.
In recess.
(RECESS)
SEN. BROWNBACK: Call the hearing back to order. Thank you all for staying with us. I apologize. Both Senator Voinovich and I had a vote, Senate side, which we could be called back for probably as soon as 30 minutes for an additional vote. So would ask the presenters, if they can, to stay at their presentations for five minutes so we can make sure to get through those as much as we possibly can.
Let's see, Mr. Bugajski, director of New European Democracies Project, senior fellow for CSIS. If you would, thank you for joining us.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much, Mr. Grieboski.
I want to say we're extremely honored and privileged to have Nicolae Gheorghe with us here today. I know he's made a heroic effort to be here, including a flight that was delayed, to come directly from a trip through Kosovo and Macedonia. And he'll be testifying again tomorrow in front of the Helsinki Commission on the Roma human rights or lack thereof.
He's been one of the outstanding advocates for the recognition of Roma in international human rights documents and Romani human rights issues.
So I'm delighted to have you here today. Thank for making so much effort to be here with us today, Mr. Gheorghe.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: And your policy recommendation is that we've got the specific measures out there. We've just got to keep pushing them on these topics, and that the carrot, big carrot at the end of this, is joining NATO and E.U.
MR. BUGAJSKI: Those are the two big carrots, and the third big carrot I would say is becoming part of the mainstream, in other words, to benefit from the modern economy, raising living standards. It's not going to solve every problem, but I think it would contribute to resolving some of the worst abuses and suspicions and paranoias that we've seen in the region.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Serwer, any divergence on that thought?
MR. SERWER: No, I think it's not surprising, though, that you should find in Serbia, Bosnia and Kosovo things lagging behind some of the places that Janusz was talking about: Croatia, Macedonia, Albania. Serbia, Kosovo and Bosnia have been through much worse in the way of conflict and they're going to take a longer time to recover.
I don't mean to excuse anything about their laws on religion, by any means, but I do think it's important to recognize that they are way behind.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Grieboski, do you disagree with these two gentlemen, of what they are saying in the overarching situation?
MR. GRIEBOSKI: No, Senator, in the overarching situation, there's been great advancement in the process of democratization throughout the region. However, what's in the one element for which I was asked to testify, that of religious rights, we have not seen that same progress. And, very often, this is a result of the international community's lack of attention to the role of religious rights and religious minorities in that overall process.
As there's been advancement in freedom of the press, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, very often the international community does not hold these states to the same conditions on freedom of religion.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Do you agree, Mr. Serwer, is that accurate?
Sorry about our lack of technology to spread around here.
MR. SERWER: Yes, so far as I know, it's accurate. It should surprise no one that places that won't arrest Mladic also have on religion that aren't very -- don't meet Western standards. They don't meet Western standards in a number of different respects.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It just seems like that's such a basic issue in that region. It's a basic issue in so many places of the world, but much of the conflict has both an ethnic and religious tie to it that if you're going to defuse the conflict over time you've got to defuse the ethnic and religious battling, splitting apart on those bases, don't you?
MR. SERWER: Well, absolutely, you do, and it seems to me that there are efforts underway in the way of writing common histories of the region, that is, getting ethnic groups to write common histories, truth and reconciliation commissions, things of this sort which will help to clear the air and to enable a much better understanding across religions.
But the fact of the matter is, in Bosnia today, you probably have more distance between Croats, Muslims and Serbs than you had before the war. That's a fact of the matter and that's what we've got to deal with. And I agree with Mr. Grieboski that the effort of the commission and of others to raise the international visibility of the religious issue is very important in getting it resolved.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Any additional policy recommendations on resolving this set of issues that any of you would make, other than what you've already put forward?
MR. BUGAJSKI: If I could just add, I don't know how much influence we would have, but in the case, for example, of the Orthodox communities in the Balkans, I think it is essential to have mutual recognition. In other words, for the Macedonians Orthodox Church and the Montenegrin Orthodox Church, which is in the process of restoring its property, its position and so forth, I think it's important for the Serbian Orthodox Church to recognize the existence of those churches, of those denominations. Because that in itself helps to recognize the statehood, the nationality, the history of its neighbors and I think will help in ethnic reconciliation in the region. That would be one of my recommendations.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Very good.
Mr. Gheorghe, again, I really appreciate your work and your testimony on this, and I appreciate what you've done for the Roma community and I just want that noted for the record in particular.
Senator Voinovich?
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Senator, if I could step in just real briefly here. I'm going to have to run myself for another engagement that I have to do and I'm going to turn the hearing over to you to go as you need. This is a great panel and I really appreciate your being here and I want to give you the time you need to ask any questions. You should.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.csce.gov/index.cfm?Fuseaction=ContentRecords.ViewTranscript&ContentRecord_id=372&ContentType=H,B&ContentRecordType=H&CFID=4206472&CFTOKEN=66798164
