Public Statements
News Conference with Republican Senators Announcing a Major Budget Initiative to Control Federal Spending
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 14, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


News Conference with Republican Senators Announcing a Major Budget Initiative to Control Federal Spending
Copyright ©2007 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Jack Graeme at jack@fednews.com or call 1-800-211-4020.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): I want to thank the chairman for putting this package forward. The particular provision that I contributed to it was the "BRAC" for the rest of government, called the CARFA, Commission on Accountability and Review of Federal Agencies. It uses the exact same mechanism as BRAC only for the rest of government. A commission appointed by majority and minority leaders, both House and Senate, and by the president. The commission reports to Congress a package of proposals. It is voted on in an expedited basis up or down without amendment -- you either agree with the whole package, you disagree with all of it, and it moves on through.
Through this mechanism, which we have used before, we have saved the public over $45 billion on military spending. It's time to take the concept that has worked and apply it to the rest of government. And I think we've proven around here that the system is built to spend. What I see in these changes is a systems change, a systems approach to where you move the system to save, and to save us -- to move us forward towards balancing the budget. We have enough receipts, it's spending that's out of control, and we need a systems change to address that. That's why I support this package.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.fnsg.com/transcripta.htm?id=20060614t7205&query=Brownback
