Public Statements
Press Conference Following Defeat of the Marriage Protection Amendment in the U.S. Senate
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 7, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


Press Conference Following Defeat of the Marriage Protection Amendment in the U.S. Senate
Copyright ©2007 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Jack Graeme at jack@fednews.com or call 1-800-211-4020.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, number one, we don't know how they're going to rule on this case. I raised it at the confirmation hearings on Alito and Roberts. And as the process is anymore, you rarely know how a judge is going to rule on any case that's likely to come in front of the court. And we don't know how they're going to rule on this one. I hope they rule in favor of marriage as the union of a man and a woman, but we don't know. And you've got the Lawrence case that sits there, that's a flip of precedence of what it had been 20 years ago. So you just -- you don't know. I take some comfort that they're there, but we don't know.
And now you have courts that have acted to overturn this. You have had your first federal court in Nebraska has acted to overturn a state constitutional amendment defining marriage as a union of a man and a woman. That's why Ben Nelson joined us this time and didn't last time. He told me, "Look, as soon as the courts start ruling against this, I'm with you." The courts started ruling against this, he voted with us. And I think you'll see this, as it moves through, courts keep voting -- turning against this -- that we will grow our margin even further on it.

Source:
