Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 6, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS -- (Senate - June 06, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
By Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself and Mr. Talent):
S. 3454. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to improve the exchange of healthcare information through the use of technology, to encourage the creation, use and maintenance of lifetime electronic health records that may contain health plan and debit card functionality in independent health record banks, to use such records to build a nationwide health information technology infrastructure, and to promote participation in health information exchange by consumers through tax incentives and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that would address one of the most critical issues facing Americans today, that of rising health care costs. America's collective health care bill represents an increasing percentage of the GDP and, at the same time, mortality rates remain stubbornly high. It is apparent that the time has come for innovative health care solutions that will save money and save lives.
Today, I am introducing the Independent Health Record Bank Act of 2006, a market-driven approach that will save both money and lives by creating a self-sustaining National Health Information Network for doctors and patients. Rather than continuing to get by with a patchwork system of paper records that contributes to medical errors and high cost, this legislation creates a nationwide system of secure electronic health records. Under the Independent Health Record Bank Act, ownership of the record is truly independent and consumer-focused, as this type of bank provides the objective service of sustaining individual electronic health records, much like the way financial institutions maintain assets. This consumer-driven approach will offer Americans portable and electronic health records over their lifetime at little to no cost, with specific, established measures for privacy and security.
We saw in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, when medical records and lab results were literally washed away, that the current system of paper records can prove to be cumbersome at best, and fatal at worst. Americans should have the ability to access their health records as easily as they access their bank accounts--through the use of a national IT network administered by cooperative, not-for-profit institutions. I urge my colleagues to support this effort through cosponsorship of this important legislation.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
