Public Statements
Marriage Protection Amendment - Motion to Proceed
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 6, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


MARRIAGE PROTECTION AMENDMENT--MOTION TO PROCEED -- (Senate - June 06, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. I thank my colleague from Colorado, Senator Allard, for his carrying of this amendment. When the issue first surfaced a couple of years ago, Senator Allard was the first one to put forward a constitutional amendment on the issue of marriage, a very simple one to define the union of marriage as a man and a woman.
The issue has taken many twists and turns since that time. The institution itself has been weakened over a number of years, and this is an effort to help it, help strengthen that institution and to have the definition of this institution done by legislative bodies and not by courts.
This is a very simple amendment. It is hard for me to understand why anybody would oppose it when 45 of 50 States have defined marriage as the union of a man and a woman, and this simply says that if States want to define it differently, they have to go through the legislative process and not the courts, so that the Court can't force it. It must be done by a legislative body. And if some States decide to do that, then that is provided for in this amendment. So the five States that have done something different are provided for in the amendment. Yet the basics of it say marriage is the union of a man and a woman, as it has been as an institution for thousands of years.
So I thank my friend from Colorado for carrying this. It is a difficult topic. I would never have dreamed in my life, in coming to the Senate, that this would be a difficult topic, one that would be debated. When I came into the Senate in 1996, this was not discussed at all in the campaigns. It was not discussed in the campaign in 1998. It has only been of a recent vintage that this has come forward. Yet it has come forward because of the importance of the topic.
I want to discuss two points. This issue is going to be defined by the courts or the legislative bodies, period. We seek to have it defined by legislative bodies. We think that is the appropriate thing when you are dealing with such a fundamental institution of society as marriage. It should be defined by the people and the legislative bodies and not the courts. The situation in Europe, as it evolved, went through the court process. Therefore, we seek for these changes, if they are to be made, to go through the legislative body. I believe that marriage is such a foundational institution it should be defined as the union of a man and woman, and I will cover that in my discussion.
No. 2, this is important on how we raise the next generation in the United States. That is why we have favored the institution of traditional marriage, the union of a man and a woman, because we know in all the social data in all societies at all times that the best place to raise
children is in the union of a man and a woman and in that sacred institution is the best place to raise your next generation, with that bonding together for life and children raised in that setting.
That is something for which we have got social data, but also we know that in our hearts. We know, sitting here right now, that, yes, that is the best place. I know that. I know that in my own heart. Yet I want to take us through what has happened to this weakened institution of marriage, what has happened then to our next generation. Here I am using the Moynihan principle. Senator Moynihan, who was in this body, since deceased, had a basic principle that he looked at. One of the key things we should look at is how we raise the next generation. It is something that any legislative body should be most concerned about because it affects what you are going to do in the future. It affects what the country is going to be in the future. And so we should maximize and look with great intensity at how you are impacting that next generation. I have to say, with the weakening of the institution of marriage over the past 30 to 40 years, with this redefining of marriage, which would define marriage out of existence, which is what we have seen in other countries, you are going to harm your next generations and succeeding generations that you raise.
I want to back that up. I am going to go through a series of charts to paint the picture of what has happened to marriage in America today and why we would encourage the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman.
This doesn't need explanation. You can see where we are. With a 4-percent rate of out-of-wedlock births in 1930, we are at about a third of the children in the United States today born to unmarried women.
That is not to say you cannot raise great children in this setting because you can. A number of women struggle heroically to raise children, and good children, in this setting, as they can do. As I will show in these charts, it becomes far more difficult, and that is why institutions such as this and across the States, across the country, favor traditional marriage because you get more adults per child involved in that child's life and they are bonded together. They are thick. The blood is thick. They care for each other and they work to raise this child as my wife and I are working together to raise our children. It is tough. It is tough raising children. You need more adults per child, and you need adults who are committed for life so that that child does not have to worry about what is going to happen tomorrow or what is going to happen in the future. They know there are two parents who love that child unconditionally and are committed to that child unconditionally and they are going to work for that child and that is why we favor the institution of marriage. Yet you can see we are getting fewer and fewer children raised in that type of situation.
Now, then I mentioned, well, OK, you can raise good children in a single-parent household. Yes, you can. But the situation becomes more difficult. Developmental problems are less common in two-parent families. Lower half of class academically, as you can see in the green, is not as high in two-parent families; developmental delays, 10 percent. You are looking at, again, almost double the situation, and you are looking at double the problems with emotional behavior problems, single-parent versus two-parent families. That doesn't mean that you don't have problems in two-parent families. You do. It is just your numbers go down. So when you are looking at this in a macrosituation, as a Government, you are saying we want more children in these two-parent households.
The next chart shows that nearly 80 percent of all children suffering long-term poverty come from broken or never married families. This is something I want to develop a little further as well. We have a Brookings scholar, Ron Haskin, who testified at a hearing I hosted about welfare reform and the need to encourage marriage for those who are receiving welfare. And he says this:
There are only two ways known to man and to God to reduce poverty. No. 1 is work and No. 2 is marriage.
Here's what I want to show is if people will get married and stay married the number of children suffering in long-term poverty goes down substantially, if you will do that. And I want to develop this a little bit further.
Children in poverty--this is in the year 2000. You can see, if a child has been a child of a first marriage, less than 12 percent in poverty. You can see, if a child is in a situation where the mom has never married, 67 percent of your children in poverty come in that situation. Again, that is not casting aspersions on anybody. It is simply saying these are the facts of what happened.
Now, it is a bit of a sidebar, but it points to the policy impact of harming marriage. In other words, if we take policies that are harmful to marriage, it hurts children and it hurts marriage. If we take this policy move of defining marriage out of existence, saying it can be any two or more people who care for each other, it will fundamentally hurt your institution of marriage by a policy move.
Now, I want to reflect a policy move we did in welfare. In welfare, basically, we said--it is a very busy chart--we said to people if you get married, we are going to cut your welfare support. If you get married, we are going to cut your welfare support. What this shows are the various welfare programs in the country and it is those when you are going from $20,000 income per year, very low, to $40,000, which is where you get if two people get married, and I will develop this further, you fall off into the abyss as far as support you get from child care development funds, women and infant children, Federal housing, food stamps, all these things, you fall off the cliff to the point that you have an effective tax rate, if you get married and your income gets to $40,000 by being married, an 88-percent maximum tax rate for you getting married in the welfare system. Therefore, it is no wonder that the people who get married are much more in the upper income and much less in the lower income.
This is a stark chart that should scare us all. This is income levels to percentage unmarried. And you can see at the lower income level, you are up as high as 70 percent not married, not getting married. Our public policies say, if you get married, we are going to throw you off welfare, and so fewer people get married. And it has an impact.
I want to show this final one quite quickly. This is the effective tax rate, maximum highest tax rate of you getting married on welfare and it is 88 percent, the impact of divorce on income of families with children. Again, I want to hit this pretty fast. When families separate, it drives income down, hurts children generally, although not in all situations, but I am painting the macropicture.
Now, what has happened to our children in this society since, say, 1960. The number of children--I showed an earlier chart--about a third are born out of wedlock. In the 1940s, it was about 4 percent. You can look at 1960, the number of children, either born out of wedlock or in previous years the parents were divorced, in 1960, we are up to 16, 17 percent, and today you are looking at over half. In America today, about half of the children under age 18 will spend a significant portion of their life in a single-parent household. Again, you can raise good children in that setting, but the numbers start moving against you.
OK. What does that have to do with same-sex marriage. The issue is we are looking at the policy choice of why we define marriage as the union between a man and a woman or any sort of grouping. The experience in other countries has been, when you redefine marriage broadly and you broaden it and say it can be any type of relationship between two or more people, you get fewer marriages and you hurt your children.
That has been the situation.
I will go to several other countries that have redefined marriage, defined marriage out of existence. In the Netherlands, since proposals for same-sex marriage began to be debated, the out-of-wedlock birthrate has soared. It was a fairly stable country in out-of-wedlock births and was at low rate.
We will show in the next chart the same-sex marriage union, and the discussion, said to society: It really does not matter. The marriage institution is not a sacred institution; it is just whatever we define it to be. That tradition is tradition. We are going to go a different way.
What happened to out-of-wedlock birthrates? You can see the situation in the Netherlands, which is particularly important because it was one of the lowest out-of-wedlock birthrate countries in Europe for a number of years, shows that until 1980, below 5 percent of the population was born out of wedlock. When we get the court cases which we have in the United States today saying marriage should be redefined, we see the impact, as well as a Supreme Court case that rules against marriage being the union of a man and a woman. Then we get symbolic marriage registration, registered partnership, same-sex unions, and now we are up to 35 percent as seen in this skyrocketing chart.
One can say, that is the way it is, this number puts children in more disadvantaged situations, which is where our concerns should be, as to how you raise that next generation.
I will show another chart. We not only know this in the Netherlands but we know from Scandinavian countries, the Nordic countries that redefined marriage, experiences in Scandinavia and the Netherlands make it clear that same-sex marriage could widen the separation between marriage and parenthood here in the United States.
We know in some Nordic countries, you have counties now where 80 percent of the first-born children are born out of wedlock, and two-thirds of the second children are born out of wedlock. That has a significant impact, I argue, a devastating impact, on how that next generation is raised, given the difficulty of raising children in that one-parent union.
So if we redefine marriage, and define it downward, far less heterosexual marriages will be the broad policy impact of doing this. That has been the experience in other countries. You get more children raised in a sub-optimal atmosphere and you will have more difficulties with that next generation of children. This is important. This is critical.
I hear my colleagues complain, important issues? I remind my colleagues we spent 2 weeks before break on immigration, which is a critical topic, and we will take up the budget this next week, another a critical topic, yet I don't think one can look at an institutional question more profound, more important and active than what is taking place right now on the issue of marriage.
Marriage is a foundational institution. If we get more of it, we will have more stronger, healthier children, raised in better situations for the future of the country. If we get less of it, such as what this policy decision would do if we do not define marriage as a union of a man and a woman, we will have more problems on a trajectory we are already headed on. The institution of marriage has been weakened in the United States.
The institution of marriage has been weakened over the past 40 years. But the answer is not to kill it. The answer is to strengthen it. And it takes steps like the commonsense approach Senator Allard from Colorado is putting forward, defining marriage as a union between a man and a woman, saying only State legislatures, not the courts, can redefine it another way.
That should please everyone. Yet, I am afraid many of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are going the opposite and claiming some sort of hyperbole about this being bigotry. It is not. It is people deeply concerned about the future of the country and the future of the next generation, concerned that they will say it is just politics. It is not. You have 45 of 50 States that have defined marriage as a union of a man and a woman and have spent significant resources to define and support the institution of marriage because of its importance to the society and to the Republic. This is a key, important debate.
I am delighted the leadership is calling this up. I hope my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will support it.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
