Public Statements
Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 25, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2006 -- (Senate - May 25, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Wisconsin for bringing forward this amendment and for highlighting the issue. I hope we can get a strong vote from all of our colleagues on the amendment.
We heard about the issue of clear and convincing evidence that one has to meet to keep from being sent home even though the standard is lower for one to actually win the case. I don't know anywhere else in the law where one has to meet a higher standard at that point in the system than one would on final adjudication. This is really backward in that particular situation.
I don't want to talk about that in particular, as I do the specific situations that can arise and we can see easily enough happen. I have been to one of the detention facilities in New York, a place called Wackenhut--an incredible name for a detention facility. I have been to detention facilities on the border. I met with people who sought asylum.
I recognize the problem a number of people are targeting on this issue--and I think it is a legitimate concern to raise--that too many people are claiming asylum status who are not legitimate asylees, and they are not going to win in the system and are flooding the system with requests. That is a legitimate concern. One can go into some of these detention facilities and find a lot of people who are saying they are seeking asylum and asylum status, and on its face one can question whether it is a legitimate case. That is a proper issue to raise, and I think the people who put forward this amendment are targeting a correct issue.
Having said that, I have also worked with a number of people who, if you take them in this situation and say: You can't meet clear and convincing on the initial status, you are going home and wait there before you can come here for asylum status, and we send them home, they are going to prison or they are likely to disappear. They are likely to disappear in that situation. I say disappear as in being killed in those host countries to which they would go back. We can think of some pretty easy ones. I had six refugees from North Korea in my office last week. If they go home, they are in the Gulag and probably will not survive.
What about Iran? What happens if someone from Iran comes to this country and seeks asylum status, and we say it doesn't look clear and convincing to us? How about Zimbabwe under Mugabe? That could happen in this situation. If you are in a family that has been opposed to his leadership in that country, and we say: Well, I don't know, and you are saying it is an uncle who caused a situation about which Mugabe is concerned, and we say: I don't know, did the uncle do much; we don't have a factual record on this--he doesn't have a factual record at all because they didn't let him leave with any factual record; you are going on his testimony, and he has to meet clear and convincing evidence--it would be very logical for a judge to say: You don't meet clear and convincing evidence. It is your word on this. We don't have a factual record. We can't get to a factual record. You are going back to Zimbabwe. And if he goes back to Zimbabwe, it is highly likely he will disappear, as in being killed. This guy isn't going to make it, isn't going to survive.
In that situation, we should have the standard the same on the stay as on the final injunction, particularly at this early stage in the process and particularly when somebody's physical life is in jeopardy.
I am afraid to say there are quite a few places in this world today where there are dictatorships or narrow one-party rule where if somebody is sent back and they have been opposed or now even perceived as opposed, now that they have traveled outside the United States and tried to get away, or if someone is sent back to Syria or somewhere else, there is a high likelihood they are going to disappear, they are going to be killed. They not going to be seen again in their home country.
in this particular case, while I think the people who propose the base portion of this text are accurate in seeing a problem that has grown wide in this litigation, the narrow impact of this and the backwardness of the adjudication process, having the final order being a lower standard than this initial one, and the likelihood of physical harm, if not death, to the individual being sent home, we shouldn't be doing that. We shouldn't be allowing that to happen. I would hope that we could pass this amendment to change that standard so the final order and the temporary order are the same adjudication status and we don't get people killed inadvertently because we have put in a different status. This is important, and I think lives are at stake with this one.
In far too many places around the world that I have been, you can think and you can articulate a number of them that would come forward, be it the case in Burma, or be it the case in a number of countries that are dictatorships throughout Africa. You could look at Turkmenistan. I met yesterday with some human rights activists from Turkmenistan; a real question there is what happens to you. China, some real questions in that country, particularly if you are a member of Falun Gong and you come here, or you are a student activist or knew somebody who was a student activist. Again, most of it is on your word at this point in time and you can't meet the clear and convincing steps.
So I would hope we could pass this amendment. I am fearful that if we don't, we are going to see people sent back, sent back to death, and I don't want to see us doing something like that.
I thank my colleague for proposing this amendment. I appreciate those who are dealing with this issue. I do think this would be a good amendment for us to pass.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I wish to speak to the very important issue of interior worksite enforcement in the context of the debate over comprehensive immigration reform legislation.
One of the most important elements of this bill, that is crucial to the successful implementation of the guest worker and earned legalization programs, is interior worksite enforcement. Only a serious commitment to enforcing our immigration laws against employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants will actually deter illegal immigration because the number one reason people enter the United States illegally is to find a job.
Looking back on the history of immigration reform, one of the key elements that has been missing, and is still missing, is successful interior enforcement. However, thanks to hard work of Senators GRASSLEY, OBAMA, KENNEDY, and BAUCUS, this bill contains worksite enforcement that can work.
The original language in the underlying bill, S. 2611, concerned me in several ways, particularly with respect to certain contractor liability provisions that would have created a de facto ``rebuttable presumption'' for contractors whose subcontractors hired undocumented immigrants, even if the principal contractor had no knowledge of such hiring. In essence, the contractors would be guilty until proven innocent, even if the offense of hiring unauthorized workers was committed without their direct knowledge.
Before I continue, let me be clear--I am in full support of cracking down on employers who knowingly hire unauthorized workers because doing so is the key to having a lawful and successful immigration system. However, we should not cast the net so broadly that innocent contractors are punished for the independent actions of a subcontractor.
It is somewhat clear that the contractor liability provisions in the underlying bill were targeted at ``bad actor'' construction contractors, but I interpret the legislation to impact all employers, not just those in construction. In fact, any employer using suppliers or contractors involving labor in the normal course of their operations are impacted. A broad interpretation of the language covers companies that contract with, for example, suppliers of refreshments, including beverage companies that supply coffee, sodas and bottled water. What about the suppliers of copier services that come to fix the copy machine? Certainly they are suppliers of contracts involving labor. Can all companies contracting for such labor be responsible for ensuring that all of its suppliers employ persons of legal status? Such a requirement is unrealistic and unfairly penalizes employers.
There exists somewhat of a defense for these companies, a ``knowing'' standard, but what concerned me most was how a company could defend itself against accusations that it knew that its supplier employed illegal immigrants.
With the understanding that the original language applied to all employers, the construction industry nevertheless represents a good example of how unworkable these provisions are. The construction industry is a system which includes general or prime contractors with subcontractors ranging from plumbing to roofing to electrical specialty contractors. On any given project, a general contractor may have contractual relationships with as many as 50 different subcontractors. Ensuring that these prime contractors are not liable for the independent, illicit behavior of one or more of the subcontractors was the focus of my amendment.
I was also troubled by the original language, which involved a presumption of guilt before the company was able to prove its innocence.
Therefore, in effort to correct these dangerous provisions, I offered amendment number 4096 which would protect employers from being liable for the illegal behavior of their suppliers and subcontractors. This amendment resembled one that was offered during the consideration of H.R. 4437, the Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act, legislation that focused on securing the border and increased internal enforcement. Offering this amendment was freshman congressman, Lynn Westmoreland of Georgia's 8th district. I should point out that when the House debated immigration legislation in December 2005, Westmoreland's amendment was so popular that it received more votes of support than that on final passage of the legislation.
Though the language in the Grassley title III amendment does not include the language in my amendment, Senator GRASSLEY's amendment is much more reasonable than the provisions in the underlying bill. Senator GRASSLEY's amendment replaces the ``guilty until proven innocent'' rebuttable presumption with a standard of ``knowing or with reckless disregard,'' which goes a long way to protect innocent contractors from being held liable for actions of a subcontractor that are out of their control.
In closing, I respectfully request that the House-Senate conferees pay careful attention to the provisions in both the House and Senate regarding unlawful employment of aliens. I hope the conferees will engage in a discussion regarding the differences between the various standards for holding contractors liable for the actions of their subcontractors. I understand that there exists ample case law regarding the definitions of these terms, yet I ask that the conferees further define these terms for the sake of employers who will quickly be required to abide by the new provisions under this bill.
In addition, it is important for the conferees to clarify how the Electronic Employment Verification System will communicate with contractors regarding the hiring practices of their subcontractors. This relationship is yet unclear as the bill is currently written and should be clarified before the bill becomes law.
I reiterate my wholehearted support for a strict worksite enforcement system that cracks down on ``bad actor'' employers who thumb their nose at the law by knowingly hiring unauthorized workers. These employers should be punished for their actions; however, they should not be punished for actions taken by their subcontractors without their direct knowledge.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
