Public Statements
Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 23, 2006
Location: Washington, DC

COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2006 -- (Senate - May 23, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I want to speak briefly on the overall bill and the progress we are making to date. And then I want to address, briefly, the Feinstein amendment.
I have great regard for the Senator from California. She is one of the top authorities in the Senate on immigration. She has dealt with this topic for many years, and in a very practical way she has dealt with it, and in a very knowledgeable way she has dealt with it.
We are making great progress on getting a comprehensive, bipartisan immigration bill through the U.S. Senate. Everybody is not going to agree with this bill at the end of the day, but it has been a delight to see the body work and to see us go on amendments--a Republican amendment might pass or fail, a Democrat amendment might pass or fail. We are really legislating and building a coalition, and I think building a vote total that, at the end of the day, will pass a strong bill. I think that is to the credit of the country, and I think it is to the credit of the body.
I oppose the Feinstein amendment, even though I have great respect for my colleague from California and her knowledge and ability and the practical impact of this on her State. I have opposition to it because I think it slows us down and possibly really disrupts us from being able to get a comprehensive bill through the body. We have worked to craft a delicate compromise that--it is my hope--could pass substantially in cloture, get well over 60 votes on final passage.
A key part of that coalition and building has been the Hagel-Martinez compromise, that makes the distinctions between if you have been here more than 5 years or if you have been here less than 2 years. That has been something where a number of people have said: OK, it is difficult to work in practice, but it makes some sense to me. It also makes some sense on the amount of roots you have put into this country. It makes some sense to me about if you have just come in the last 2 years and you are just trying to jump in over the line as things change.
If you break that compromise, I think you break the momentum in passing the bill, and I would not doubt that you break the ability for us to pass the bill. I think the Senator from California has some real issues that she raises. I think they are important issues she raises. I think there are key things for us to consider. But at the end of the day, I think it causes the bill to fail, and I do not think that is a useful thing for us to do--having invested the quantity of time we have in this bill, having the importance of this bill, and having it as the No. 1 topic across the country--for us now to adopt an amendment that I believe has the clear possibility of failing the whole bill and pulling the whole bill under.
For those reasons, with high regard for the Senator from California and her work, and with real recognition of the practicality of the issues she is dealing with, I oppose the Feinstein amendment.
I hope that my colleagues will oppose it, and we can move forward toward closing the debate with a strong vote on final passage.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
