Public Statements
Hearing of the United States Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (Helsinki Commission) - Role of the Office for Democratic Institutions
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 17, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


Hearing of the United States Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (Helsinki Commission) - The Role of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you all for joining us here today. I am calling the hearing to order. I will have my full statement put into the record.
At the outset, I do want to acknowledge the strong bipartisan support for the important contributions of ODIHR, that it has made over the past 15 years at the forefront of everything from developing internationally accepted election observation standards to assisting newly independent states in combating anti-Semitism.
Developments in the OSCE region this period include the dramatic expansion of the OSCE membership from 35 countries to the present 55 countries. This presents new opportunities, as well as challenges. Today, the ODIHR faces serious challenges instigated by the Russian Federation, Belarus, and a small minority of the OSCE participating states seeking to undermine the organization under the guise of reform.
Holding ODIHR's modest budget hostage is but one of their efforts to hamper activities that are not only fully consistent with the aims of the Helsinki Final Act, but the universal principles of each and every human being demanding to live free and productive lives.
Let me add here that I strongly support and welcome the president's proclamation yesterday imposing travel restrictions on members of the Belarusian government. My co-chair, Mr. Smith, has been at the forefront of shedding light on the abysmal human rights record of that country, beginning with his bill, the Belarus Democracy Act. I would like to commend him and the other members of the commission for their years of persistent work that led to this recent action by the president. I am pleased to see that the EU and the U.S. are coordinating a consistent policy towards Belarus.
This commission and the U.S. Congress and State Department have worked with and supported the ODIHR since its inception and we will continue to do so. Over the years, ODIHR has earned an international reputation for its leadership, professionalism and excellence in the critical area of election observation. That being said, ODIHR's mission is much broader, encompassing a wide range of human rights activities aimed at closing the gap between the commitments on paper and the reality on the ground in the signatory countries.
I think they have done a beautiful job in a number of very difficult settings. Really, it seems like to me, they have come into their own at this point in time, using the soft power, as some refer to it, as in the democracy-building and making sure the elections are free and fair. That is quite an accomplishment and it is a ripe season for ODIHR.
The rest of my statement will be put into the record. I want to get to the panelists because we have a series of votes on the House side that are going on, and then we have votes taking place here on the Senate side as well on the immigration debate. Our first panel is Kurt Volker, who is the principal deputy assistant secretary of state for the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs. He previously served as acting senior director for European and Eurasian Affairs at the National Security Council. After four years as director for NATO and Western Europe, Mr. Volker has served in numerous posts in NATO in Europe. Before joining the Foreign Service in 1988, Mr. Volker served for two years as an analyst at the CIA.
Mr. Volker, thank you very much for joining here today. Your full statement will be placed in the record. I would ask if you could to summarize, but please take the time you need to make your points.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: In the private meetings that you have with the Russians, in particular, and this topic comes up, what do they say to you, if you can reveal that, in private about ODIHR and the concerns they have been raising?
MR. VOLKER: There are a number of criticisms that the Russians and other states do make. They say that ODIHR is unbalanced in its emphasis on states of the former Soviet Union, rather than taking the full balance of geography in the OSCE.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What do they mean by that? Is should be more like monitoring in Western Europe and the U.S.?
MR. VOLKER: The election monitoring efforts in terms of the scale, volume, engagement, and attention are all focused on countries in the east and not on the countries in the west. We think that is, first off, an exaggerated claim because there are OSCE election monitoring activities in the west, including in this country. We have recently decided again to invite OSCE monitors to monitor the 2006 November elections, and we are following up on the recommendations from 2004, but that is one criticism.
Another criticism is that the methodology used by ODIHR is not transparent. There is a criticism that it does not allow advance information proceeding to the permanent council, that is the member states, about reporting of elections. There is criticism that it did not take account of local circumstances enough; that the number of election monitors coming from the east is not sufficient to provide a balanced regional and cultural perspective. Again, we don't put stock in any of these criticisms. We think ODIHR's methodology is sound. We think it is very transparent. It is publicly available. It is time- proven and it is effective.
We strongly support ODIHR's autonomy in providing this what is really not just for the Euro-Atlantic area, but globally this is the best election monitoring set of standards that exists, and what we can best use to assess how countries do in their electoral performance.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So what is underlying, then, their criticism? Is it just they feel like they are catching them not running fair elections, and so it is to challenge them, rather than to comply with having a fair election?
MR. VOLKER: I think, and I would cite Vice President Cheney's speech in Vilnius just a short time ago, where he did highlight some of the things that we are concerned about that are taking place domestically within Russia, and in Russia's relationship with its neighbors. These include pressure on free media, centralization of the economy, efforts taken against competing political forces, pressure on NGOs, and then also some very strong tactics with some neighboring countries.
We see these things going on within Russia and in Russia's relationship with its neighbors. I think OSCE's role in putting a spotlight on advancing democratic institutions, human rights, fair elections and peaceful relations among neighbors based on strengthening democracy, economies, security, I think these are things that are challenging for Russia and so they are looking to find a way to provide some form of oversight by the permanent council, that is to say by the states, to give states such as Russia greater say over the way this operates.
I think that would be a reversal of the implementation of the Helsinki principles as they have been developed over time.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Do we see any cause for optimism that Russia is going to start moving in a more democratic fashion over the next couple of years? The trendlines that we have been observing from this committee and the hearings here that I have been seeing have been in the negative trendline over democracy and human rights and freedoms of assembly, freedoms of the press in Russia. Do we see any signs moving the other way?
MR. VOLKER: I would certainly say the door is open to that. We want to work together with Russia toward that. There is nothing that prevents Russia from strengthening democratic institutions, from providing more political opportunity and economic opportunity within Russian society. We talk about this with Russia both privately and, as you saw in the vice president's speech, occasionally we do say this publicly.
I think that opportunity is there. It is really a question for the leadership in Russia as to how they choose to address this, but there is nothing that stands in the way.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is this all built on strong oil right now?
MR. VOLKER: I think that certainly provides a padding, both economically and financially, but also I think politically it gives a sense that there is a strength there, and so these things are most pressing.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I have seen them use it in its relationship to the Ukraine, its relationship with Georgia, and have really used it in a very bad, oppressive fashion. I have to say as somebody that, as a country that is seeking to go into the capitalistic marketplace, this is a bad place for a supplier country to put themselves. For a little while it can feel pretty good. I remember us doing that in the soybean marketplace, where we cancelled contracts. This was 20 years ago and all it did was stimulate other countries to go into the business. For Russia's own long-term interest, this is a bad move as a supplier country.
I don't think they particularly look at it that way at this point in time, but it is amazing what a free market will do when they feel threatened, and it is not very controllable, particularly if they feel their supply lines are threatened. They are going to go a lot of different places.
MR. VOLKER: Right. I think that is exactly right, senator. I think that the cutoff of gas supplies to Georgia and Ukraine on January 1 of this year didn't affect only those countries, but also affected Western Europe. We saw decreases in gas provided from Russia to places like Germany or Italy that were about a 30 percent reduction. That is enough for people to have taken notice. As a result, this is a topic that is very high on the agenda for the G-8 summit coming up in July, where both Western European G-8 members, the United States and Russia, as part of the G-8, will talk about exactly this point, reliability of energy supply.
The factor that you pointed out is that Russia is acting as a monopolistic provider of energy, and for there to be real reliability in energy supply from the perspective of a consumer, you can't be dealing with a monopoly producer. You have to have a variety of sources of energy, both in terms of countries of origin for the gas that you are buying; also diversity in the types of energy; your ability to stockpile and separation of some of the market mechanisms such as source of energy versus control over distribution systems.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I hope we get more pipelines coming out of the region that don't go through Russia, and that we as a government will be supportive of that.
Thank you very much, Mr. Volker, and thank you for your long service in the government, and hopefully continued service.
MR. VOLKER: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Our next panel will be Ambassador Christian Strohal of Austria. He has been director of the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights since March of 2003. He previously served as Austria's representative to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
He was a delegate to the U.N. General Assembly. He was a representative of the EU Working Group on Human Rights. From 1994 to 2000, he was director for human rights international humanitarian law and minority and gender issues at the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Immediately before joining the ODIHR, he headed the Austrian embassy in Luxembourg.
Ambassador, welcome to being here. We will have some votes coming. Hopefully it will not interrupt your testimony. I am delighted to have you present. Your full statement will be placed in the record.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: I thank you.
Why do you think the countries are complaining about election monitoring by ODIHR? You have been around this topic. You have seen it for some period of time. Why do you think they are complaining? Let me be a sharper point on that. What is their motivation for complaining, in your estimation?
MR. STROHAL: I don't want to guess motivation. I think for us it is important that all 55 engage and engage constructively. We have this engagement in the participation of observations, just to give you an example, the observation mission in Kazakhstan, we had observers from I think 43 participating states, so practically everybody.
It is more a question of are we all ready to not only share the same commitments, but implement them effectively at the domestic level. There are a range of technical issues which we have been addressing and where we have been, with a number of countries, developing a long-term cooperative relationship on legislative reform, election law, political party laws, on administrative reform.
So we follow up to the recommendations we make, and maybe some dislike these recommendations. They don't tell us that they don't like the recommendations because then we would have to engage in a substantive discussion, for which we would be ready at all times. But it is obviously easier to question an observation than to question the results of the observation.
So I would very much hope that the engagement is vis-a-vis not only the observation, but vis-a-vis the results the observation brings. These results are not always, as I said, easy reading. I mentioned some of these examples. These are issues which we come across very regularly. It is not enough to adopt legislation. It is not enough to adopt administrative procedures. It is an area where in the final analysis political will has to be there to conduct democratic elections in line with OSCE standards.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I understand that in recent years, the Commonwealth of Independent States is starting to deploy election monitors themselves on their own missions, some election monitoring. How credible are these undertakings and why is this taking place by CIS rather than them working through the ODIHR process?
MR. STROHAL: We have no monopoly. There are others out there observing at elections and I think that is good, because in the final analysis, the election observation is a domestic effort and there should be domestic observers and they should be encouraged. Also, that includes nonpartisan observers. As we speak, this is not the case in all 55 participating states, that domestic observers are allowed, or if they are there, we have instances where they are sitting in prison as we talk, because of having developed an association to observe elections in their own country.
As long as that is the case, international observation is not only desirable, but necessary.
I think we have developed a good methodology which has inspired others. The European Union, in fact, which is not particularly famous for imitating anybody, has done as much by adopting our methodology for their own election observations they conduct outside the OSCE region.
With regard to the CIS, we are less sure. We don't know the methodology. We certainly have contacts at every single occasion we meet in the individual observations. We also have contacts at headquarters level, and we will certainly welcome an additional enhanced professionalism in our exchanges and in our workings. But I certainly also welcome the fact that in the last year we saw for the first time CIS countries, in particular the Russian Federation, participate with observers, with a secondment of short-term observers in our own observation missions.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much for being here, ambassador. I appreciate that. I appreciate your statement and I appreciate your work and your concern in this area. I want to continue that strong support and the strong relationship between here, the United States, and ODIHR. Thank you very much.
MR. STROHAL: Thank you very much, and thank you for the support, and for the support not only in sending observers from the U.S. and in engaging your commission in our work, but for the support vis-a-vis all other participating states. Thank you very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
The vote has been called. What I am going to try to do is get in the next panel and see if we can get summation, and then come back for questions. The third panel is Carl Gershman, president of the National Endowment for Democracy. He has been senior counsel of the United States representing the U.N., where he served as the U.S. representative to the U.N.'s Third Committee, which deals with human rights issues; and then Lorne Craner, who has returned to the International Republican Institute as president last August, following service as both assistant secretary for democracy, human rights and labor for Secretary of State Colin Powell and one of our commissioners. And then we also have Patrick Merloe, senior associate and director of programs on election programs conducted by NDI. He has observed election processes in more than 25 different countries and participated on over 130 NDI delegations; and then Jeff Fischer, senior director, Center for Transitional and Post-Conflict Governance at IFES.
Gentlemen, all of your statements will be placed into the record. Let's see how far we can get on just a summation, if you could on this, so we could get some of this in the record and try to move forward from there.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: I am going to stop here. I think we only have two minutes left in a vote, so let's pick it back up at that point, if we could, Mr. Merloe. I am going to put us into recess. We have two votes here and I am going to catch the end of this one first, and then the next, and I will be right back. So we will be in recess until I can return.
MR. MERLOE: Thank you.
(RECESS)
SEN. BROWNBACK: My apologies. The hearing will come back to order. We had two votes, and as is typical, they take a long time to get them to go on through, but I do appreciate your staying around to finish up the hearing and take some questions.
Mr. Merloe, you were going into your five points. Can you pick it up from there?
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: I thank you, gentlemen, very much. It was informative, and again my apologies for holding you here so long as I was away voting.
Carl, I have been observing this taking place of what Russia is doing on trying to shut down the NGOs, what they are doing on the democratic institutions. To me it is very troubling and I would think it doesn't bode well for their future progression and projection of where they are going.
I am taking what they have done here is that their lessons learned from Georgia and the Ukraine is don't let these seeds sprout. So you kill them before they get going. Is that too simplistic, or would that be along your thinking?
MR. GERSHMAN: We have noted that this problem takes place in what we call hybrid systems. These are systems which are partially open systems. In places like Georgia and Ukraine and before that in Serbia and Croatia and Slovakia, they were able to use the limited freedoms they had under what we call a semi-authoritarian government to try to work for expanded freedoms, and in those cases they succeeded.
What brought all this to a head was clearly the Rose Revolution in Georgia and the Orange Revolution in Ukraine. That was what one of our friends from Central Europe called the Orange Revolution in Ukraine for Russia what 9/11 was for us. It was shocking for them, and they said "it will not happen here." And they got together and they determined that they were going to block anything like that happening in the future.
I have used, you know, in thinking about this, Mr. Chairman, I have thought about the statement that Abraham Lincoln made in his debates with Stephen Douglas where he said that no government can permanently endure half-slave and half-free. It will either become all one way or all the other. And you know, when you open something up partially and people have the freedom to organize in a limited way, they can also then receive some international support for their work in human rights or to expand political processes, they are going to try to use that freedom. Governments that want to stay in power are going to try to stop it, and there is a real conflict there.
In my looking at Russia and talking about it with people when I was just there, my feeling is that it is going to be impossible to go back to the old ways. It cannot go back to the Soviet Union. I don't believe that, because I think they can shut it off in the capital, but it is sprouting up in the provinces and it is just impossible. They would have to really impose a full-scale dictatorship.
When we gave our democracy award to four Russian activists in 2004, Ludmilla Alekseeva, the head of the Moscow Helsinki Group, was one of the activists that we honored. At that meeting, which was right after Putin issued an attack on foreign funding of NGOs, she pointed out that at the 20th anniversary of the founding of the Moscow Helsinki Group in 1996, there were about two dozen human rights organizations that came and existed in Russia at the time. She said, last year in 2003 there were 3,000.
Now, this is going to happen. Society has a way of generating independent institutions and it is very difficult to cut that off. So there is a real conflict. I think it is a natural conflict. I think that we have to somehow stay with these people. They are not looking for harsh attacks. They are not looking for harsh rhetoric from us. They are looking for a sustained, long-term policy. They want to see a public discussion of these issues. I think the G-8 summit that is coming up offers an opportunity to really sort of send a signal because they are worried that the blade of the guillotine is going to fall after July 17 in St. Petersburg.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That after that point in time, things are going to shut down.
MR. GERSHMAN: That is what they are worried about. Already, they are suffering from some of the provisions of the law, incredibly detailed reporting requirements that could make it impossible for any NGO to function. They can be brought into the courts. The way they explain this whole process to me is that it is going to be applied in a selective way, and there will be somebody in the president's office who can say "if you behave, we won't close you down."
They did this with the parties as well. It is a way to try to control them and try to manipulate them. I just don't think it is going to work in the long run. I think that civil society is going to, these are resilient people. They are not easily intimidated. They existed under the Soviet Union and they will find ways to express themselves now. But also the international community has to stay engaged.
I had a very good meeting with our ambassador there. If he emphasized one point to me over and over again it was we have to work with our allies on this. We need to be working with our allies.
This is not just a bilateral issue between the United States and Russia. We need the Europeans. I think we have to work together on this. I think if we do, we can succeed.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I was thinking as you were mentioned those comments, my own travels in the former Soviet Union, starting in 1997. If you had had me, OK, which of these do you think is going to make a democracy sooner or later, or sooner rather than later, and looking back at what they were allowing for freedom in society then, I could have told you Georgia was quite a ways up on the system; the Khyrghiz (ph) certainly way ahead of where the Uzbeks are, just by the number of people who were functioning and operating there.
And that must have been the lesson the Russians learned, too, just saying, OK, we don't want these guys to be operating very successfully around here. It seems to me what we have to do is sustain, support and continually push that internal growth of democracy. You push it externally, but where it really grows is internally within those countries and societies that are there on a day-to-day basis.
MR. GERSHMAN: I would like to make just one other point. They are going to say that our objective is regime change. That is what they are going to say. And I want to really underline that our objective is not regime change. Our objective is to support indigenous democratic groups, to strengthen democratic processes, to strengthen human rights. We are not results-oriented. We are process-oriented. That is what we are all about. The future of Russia is going to be determined by Russians, but they should have the openness and the processes to be able to determine that future, and not to have these options closed off by a government that is just trying to hold onto power.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That is a wonderful statement and I endorse it completely.
Mr. Craner, you have been around on the inside, been on the outside. Is this a long-term position that the Russians are taking? Is this a reaction position to the Orange Revolution, the Rose Revolution? That we are just seeing that this is something they are going to do to try to slow this down, but this is not some complete change in philosophy that the Russians are taking towards an open democratic society?
MR. CRANER: I think it is certainly reaction, but I think it is long term. I think clearly it was a reaction because frankly they don't understand democracy. They believe that foreign NGOs can show up in a country and whistle up demonstrations; that we will support domestic NGOs, and that that can be the only source of support for domestic NGOs. When they arrest people, like they did with some of the Russians, some people with money who were supporting some of these NGOs, they send a very clear message there should be no domestic support for these NGOs.
But I think it is long term in the sense that I think it is very reflective of Russia's leadership right now. If you look back, it is certainly clear over the last three or four years where Russia looks at it under this leadership. And I think that is very much their mind- set. So I think it is something we are going to be dealing with for a long time. I don't think it is something that is a current fad in Moscow and they will forget about it in two or three years.
That is why I think having durable institutions with memory, that have a track record like OSCE and ODIHR, and is multilateral, to get to this point that Bill Burns was making to Carl in Moscow, that are multilateral in nature, is going to be very, very important.
The last thing I would like to say is, I know it falls a little bit out of the sight of the scope of this hearing, but these are not the only countries where we are seeing these issues. You see them in Venezuela, you see them in Zimbabwe. You certainly see them in Belarus and Russia, to a degree in Kazakhstan, and we are going to be seeing it in Russia and in China, this belief that we need to restrict the work of foreign NGOs and we need to restrict the work of our own NGOs because it is dangerous.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is it receiving domestic approval in these various places, various continents where it is taking place?
MR. CRANER: No, I don't think so. I think certainly among the regime supporters if you look in those countries, there is some approval because they try and stir up nationalist sentiment about it. But I think one of history, certainly of the last 30 years in democratic development is no, there is not a lot of domestic support, not a lot of durable support for pushing away the idea of freedom. If you give people a little bit of freedom, they want some more.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Are we seeing that in Russia?
MR. CRANER: I don't think you are seeing it yet in Russia. I would actually point to China. I don't think you can open the paper anymore without seeing reports of editors being gone after or peasant rebellions, et cetera. I think frankly that is because they have been given a little bit of freedom and they are saying, we want more freedom. I think Carl is right about Russia. You cannot turn the clock back all the way. You can try and turn it back some of the way, but people, once they get a taste of these things, as we have seen in many countries for the last 30 years, want more.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I am a little bit confused here. Are the Russian people generally supportive of the Russian government shutting down these NGOs and putting pressure on them and the press, the pressure that they are doing there, because it is what we need for stability? Or that they do agree that these are foreign influences that we need to get out of Russia?
MR. CRANER: In the short term, I think they agree because the Russian method has been not to go after these groups immediately in a legal sense, but begin to attack them in the newspapers and elsewhere as agents of foreign influence, as linked to British intelligence agents, et cetera. And so when the time comes that they decide to prosecute them for tax issues or something else, by then the die is cast for that particular organization. And Russians look and say, well, of course we should go after them legally; look what they have been doing politically; it has been in the newspapers for a year about this organization.
So I think in the short term, that is a very clever tactic. But I think in the long term, as Russians see more and more of these groups disappear, they are going to start to say, "There is a pattern here, and maybe it shouldn't be like this."
To bring it back to my point before, that is why we should continue to support these groups. That is why we should continue to support OSCE and ODIHR, because over the long term, these groups are going to be able to do good things in Russia.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You mentioned Venezuela and some other places. What is the public opinion of closing down some of these institutions that is taking place in those countries?
MR. CRANER: I think, for example, in Zimbabwe, people are very, very much against it. I think in Venezuela opinion is very split. I think Hugo Chavez, for example, still has a lot of personal support, but I think people are beginning to see that in terms of institutions and structurally, at best he is not doing anything for Venezuela and at worst he is tearing down some of the institutions that are important to the country.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It is an interesting time. This is a complete sidebar to it, but I just was at a press conference with a car that makes 100 miles to the gallon, which should be good news to everybody listening.
MR. CRANER: Where do you buy it?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, there should be one parked out the side here that you could buy. It is Prius with jacked-up batteries. Good. I am glad to see it.
The interesting point about the press conference was that these petro-dollars are making petro-dictators. So many of the places that are for us a security issue, but also is a human rights issue. We are so dependent upon oil in so many places that are run by dictators.
It just strengthens them, our dependency on that oil. We have to be willing to be bold and aggressive in going at these dictators, but at the end of the day what we really have to do is be less dependent upon the oil so that if Venezuela wants to do this, Russia wants to do that, fine. It's wrong, and we are going to prepare ourselves and our economy that we can't be strangled by them saying, all right, if you think it is so bad, try not taking any of our oil.
MR. CRANER: I think it is going to make our task more difficult because, for example, in a place like a Venezuela, it enables Chavez to go around and open up health clinics or new schools and to buy some temporary support. So I think it is going to make our task more long term in some of these countries.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Merloe and Mr. Fischer, I haven't questioned you on things, but do you have other points you would like to raise from any of the discussion we have had here that would stimulate an additional thought?
MR. MERLOE: This is a choir that sings well together. To borrow from our European friends, harmony is the tone that you get from this group.
But let me, if you will, add a couple of quick points to this conversation. One is to add to Carl's point, in the case of Georgia. No one here needs to be reminded, but the president sent former Secretary Baker in advance of the Rose Revolution. Senator McCain was there when I was there with an NDI delegation; Strobe Talbott, General Shalikashvili. We all engaged President Shevardnadze on the same points. These were points saying, here are the things that need to be done in order for there to be a clean election for this country to move forward and for you to be able to serve out your term with distinction and take the place that you have earned in history, without being tarnished.
A lot was done by this country to support governance in Georgia. It was not something that was done from the outside. Had there not been the developments of a fraudulent election, we would have had a different circumstance in Georgia, hopefully progress in Georgia, but a different circumstance today.
To add to one of Lorne's points, I believe that these developments that you are concerned about, senator, not just in this panel, but the last time that I was before you, are not just long term. They are dangerous. They are not just dangerous in the immediate sense that we are discussing them, but beyond that. To use the OSCE language, the failure to make advances in the human dimension sets up a circumstance in which political stability is undermined within each of these countries. The lack of stability in these countries has an effect also eventually on the economic and the security dimensions.
The short-term problems and overlooking short-term problems and the human dimension today gains us only the probability of more serious political and security crises in the future in each of these countries. We can ill-afford as a world community, as an international community, instability of that type in places like Azerbaijan and throughout Eurasia.
So the kind of support that we are talking about giving through the ODIHR and through intergovernmental organizations of other types, through nongovernmental organizations, and government-to-government pressure to hold accountability there for incentives and disincentives is critically important. Your role, this commission's role and the role of this Congress in voicing that I think is critically important.
If we don't address these issues now, we are looking for much bigger problems down the road, whether or not we can control our consumption and our thirst for oil and natural gas.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Good point.
Mr. Fischer?
MR. FISCHER: As my remarks indicated, my experience with the OSCE is different from some of the other observations that have been made in that my experience with them is in their unique role as election administrators. Indeed, the OSCE may never be called upon to have that role again or it could be called upon in post-settlement conflicts such as Nagorno-Karabakh or Abkhazia and South Ossetia, a status referendum in Montenegro. Having a regional intergovernmental organization with this kind of capacity and impartiality I think remains an important diplomatic tool for the region.
So though the needs may not be as pressing as they are in these other areas, I would also urge the OSCE to preserve this capacity so it can be responsive in this way should it be called upon to assume this responsibility again.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That is very good.
It is an excellent panel, good discussion. Thank you, gentlemen. You spend a great deal of the time in your lives, all your professional career fighting for these objectives and goals, and you are not about to give them up now. I appreciate that and I think there are a lot of people in the world that are dependent upon your continued vigorous defense of their rights, and us to push those institutions and allow freedom to grow domestically in each of these countries.
Thank you very much. The hearing is adjourned.

Source: http://www.csce.gov/index.cfm?Fuseaction=ContentRecords.ViewTranscript&ContentRecord_id=371&ContentType=H,B&ContentRecordType=H&CFID=4206472&CFTOKEN=66798164
