Public Statements
In Case You Missed It: Kansas and National Ag Leaders Praise Roberts' Ag Chairmanship
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback Jackie McClaskey Pat Roberts
Date: Jan. 12, 2015
Location: Washington, DC

As U.S. Senator Pat Roberts (R-Kan) becomes the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture Nutrition and Forestry, there is widespread support from Kansas and national agriculture leaders for Roberts' chairmanship.
Kansas Governor Sam Brownback: "Roberts will work tirelessly to make sure that the federal government does not get in the way of farm families who are working to produce the safest, most abundant food supply in the world."
Kansas Agriculture Secretary Jackie McClaskey: "This is good news for Kansas farmers and ranchers. Pat Roberts understands the importance of agriculture to our great state and will work tirelessly to make sure that the Federal government does not get in the way of farm families who are working to produce the safest, most abundant food supply in the world."
Dan Glickman, Former U.S. Secretary of Agriculture: "I think historically he will always want to be remembered as a fair and balanced chairman," Glickman said. "There are those who want to decimate both the farm and nutrition programs. Based on his record I think he'll be able to resist that..."
Matt Teagarden, Chief Executive Officer, Kansas Livestock Association: "There is no greater champion for livestock producers than Senator Roberts. We look forward to closely working with him in his important role as chairman."
Rich Felts, Montgomery County farmer and President of Kansas Farm Bureau: "Kansans know Pat Roberts' agriculture expertise and experience are unmatched in Washington. He has been a champion for crop insurance, steered trade deals through Congress and has fought damaging regulations that would cripple Kansas agriculture. Kansas farmers and ranchers know there is no greater advocate for the rural way of life and Kansas values than Pat Roberts."
Wade Cowan, President, American Soybeans Association: "We are thankful for a wonderful working relationship with Chairman Roberts, and we're excited for what's to come on his watch. Chairman Roberts has built a deep and fluent knowledge of agricultural policy, specifically the crop insurance and disaster assistance programs that are so vital to the success of soybean farmers. What's more, Chairman Roberts has made each of his farm policy decisions based on the concept that farm programs should encourage farmers to grow what the market demands. His approach is one that doesn't distort the marketplace and enables farmers to have the flexibility and confidence they need to be successful. At his core, he understands the intricacies of our industry, and we look forward to a great partnership with him."
Justin Gilpin, Chief Executive Officer, Kansas Association of Wheat Growers: "This is something that our association and farmers in Kansas are excited about," Gilpin said. "He's somebody who listens to our issues and is willing to work with us."
Chairman Roberts has planned a comprehensive schedule of hearings for the 114th Congress saying, "Production agriculture must rise to face a daunting challenge: feeding a growing and hungry global population. I will work to see that the federal government is an ally, not an adversary, in this purpose. I will fight to ensure farmers and ranchers have the tools they need to advance American agriculture. I will fight barriers to trade opportunities and regulations that threaten our producers' competitiveness. And I will continue my work to maintain the security of our food supply and ensure science based regulations govern our food and agriculture sectors."
Since the current committee structure was adopted, Roberts is the first in history to chair both the Senate Agriculture Committee and the House Agriculture Committee. Roberts also becomes the first in history to chair and serve as the ranking member for both Agriculture Committees.

Source: http://www.roberts.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?p=PressReleases&ContentRecord_id=f8b82545-9b5d-492d-98eb-21609582b827&ContentType_id=ae7a6475-a01f-4da5-aa94-0a98973de620&Group_id=d8ddb455-1e23-48dd-addd-949f9b6a4c1f
