Public Statements
Statements On Introduced Bills And Joint Resolutions
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 2, 2006
Location: Washington, DC

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS -- (Senate - May 02, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, today I introduced with my colleague, Senator Lieberman, the Elimination of Neglected Diseases Act of 2006. This legislation is designed to confront and combat a group of dangerous parasitic diseases that together claim more than 500,000 lives each year and adversely affect millions more. These 13-15 neglected tropical diseases, NTD, as they are called, are the most common infections in the developing world, and include such debilitating diseases as leprosy, guinea worm, and trachoma. Many are described in the Bible, exposing the sad fact that humans have been suffering from these diseases for millennia. Moreover, research has shown alarming rates of comorbidity of NTD's with HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria, resulting in severe complications with these already devastating diseases.
The biggest challenge to finding cures for these diseases is the lack of a market. Pharmaceuticals are expensive to develop, and since neglected diseases disproportionately affect poor and marginalized populations in the developing world, there are fewer incentives for conducting research and development for new treatments. The purpose of this act is to encourage drug development by creating market incentives for investment in new research. Specifically, the bill awards a limited patent-term extension or patent-term restoration for certain lifestyle and tropical disease drugs provided the company successfully develops a new FDA-approved drug for an NTD. In this way, a drug company can recoup costs for the large investment in NTD research and development.
With the exception of market incentives, we have all the right ingredients to develop new drugs that would dramatically reduce the number of NTD cases and improve the quality of human life worldwide. I strongly believe that this legislation will add the last remaining step to jumpstart competitive research and development for combating NTD's. I urge my colleagues to join in this effort by supporting this bill.
http://thomas.loc.gov
