Public Statements
Hearing of the United States Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (Helsinki Commission) - Belarus on the Eve of the Election
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 9, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


Hearing of the United States Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (Helsinki Commission) - "Freedom Denied: Belarus on the Eve of the Election"
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: No. Please proceed at this point in time. And I apologize for being late. We just had a vote that was up, but I'm delighted that Congressman Smith got this up and going. Let's just go ahead with that, and then I'll do my opening statement afterwards.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thanks, Congressman Smith, and for being here.
Secretary Kramer, I've got several questions I want to ask. But I guess I just want to start on a broad and a bit of a philosophical basis.
Belarus is such an outlier in the region. What -- where's Lukashenko headed with this? I mean, he's got to see the flow of history as clearly not moving back to these sort of very heavy dictatorial types of regimes.
What does he hope is going to take place? What's the plan here on his part?
MR. KRAMER: Mr. Chairman, getting into the mind of Alexander Lukashenko may be a losing proposition. But I think it is safe to say that paranoia is one of the words that could be used to describe him. Megalomania, certainly. And as I also mentioned, corruption.
He came to power in an election that was fairly decent by international standards, in 1994. But unfortunately, ever since then, it has been a downhill trajectory.
Where he's headed, I think, is trying to stay in power at all costs. Dictators don't like to give up power freely. And in this case, Lukashenko is no exception.
So, I think what he would like to do, and feels that the only way he can stay safe and secure, is by staying in power by any method. And our hope is that the people of Belarus will call him on that.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What's the Russian role on this with Lukashenko? You alluded to some of it, that they've been helpful? Or are they being helpful of Lukashenko?
MR. KRAMER: It's not black and white. We have been in discussions with our Russian counterparts to talk about Belarus, to explain to them that the spread of freedom and democracy to Belarus is in everyone's interest, including in Russia's interest. That having Belarus run by a dictator serves neither the people of Belarus' interests, nor the people of Russia, their interests, either.
So, we have been in discussions with them about what's going on there. Mr. Lukashenko certainly has made trips to Sochi and to Moscow. But I would also note that Alyaksandr Milinkevich has made two trips to Moscow, and those, I think, have been noteworthy, as well.
So, it's a bit more complicated than simply full support. And we have tried to impress upon our Russian counterparts that support for a free and fair process, which is where we stand, and support for freedom and democracy in Belarus are where we would hope to find our Russian allies.
SEN. BROWNBACK: They haven't exactly been moving that way themselves, the Russians.
What -- I mean, it sounds like, to me, really, they're in many respects, from what you're describing, they're blocking for Lukashennka in Belarus, and not being very helpful in the process. But you seem to describe more of a mixed bag of what they're doing.
What are they doing on the positive side to encourage freedom and democracy in Belarus?
MR. KRAMER: In the situation with the Russians, there certainly have been a number of officials -- Russian officials -- in the Duma and elsewhere, who have spoken out in support of Lukashenko.
There have also been a number of people, both in and outside the Duma, and outside the Russian government, who recognize that having a dictator in Minsk is not in Russia's interests.
I've traveled to Moscow numerous times since I've been in this job and have been struck at the range of people I've met with in Moscow, who have agreed that Lukashenko is not just a problem for Belarus or a problem for the West, but he's also a problem for Russia. We have tried to reach out to those people, to convey to them that we share their concerns, and we will continue to do so.
The view of the presidential administration of the Kremlin is more difficult to discern. But it certainly goes without saying that Lukashenko has been in meetings with President Putin, and there are pictures of the two together. And those -- sometimes pictures can speak very loudly.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Are the Russians propping him up with energy supplies?
MR. KRAMER: Belarus, unlike the other countries in the region, is paying roughly $47 per thousand cubic meters, whereas, as you will recall, Mr. Chairman, the price for Ukraine went up considerably, where it had been, on January 1st, when the Russians decided to increase prices for all the neighbors, except for Belarus. So, Belarus is receiving subsidized energy from the Russians.
And I would note, however, that Foreign Minister Lavrov a few weeks ago did mention that removing subsidies for the neighbors would apply across the board, and that Belarus would be no exception. However, an exception continues to be made for Belarus, and likely will remain the case up until the election.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, you're confusing me a little bit here. You seem to be saying the Russians are kind of mixed record or an unreadable record on Belarus, and yet the specific actions seem to be very supportive of Lukashenko.
Are we putting sufficient pressure on the Russians that -- you know, look at what this guy is doing. He is right next door to you. He is very dependent upon you, and he may, indeedd, even be looking to you for inspiration or aspirations or a way out. And you should be putting much more pressure on him.
MR. KRAMER: In part, I guess -- and I don't mean to confuse or to cloud the issue. There are different views in Moscow. There's not one common view.
Now, the view that matters most, obviously, is that of Mr. Putin. And indications are that the presidential administration has been supportive, though has not warmly embraced Lukashenko.
But as I mentioned, there are a number of people who have influence inside the Kremlin -- not necessarily in the Kremlin, but influence with the Kremlin -- who do recognize that Lukashenko is a problem. And so, tthey have been reaching out to the opposition in Belarus and, I think, have done more than might be expected inside Russia.
SEN. BROWNBACK: This reminds me a bit of China and North Korea, where the Chinese have the most influence over North Korea, and once in a while are helpful, but most of the time not.
MR. KRAMER: Rest assured, we are raising this with our Russian colleagues on a regular basis, including on the recent visit.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Secretary Rice has been very outspoken on Belarus, and I very much appreciate her statements. She's called Belarus an outpost of tyranny. The administration has been very vocal. I appreciate that. I appreciate the clarity of your testimony here today.
Yet our assistance to Belarus has remained very flat. Are we going to be making more aggressive actions on our direct assistance to Belarus? Are we going to follow this up with some additional action on the basis of these statements we've been making?
MR. KRAMER: Well, Mr. Chairman, I think we've been making very effective use of the aid that we've -- of the money that we've received. In FY 2005, the total was $11.5 million, and that included $5 million from the supplemenntal. In 2006, the level is $11.88 million.
So, we have been pleased to maintain the level of support. We hope to continue that. We, as I mentioned in my opening remarks, are looking at staying engaged in Belarus for the long term, not simply to focus on this election -- though that is a major part of our focus right now -- but we want to sustain assistance and support for a whole range of prrograms and activities in Belarus.
So, we'll look forward to certainly working with you and the Congress on foreign assistance issues with Belarus.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is Belarus impacting things in the Ukraine or any of the other countries outside of Russia in the region in a negative fashion? Or is their actions been mostly contained inside the country?
MR. KRAMER: Certainly with Poland -- the Poles have run into problems with the ethnic minority inside Belarus and have had significant tensions in their relatioonship with the Lukashenko regime.
It is no one's interest for there to be a dictatorship there in Europe. And so, it is negative for the regime that's in place there to exist and to continue. It does have a negative impact on all of the neighboring states.
There are certain realities that the neighbors have to deal with, bilateral issues that cannot be put aside just because of the regime that's in place in Minsk.
But we have been pleased by the interests and the efforts of the neighbors to work with us in trying to bring greater freedom and democracy in Belarus.
It is a challenge for the immediate neighbors, but I've been very pleased that none of them has backed down from working with us.
SEN.BROWNBACK: Is there any relationship between Belarus and Iran or North Korea? Several of the -- or two of the axis of evil nations?
KRAMER: Mr. Chairman, we have looked into these issues. Nothing, I would say, that we would discuss in this session.
BROWNBACK: Well, I may try to take that up in another setting, then, as well.
Secretary Kramer, thank you very much, and thank you for your clarity of statement here today. I think it's important that the United States state its position clearly, and particularly on a country that is so undemocratic and such an outlier, as what Belarus is. And so, I appreciate your being here and appreciate the strength of your statement.
MR. KRAMER: Mr. Chairman, thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: We'll call the next panel up. While they're getting in place, I'd like to make my opening statement. Again, I apologize for not being here on time, but we had a vote.
Presidential elections will be held next week, March 19th. And we've heard from the administration and we'll hear from other expert witnesses on how Belarus is doing with its freely undertaken OSCE election commitments in light of the upcoming elections. So, there was commitments that were made.
These commitments include respect for human rights and democratic principles. And I have to say, the picture there is not encouraging.
Last week, security forces beat up and arrested one of the two opposition candidates. Just yesterday, security forces detained a top opposition leader for holding a meeting with voters in Minsk.
Daily reports of arrests, KGB raids and the closure of independent newspapers and NGOs have become commonplace as Belarus prepares to hold presidential elections on March 19th, capping off a decade of dictatorship under Alexander Lukashenko.
Beginning with an illegal referendum 10 years ago aimed at consolidating political power in his hands, Europe's last dictator has led his country into increased isolation, as Belarus' neighbors, excluding Russia, have consolidated democracy through free and fair elections.
By contrast, Belarus has held a series of fundamentally flawed elections at both the parliamentary and presidential levels, seriously undermining the legitimacy of the country's political leadership. Regrettably, this pattern is already evident as the 2006 elections get underway in earnest.
It is instructive to assess current developments in Belarus in light of the four criteria agreed by the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and European Parliament nearly six years ago.
These are: number one, ending a climate of fear; number two, granting equal media access; number three, empowering parliament with meaningful authority; and number four, enacting meaningful election reform.
On each of these critical points, the regime no longer even feels compelled to pay lip service, let alone take meaningful action. Leadership has yet to explain the disappearances of leading opposition figures, even as it perpetuates a climate of fear, by directing the levers of state power against independent voices it seeks to silence.
The regime maintains such a stranglehold over the flow of information, that even some broadcasts from Russia are blocked, while the handful of remaining independent newspapers are squeezed, and most have already been shut down.
Opposition candidates given token time on state radio media are in turn the subject of a constant barrage of vicious attacks by the state apparatus for agitation and propaganda.
This is a country where mere criticism of Lukashenko is deemed defamation, and has landed several activists in prison. Meanwhile, the national assembly remains a largely rubber stamp institution, going through the motions on measures already decided by the presidential administration.
The electoral apparatus at all levels, much less the country's media outlets, remains firmly in the hands of the regime. In a country where the state is the dominant employer and most workers are kept on short-term contracts as a control mechanism, pressure to support Lukashenko cannot be dismissed.
The same holds true for university students subject to expulsion for dissent. Tragically, educators responsible for training the younger generation in Belarus also make up the bulk of those administering the elections through commissions often headed the school principal.
At the end of the election day, these teachers are then presented with results that they must confirm or face obvious consequences. Not surprisingly, of the over 74,000 commission members, two -- two in the entire election apparatus -- represent opposition candidates.
Based on the evidence thus far, there are few grounds to believe that the election will be free or fair. In the end, it is the Belarusian people, long denied their freedom and dignity, who suffer.
One of our witnesses today was featured in a "Washington Post" profile regarding her activities as a dissident. As difficult and bleak as the situation in Belarus may seem today, Ms. Iryna Vidanava has an optimistic message. According to her, the young people of Belarus today will change the fate of Belarus tomorrow. We must support their efforts, and we must give them hope. And I certainly look forward to her testimony and the rest of the panelists.
Now let me introduce the panelists that will presenting on this panel.
Ms. Vidanava has been active in promoting civil society in Belarus for more than a decade. She's the editor-in-chief of "Student's Thought," an independent publication, which is the only magazine for students in Belarus. She has also served as international coordinator for the Assembly of Pro-Democratic NGOs, Belarus' largest third sector umbrella organization, has held leadership positions in the Belarusian Student Association and Youth Information Center.
While in the United States, she has worked for the Center for Civil Society Studies at Johns Hopkins, and Freedom House. She's a historian by training, is a lecturer and doctoral student at Belarus State University. She currently is studying public policy, nonprofit management and international relations at Johns Hopkins, where she's a Muskie Fellow.
Next, Stephen B. Nix, International Republican Institute, regional program director for Eurasia. He joined the IRI October 2000 as regional program director for Eurasia. In that position he oversees a number of countries in the region.
We'll also hear from Patrick Merloe, National Democratic Institute, director of programs on election processes. He's been an observer of election processes in more than 25 countries, and later (ph) participated in over 130 NDI delegations and assistance teams to more than 50 countries around the world.
From Rodger Potocki -- did I say that right? Good. Got one right -- senior program officer for East-Central Europe. He oversees NED programs inn Central Europe, the Balkans and Belarus. He's been active in Belarus for more than 15 years.
Celeste A. Wallander, Center for Strategic and International Studies, director of Russia and Eurasian programs. Dr. Wallander directs the Russia and Eurasian program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, and is a CSIS senior fellow for -- she joined there. She's a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and associate professor of government at Harvaard University.
So, a distinguished panel. I look forward to your presentations and your thoughts about what's taking place in Belarus, and what we should be doing.
Your full statements will be placed into the record as if presented, so you're free to summarize. We'll run the clock at six minutes to give you some sense of time. And then I would like to have some time for questions afterwards.
We'll start off with you, Ms. Vidanava. I admire you.
MS. VIDANAVA: Thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I admire your work and I admire your courage. It takes a lot to stand up in a tough place, and you're doing it. Thanks for being here.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: That's very good. A very strong statement.
It's an excellent panel and an excellent panel of experts. And the people that have given their lives for this effort. And I really appreciate -- I want to recognize what each of you have done over a lifetime to bring freedom to a group of people, and in some places moore successful than others.
I am struck -- there's an article in the "Economist" dated yesterday -- I think this in an Internet edition. It's titled "Do As I Say, Coomrade." I'm going to enter it into the record.
And what I'm struck by is that they're citing Lukashenko and Nazarbaev and Karimov as dictators, I guess of the old mold from the former Soviet Union. And then there's a group coming in -- the new grouping, engaging more democratic values of what we're seeing in Georgia and Ukraine and some other places.
One of you that have studied this the most, tell me, what am I seeing here? What's the bifurcation? They've all come out of the former Soviet Union. And yet, you're seeing some really embracing democracy -- messy, difficult, but embracing -- and others seemingly just really holding onto the former Soviet style, as Dr. Wallander just said. These are tactics we saw in Soviet days.
What's the bifurcation? Can somebody give me what's happening from a 30,000-foot view of why certain ones are going back to the Soviet style, or retaining it, and others embracing and moving forward?
DR. WALLANDER: I'll take a first stab at it. I think it's a -- there are many reasons, and there are many variables, since we talk about 30,000 feet.
I think one of the important differences is that the countries that early on had a diverse and energetic political and social structure -- had regional politics, such as in Ukraine, had different sectors of the economy and cultural differences, such as in Georgiia -- are those which sustained diversity and competition in views.
Those countries that were somewhat more unified, or didn't have some of those messy, but actually quite helpful, sets of variations in their political and social structure -- it was easier in those countries, including Belarus and Uzbekistan, for leaders who were ruthless and corrupt to kind of piick off the opponents one by one.
I think the lesson is that isolation reinforces that lack of diversity. And even though we can't affect where these countries started out at the end of the Soviet period, we can affect support for building diversity of views, especially in the next generation, as Iryna so eloquently argued.
And I think that's where the hope lies, in creating diversity and variety of options for the citizens over the long term.
BROWNBACK: Mr. Nix, you've had a long experience in this region.
MR. NIX: I would join the previous comments by saying that, what seems to be lacking in the countries you've mentioned, the problematic countries, that existed in Ukraine and Georgia was some semblance of civil society and political parties.
In Ukraine, political parties had developed over years into a fairly unified force. The same could be said in Georgia.
In Uzbekistan, you should know for the record, there are no legally registered opposition political parties whatsoever in the country. In Kazakhstan they're severely regulated and oppressed. So, there's really a lack of oxygen in these countries that you've mentioned with regard to civil society and political parties.
Where we had the benefit of having these things in Ukraine, they united, they came together. The same was true in Georgia. But you don't have that in the three countries that you had mentioned.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let me build on that statement, because that's been my experience in traveling in the former Soviet Union areas -- in Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan.
Also, I mean, leadership matters. Some of these places, you would run into some of these guys, and they're just -- they're old- style Soviet communist dictators. That's their style. And in others, more open and engaging.
But it seems like you're just going to have to differentiate in tactics, then, depending on which of these folks that you're dealing with. I mean, in some -- and you are going to have to get the club out and start beating on people. And it's going to have to be real, and it's goiing to have to be effective.
Dr. Wallander says, well, we won't recognize Lukashenko's election, which would be significant. And then a series of economic sanctions.
Are we, I guess, at the point that you're going to just have to pull out the club and really start beating on some of these folks?
Mr. Merloe?
MR. MERLOE: Well, senator, I think the question comes down, in many ways, to the kinds of incentives and the kinds of disincentives that are put out there in an effective way. And I think that Celeste was very forceful in her presentation about that. All the way through to questions like targeted sanctions, and so on. There are economic dimensions to this as well.
And in the case of Ukraine, there are the connections to Europe. There are cultural and other issues that have been involved that I think she mentioned.
In the case of Georgia, there is a certain amount of openness that has been part of Georgian society over the centuries, as well.
The leadership question that you mentioned, I think is critical.
And if we look at what was allowed to happen under Shevardnadze, and what was allowed to happen in Ukraine, on the one hand you saw a number of factors -- a relatively open space for the development of independent media, civil society organizations, even election monitoring in these countries.
We don't see that in Belarus. And we said, and to a lesser extent, in the other countries you mentioned. And I would add Azerbaijan and Armenia into that list -- to a lesser degree, but they're on the negative side of the ledger.
If you think about, there's some development of balance of powers within the legislatures in Ukraine and in Georgia. There was some sense of assertiveness that was put forward. In Ukraine, even some evidence of judicial independence in the lead-up to the so-called Orange Revolution.
There was a fracturing of the security forces, and in some sense, political and economic constituencies in those two countries, where certainly in Belarus, there's a more unified power base.
The emerging frustration of citizens, it's been true across the board in all of these countries. But in Belarus and in Georgia, and in some other places, we've seen evidence where the political opposition has shown more maturity in the way they've gone about organizing themselves, offering themselves as more of a realistic alternative, more unity among them, and so forth. Less so in some of these other countries.
Civil society, again. It's hard to fault the opposition or civil society for not being more effective. It's almost like talking about two people who are going to enter a sprint, one of whom has had their legs beaten for three or four days before the race, and we fault that runner for not doing as well as the one who was free to run, or less injured (ph).
A number of these factors have to be examined as we look at country by country. But I agree completely that consistency in policy by the European Union, other European formations -- the Council of Europe, the OSCE, and so forth -- and U.S. foreign policy towards these countries, is critically important tto give signals to those who hold power and to give solidarity and encouragement to those who are seeking democratic reform.
And so, even sessions such as this, which show that solidarity and help to break down the isolation, I think are quite important and not to be underestimated.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Dr. Potocki, doesn't it all go back to Russia? And isn't this just all really tied into Putin's recentralization of authority, and these countries picking we're going to lean back on Russia, or we're going to lean away from Russia? Isn't it all tied, or moves away from Russia?
MR. POTOCKI: Certainly, Russia and the Putin administration are playing a large role in these developments. Belarus in particular has a very difficult history with Russia and with the Soviet Union and then with Russia again.
I would point out that, in terms of the way the Kremlin looks at the world, especially these days, focusing on energy and energy security, Belarus is playing a very important role in that, because of the pipelines that go through there.
Belarus is seen to be more important, perhaps, than some of the other states that we've mentioned today, from Moscow's point of view, because of bordering on three NATO countries, on the E.U. as a buffer zone between Europe and Russia.
Certainly, when Russia looks at Europe and looks at developments as the Rose and Orange Revolutions, Belarus and the Central Asian states then become even more important and keeping a hold on them.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Keeping a hold on them and keeping democracy out?
MR. POTOCKI: Well, I would argue that, in Russia, things are going in the wrong direction. And many of the policies that they've adopted were first introduced by Mr. Lukashenko, in terms of media control, in terms of the NGO laws.
So, Moscow's role in limiting democracy within its own borders is also, in a sense, extended outside of its borders to support for people like Mr. Lukashenko.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, let me understand. You seem to be saying to me that Belarus is the experimental ground for what you can do on getting away from democracy and controlling things for Russia? Russia's watching to see what you can get away with in Belarus, and then they're using that?
MR. POTOCKI: I would agree with that. Mr. Lukashenko is Europe's longest-serving head of state. And so, he's set a few policies in place that are being copied by others, especially in the aftermath of the Orange and Rose Revolutions.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I still don't understand the long-term game plan, even under Putin's analysis of this. They've got to be seeing that history moves towards free people and free societies. Free societies, free people do more. They operate better. It clearly is the route of European formation and history, or progress, if you want to put it that way.
I mean, is this just to try to control things, while they feel like they get their societies better together, or their economies? I don't see the long-term game plan here. Unless it's just to make yourself very wealthy.
MR. POTOCKI: Mr. Chairman, in terms of Russia, your comments, it's clearly a pattern that Russia is reasserting itself within the region. That's true in the countries of Central Asia. It's true of the Caucasus. In fact, the Duma has recently appropriated money for democratic reform for places like Latvia.
So, Russia is determined to reassert itself politically and promote its own version of democracy in countries. And there will be...
SEN. BROWNBACK: But what would that version be in Latvia?
MR. POTOCKI: Well, it would certainly support the Russian- speaking minority there. There's a huge question of minority rights there, the use of Russian language, things like that.
So, there will be -- and it's a very controversial issue within the country. People are required to take tests in the local language before theey are accorded citizenship, and that is a troubling issue.
So, we see a pattern here where Russia wishes to reassert itself diplomatically and geographically within the region. And certainly, it's within that interest for Lukashenko to continue to serve as president of that country.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Ms. Vidanava, I want to ask you, just operationally on the ground -- somebody gave me a piece of denim with "16" on it. As somebody involved in politics, I understand the importance of symbolls and rallying points. Tell me about this one.
MS. VIDANAVA: Well, the 16 Campaign developed first as a solidarity campaign with those who disappeared in Belarus during the last seven years, and those who are now in prison, political prisoners.
It has now developed into a combined campaign of our Solidarity Campaign -- the number 16 is its symbol -- and the Jeans Campaign, which is a symbol of youth mobilization sort of campaign.
Basically, jeans for young people, as well as for older generations, of those who were dissidents in Soviet time, is still a symbol of freedom. And it's something that you can wear, like you can put a candle into a window and show your solidarity with the opposition movement, and show your opposition and still not be punished.
So, as well, you can wear jeans and say, I want to be free. And this is what the young people are doing.
And Mr. Milinkevich is now wearing jeans piece on his coat when he is talking to crowds of people. So, it is important have a symbol. And we hope that in Belarus there will be Denim Revolution, or there will be denim change.
So, we also try to tell the -- to give a symbol that can be understood by the outside world. And easily, the jeans is something that people understand evverywhere in the world.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Are the young people afraid of Mr. Lukashenko?
MS. VIDANAVA: Yes and no. Definitely, the entire generation grew up with Mr. Lukashenko. Those who are now 18, 21 years old, they don't know anything but his regime. They were studying state ideology in high school. They are studying state ideology at the university. They know that they can be expelled for any kind of independent opinion or activities.
So, we have to keep it in mind when we expect young people to be active, in Belarus it's really dangerous.
On the other hand, young people come and meet with democratic candidates. They participate in civic mobilization campaigns. Young people are a driving force for the campaign that Rodger Potocki mentioned called Hopits!, Enough! They want to say, enough, to this person in power, and they want a change.
So, they are less afraid to discuss their opinions now, especially before the elections. And they use different means for that, including Internet, including cell phones, including print editions, including the street actions.
So, I would say that there is a growing hope among young people. And we hope that democratic activities, that we will be able to build on momentum and to keep working after the election.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So, what if the elections are stolen? What do you think the reaction in country is after March 19th, if these are not free and fair elections?
MS. VIDANAVA: Well, the hope is that people will realize that the elections and their votes were stolen, and they do have a right for peaceful protest. And we hope that people will come out and say, we voted the way we did, and we want it to be acknowledged.
If it does not happen, I think that these elections are a starting point in Belarus, not the last point, and that we can observe now this change in the mood of people. They are energetic, they are more hopeful. And I can compare it with 2001 campaign, 2001 presidential elections. I was part of it, as well. There is a big change, and there is a big difference between the two.
So, we do hope that the democratic opposition united in the coalition, united force of political parties and NGOs and youth movements and independent media will continue telling the population truth, and that people of Belarus will understand that it's up to them to change the situation in their country. So, they're not going to stop on March 19th or 20th.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So, if the election is stolen, it does not comport to international standards, you would anticipate major rallies after the election?
MS. VIDANAVA: It's very hard to predict in Belarusian conditions.
For now, the goal of the campaign, of the democratic candidate and all of the civic mobilization efforts, is to give people information. What people do not have is objective information. So, the hope is that, having this information, people will make the right choice on the day of the elections and afterwards.
If they are afraid -- because the fear is huge in Belarus, and it's understandable; the reasons all were named today -- then we hope that the chaange will occur later on. But the main goal is not to leave (ph) the people of Belarus alone (ph) and to lead (ph) the democratic movement along (ph), if on the day of the elections or the day after the elections, there won't be those rallies (ph), there won't be demonstrations. Because we have to keep working and we have to believe that the situation will change sooner or later.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, Godspeed to you and to the young people and others advocating for freedom in that country.
I want to thank this panel. It's been an excellent panel and very, very thoughtful.
I've been watching this region for some period of time, particularly since being in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and then chairing this and traveling a fair amount in the former Soviet Union, although primarily in the southern states area.
Belarus strikes me as a -- this is a real kind of a tipping case. You could look at some of those in southern Soviet Union, and you can travel in Geoorgia versus Uzbekistan, and you could see stepping off the plane one's development of civil society and the other's throttling of it.
I mean, you just felt it when you walked off the plane, and then as you met with dissident groups -- or if you could find one in some of these places -- you knew the soil was hard, that it was going to be hard for something to sprout up.
Belarus, it seems like to me, is a -- I mean, you've got some hardness, but you've also got some possibility with this one. And while Ukraine had the civil sociiety and that the development that was taking place, and that was known, you could see this taking place. Belarus will be an interesting case.
It's kind of neither hot nor cold in that sense, or neither hard nor soft. It is in between. And it's certainly my hope first that there'd be free and fair elections, although the lead-up to this seems like, but nothing of the sort is going to take place.
But then, the reaction afterward will be key, and will be critical of what takes place on our part, as Dr. Wallander and several of you note. But what also takes place in the people of Belarus, what they do afterwards will be critical.
And no doubt, in an authoritarian regime, you've got a lot of physical violence that's threatened and that has happened already, and that will be exercised. Still, you know, we will do everything we can to support that civil society development and push by the people, and particularly, those wearing blue jeans throughout Belarus.
Thank you very much. The record will remain open the requisite number of days, if there's additional statements that you'd like to enter into the record.
The hearing's adjourned.

Source: http://www.csce.gov/index.cfm?Fuseaction=ContentRecords.ViewTranscript&ContentRecord_id=367&ContentType=H,B&ContentRecordType=H&CFID=4206872&CFTOKEN=34296033
