Public Statements
Hearing of the United States Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (Helsinki Commission) - Human Rights and Civil Society in Russia
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 8, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


Hearing of the United States Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (Helsinki Commission) - Human Rights, Civil Society and Democratic Governance in Russia: Current Situation and Prospects for the Future
SEN. BROWNBACK: The hearing will come to order.
I welcome everybody today to the hearing on Russia that's being held by the Helsinki Commission. This is the latest of several hearings on the subject of human rights, civil society, and democratic governance in Russia under the Putin administration.
As per the commission's mandate, we will examine today how Russia is complying with the core principles of the Helsinki Accords and subsequent OSCE documents.
This hearing is being held at a time when many are deeply concerned by the downward trajectory of civil liberties and democratic governance under the Putin presidency. We intend to examine today some of the more recent events that have exacerbated this situation.
There's no question that there are many countries in the world where the human rights situation is much worse. But unlike Russia, those countries are not longstanding members of the OSCE, the Council of Europe, and the G-8.
Given Russia's desire to play a constructive role on the world stage, the Putin administration will have to decide whether it intends to play by the rules that Russia adopted as governing principles for its own government and its civic institutions. Russia will have to demonstrate beyond rhetoric that it is committed to democratic governance, human rights, and the rule of law.
That will mean, of course, competitive challenges to the existing power structure. It will mean allowing and promoting an open and pluralistic power center. And it will mean listening to the wisdom and wishes of the Russian people, not the other way around.
These were the animating aspirations of the Russian people when they courageously gained their independence and became free from the communist leaders and their system. Instead, Russia today has simply become a stagnant autocracy, living on receipts from energy resources and cozying up to repressive, if not lethal, regimes from around the world.
In the last few weeks, we have seen a spy scandal in Moscow, in which the Russian security services alleged that certain Russian NGOs are linked to alleged British intelligence activities. This smacks of tactics from the communist Brezhnev era and is clearly an attempt to justify recent promulgation of legislation that would restrict Russian and foreign NGO activity.
NGO activity is at the heart of the human rights provisions of the Helsinki Accords, the right to know one's right and act upon them. The NGOs are the little battalions that empower the citizenry to participate actively in the political process on a day-to-day basis, keeping government open and responsive to its people.
Today we will hear from administration witnesses who will discuss the response by the United States to the challenges faced by NGOs and to the overall decline in human rights protection in Russia today.
We will also hear from a panel of experts who have been extensively engaged in these areas.
There is considerably more cooperation in the past between the United States and Russia in areas of mutual interest, such as security and economics, and the world today is safer and better for it. But the question remains: Is Russia ultimately a reliable partner?
It is an important question, and we hope to find some answers today, because the implications of President Putin's policies extend well beyond Russia's borders. How Russia acts and how the West responds send important signals to dictators in Belarus and in Uzbekistan, and even to Iran, where Russia and the West are intimately involved in trying to resolve tension over its nuclear ambitions.
Earlier today, I spoke by phone to one of those in Russia who was not silent back in the 1970s when she fought for freedom and certainly would not be silent today. In fact, I asked Ludmilla Alexeeva if it would be wise for me to mention at this hearing today that we talked. After all, it is her organization, the Moscow Helsinki Group, that is being accused by Russian authorities of spying.
In the kind of spirit that has characterized her lifelong commitment to human rights, she said to me, "What can the authorities do that they haven't done already?"
I look forward to the statement of our witnesses. I have some questions to follow. And I want to applaud those NGOs in Russia and particularly those in Moscow.
And as I spoke with her, I said: It's relatively easy for me in Washington to talk about the need for human rights than individuals would be able to freely express themselves in Russia. It's quite another thing for somebody in Moscow and an NGO to do the same.
And I applaud her efforts. I applaud what she stands for. It reminds me of -- I was at the Coretta Scott King funeral yesterday. And it's one thing to talk about it now; it's another thing to walk on the bridge in Selma going to Montgomery, as they did and as she has done in Russia.
I look forward to the testimony.
Congressman Cardin, if you have an opening statement?
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, gentlemen both. Appreciate it very much.
We've got a time clock. We're turn it at seven minutes, and we might bounce back and forth on a question session. If we don't, then somebody -- let me know when that time period's up so we can move forward.
Gentlemen, I want to both thank you in the outset for your careers given to this region of the world. I too quickly introduced you, but each of you has had a long and distinguished career in dealing with Eastern Europe, Russia, the former Soviet Union, the region. And I deeply appreciate what you've done.
And I hope you have some sense of pride, too, of what you've seen taking place, what you've been a part of. And yet what we're seeing right now is a regression from that, and so it troubles all of us when that takes place.
Mr. Lowenkron, let me ask you first. I take it from what you're getting from the Russians is the lesson they got out of these different color revolutions is destroy these smaller organizations before they get you, is what the lesson that they've learned, and that's why they're going at them. Is that accurate?
MR. LOWENKRON: It's accurate in the context of a fundamental misreading on their part of what happened in these elections. In their view -- I'll put it bluntly -- American money beat Russian money, and American money was quicker and more clever, because they used NGOs.
One Russian once told me that we refer to what happened in the Orange Revolution as our 9/11. And I spend conversation after conversation --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Explain that to me. Why is this a 9/11?
MR. LOWENKRON: It's a 9/11, because it was a wake-up call. It was a wake-up call to Russia that said that the United States, the West, the United States had found a very clever tactic to advance what they call a geopolitical gain to continue to weaken Russia and to advance Western interests in the region.
And the tactic was not the military; the tactic was money funneled through nongovernmental organizations. And I had spent a great deal of time disabusing them of that notion, telling them, as the secretary said, democracy cannot be imposed.
What we do is, in a very transparent way and with full adherence to OSCE principles, we support those indigenous voices that want help to have a level playing field when it comes to elections.
I would hasten to add that, of all the rhetoric and all the speeches that have come out of Moscow on this issue, personally speaking the one that I found was the most damning was the one in which President Putin said he who pays the piper calls the tune, because it sets in motion this mindset American money is paying the piper and so the tune is anti-Russian, pro-U.S., pro-West.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And so the key is to shut the outside money from coming into any NGO organizations, and therefore they will win election after election?
MR. LOWENKRON: The key is, as far as they believe, is to ensure that they can see every dime, every dollar, every euro, every bit of currency that comes into Russia, every single program, and that they have the right to question the ends of these -- the objectives of these funds, they have the right to tell Russian NGOs, "You are not allowed to participate in this political activity."
And they have broad categories, such as threats to the sovereignty of Russia or to its culture or extremist activity, to shut it down. And it's for this purpose that they're hiring nearly 1,000 individuals who are going to work in the Ministry of Justice to scrub all of the NGOs.
One Russian official said: Take heart of the fact that, at the end of the day, this organization will be inefficient.
But my response was, as inefficient as it is, it will bollix up the work of NGOs and it will cast a pall and create a chilling environment for their work.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So is this -- and either gentleman -- is this just simply an organization, a political structure, a political power structure in search of maintaining its own power now that we're seeing operating in Russia?
MR. LOWENKRON: Well, Mr. Chairman, in my view what it is, it's at the core a sense that democracy can be imposed from the top. So President Putin and the presidential administration can say, "These are good NGOs; these are bad NGOs. This is the proper civil society; this is civil society beyond the pale."
They've even created structures that will give them, quote, unquote, "constructive criticism." So it's a fundamental misreading of how democracies nourish, nurture, sustain and protect fundamental freedoms.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Fried?
MR. FRIED: I think also that the Russians have a misperception of what it would mean to have more successfully reforming democratic neighbors. Many Russians seem to look upon the prospect of democratic nations on their borders with concern, as if this would mean --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Many Russians, you're not talking about Russian officials? You're talking about the Russian people.
MR. FRIED: Russian officials and some Russians in the media. And I don't know what category to put that in.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But what about the Russian public? Are you saying the Russian public?
MR. FRIED: That's an interesting question. And there are indications that the Russian public has come to associate events like the Orange Revolution with the weakening of Russian power, that it isn't just officialdom, that people are responding to what they hear in the official media.
And it may be Russians -- it's not for me to speak for them, but it seems to me that there is a sense in Russia that they have been weakened and that somehow the democratic transformations that started in Eastern Europe in 1989 and have continued throughout Eurasia have weakened Russia
Instead of giving Russia great opportunities to shed itself of the communist legacy and join Europe and the West as a successful democracy, these changes have weakened Russia. And therefore, many Russians look upon these changes in zero-sum terms; a gain for democracy must be a defeat for Russia.
That is a fundamental -- in my view, that is a fundamentally wrong assessment. I think it is certainly in Russia's interests to have successful reforming countries on its borders, but many Russians don't see it that way.
And in this, I regret that the Russian government is creating the impression that having democratic and reformist governments in Ukraine and Georgia is somehow inimical to Russia's interests. I believe it is not.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So that somehow it's better what is happening in Uzbekistan than what is happening in the Ukraine?
MR. FRIED: I don't want to speak too much for the Russians, but I noted with some dismay that Russia appeared to be very supportive of Karimov after the shootings in Andijan and after the wave of repression in Uzbekistan that accompanied and followed those shootings.
I certainly think it would be better for Russia were Uzbekistan moving in a reformist direction. I think repression in Uzbekistan will ultimately lead to the very instability Russia worries about, whereas reform, economic and political, will lead to lasting stability.
I think reform and democracy in Eurasia is in Russia's interests. I regret that not all -- I regret that many in Russia don't seem to see it that way.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Congressman Cardin?
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Should we be backing away from meetings that Russia is hosting, as the chair of the G-8, as a statement of our displeasure with what the trajectory of what Russia is on, gentlemen?
MR. FRIED: I don't think so, Mr. Chairman. I think that we should work with the Russians, cooperating where we can and speaking frankly about problems where we see them. I appreciate that many thoughtful, serious people have raised questions of the kind you've just raised.
But the question, it seems to me, is not one that we should debate ourselves but a question we should put to the Russians. That is to say, what kind of G-8 summit do they want to have this coming summer? What do they want the world to see? What kind of impression do they want to make?
Russia is going to be in the spotlight because of its presidency this year of the G-8. What do they want the world to take away from it? This is for them to decide, because it is they who will either answer to the world for the problems or help put together a summit which successfully addresses a lot of these problems.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is there something we will raise at the G-8 this summer, if the trajectory we're on continues?
MR. FRIED: I think that our dialogue about democracy is going to continue with the Russians. And I think that they understand perfectly well that the world is going to be watching how they implement their commitments to democracy and the rule of law. I don't think there's any question about that.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I would note to both of you, I've traveled this region extensively, for as far as the former Soviet Union, Central Asian region, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan. I've been to Georgia, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan.
And my experience in that region is that these NGOs, they're the seed of the expansion of freedom for the people. They're the seed. And I could have told you five years ago which ones of these countries would act this way now and which ones wouldn't, by whether there was any seed there.
And there was seed in Georgia, and there wasn't in Uzbekistan. And you could pretty easily see it. I'd go and travel, and I'd ask to meet with NGOs and groups. And you would see a bunch of them in Georgia, and you would see zero in Uzbekistan.
And freedom can't grow in a vacuum, and it doesn't grow overnight. It needs fertile field and it needs seed. And these private NGO groups, many of them very small, operating off of very small budgets, but were nonetheless a conscience of the people and towards the nation. And they're allowed to flourish.
My real problem here is, is I think the Russian government sees it the same way, so they're taking the seed out of the ground. And that is the wrong way to progress as a civil society, and as a democracy, and as a country, for its own future, because I believe strongly that Georgia and Ukraine are on a far better trajectory to grow as nations than where Uzbekistan is right now.
And for the good of the people, I think you can easily see that this is the case. And certainly, for the course of history, I think you can easily see that this is a better course to go.
And I really fear for Russia itself, that it's pulling its very seed out, that it's going to -- that would cause it to prosper and to progress as a great nation, continue as a great nation in the future, if they do this.
I really think they're reading this situation wrong and are doing it in harm to themselves. I couldn't agree with you more that this is not a zero-sum game whatsoever; this is in their own best interest. But we will see how they proceed.
Gentlemen, thank you very much. And as I mentioned, thank you for your distinguished careers and commitments to the expansion of freedom and the service of mankind.
We have a second panel of experts that I'll call forward.
Natalia Bourjaily is vice president for the Newly Independent States at the International Center for Not-for-Profit Law, ICNL. ICNL promotes the legal framework for the freedom of association in civil society worldwide.
Allison Gill is the director of the Moscow Office for Human Rights Watch. Before taking her present position, she was a researcher at the Human Rights Watch office in Uzbekistan. Prior to her position in the former Soviet Union, Ms. Gill worked with the International Rescue Committee in Pakistan and Afghanistan.
We'll also hear from Andrew Kuchins. He's returned to Russia to the Russia and Eurasian Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. After a 2 1/2 year stint as director of the Carnegie Moscow Center.
Nicolai Petro is a professor of political science at the University of Rhode Island. He's served as special assistant for policy in the Office of Soviet Union Affairs at the U.S. Department of State, and as temporary political attache at the U.S. embassy in Moscow.
And Andrei Piontkovsky, doctor, visiting senior fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C., and executive director of the Strategic Studies Center in Moscow. He's a weekly columnist at the Novaya Gazetta newspaper in Moscow, and his commentary can be heard regularly on BBC World Service and National Public Radio.
This is quite a distinguished panel.
I'm delighted to have all of you present and here with us.
I am going to run the time clock, if I could, at a five-minute basis to -- what I would prefer each of you to do would be to -- we will take all of your written testimony into the record, and to summarize the points that you would like to have made.
It's not a hard time on five minutes. We can go over some, but I would like to get mostly a summary so we can go through a depth of questions. And your full testimony will be included in the record.
And let's see, we will start -- I believe we've got on the record, Ms. Bourjaily, that we would start with you, if that's OK.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: They can participate in any meeting under this law?
MS. BOURJAILY: They have authority. They can decide in which meeting to participate, and they have the right to participate in any internal meeting or event.
Suppose, for example, a Russian NGO wants to plan next advocacy campaign. The government can sit in the planning meeting. That's making it virtually impossible to carry over the activities. And this is the definite intrusion of the government into their private space.
The Council of Europe, in its opinion on the draft NGO law, has stated that government has only authority to review activities and to request documents when there's valid reason exist to believe that the NGO in question does not comply with existing legislation. And this recommendation clearly has not been met in the adopted law.
Third, denials of registration. There's a broad list of reasons which are not very well-defined. Some of these reasons are if the goals of established of the following NGO are contradictory to or create a threat to unique character, cultural heritage, and national interest of the Russian Federation.
That's the same argument I had presented earlier in regards to reporting requirements. And my colleagues and I are still in the process of trying to interpret, trying to define what these terms actually mean.
The fourth and the last issue is monitoring and implementation. Some have asked: Why are we concerned about the law, even though it's not yet been enforced? The first reason is that several provisions in this law are raising red flags.
ICNL has been assisting with the NGO legislation in over 90 countries, and several countries have used very similar provisions, misusing, abusing them to restrain civil society.
That said, this will be my last point. I agree that it is important to monitor the implementation of the law. Some have told us that the law will not have negative effect on Russian civil society.
Let's see. Indeed, we call upon Russian government to establish a joint nonpartisan body which would include all interested parties to monitor the implementation of the new law. And perhaps there will be no problems with it, and perhaps there will be problems. And then we will see how the Russian government is going to deal with this problem.
Thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
And I want to thank all the panelists for the thoughtful comments that you put forward here. Russia's central for us, the OSCE, because of what it does is it sends a signal to a lot of the -- it sends a signal to the rest of the OSCE countries of what you can get away with or what you can't get away with.
And so what happens there we find will have iterations in various countries throughout the region, and so it's very important that we shine a spotlight on it.
Mr. Kuchins, you most recently came back from -- or maybe -- (inaudible) -- region, but you were there for a couple of years. It seems like we've been on a steady deterioration line for the past couple of years, and I've been puzzled.
Do the Russian people, do they support this? Dr. Petro, I would gather, would say, yes, that they do. And yet I'm putting it in the framework of if this happens here, if you've got a more centralized media, if you've got less freedoms that are taking place, if you see less organizations that most of the people here would say, "Now, wait a minute. This is not going the right direction, and I don't support the government doing this."
Are we not seeing that take place in Russia? Are the people saying that and we don't hear it? What's been the reaction of the people?
MR. KUCHINS: It's a perplexing paradox of Russia. As Dr. Petro suggested, Mr. Putin is popular. He's genuinely popular. And there are understandable reasons for why he's popular.
Since he's been president, the Russian economy has been growing robustly. His image as a leader is one that garners respect in the world. Russia is clearly viewed to be on the rise. And there are other reasons for that.
The Russian people, we have to keep in mind, you know, what they experienced in the last 15 years or so: the collapse of the Soviet Union; your status being diminished from that of a superpower to initially a state that is disdained in the world; power plummeting very, very quickly; state authority over many institutions collapsing.
And at the same -- and this is at the precise time when Russia begins its experiment with democracy. So I'm afraid that, in the minds of a lot of the Russian people, the democracy has been associated with anarchy, state collapse, humiliation of the Russian people, et cetera. That's a very unfortunate legacy that we have to deal with.
There's a major study at the University of Michigan called -- it's a study on world value systems. And Russians come out more or less at the median, the global median in their support of democracy.
So I don't think that the Russian people are fundamentally not supportive of democracy, but I think that it's not such a high priority right now for the Russian people.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And the hierarchical needs?
MR. KUCHINS: The hierarchical needs. There's economic recovery. There's building wealth. There's getting rich. And at least for the time being, it seems to me that the Russian people are ready to trade off, to some extent, a truncation of political liberties and the organizational liberties --
SEN. BROWNBACK: If that's what it takes to grow the economy?
MR. KUCHINS: To grow the economy and as long as their personal liberties are maintained. I think it's very true that Russia today is freer probably than at any time it has been in its history, from the standpoint of individual freedoms, people's freedom to start businesses, to make wealth, to travel, et cetera. That's the priority right now.
Now, the question is, for me, at one time do these political liberties, which have been shrunken -- I don't think you can make any -- there's not like there's any argument there -- at one point does that possibly, you know, come into conflict with individual liberties?
The other thing that gives me hope, somewhat, for the future -- and, again, I'm not very optimistic in the near term for Russian democracy, and it's related to this point -- that is that the middle class is growing. It's been growing steadily. Incomes are growing.
And I think, in the longer term, a larger middle class that has investments in property, that wants to defend those investments in property, that's where you're going to see, I think, more of the demand for less corrupt, more transparent, more effective state institutions.
There have been some improvements in the legal system, as Dr. Petro suggested. But the demand has to come from below, and so far it's not really there. And unfortunately my disappointment with Mr. Putin, especially in the last couple of years, is that his administration has not been really doing that much, in my view, to encourage that. And I'll stop there.
MR. PETRO: Mr. Chairman?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Dr. Petro?
MR. PETRO: (Off mike.) I agree with much of what Dr. Kuchins said. But I think one of the sources of misunderstanding or (Off mike.) is over the role that the state plays in promoting stability, including democratic stability.
And democracy in the abstract is something we can philosophize about. But democratic stability is filtered through the institutions of the state, which means it has to have parameters, it has to have definition.
And I think that there is more faith in the institutions of the state than we commonly give -- Russians have more faith in the institutions or that they are developing that faith than we have, frankly, than we have faith in Russian government institutions.
And I think that's a fundamental divide.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Petro, I want to ask -- a statement was made that 90 percent of the media that the people receive is run by the state. Is that correct?
MR. PETRO: No. It refers to national television programming. But if you take into account all the sources of information that an individual has at their disposal, which I assume when we're speaking about media it would have to include television, radio, the press that one could get, the Internet, and -- well, those are the main sources -- the availability of information is, well, certainly for people in big cities, limitless.
Television, however, is basically state television on the three major national channels, not regional channels, which differ from region to region. In some regions, like my region, the region I'm most familiar with, in Novgorod (ph), there are five local regional channels. In Yekaterinburg, the third-largest city, there are 25 regional channels. So it differs and depends.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But CBS, NBC, ABC and FOX, the equivalents would be run by the state, the national network media? Is that correct?
MR. PETRO: Yes. Well, when you say "run," there's a corporation that is part of the management process. I don't get the sense -- and perhaps others can correct me -- that there is that kind of direct -- there's no state agency that runs, except for RTR.
But there is essentially a management structure and a corporate body of shareholders that run the different television programming, television companies.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mister --
MR. PIONTKOVSKY: About managing -- (inaudible) -- the dismantling of NTV station was a very good lesson for most TV journalists, and self-censorship in these three main channel is working more efficiently than any official censorship now.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That's what it strikes me as taking place.
Ms. Bourjaily, I want to -- and I want to also -- Ms. Gill, your experience is instructive, as well. You are concerned about the nature of the law that has passed on NGOs. Have you seen NGOs operate differently now since the passage of the law, in anticipation of its enforcement, in anticipation of what may follow?
MS. BOURJAILY: No, I do not. The only difference I see, and that basically throughout the sector, the NGO sector in Russia, that they are -- (inaudible) -- they are meeting, they are debating on what appropriate or how much information they will be willing to disclose to the government.
And that's the major difference. The law is not in effect yet.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So they are debating what they're going to have to do, in anticipation of this, but the enforcement provisions haven't taken place yet?
MS. BOURJAILY: Yes. And also, quite a few groups are very much concerned about the implementation. And I do know that there are quite specific discussions on the ground on how to set up some body which is going to monitor the implementation of the law.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I have to tell you, when I would hear about this, and read about it, and look at it, and experience in the region, this really struck me as a regime attempting to preserve itself. And just, OK -- and the way to do this is to hold fair elections but ahead of time clear the playing field off, so it all looks good, clean and fair when we have the actual vote taking place, but ahead of time -- you know, I'm going to tie your legs together, I'm going to tie your arms together, and then we'll have race, that it's setting that up.
And it's a much more sophisticated technique to be able to say, "I've got a democracy," but this was not a fair operation in moving it forward. I mean, that's what it struck me as at the time when I read about it.
And it didn't puzzle me, because you can kind of see, well, you know, generally politicians are into self-preservation, and groups are, as well. Being a politician, I understand self-preservation, but it's not good for a system, it's not good for a country, and it's not good for competition taking place.
Am I seeing the situation wrong?
MS. BOURJAILY: Mr. Chairman, I agree with you. As I mentioned in my presentation, there are quite a few provisions in the new law which raise red flags. And the same or very similar provisions have been misused and abused by other countries.
So, again, we'll only see, and the best way to reevaluate or evaluate the situation is based on the facts on how the law will actually be implemented. But there's a threat, and I think that I share your understanding of the situation.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Kuchins, you mentioned ways we should progress and proceed forward. All of you, I gather, suggest we don't boycott the G-8 meeting, that that's not the way to go in this process, unless somebody here disagrees with that.
Does anybody else have specific suggestions to the U.S. government, to the Congress of what we should be doing in sending a clear message to Russia about dismay on what's taking place and the removal and the limitations of NGOs?
Ms. Gill, did you have --
MS. GILL: I would highlight the fact that, because the law is not yet in force, and because some of the specific provisions of the law will only be later clarified when implementing regulations are passed, that the time to act is absolutely now, perhaps to be able to head off some of the worst-case scenarios.
The U.S. needs to have a coordinated strategy, I would suggest, with its European allies. I think it's pretty clear that, in some ways, this law is directed against U.S. influence and investment in monies in NGOs. So this is not a time to let Russia divide its allies.
The U.S. and Europe should speak with one voice. They should speak loudly and clearly to President Putin that this issue will not go away, this issue will not fall from the agenda. I think he perhaps hopes that, after an initial outcry, the law will be allowed to take sort of its effects under the radar.
And I would emphasize what my colleague has pointed out as some of the law's most pernicious provisions, and most of the work should be geared toward repealing those provisions or softening them, particularly the reporting provisions.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay. I thank you all very much. If you have other thoughts you'd like for us to consider or to put forward, I'd appreciate that a great deal. And I appreciate your expertise, appreciate your thoughts on this.
And I appreciate your commitment to democracy building and civil society. It is key. It is critical. And what happens in Russia will be a model for much of the rest of the world, whether good or evil. We need it to progress in the right direction.
Thank you very much. The hearing's adjourned.

Source: http://www.csce.gov/index.cfm?Fuseaction=ContentRecords.ViewTranscript&ContentRecord_id=366&ContentType=H,B&ContentRecordType=H&CFID=4206872&CFTOKEN=34296033
