Public Statements
Executive Session
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 30, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


EXECUTIVE SESSION -- (Senate - January 30, 2006)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. I thank the Chair.
Mr. President, I sat in on the hearings for Judge Alito. I personally interviewed Judge Alito. I talked with him in my office. I sat through the hearings and was able to question him in the Judiciary Committee. I am on the Judiciary Committee, so I sat through those hearings to hear his testimony. I feel as if we had a good chance to take the measure of the man, and he is outstanding. I believe he is going to be an outstanding jurist.
He answered hundreds of questions, more than I believe any prior nominee has answered in the history of the Republic. He answered them deftly. He answered them with an encyclopedic knowledge of the law. It was amazing to me to see that he did not have a note in front of him the whole time, and if you asked him any constitutional question on any case at any time in the history of the Republic, he would say here are the facts of that case, here is how the law was decided, this case is still in question or it isn't. He is a brilliant jurist. He wasn't
particularly good on international law, and I was particularly glad to hear he wasn't good on law, on what would happen in other countries.
He has a long history on the bench which I think is important. For a series of years now, only so-called stealth candidates could be approved. Judge Alito is a man with years of experience on the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. He has written a number of opinions that we could dissect them and see. People were looking into his background, trying to determine does he lean this way or that way, but he has hundreds of published opinions, and through them we can see which way he leans.
He is a known commodity--well known, well respected, and well regarded across the board. I do think where he is going to contribute to the country, the Republic, is in the areas of religious freedom and free expression. This has not gotten much play at all in the media or in much of the hearings, but it is one of the areas he has written the most extensively on and in which he is a legal scholar.
He believes in a robust public square, a public square where we can celebrate faith, and where faith can be presented. He believes in this for all faiths and faith traditions. You see that in cases where he has ruled in favor of menorah candles being put forward, Christmas trees, and Muslim police officers being able to dress appropriately to their religion and still be able to be police officers.
He believes in a separation of church and state, but he also believes this is a country full of people of faith and that they should, under the free expression clause, be allowed to express and to live that faith and to be able to show it. I think he is very clear and thoughtful.
If there is an area of the law that needs clarity, it is this because we have rules and tests all over the country. I think he is going to contribute in this area. This is one of the areas that did not get much review, it did not get much comment, but I think he is going to make a clear impression, and I think he is going to make a very helpful impression for this Nation whose motto, as the Chair looks at it, is ``In God We Trust.''
There is a reason for that. This is a nation of faith. It is one we seek to celebrate, not have an imprimatur from the state saying this is the religion or that is the religion, but rather saying we want you all to be here, have your own faith, be able to celebrate it, and be able to bring it forward in this Nation. I think he is going to contribute greatly in this particular category.
The area of abortion got the most review, and it is unknown how he would rule in the case of Roe v. Wade or anything along that line. He did not state an opinion one way or the other. It is an area of open case law. It is an area, in my opinion, that is not in the Constitution. There is no constitutional right for a woman to abort her child. I believe it to be a matter that should be decided by bodies such as this, or in States around the country.
I remind my colleagues, as they all know, if Roe v. Wade or any portion of it were overturned, the issue goes back to the States. That is the group, that is the body that resolves this issue. It is not something where the ruling automatically shuts everything down. What happens is it goes back and California decides its rules and New York, Florida, Kansas, Minnesota, and other States decide theirs.
I don't see what is so untrustworthy about States resolving this issue. They did prior to 1973, and we didn't have near the level of conflict or difficulty in this country on those laws when the States were resolving these issues.
I strongly doubt all the States would resolve them the same. I doubt a State in a certain part of the country would be identical to another one. Yet I do think it would reflect the will of the people. But we do not know how Judge Alito he will rule on this issue. The Democrats don't know, the Republicans don't know, I don't know. This is an issue I care deeply about, and we don't know. That is probably as it should be because it is an area of active case law and one that is going to come in front of us.
The other area he was challenged so much on was Executive rights and privileges. I believe this man will be very clear in standing up to the executive branch when the executive branch needs to be held in check. I have no doubt at all about that.
One area we talked about that has not again gotten much review, but needs a lot, is the area of judicial restraint. We need a judiciary that will restrain itself. There are three separate branches of Government, each having a sphere and not to overlap the other. The judiciary has not restrained itself in the past. Judge Alito, along with John Roberts, previously coming before the committee and this body, both spoke significantly and clearly about the need for judicial restraint. I believe if we don't start seeing a judiciary that shows some restraint and says it is not an all-powerful judiciary in every area, it cannot appropriate money, that is left to the Congress, that we will start to see these bodies remove judicial review by the Congress, as is allowed in the Constitution. It is not an area that has been used much, but I think we are going to start seeing it used much more, if the judiciary does not show some level of restraint. This has been expressed by both John Roberts and Samuel Alito.
I believe Judge Alito will be an outstanding jurist if we are able to get cloture in this body to end debate, to get the 60 votes necessary to end debate. He is one of the most qualified individuals we have had. His is a beautiful story of immigrant parents coming to the United States and working hard to get a good education.
He is one of sterling character. Probably one of the saddest chapters that has taken place is the challenge to his character, which is nothing short of sterling. This is a gentleman who has worked all his life to uphold the traditions of his family, to make his family proud and see his dad pleased that his son stood for right against wrong.
At the end of the day, I believe he will exercise justice and righteousness, doing both what is just and what is right. That is what we need in this country, a country that is both just and right.
In the greatest traditions of this Nation, we need to do what is right, and we need to be just to the strong, to the weak, to those who cannot speak for themselves. We need to stand up and speak for their rights even if they cannot speak for their own.
I support the nomination and yield the floor.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
