Public Statements
Press Conference with Republican Members of the Senate Judiciary Committee - Nomination of Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 24, 2006
Location: Washington, DC


Press Conference with Republican Members of the Senate Judiciary Committee - Nomination of Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court
Copyright ©2007 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Jack Graeme at jack@fednews.com or call 1-800-211-4020.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: This is a final comment from the group. It strikes me that Judge Alito is being held to a different standard than John Roberts was held to, and I don't know why that is -- if it's the basis that Judge Roberts was replacing Rehnquist and Alito, Sandra Day O'Connor; if it's that we've moved into an election year, and so that this issue's going to be used the election cycle, if that's a reason. But that's not an appropriate thing to do -- that somehow two or three months ago a person is judged by a certain standard, and if you look at John Roberts' answers on key issues, compare them to Samuel Alito's, they're very similar, and yet one is going to have a partisan vote and the other one did not. It causes me to think that if these come up in the future, and if we have a Democrat president, then we're going to have to look at partisanship on people going on the bench and that I'm going to have to reconsider my viewpoints of that if this is the standard by which we're going to review these candidates.
I think this is a dangerous route to go, but if the Democrats decide to go this route, it won't be the end of going this route, and I think that's bad for the judiciary. I would hope many of the Democrats would consider his qualifications, consider his positions in the same light they considered John Roberts' positions and consider and support him. Otherwise, on a direct partisan-line vote, I don't think this is the way we should be moving in this process for selections for the Supreme Court.
Q Senator Brownback, some would say that you held Harriet Myers to that standard, and it was an indication that she was perhaps not as favorable toward -- in any way changing (routes ?). Is that -- would that be a correct analysis of your point of view?
SEN. BROWNBACK: It wouldn't be at all. I don't know if you were in committee where I read some of the statements from Democrat senators on Harriet Myers. Senator Boxer saying that she was the most extreme on anti-abortion. Senator Durbin, Senator Feingold both had serious concerns about her qualifications to serve on the Supreme Court. My concerns on Harriet Myers, which I expressed at the time, was I was trying to appraise the background of what she had, because she hadn't served on the bench, she had no record on the bench. And there was also a concern about her qualifications on knowing and dealing with these tough constitutional issues. She was an outstanding lawyer, but she wasn't a constitutional lawyer.
As you saw in Samuel Alito, this guy had an encyclopedic knowledge of the Constitution, not a note in front of him; ask him any case, and he cites the facts and the law in that case. If you'd of put Harriet Myers through that same pace, which she would have been in the hearings, I think she would have had great difficulty simply because that's not where she's spent her professional career. I think she would have shown fine, but this would have been a very different nominee. But for the Democrats to say that the Republicans isolated her is to be factually inaccurate, and I would really ask you to go back and look at their quotes, and I would be happy to provide a number of them to you. Senator Leahy questioned her qualifications -- that they said at that time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://www.fnsg.com/transcripta.htm?id=20060124t3183&query=Brownback
