Public Statements
ABC "This Week with George Stephanopoulos" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 8, 2006
Location: Washington, DC

MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I'm now joined here in Washington also by Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas. Senator, welcome.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, George. Good to see you this morning.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Good to see you. Happy new year. You heard Senator Kennedy there. He says that Judge Alito has a credibility problem. What's your response?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I don't think there's a credibility problem at all. You've got a person here that served on the bench, the 3rd Circuit bench, for 15 years. I think he's got excellent credibility and I think he has a tremendous track record that's there for us to look at. One can go out and try to fish around for a lot of issues and try to throw different things up on the wall, but at the end of the day, we have 15 years of written opinions on the Court of Appeals of the United States and that is really what we ought to be looking at to determine whether or not he should go on the Supreme Court.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, you heard one of the issues, though, that Senator Kennedy raised there, that famous 1985 job application where Judge Alito said that he doesn't believe that the Constitution protects the right to an abortion. And according to Senator Kennedy and other Democrats, when he was asked about that in these private meetings, he said basically he distanced himself and said, "That's just a job application." What do you expect Judge Alito to say when he's asked about that and we know Senator Specter is going to ask about it first thing on Tuesday.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, and it should be asked about. And by the way, you know, you can look at how things change. You did a clip of Senator Kennedy about 20 years ago, and that was a great looking jacket that he had on 20 years ago.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: (Laughs.) A summer jacket.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yeah, it was a summer jacket. That's true. Things do change and positions change. He's advocating for a position in a conservative administration at that time, in an administration. Now, he's going on the Supreme Court of the United States, if approved by the United States Senate. And these are different jobs altogether. And we have different parameters with them altogether. And he's not going to answer questions about how he's going to rule on a Roe-type case and he shouldn't.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: But let me stop you there. That wasn't a matter of personal opinion. He was expressing his belief, his constitutional interpretation. Why shouldn't someone who's going to sit on the Supreme Court not have to answer what his interpretation of the Constitution is? I mean, that was a very straight statement.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, because these are very active cases that will be in front of him. Ruth Bader Ginsburg, she's General Counsel for the ACLU at one point in time and does she go back to her position she took then to say this is how I will decide a case in the Supreme Court? That just -- that's not the way the system works, nor is it, because then you've got people on the bench that have pre-decided the case. And that's not where you get fair justice on the facts and the law, both involved in each of these cases.
We should determine about judicial philosophy and issues of judicial restraint and views towards the overall look of the Constitution, which I think are fully appropriate and we need to look at the 15 years of written opinions he's got out there.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: You know, I'm a little surprised that you're so comfortable with this because you expressed some discomfort during the John Roberts hearings that he wasn't being more forthcoming about his interpretation of the right to privacy and whether Roe could stand and it doesn't worry you at all that he's not willing to stand by a position that I'm sure you agree with?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, it does concern me. From the standpoint of a personal person in the legislative process. I would like to see that out there. When I run for the U.S. Senate, I'm out there stating clearly my position, just as Ted Kennedy does. But this is a different job. And I think we've just -- we're come to a point in time that the best we can do is be able to look at what their position has been in written court opinions and try to be able to extrapolate out of that. I wish he would say things that were more strong in an opinion right now on issues of is there a constitutional right to an abortion, which is not in the Constitution. But he's not going to say that at this point in time and it would be to pre-judge a case.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Is there anything about Judge Alito that worries you? Or does he have your vote?
SEN. BROWNBACK: There's a number of things that concern me and I think you have to see how the hearing process goes. And that's why we have hearings. That's why the games are played yesterday or whenever they are. You can predict, but you've got to see what actually people do and what they say. And we'll see what he says during the hearings, how far he's willing to go or not go in particular on a lot of these difficult questions and particularly on the issue of judicial restraint. I really think the Judiciary's gotten in far too many areas and it needs to have people going on the Supreme Court that have a view of judicial restraint.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let's talk about the domestic surveillance issue. You heard Senator Kennedy there. He wouldn't call it an impeachable offense, but certainly did question whether it might be an abuse of power. Are you confident that the administration has acted lawfully in this case?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think we need to hold hearings on it and we're going to. Both the Intelligence Committee, that will be closed hearings, and then in the Judiciary Committee we'll have open hearings. I think we need to look at this case and this issue. I am troubled by what the basis for the grounds that the administration says that they did these on, the legal basis, and I think we need to look at that far more broadly and understand it a great deal. I think this is something that bears looking into and us to be able to establish a policy within constitutional frameworks of what a president can or cannot do.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: You don't think the 9/11 Resolution gave the president the authority for this program?
SEN. BROWNBACK: It didn't in my vote. I voted for that resolution. That was a week after 9/11. There was nothing you were going to do to stop us from going to war in Afghanistan, but there was no discussion in anything that I was around that that gave the president a broad surveillance authority with that resolution.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let's talk about Jack Abramoff for a minute. You received $42,000, I believe, from his clients, but have given it to charity. Why?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I do that regularly if there is anybody that has given money that there is any appearance of impropriety. I just give the money to a charity so as to remove that appearance of any impropriety involved in this case. And that's what I've done in this one, as I've done in past practices.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: How well did you know Jack Abramoff and did he ever ask you to take action on behalf of his clients?
SEN. BROWNBACK: He never asked me to take any action on behalf of any of his clients. I met him once over a breakfast or a lunch meeting and that was the only personal contact that I had with him. Obviously, he was raising lots of money from native American tribes and trying to move up fast and rapidly. I think he gave money to nearly 80 members in the United States Senate, so he was spreading it amongst Republicans and Democrats. And I'm hopeful that the trail is followed. And let's push through this and let's pursue it aggressively so that we can show the people good, honest, clean government.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: And what more do you believe the Senate and the House have to do to clean up their own house?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think you have to enforce the rules. That's what we need to do and that's what's taking place in this particular case. Other people would say, "Well, we need to go to public financing altogether so that you get all private money out of the system." And yet you have that involved in the presidential races and it's not removed the impact or the push of private money into the system. I don't think that's the answer. I think we've got a lot of rules in place and they just need to be enforced and pursued.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: But how about lobbying reform? So have said that there should be a ban on lobbyist-paid travel, a tightening up of the gift ban, many more disclosure, you shouldn't allow former members of Congress to lobby on the floor of the Congress.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You've had those proposals in and out for a number of years and we've passed a bunch of them. You're gift ban is down, I think, to $50 now. I would hope there's not people that that's influenced by. These others, I think, are things worthy to look at. But again, George, at the end of the day, I think what we need to do is to enforce the rules and when somebody violates the rules, you really pursue it aggressively and that's what needs to take place and take place in this case.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: So I know you've been to Iowa and New Hampshire. We only have a few seconds left. Are you running?
SEN. BROWNBACK: No final decision has been made. My wife and I and our family still have to make that. But I have been in the early primary states and getting a good reception for a solid message about the need for, really, values in this culture, values for the family, and a strong United States that's looking forward and upward.
MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, it sounds like you're excited about it. Happy new year, Senator. We'll see you soon.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, George.

Source: http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/
