Public Statements
Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthroization Act of 2005
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 21, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


TRAFFICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2005 -- (Senate - December 21, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, when our Nation recently celebrated the life of Rosa Parks, we were reminded that the walk to justice is a long one. Her life reminded us that justice starts with individuals standing up for what is right; but also that the struggle does not quickly end until we faithfully finish the task. Likewise, while we have made a good start in our efforts to address the global crime of human trafficking, the millions of victims who still suffer in slavery today are urgently looking to see if we will finish as well as we have started.
I am pleased to say that the passage of the Trafficking Victims' Protection Reauthorization Act is one more step in that direction.
Each year, it is estimated that at least 800,000 human beings are trafficked across national borders. They are bought and sold in the sex industry as prostitutes, or forced into domestic servitude. Recent estimates on the number of victims trafficked into the United States range from 20,000 to 40,000 per year. Most of these victims are women and young children who languish in brothels, being raped and abused by the traffickers and their clients. An estimated 27 million human beings worldwide suffer from some form of slavery and forced labor.
The late Senator Paul Wellstone and his wife Sheila were passionately devoted to the issue of trafficking and to assisting countless victims. I will always remember their courageous fight in addressing modern-day slavery.
Senator Wellstone and I teamed up in the Senate and were able to see the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 signed into law. Some called us strange bedfellows, but the wide political and religious spectrum that supported our efforts were a clear reminder that this is not a partisan issue.
While Paul Wellstone is no longer here to carry the torch, I am pleased that other colleagues from across party lines have worked to make a difference by uniting under the common principle of freedom.
``The Victims of Trafficking Protection Act,'' Public Law 106-386, established a monitoring system and sanctions for countries that fail to take minimal efforts to combat trafficking. ``The PROTECT Act,'' Public Law 108-21, made it a crime for any person traveling abroad or entering into the United States to do so for sex tourism involving children. The Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2003, Public Law 108-193, established a Senior Policy Operating Group within the executive branch to coordinate sound policies between interagency departments. These measures have brought about both deep understanding and awareness and much needed laws to protect and combat against trafficking.
I congratulate Congressman CHRIS SMITH and my colleagues in the House for their tireless devotion to this issue and the passage of the 2005 reauthorization legislation.
The bill reauthorizes ongoing programs of the Department of State, U.S. Agency for International Development, Department of Justice, Department of Homeland Security, Department of Health and Human Services, and Department of Labor to combat trafficking in persons for fiscal years 2006 and 2007. Additionally, it authorizes new funds to the FBI for domestic and international investigations of acts of severe forms of trafficking in persons, as well as grants to State and local law enforcement for the investigation and prosecution of acts of severe forms of trafficking in persons involving domestic victims of trafficking.
For the first time, we have authorized new programs to reduce the demand for commercial sex in the United States and prevent trafficking of U.S. citizens through the creation of grant programs for States and local law enforcement.
As a result of last year's tsunami, the legislation incorporates child protection and trafficking prevention activities into USAID, State, and DOD post-conflict and post-natural disaster relief programs. In addition, given recent sex scandals within peacekeeping missions, this bill aims to strengthen efforts to combat sexual exploitation and trafficking in persons by peacekeepers.
Finally, the bill authorizes studies on the linkage between trafficking and terrorism and trafficking and HIV/AIDS, as well as requires a worldwide report on steps taken to prevent and eliminate the abduction and enslavement of children for use as soldiers.
I would also like to applaud the work of the Trafficking in Persons Office at the State Department. Through their sustained diplomatic efforts, countries around the world are signing into law provisions that prevent and punish human trafficking. Even in the United States, we have places like the Kansas Legislature working on legislation to combat human trafficking. It is a true testament to the strides that we have made in ending modern-day slavery and I hope other states and nations around the world will also consider taking action against this type of organized crime.
I am driven by the conviction that every individual counts. This principle comprises the heart of the democratic form of government. It is based on a belief in the universal nature of human rights and a commitment to the dignity of every human life. Addressing modern-day slavery is driven by that very conviction.
Rosa Parks' remarkable story tells us that the walk to freedom has to begin somewhere--but also that such a walk is a long one. And for the journey we take encouragement from the assurances of a Baptist pastor who went to jail with Rosa Parks. ``The moral arc of the universe is long,'' said Dr. King, ``but it bends toward justice.''
http://thomas.loc.gov/
