Public Statements
Deficit Reduction Act of 2005--Conference Report
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 20, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


DEFICIT REDUCTION ACT OF 2005--CONFERENCE REPORT -- (Senate - December 20, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank my colleagues for allowing me this opportunity to speak as if in morning business on the bill. I think it is important in morning business to be able to talk about the bill. This is an important bill, and it is a key piece of legislation. I think it is an important thing for us to move forward.
On the basic facts on the federal budget, which have been covered a lot, we are hearing a lot about this across the country. We are spending too much money, and we are driving the deficit up too big. It is just the basic facts.
We have a $319 billion budget deficit for fiscal year 2005. It is time--past time--that we start addressing this issue. I came to the House of Representatives with the class of 1994. The lead issue we were talking about at that point in time was balancing the budget. We had not had a balanced budget since Dwight Eisenhower was President of the United States in the 1950s. It was past time. We were in trillions of dollars of debt. Now we are at over $8 trillion of debt.
So we pushed and we pushed and we pushed, and we, in that class, with many others working with us, got together to balance the budget. We did it with a simple formula. You have to get the economy growing rapidly. It has to be moving forward, churning out for the economy and churning out a number of tax receipts. Then you have to restrain your growth of Federal spending so your growth in the country and its economy exceeds the growth rate of your Federal spending. That is how we got to a balanced budget for 3 years, for the first time since Eisenhower. It was a big push by that class, by many people at that point in time, to get us to a balanced budget. And we did it.
And while the President--at that time President Clinton--may have taken a lot of credit for it, the credit belongs to the Congress. The Congress is the one that spends the money, the one that authorizes the spending of money. We are the ones who restrained that growth of Federal spending, where it was slower than the overall growth rate of the economy. That got us to a balance. We have to do the same now.
The economy is growing. Last quarter, it grew at about a 4.4-percent annual growth rate. It was good, solid growth taking place. Now we have to restrain the growth of Federal spending so we can get to a balance. This effort, this reconciliation package, starts us down that road. We need to get to balance, I think, in 5 years. We need to have a balance in the budget in a 5-year time frame. This starts with us. It certainly does not get us there, but it does start us in the process of restraining that growth of Federal spending. It is absolutely essential that we do this.
We have to reach across the board at all places of Federal spending to be able to get that sort of reduction to take place.
I want to put forward, too, in front of my colleagues, a chart. I don't know if people follow these charts very well. The Government actually scores the effectiveness of Government spending. We look to see whether a program is meeting its targeted goals. These are scored by the Office of Management and Budget. It is a set review. It is an objective set of standards. Then the Department, the agency, the entity, or the particular program is actually given a letter grade score on its effectiveness for doing what it was targeted to do.
I want to show my colleagues some of these program reviews that have taken place. Under the heading ``Department/Agency,'' Transportation gets the highest score for effectiveness in hitting the target of the program. I don't think anyone wants wasteful spending. They want the spending to be something that is going to real programs and helping real people. The Department of Transportation had 10 programs reviewed, had a median score of 78.1, and
got a C+ grade average. Now, if my kids came home from school with a C+, I would say: Well, OK, you tried hard, but we need to get that up. We need to work harder to have a higher level of effectiveness score for you.
The problem is, the Department of Transportation had the high score. That was the high score in the class. It was at a C+ level. You can look down here: The State Department had a C; a C- for Energy, Treasury; D+ for NASA, Commerce, Defense, USAID; D for the Small Business Administration. Then you go on down to a number of programs that actually received a failing score for effectiveness in hitting this objective set target.
The reason I point this out is to say that we have to do more to review our agencies to make sure hard-earned taxpayer dollars are being well spent.
One of the things we put forward that I think is needed is a systems change on how we spend money. We are making a cut here, a reduction in the growth rate, that is taking place overall. We are making that cut here. But what we need to do is go through the full set of Federal programs and ask: Which ones are effective and which ones are not? Which ones maybe have been effective in the past, but the programs have actually accomplished their mission? Which ones duplicate other programs that already exist in the Federal Government? Frankly, there are many. But we have not found ways or systems to change this, so we keep on spending. The spending continues to grow.
So we put forward a bill called the Commission on the Accountability and Review of Federal Agencies, CARFA, on the process of a system-wide review of effectiveness and eliminating those programs that are not effective.
We have 25 Senate cosponsors. The program roughly works similar to the BRAC commission, the Base Realignment and Closure Commission. It works along the lines of saying: OK, let's look at all of Government, every bit of Government. If a program is duplicative, if a program has accomplished its purpose, if a program is scoring very low on its effectiveness, then it is put into a group of programs by the Commission. There could be 50--it might be 500--submitted to the President. He or she then either approves, disapproves, and sends it to the Congress. Then the Congress has to vote on whether to keep the whole package of programs or to eliminate the whole package of programs. It is a systems review, a process of pulling out programs, which we have not been able to find a way to do.
This model is along what we do with base closings because we, prior to the base-closing commission process, did not have an effective base closing process and were not able to close a military base. Any time one would get challenged, Senators, Congressmen, Congresswomen in that particular State would defend that base, no matter how irrelevant it may have grown to the current mission of the military. They were defending it for their home team and home turf, and we could not eliminate a single program.
Through BRAC we closed or realigned nearly 100 military bases. The rest of Government needs a ``BRAC.'' We need it desperately. I think we need it not only to control the spending but also to be able to put spending in higher priority areas: to reduce the deficit and to regain the credibility of the American people, showing that we are actually monitoring and working to make sure Federal spending is in priority areas and is not wasted.
It drives people crazy that money is wasted in Federal programs. It drives me crazy. People tell me time and again: I am willing to spend the money, but don't waste it. Don't shoot it somewhere.
That irritates people and it irritates me. Yet, we have not found an effective way to get at Government spending. Here is the process. It has been approved by Congress, used by Congress, and it has been effective in eliminating the marginal military bases. It needs to be employed for the rest of Government now.
I put this forward here because we are talking now about trying to get Federal spending under control, to get back to a balanced budget, which we need to do. Let's change the system. At the end of the process here or next year, let's start changing the system so we can effectively get at this. We have to do this. It is inappropriate for us to leave these kinds of deficits for our children. It is wrong. I campaigned on this when I first came into the Congress, and I have consistently said we need to balance the budget. It is wrong to leave a bigger mortgage on the farm for your children than the one you had. That is philosophically wrong. That is putting your burden on future generations when you should have taken care of it yourself. We can do better, but the system has to change in the process.
I am pleased we are moving forward on this particular bill. I strongly support it. I think it is important for the country, and I think it is an important statement. Having said that, I think this is a step in a process that we have got to use to get this spending under control. We can do better and we can have more effective Federal spending, and that will build support among people, not diminish it. When people see us actually prioritizing spending and eliminating wasteful spending taking place, it will build more confidence in the governmental system and the way things should be and the way things need to move on forward. I think that is important.
On a separate issue that will come up shortly, I think it is very important for us to get our energy security needs addressed. We are not in an energy-secure position now. We are very dependent upon a number of places overseas that are volatile. We are dependent, as we have seen ourselves in places in our country where severe weather patterns could be harmful, such as the oil production shutdown during Katrina. A number of us are working on a bipartisan bill to get more and more of our fleet of cars off of gasoline, by using hybrids and plug-in technology to move our car fleet into electric. A fact a lot of people don't know about is that half of Americans actually drive about 20 miles a day. If we can get those 20 miles from electric instead of gasoline, our demand and dependency on foreign oil plummets.
This is a bipartisan bill. Senator Lieberman and I are leading on this. I hope we can move forward on this next year. In the meantime, we have to get more oil domestically, and the place for us to do that is ANWR. We can do it effectively and in an environmentally sound way. It is important that we do it for our own people and our own security. We cannot afford to continue this energy vulnerability that we have. I think our conscience and soul were shaken when we saw the prices get to where they did, at $3 a gallon and above--saying this situation is not sustainable. We need to address this. I know it is a difficult topic for a number of people, but we need to do this for our own energy security and for the security of this Nation. It is an important thing for us to do. That is why I strongly support the ANWR provision. Doing this in an environmentally sound fashion, yet reducing our dependency level and increasing our energy security in a minor way, but doing it and moving forward with that. I think it is important to do that.
We are here late in the year and I think everybody would much rather be at home with family or doing things in other places than here. But these are important pieces of legislation. Balancing the budget is very important for our future and our children, and a good Christmas present. Energy security is important for our Nation and for our children, an important Christmas present we can give them as well--to build a more secure future for this Nation.
I thank the Chair. With that, I yield the remainder of my time and yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum and ask unanimous consent that it be charged equally to both sides.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
