Public Statements
USA Patriot and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act of 2005--Conference Report--Continued
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 16, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


USA PATRIOT AND TERRORISM PREVENTION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2005--CONFERENCE REPORT--Continued -- (Senate - December 16, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, as Senator CORZINE spends his final days representing the people of New Jersey in the Senate, I wish to spend a few moments speaking about his commitment to human rights and the pressing crisis of genocide in Darfur, Sudan.
I have worked on the issue of war and humanitarian disaster in Sudan for several years. But nearly 2 years ago, as the Comprehensive Peace Agreement for Sudan was in its final negotiations, we became aware of the unfolding crisis in Sudan's western region of Darfur. It was Senator CORZINE who came to me to work together and champion this issue. We joined each other on the Senate floor in countless speeches showing photos of the anguish in Darfur. We joined each other in seeing the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act through the Senate. We joined each other to secure funding for the security and humanitarian needs of the people.
I have had the opportunity to work with many Members across party lines on human rights and humanitarian issues. I remember partnering with Paul Wellstone on the Trafficking Victims' Protection Act. Some called us strange bedfellows since we were at opposite ends of the political spectrum. But I have learned an important lesson: these issues are sufficiently urgent that ideological and partisan differences should not be allowed to impede cooperation, especially where lives and basic freedoms are at stake. And such has been true in the case of Darfur. I have no doubt that Senator CORZINE's commitment and perseverance to raise this issue to the highest levels has made a difference to the people of Darfur. I also saw firsthand his sincere compassion and commitment to the suffering of the world when we traveled to tsunami-ravaged South Asia together earlier this year.
I will always consider Senator CORZINE an ally and a friend on one of the greatest moral issues in foreign policy today. In his absence, I will look to my other colleagues to ensure that this crisis is not easily forgotten.
As we close out 2005, I urge my colleagues to secure additional funding for the African Union in the Defense Appropriations conference and I urge my colleagues in the House to pass the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act. Without continued action by the United States and the international community, more lives will be lost.
I would like to take this opportunity to formally and publicly thank Senator CORZINE for his partnership and his commitment to the people of Darfur. I express my very best wishes as he leaves this body to become the next Governor of New Jersey.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
