Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 16, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS -- (Senate - December 16, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I applaud my colleague from Utah for helping lead the fight against child pornography. This is an issue upon which all Senators can unite, and it is a battle we must not lose.
Pornography is no longer isolated to a small segment of society. It has pervaded our culture. As we learned in a recent hearing I chaired in the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights, pornography has infiltrated homes and families and is having devastating effects. According to recent reports, 1 in 5 children between the ages of 10 and 17 have received a sexual solicitation over the Internet, and 9 out of 10 children between the ages of 8 and 16 who have Internet access have viewed porn Web sites, usually in the course of looking up information for homework.
Perhaps the ugliest aspect of the pornography epidemic is child pornography. Children as young as 5 years old are being used for profit in this fast-growing industry. We have a duty to protect the weakest members of our society from exploitation and abuse. I believe this bill is the first step in that fight.
First, this bill will expand recordkeeping requirements to those who produce soft-core, or simulated, pornography. Current law only requires that records be kept by producers of hardcore, or actual, pornography. Under this language, producers will now be required to verify the ages of their actors and keep records of such information, regardless of whether the material they produce contains actual sexual activity or only a simulation of such activity. Further, this bill will require producers of such materials to disclose such records to the Attorney General for inspection. It will make refusal to permit inspection of such records a crime. This will be effective not only as a tool in prosecutions as a means of deterrence. Producers will be less likely to use child actors if they know they may be required to disclose the ages of their actors.
Today, recordkeeping requirements apply only to ``actual'' sexual conduct, leaving a loophole for soft-core pornography. Such material is no less damaging to children than hardcore pornography and recordkeeping and disclosure requirements must apply to this material as well. This bill will close the current loophole.
Again, I appreciate the leadership of Senator HATCH, and I hope my colleagues will join us passing this legislation to protect children from victimization and abuse.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
