Public Statements
Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2006 Through 2009
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 16, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE APPROPRIATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2006 THROUGH 2009 -- (Senate - December 16, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I applaud the sponsors of this bill to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act for their tireless leadership in the campaign to end the abuse of women. In particular, I thank them for their foresight in incorporating the International Marriage Broker Regulation Act of 2005 ``IMBRA'' as one of its subtitles. This important piece of legislation, which I introduce with Senator Maria Cantwell in the Senate, is intended to address Congress' concerns about a significant and growing problem: the high incidence of violent abuse of foreign women brought to this country as fiancées or spouses by American men whom they meet through for-profit international marriage brokers ``IMBs,'' commonly known as ``mail-order bride'' agencies.
After learning from the Tahirih Justice Center and other front-line experts about the terrible circumstances in which many of these women find themselves, I convened a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in July 2004 to call attention to the abuse and exploitation of women and their children through this industry. Since it comes as a great surprise to many people that such agencies actually exist in the modem day, that are legal in this country, and that they are on the rise, not the decline, I want to share some further background that will explain why it is so important that Congress has acted today to compel the industry and its clients to clean up their act.
First, this is an increasing problem. The IMB industry has exploded in recent years, greatly facilitated by the Internet. According to statistics from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, an estimated one-third to one-half of all foreign fiancées admitted to the U.S. each year--9,500 to 14,500 women in 2004 alone--and many thousand more admitted foreign wives, have met their American husbands through IMBs. The number of foreign fiancées admitted to the U.S. more than doubled between 1998 and 2002, and continues to climb.
Second, the industry bears significant responsibility for women's vulnerability to abuse, and has done little if anything on its own initiative to safeguard them. Over a half-decade ago, the then-Immigration and Naturalization Service concluded in a report to Congress that, ``with the burgeoning number of unregulated international matchmaking organizations and clients using their services, the potential for abuse in mail-order marriages is considerable.'' The INS study further noted that American men who use IMBs tend to seek relationships with women whom they feel they can control. Moreover, the marketing and business practices of IMBs also heighten the risk of abuse by feeding this perception. Agencies often advertise the women they recruit as being submissive to male clients, who might pay up to several thousand dollars to gain access to those women. Other industry practices, from ``satisfaction guarantees'' or ``shopping cart'' features on agency web sites to so-called ``romance tours'' overseas that virtually line up several hundred women recruits for inspection by a dozen male clients during a single ``mixer,'' make perfectly clear that the woman is the commodity provided for the male client's consumption. An inevitable and dangerous sense of ownership by the men in their costly investments can develop. Several highly publicized murders of women by husbands whom they met through IMBs highlight a growing nationwide trend of abuse. A 2003 survey conducted by the Tahirih Justice Center found that over 50 percent of programs providing legal services to battered immigrant women nationwide had served women battered by men whom they had met through IMBs.
Third, women who are recruited by IMBs are at a tremendous informational disadvantage that a brutal predator can exploit. These foreign fiancées and spouses often are unable to obtain reliable information about the criminal and marital histories of their American fiancées and spouses, and are unaware of the legal rights and resources available to victims of domestic violence in the U.S. An all-too-common result is that women from across the globe are exploited across this country, as a brief memorandum from the Tahirih Justice Center explains, and which I will have printed in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
The information requirements established by this subtitle are designed to require disclosure of the kinds of criminal convictions in the background of a petitioning American fiancé or spouse that indicate he could be prone to domestic violence. This will enable a foreign woman to make an informed decision about coming to this country for marriage to an American man, in advance, with her safety and that of her children in mind. The provisions of this subtitle would also provide her with information about where she can turn for help, including vital safety nets and social services available to domestic violence and sexual assault victims, if she experiences abuse at the hands of her American fiancé or spouse.
A simple but incredibly powerful premise drives these provisions: that this information can help a woman help herself, help her save herself or her child from becoming the next victim of a predatory abuser. Through this information and other safeguards, this important legislation will help prevent those intent on doing women harm from perverting and subverting both the institution of marriage and the immigration process to find new victims overseas.
So again, I thank my colleagues for their inclusion of these vital protections, and thank them, too, on behalf of the women and children whom they have spared today from tragedies tomorrow.
I ask unaminous consent the memorandum be printed in the RECORD.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
