Public Statements
Tax Relief Act of 2005
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 17, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2005 -- (Senate - November 17, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise today in opposition to Senator Dorgan's windfall profits tax amendment. This amendment seeks to punish oil companies with a punitive tax on profits when oil prices go above $40 per barrel. This amendment is shortsighted and extremely bad fiscal policy.
First, this bill already includes a $4.923 billion tax penalty on large integrated oil companies. The Dorgan amendment would simply add on to the penalty currently in this bill. The belief persists that the oil companies' profits are ``extreme'' or ``excessive.'' However, this belief is unfounded. Yes, most oil companies did have record-setting profits during the 3rd quarter. But history has clearly shown that the oil industry is ``boom or bust.'' One needs look no further than my home State of Kansas. During the 1970s and 1980s, the economy in Kansas was tied directly to the oil and natural gas industry. As their profits spiked or fell, our economy would do the same. I say this to prove that I have firsthand knowledge of how volatile the oil industry is. We need not tax a single industry simply because it had a good quarter. Even a record-setting quarter is not reason to add a windfall tax. This is bad policy and sets a negative precedent. This clearly puts a disincentive in the marketplace for American companies, in all sectors of our economy, to not perform their best. This is not the signal we want to be sending in a competitive, global economy.
Building upon the fact that the oil industry has many fluctuations, a windfall tax on profits would reduce needed private investments in energy infrastructure. If the industry is not allowed to benefit during periods of high prices because of a tax on profits, there will be precious little incentive to invest in domestic production. These investments lead to more production, which in turn lead to lower prices. A windfall profit tax would disrupt the normal cyclical movement of the energy industry.
Finally, a windfall profits tax would harm the numerous individuals who have invested in the energy industry through pension plans and mutual funds because this new tax would reduce capital gains and dividends payments.
Mr. President, I believe it is clear this amendment would do much more harm than good. It is shortsighted, market distorting, and sets a bad precedent for every industry in our economy.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
