Public Statements
Press Conference with Senator Joseph I. Liberman (D-CT); Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS); Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) ... - New Energy Security Legislation
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 16, 2005
Location: Washington, DC

Press Conference with Senator Joseph I. Liberman (D-CT); Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS); Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN); And Senator Norm Coleman (R-MN) - New Energy Security Legislation
Copyright ©2007 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Jack Graeme at jack@fednews.com or call 1-800-211-4020.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: It's a pleasure to join my colleague Joe Lieberman and all of my colleagues on this exciting bill that I think is the right thought at the right time, and I think it's going to move forward and get something done.
We clearly are being dependent on other places for our oil resources, and the American people don't like it and we shouldn't be.
This is an attempt, and I think it's going to be a very successful attempt, to move us off of that dependency. It drives a lot of our foreign policy and national security issues. We're trying to remove this as being something that impacts our foreign policy -- our dependence on foreign oil -- to the degree that it does. We're attempting to be more dependent upon the Midwest rather than the Mideast for our oil supply, using homegrown fuel supplies and flex- fuel vehicles that will ride -- that will drive on those fuel supplies. And I can -- I believe that we can grow and innovate our way to diversifying our fuel sources.
One number that has been so striking to me in the coalition of groups that are behind this bill, and if you will look at that, it is a coalition of people -- environmental groups, national security groups -- looking at this topic, and saying we can move forward. And one number in particular was striking to me. Most of the -- about half of Americans only drive 20 miles a day. If we can get that first 20 miles off of electricity or off a homegrown fuel source instead of off of petroleum, we can literally free ourselves from this nasty entanglement that we have -- being dependent upon foreign oil. And it's with current technology. This is -- nothing new has to be discovered, although we're investing in that, and Senator Bayh's going to talk more about that investment. Flex-fuel, Plug-in vehicles, hybrid vehicles where you can get that first 20 miles off of electricity or off of ethanol or biomass or biodiesel. This is doable off of current technology.
The final thing I want to address is the doability of this politically. I think we're at a moment now where we can do this, that there was a mental sea change that we saw in America when gasoline hit $3.00 a gallon, and people said we've got to do something different. And with this -- this is a bipartisan, incentive-based approach that I think is exciting and is going to happen, and I'm delighted to join my colleagues in this effort.
Q I have a question for Senator Brownback. I know you're talking bipartisanship here, but your side of the aisle is in charge. And only a few months ago, many of these same provisions were offered up in amendments on the floor and in committee in the energy bill, and now is being pushed by a bipartisan group, so what's changed?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I don't know that your premise is actually accurate that many of these provisions were offered up in bills. There was, I know, the one amendment from the senator from Washington of setting a target -- of setting of hard targets, saying, okay, we're going to drop fuel consumption by this amount. And that amendment at the time, I think, by a number of people was seen as more of a partisan bomb being thrown at that point in time, saying, okay, we're going to set this, and then you've got to hit it.
What we do here is we set objectives, and then we set ways and means of doing it, of getting this done. We're setting it by hybrid technology. We're setting it by tax incentives by both producers and the consumers, and within the flex-fuel system.
What we've really tried to do with this bill is to stay away from those things. You don't see ANWR in this bill, and you don't see CAFE in this bill because those have been the issues that have divided us in the past. What we've done is we've tried to stay with those things that we can agree upon. And Joe has done this, I've done this, Lindsey's done this, in particular, a lot where we've tried to build coalitions from the left and the right. And my experience on all of these has been you get the pieces that you can agree upon together and throw them together, and make it a consistent theme and you can get something done. But if you bring in the partisan edge items, it's not going to happen.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Q Senator Domenici is working on a new refinery bill. Senator Stevens has said he wants to do a bill on price gouging. Are you going to look at either of those bills or, if they're combined into one, as a vehicle for you to get your proposals passed, as kind of a second energy bill? Which is interesting -- that only three months after we passed the first one that took four years, now, three months later, you're coming up a --
SEN. BROWNBACK: And a lot has happened in that three months. And that energy bill was three years in getting it through, because we had -- we'd get it passed, and it would get knocked back in one house or the other.
I think -- my thought is -- and we haven't talked about this -- we'll try to find any vehicle we can to attach and put this in, to move it on forward. And I think we'll get very broad bipartisan support in getting it done.
The policies here -- and we've worked hard to try to get the edges out, so that the objectionable items that have been put forward before don't stop it, and that this is one that you could see is as close to Mom and apple pie as you can get in legislative prospects, and one that the American people want.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Q Do you have any idea what this would cost, Senator?
SEN. LIEBERMAN: We -- there's an early estimate -- I don't even where it came from -- but I've seen $6 billion over five years. But, you know, when you think about the fact that we've spent over $100 billion in this year alone in payments to foreign countries for oil, that's a small amount. There's also a lot of incentives in here to make the adjustment that we're asking the automobile makers particularly to make easier to take financially.
Q Any support in the House for this?
SEN. LIEBERMAN: Oh, incidentally -- do you want to --
SEN. BROWNBACK: (Off mike) -- bipartisan bill. Jack Kingston's got a companion bill, it's bipartisan, in the House of Representatives. I believe they had a press conference even ahead of us.
Q (Off mike.)
SEN. BROWNBACK: What's that?
Q Kingston and Engel.
SEN. LIEBERMAN: Eliot Engel, yeah.
Q Do you have leadership support for this, or Senator Domenici? Have you spoken to them?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I have not talked with them yet. I think they will be, but I have not spoken directly to them.
SEN. LIEBERMAN: I can't say Senator Reid has endorsed it, but I've certainly spoken to him about it, and he has encouraged me on this as an idea that he'd like to think about more.
Thank you all very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
SEN. LIEBERMAN: Thanks for being here.

Source: http://www.fnsg.com/transcripta.htm?id=20051116t4905&query=Brownback
