Public Statements
Superfund Litigation
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 3, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


SUPERFUND LITIGATION -- (Senate - November 03, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise today to speak on the issue of clarifying Congress's intent regarding agricultural operations in respect to Superfund litigation. I, along with my colleague from Idaho, Senator Craig, offered an amendment during the agriculture appropriations conference committee that would have done that very thing. The amendment passed the Senate, by a 9 to 8 vote, yet was stripped from the final conference report. Needless to say, I am disappointed with this result. So much so, in fact, I decided not to sign the conference report.
When the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or CERCLA, was passed in 1980 and the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act, or EPCLA, was passed in 1986, agriculture was never part of the deal. These acts were intended to provide for clean up of toxic waste dumps and spills such as Love Canal and Times Beach. To this end, Congress created the Superfund to tax building blocks, such as petrochemicals, inorganic raw materials and petroleum oil, used to make all hazardous products and waste. Animal agriculture waste, or manure, is clearly not among these materials. In fact, if you would have tried to attach agriculture to either of these two acts, they would not have passed. It was not Congress's intent to apply Superfund rules to manure which contains naturally occurring organic compounds--such as orthophosphate, ammonia and hydrogen sulfide--which occur naturally in the environment in the same form as they appear in manure.
Recently, municipal and State governments have filed suit against livestock and poultry operations claiming Superfund liability in Texas and Oklahoma.
On April 24, 2004, the City of Waco, TX, filed suit in Federal court against eight dairies in the North Bosque River Watershed and later amended the suit to include six additional dairies, seeking $45 million in damages under Superfund. The suit alleges that orthophosphate is discharged from the dairies and has affected the water quality of Lake Waco which is located approximately 100 miles downstream from the dairies.
On June 13, 2005, the attorney general of the State of Oklahoma filed suit in Federal court against 14 major integrated poultry production firms claiming joint and several liability for damaged water quality in the Illinois River Watershed caused by poultry litter runoff from agricultural lands to which it has been applied as fertilizer. The suit seeks to recover past, present, and future response costs under Superfund, as well as natural resource damages that is expected to add up to several hundreds of millions of dollars. If these two cases are successful, other municipalities and States could bring similar lawsuits and every animal feeding operation and farm could be held liable under Superfund.
This is another example of our judicial system overstepping its boundaries. Our judicial system is usurping the will of Congress and creating laws Congress never meant to create.
Animal agriculture operations have been appropriately regulated and required to have permits for years under the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, and various State laws to protect the environment, but never under Superfund. My amendment would have left these laws in place. My amendment would have only protected agricultural producers from another example of an activist judicial system. Agriculture is already an over regulated industry and adding the possibility of Superfund litigation will be too much to bear for farmers and ranchers.
Further, Superfund was created with a specific goal and mission in mind. The EPA is burdened to meet these goals as it is. To now add the millions of acres of agriculture as possible Superfund sites would be too heavy a burden for the EPA to carry. Including agriculture within Superfund takes away from Superfund's initial, worthy mission.
As I stated earlier, I am disappointed that the Superfund amendment was stripped from this report after having passed the Senate. I fully intend to bring this item up next year and I am currently looking for ways to move this legislation. This needs to happen for our farmers and ranchers.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
