Public Statements
CNN Larry King Live - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 31, 2005
Location: Unknown


CNN Larry King Live - Transcript
Monday, October 31, 2005
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
LARRY KING, CNN HOST: Tonight, the legendary Mike Wallace and this time he answers the questions on everything from the indictment in the CIA leak investigation to the president's new Supreme Court nominee and he'll take your phone calls too. Mike's next on LARRY KING LIVE.
Before we talk with Mike Wallace about his new book, let's check up on the Supreme Court appointment with Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas. He's a member of the Judiciary Committee. He'll be voting on the Senator. He voted for confirming John Roberts.
Senator Chuck Schumer is a Democrat of New York, member of the Judiciary, Senator Schumer voted against the Roberts' nomination.
And, in Boston in David Gergen, White House adviser to Presidents Nixon, Ford, Reagan and Clinton, professor of public service at Harvard's JFK School, and editor-at-large "US News and World Report."
We'll start with David. It's a safe bet that Sam Brownback is going to vote for him and Charles Schumer is going to vote against him and the question would be why don't they both wait until the hearing?
DAVID GERGEN, WHITE HOUSE ADVISER TO PRESIDENTS NIXON, FORD, REAGAN AND CLINTON: Because we've just come through such a contentious period on Harriet Miers and I think that the conservatives really wanted a hard right conservative and now they've got him and they've all come out in force to celebrate it.
Pat Robertson called it, you know, a grand slam homerun. And, just as predictably, the left is going to come out on the attack. I think we're heading toward a Donnybrook. It's going to be really interesting to hear what these two Senators have tonight to say about the prospects of a filibuster.
KING: Senator Brownback, don't the confirmation hearings count or is it over for you? He's got a yes vote.
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS), JUDICIARY COMMITTEE: The confirmation hearings do count and it's not over for me. I want to see how this nominee performs. I want to see what he has to say. I just heard his name this morning, just started to look at his qualifications, his background. I think he looks pretty good but I can't give you an up or down yes or no now. That's part of the process of advise and consent to get more information.
KING: Senator Schumer same question for you is it a down automatic?
SEN. CHARLES SCHUMER (D-NY), JUDICIARY COMMITTEE: No not at all. Just as Sam said, on this we agree, we have to see who this nominee is. We have to study his record, find out what he thinks. We'll meet with him personally and then there will be the hearing.
So, you don't make up your mind. Obviously people have inclinations. My guess is Sam is a little happier with the nomination than I am but neither of us would state our position because we don't have one. You can't be sure until you really meet the nominee and see what they're like.
KING: David Gergen, if it got to a filibuster, how harmful would that be to government?
GERGEN: Well, if it gets to a filibuster and I think that's a very close call tonight whether it will eventually get there or not and the Republicans have made it very clear that they would likely invoke the nuclear option and that is to kill the filibuster and to kill filibusters in general. And then we're going to have tribal warfare in Washington.
We may not get there, Larry. A lot depends. The hearings do matter. People have to look more closely at the record. But I think that there is, you know, while I think both Senators are I think exactly right to say we're going to wait and hold our positions you can tell by the way both sides are lining up, the activists on both sides are lining up that this is going to be a Donnybrook.
KING: Senator Brownback, you said that Bush picked the best person he could find when he nominated Harriet Miers. Does that mean Alito is second best?
BROWNBACK: Well, I don't recall saying that. I'm not sure where your producers came up with that particular statement.
KING: They came up with it. I didn't.
BROWNBACK: Well, OK. I'm not sure that one is probably attributable to me. I had a lot of questions about Harriet Miers, a lot more because there was a lot less of a record on her than there is on Judge Alito.
So, this is one I think we're going to know a lot more about and I think this is good for the process. We should know a judicial philosophy. We should have outstanding candidates put forward. I think everybody agrees this is an outstanding legal mind and now let's look at the judicial philosophy.
I think he probably is a little more conservative. He's probably not as far to the right as Ruth Bader Ginsberg is to the left but let's take a look and it's going to take some time to see.
KING: Speaking of that, Senator Schumer, did you prefer or did you want a woman? SCHUMER: Well, all things being equal, yes. I would have preferred a woman. I believe in diversity. But the president made his choice and Sam and I do agree on one thing, Larry, and this is sort of interesting. We both agree that the nominee should state their judicial philosophy, give us some idea of how he or if it were to be a she thinks on these issues.
I think the days of the stealth nominee, which Harriet Miers clearly was is over. You know, Supreme Court justices have tremendous, tremendous power over every one of our lives and the only time you can really get to question them, see what they think is when the Senate has its confirmation process. We agree that that ought to happen. It ought to happen in a dignified way. It ought to happen in a thoughtful way but it certainly ought to happen.
KING: He won't make the court, if approved, until January right?
SCHUMER: Well, I think that's true and, you know, that's one thing that does worry me. Because of the importance of this nomination there shouldn't be a rush through the procedure. Some were saying let's get this done very quickly. That does a disservice.
Judge Alito is 55 years old. He's likely to be on the court for several decades, having huge effect not only on us but on our children, maybe our grandchildren and we ought to be careful and thoughtful above all, no rush here, shouldn't be.
KING: David Gergen, on this program Bill Clinton said that often judges disappoint the presidents who appoint them because it's the first time in their life they have a job where they're not appealed and they also see things differently, true?
GERGEN: That's true. I do not think that's the case in this instance because Judge Alito does have a long record. He's got 15 years on the Court of Appeals and the one thing we do know about him is that he's had some 41 dissents on that court, almost always to the right of a court that has been fairly liberal. So, I think he's got -- I think he has a consistent philosophy.
Larry, in my judgment the president deserves to be congratulated for now putting forward someone again who has experience and who is talented. There's no question about that. He appears to be quite genial. I'm sure he'll do pretty well in the hearings.
My sense is that this is ultimately going to come down to the question is the Congress or is the Senate going to confirm someone who is going to be a reliable conservative and probably be voting consistently with Scalia and Thomas or will the Democrats be able to block that. And that's going to be, that's going to be the -- and that's a very big, important battle over the judicial philosophy that ought to guide the court.
KING: Senator Brownback, can he be a reliable conservative and still vote to uphold Roe v. Wade?
BROWNBACK: I think one could probably look at that but I think that's an unlikely way to consider it. Roe v. Wade, the right to an abortion that's read into the Constitution, is not in the Constitution and there's a number of commentators from the left and right that agree that this is not in the Constitution.
It should be debated. It should be dealt with by legislatures across the country. So, I think he could read it that way but it seems to me unlikely on somebody that would be more of a strict constructionist of the Constitution.
KING: But he could uphold just on precedent could he not because he has said in the past that he favors precedent?
BROWNBACK: I think almost every judge and justice favors precedent, the role of stare decisis that once a law is settled it's settled. But, you know, you look in our history we've had a number of cases in the Supreme Court that have been overturned by later courts and thank goodness they did.
Brown v. Board of Education is in my home state of Kansas. It overruled earlier laws that said segregation was OK. Thankfully, thankfully the court overturned those prior decisions.
KING: Chuck Schumer, do you expect a battle?
SCHUMER: Well, you know, I would hope...
KING: Honestly expect it?
SCHUMER: Yes, honestly, let me just say I would have hoped that we could have avoided a battle. I would have hoped that the president would choose a real consensus nominee who would have much broader support.
But I think what happened here is not a single Senator, for instance, said that Harriet Miers' nomination should be withdrawn. Sam may have been on the edge but I don't think he ever said it.
It was only these very extreme groups that said it and the president went along with them and, you know, I got to tell you this Larry. I can't tell you what will happen with Judge Alito. I think it's very close, as David Gergen said.
But any president who seeks to govern, whether it's court appointments or anything else from the extremes, Democrats from the far left extreme, Republicans from the far right extreme, doesn't serve the country well and ends up not serving themselves well.
KING: David Gergen, do you have a prediction or too early to tell?
GERGEN: Too early to tell. Watch what some of the more moderate Democrats do. Watch what Olympia Snowe, Susan Collins and Lincoln Chafee do on the Republican side. Those are going to be the swing votes and it's just, it's way too early to tell. I think he's reliably conservative. I think the issue becomes as the country gets to know what some of the individual decisions are whether the country is going to welcome this or not. I think it's just too early to tell. I think it's going to be a fight for both sides.
KING: Thank you, Senators Brownback and Schumer and David Gergen.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0510/31/lkl.01.html
