Public Statements
CNN Late Edition - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 30, 2005
Location: Unknown


CNN Late Edition - Transcript
Sunday, October 30, 2005
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
BLITZER: Senator Brownback, in effect, the whole world is watching, and we're being seen right now around the world discussing these issues. How worried are you? Do you agree with the former secretary of state?
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R), KANSAS: Well, this is a serious matter. But I think we go on with the agenda, and I think you allow the legal process to work its will and its way. The indictment has been reported out, there's a process that will follow, and we'll see what happens through that.
Meanwhile, I think we have to continue to maintain a very aggressive domestic and robust foreign policy agenda. Just had the constitutional vote in Iraq; that is significant. You've got elections coming up in Iraq; that's significant. You've got the potential for us starting to pull troops out in the first half of next year, very significant.
I think we've got to continue to move those forward as these legal issues move on forward on their own track.
BLITZER: There are some, Senator Brownback, who suggest especially in the aftermath of 2,000 American troops now having died in the course of the war in Iraq, that the trial -- the upcoming trial of Lewis "Scooter" Libby, if in fact if there is a trial -- no plea agreement down the road, or the charges dismissed for whatever reason, if there's a trial, the trial eventually will be about the justice, the nature of this war.
Are you among those who believe such a trial could lead to that kind of discussion?
BROWNBACK: I don't know that it will. And I think it's a little early to be able to tell that.
The basis of the discussion, of course, is part of the basis that was -- that the war was contended upon. And that is, the weapons of mass destruction. I think it's obvious we have not found weapons of mass destruction, and everybody's stated that. But we've continued to move forward on this, saying it is important for Iraq to be free. It is an important beachhead in the region for freedom. It's an important breaking up of the terrorist networks and their association with Saddam Hussein. And we did find terrorists working there on that soil.
So I think those are important things for us to continue to move forward, and not discount the incredible sacrifice that hundreds of thousands of soldiers, indeed, over 2,000, have given their lives in this very important war on terrorism and war for freedom.
BLITZER: Do you feel, Madam Secretary, that the American public was lied to by the Bush administration going into the war?
ALBRIGHT: I think that all the facts were not out. And that is very clear now because there was an agenda about going into this war. And I think that there needs to continue to be a debate.
I have said that this was a war of choice, not of necessity. But now we have to make things come out right. That's the necessity and not the choice.
BLITZER: But as you know, many Democrats say the president and his top aides, the vice president, lied, deliberately manipulated intelligence in order to justify going to war. Are you among those who make that charge?
ALBRIGHT: I am very concerned about what happened because I think it's unclear as to why and how we went into this war. But most unclear, and where I think there is a great indictment to be made, is how the war has been prosecuted.
And I actually think that the greater indictments going on, though the ones, the legal ones are serious, is of the national security strategy of the Bush administration. I'm very worried about that.
And this week we put out a plan on how to fight terrorism, a comprehensive integrative plan, which I think is something that has been missing.
BLITZER: Let's talk about that. Senator Brownback, what about Syria, its role in the insurgency in Iraq, its role -- now accused top officials in the Syrian government being involved in the assassination of a former Lebanese prime minister, Rafik Hariri, and 22 other people in Beirut.
What should the United States government be doing as far as serious concern of President Bashar al-Assad right now?
BROWNBACK: I think we should be taking a very aggressive stance toward Syria, not allowing them to continue to support terrorist groups that operate on Syrian soil, and operating then -- or that base out of Syrian soil and operating in Iraq.
I think we should take a very aggressive and strong international position, condemning the Syrian government for their role in their work.
I think this is a weakened Syrian regime, and I think it's a very problematic Syrian regime for us and for people in the region. Wolf, I want to back up to an earlier point if I can, real quick. We are where we are right now on the war in terrorism. If we pull back and decide, O.K., this was not the right thing to do, and so we're going to drop it all, the problems for the United States multiply. We have to see this on through to a successful conclusion.
If we fail, and the terrorists believe they drove us out of Iraq, for whatever reason they want to cite, it will spawn more terrorism. We must be successful in that region.
BLITZER: Let me let the former secretary respond to that. There are some Democrats who say cut and run, not using those words necessarily, but just get out, better to get out right now than wait and another 2,000 American troops will die in the course of the next two years or less.
What do you say, with the hand that you have right now?
ALBRIGHT: Well, I'm not one of the people that believes in setting deadlines.
I believe that it is very important to look at the -- a strategic redeployment of our forces and to take a very careful look at what is going on.
But we wouldn't -- nobody is advocating stopping the fight against terrorism.
In fact, I think it's very important to have a strong tactical approach to killing the terrorists and getting rid of various cells and at the same time, having a much longer-term approach in terms of the problems that create a lot of terrorists, which, frankly, is one of the things that Senator Brownback and I want to look at generally about how to improve the situation in a number of countries in terms of the situation there, so that we can look at a broader humanitarian approach to many international problems.
BLITZER: All right. We're going to pick up that thought. But first, we'll take a quick break.
When we come back, I'll ask Secretary Albright and Senator Brownback about the problems of genocide and their new initiative to promote global human rights. Stay with us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BLITZER: Welcome back. We're continuing our discussion with former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and Kansas Republican Senator Sam Brownback.
Madame Secretary, quickly on the Syrian issue -- I asked Senator Brownback -- some say regime change is what the United States and allies should be promoting in Damascus, not necessarily a full-scale military invasion, but other means.
Is that something you would endorse? ALBRIGHT: Well, I think what has to happen now is to follow out the string at the United Nations. We actually have a very good understanding now with the French and have moved forward in a way through the Security Council.
There's been an international investigator put on it. And I think it's important to pursue that. And we have enough problems at the moment. I do think that we need to be firm in terms of Syrian support for incursions across the border into Iraq.
BLITZER: Let's talk about Iran a little bit, Senator Brownback.
The president of Iran said this the other day, on Wednesday. He said, "As the Imam said," referring to one of his ayatollahs, a predecessor, he said, "Israel must be wiped off the map."
Those are strong words. Some members of his foreign ministry seem to be hedging it a little bit.
When you hear the president of Iran say that, what goes through your mind?
BROWNBACK: What goes through my mind is exactly what he said. And if this is basis, when Khomeini came back into Iran to take over the Iranian country to set up the theocracy there, these were statements that he made.
And this has been the official policy of the government of Iran for some period of time. And now you may be having it developing a nuclear capacity. You have it being a very strong country in that region.
I think these are words for us to take very seriously. And I would hope that the president of Iran would walk away from those. But instead, he's been repeating those words. I think we have to take them very seriously.
BLITZER: What do you think, Madame Secretary?
ALBRIGHT: Well, I think it's very troubling. It matches also what he said when he spoke to the general assembly.
But what is interesting is that the international community reacted immediately. There was a condemnation out of the Security Council and it's totally outrageous.
And I think that it helps in terms of uniting us all in the talks that we're trying to have with Iran to get them to back off so that they do not have nuclear weapons.
BLITZER: Our viewers, many of them, Senator Brownback, are watching this discussion. They're seeing Senator Sam Brownback and former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright two working together now, A good conservative Republican, a good Democrat, Madeleine Albright.
You've forged together with others a bipartisan alliance to come up with a new human rights initiative that you can agree on, including such steps as halting genocide, aiding refugees and the internally displaced, ending human trafficking and promoting religious liberty.
Senator Brownback, what are you up to with your Democratic friends?
BROWNBACK: I hope, a lot. Secretary Albright has been wonderful to work with on this. She's been very interested in the topic for a long period of time.
She approached me about us working together on this. And I think what we can start to show, and we are seeing more of this, but what we can start to show is, these are issues that unite us. These are issues that we all care about, that are in place in the world today. These things, unfortunately, are happening in the world today and they need to be addressed.
And we can come together, left and right, Republican and Democrat, conservative and liberal, and say, we want to address these. And that's the attempt of this conference.
And I think it's going to be a very successful effort.
BLITZER: Tell our viewers, Madam Secretary, about this conference -- what you're up to, what your agenda is.
ALBRIGHT: Well, it's exactly as Senator Brownback said, an attempt to get us together on some very important issues.
And on Tuesday, November 1, we are, in fact, meeting with panels on these four issues with Democrats and Republicans. Senator Clinton is coming, Congressman Wolf, General Wesley Clark and other experts.
And Senator Brownback and I are going to be discussing these issues in an attempt, really, to educate people about them, to motivate them, to engage their personal interest in it -- and that they become advocates in dealing with this issue.
And, Wolf, I think what's so important is that this is a counterpoint to some of the ugly discussions that are going on in Washington. And we want to show that it is possible to solve problems if we work together.
BLITZER: Is it possible to, given the environment, the atmosphere of Washington, highly charged right now, as you well know, Senator Brownback -- is it possible to do that?
BROWNBACK: Absolutely. And I think, really, if you look around Washington, you see a lot of these efforts, of people saying, OK, we disagree on a number of topics.
But there are a lot of things we agree upon. So let's find those and let's bring them to the forefront and try to work on them together: human rights, the opposition to human trafficking, the support for refugees -- these are things that clearly unite us -- the opposition to genocide. And the key thing for us to do is to use this wonderful nation, the United States of America, that stood for truth and justice around the world, use it together to advance these causes.
BLITZER: We're out of time. But I want to show our viewers some video, Madame Secretary, of you in a very different light.
I want to put this up on the screen. Take a look at this. This is Madeleine Albright on a TV show called "The Gilmore Girls" from our sister network, the WB network.
What is going on here? Go ahead, Madeleine.
ALBRIGHT: Well, I was asked to be on this show. And I'm a pretty good mom. And so I was playing mom to Rory in this show. And we're doing a sequence because I'm hoping to be an inspiration to her.
BLITZER: Well, this may be a whole new career for you, a sitcom. Madeleine Albright on television on "The Gilmore Girls."
A final question to you, Senator Brownback.
Are you running for president?
BROWNBACK: That's yet to be seen. I've been making some of the early travels, but no final decision has been made yet.
BLITZER: All right. We'll be watching.
Senator Sam Brownback, Secretary Madeleine Albright, good to have you. Good luck in your agenda. I appreciate it very much.
BROWNBACK: Thank you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0510/30/le.01.html
