Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 27, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS -- (Senate - October 27, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am please to join with Chairman SPECTER and Senator BIDEN today as we introduce a bill that will have a dramatic and positive effect in the lives of individuals re-entering society after incarceration. The Second Chance Act: Community Safety Through Recidivism Prevention is a bill that will not only protect our Nation's citizens but will more importantly help to reduce recidivism in our Nation.
A hallmark of any just society lies in its ability to protect the interest of all its citizens and I am proud that the United States is a leader in this regard. Yet, while we continue to strive toward this lofty goal, we must realize that there are areas in which we, as a society and as government, must do more to improve. No where is that more apparent than in our Nation's pension system.
Today, we have challenges within the prison system that range from high recidivism rates to budgetary and safety concerns. With this bill, we will be able to address this pressing problem within our society. Already we have seen innovative and model programs within the states and the faith community, and I am proud to say that Kansas is a leader in this regard, as well a such faith organizations as Prison Fellowship Ministries, Catholic Charities U.S.A., and the Salvation Army. However, we must stimulate innovation in this area on a national level and that is what this bill will accomplish. It is paramount that we ensure the safety of our communities and ensure that those incarcerated have the tools necessary to succeed after they rejoin society.
With this bill, we wil1 be able to combat the extremely high recidivism rates plaguing the prison system, currently as high as 70 percent, as well as address the financial burdens that hinder many of our state penitentiaries. State prison operating expenditures totaled $28.4 billion in fiscal year 2001, or a nationwide average annual operating cost of $22,650 per inmate. Today, it is more likely than ever that a person released from prison will be rearrested--two-thirds of state prisoners are rearrested within 3 years of release. Depending of the expert consulted, between one-third and two-thirds of all prison re-admissions are related to probation or parole violations and at least half of those violations are technical.
We must stop subsiding programs that do not work and that lead, in turn, to negative behavior.
I am confident that the bill we are putting forward today will indeed take the much needed steps to reduce the recidivism rate in this Nation, which will in turn help those incarcerated make positive changes within their lives so that when they do rejoin society, they will be able to do so with the confidence of knowing that they can contribute to society in a positive manner. As an added incentive to recidivism reduction, each grant application submitted under this program must have as its strategic plan a goal to reduce recidivism by 50 percent in 5 years and in order to receive continued funding under this program, each granted must show a reduction in the recidivism rate of participants by 10 percent over 2 years.
Specifically, this bill facilitates change within our current correctional system, and promotes coordination with the Federal Government to better assist those returning to our communities after incarceration their children. The bill reauthorizes the Re-Entry Demonstration Project with an enhanced focus on jobs, housing, substance abuse treatment, mental health, and the children and families of those incarcerated. The bill authorizes $200 million over a period of two years to fund these demonstration programs and creates performance outcome standards and deliverables. It will also encourage states to enhance their re-entry services and systems with grants to fund the creation or enhancement of state re-entry councils for strategic planning and review the state barriers and resources that exit.
Additionally, the bill creates a Federal interagency taskforce to facilitate collaboration and identify innovative programs initiatives. The taskforce will review and report to Congress on the Federal barriers that exist to successful re-entry.
Furthermore, the bill create a $50 million 2 year mentoring program geared toward reducing recidivism and the societal costs of recidivism. This mentoring program will help ex-offenders re-integrate into their communities. This initiative will specifically harness the resources and experience of community-based organizations in helping returning ex-offender.
Finally, the bill amends the Workplace and Community Transition Training for Incarcerated Youth Offenders Act by improving the existing grants to States under this program and provides $60 million for the administration of the program. This youth program calls for expanding the eligibility age from 25 to 35 years, increases accountability by requiring State correctional education agencies to track specific and quantified student outcomes referenced to non-program participants, and increases the allowable expenditure per youth offender up to the level of the maximum Federal Pell Grant award for tuition, books and essential materials; and related services, such as career development.
We have an incredible opportunity to re-shape the way in which this nation's prison systems operate. Much like welfare reform in the mid 1990s, we have a chance to make real and effective change in an area where change is sorely needed. I look forward to pushing this legislation forward.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
