Public Statements
FOX News - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 27, 2005
Location: Unknown

FOX News Channel - Transcript
MR. SCOTT: Well, let's get the take of another senator who was critical of the Miers nomination, Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas. In your view, was this the right thing to do, Senator?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think it was the right thing to do. It's a tough thing to do. I have great respect for the president and for Ms. Miers for taking this step. It's difficult. They could have continued to try to force the process. But at the end of the day, the Democrats and the Republicans were asking for a series of documents that the White House was saying we cannot produce, and we got at loggerheads on information. And that was being requested by both Democrat and Republican members.
MR. SCOTT: So that -- the document argument, that's not just a fig leaf? You think that really goes to the heart of the Miers withdrawal here?
SEN. BROWNBACK: That's where we had gotten to. I was talking with other members, I was talking with Democrat members, about information we needed to have to know the constitutional views of this nominee. They wanted the information. I wanted the information. We felt like, to do our job in the process of advise and consent, we needed the information. And the White House was saying, under executive privilege, we cannot give it to you. And I think that's really, at the end of the day, the straw that broke the camel's back.
MR. SCOTT: Well, as you well know, conservative columnist Charles Krauthammer wrote last Friday, I think it was, in The Washington Post that that document argument could be the cover that the White House could use to withdraw the nomination, saying, hey, you know, the Senate wants the documents, we don't want to give them to the senators, therefore we'll just pull Harriet Miers' name off the table. Is he some kind of a prophet, or did the White House just follow the playbook that he laid out?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yeah, we had gotten to that point, and more of us were demanding the documents, saying that that's the risk you take by nominating a nominee like this. There was also -- the hill was getting bigger for this nominee, not smaller, here in this Senate. As the meetings went on, as questions arose, as the speech from Dallas came out yesterday, the 1993 speech, there was a real question about where her philosophy is on some of these key issues of the day. It just -- the hill kept building and getting bigger rather than smaller. Any nominee has a big hill to climb, but this one unfortunately just kept growing.
MR. SCOTT: Well, if you look at her background, if you look at her personal life, you know, the church she attends and so forth, you could sort of believe the president when he says he knows her heart, knows that she'll be a strict constructionist and so forth. One got the impression that the president really thought he had a strong, bedrock conservative here, maybe even an antiabortion conservative, who could get through the Senate because she didn't have a paper trail. If the president wants that kind of justice on the court, does he pick someone from -- you know, from the federal judiciary who wears that mantle, wears it proudly? And does he fight that battle directly in the Senate?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, why is it that there is a litmus test if you're pro-life, but there's not a litmus test if you're pro-choice? Ruth Bader Ginsburg was general counsel for the ACLU and she gets through on a big bipartisan vote. I think it's pretty clear where she stands on most legal issues, and it would be a liberal interpretation of the Constitution. Why can she be nominated and somebody's that's known as a conservative jurist not?
MR. SCOTT: Well that's, I guess, what I'm asking you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think we're trying to be able to have that. I think it's time that we ought to have that discussion with the country. The president ran on a conservative court. He was open and notorious about it. People fought for him because of that. And I think it's time we had that discussion without a filibuster and have that brought in front of the American public.
MR. SCOTT: Yeah, that's the question I'm asking you. I mean, some are saying, Mr. President, you're a Republican, you ran as a Republican conservative, you have conservative majorities in the -- or Republican majorities in the House and the Senate; put forward a conservative Supreme Court nominee, and let's see where the chips fall.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I would argue that that would be good and good for the president and good for the country. He ran on it. I believe the country is ready to have this discussion, and we should have this discussion about the courts.
MR. SCOTT: All right. Senator Sam Brownback, Republican, of Kansas, thank you very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/
