Public Statements
Darfur
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 19, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


DARFUR -- (Senate - October 19, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I wish to update my colleagues on what is taking place in Sudan in the Darfur region. This is something about which I spoke several times in this Chamber. It is a genocide as the Senate, the House, and the President declared it a genocide. Others at the U.N. call it crimes against humanity. Under either definition, it is a horrific set of circumstances that has occurred in that region. Yet the response to date has still not been effective. People are continuing to be killed and slaughtered and run out of their villages, and the African Union troops have not succeeded in securing peace in that region. I want to update my colleagues about what is taking place.
The mandate of the African Union troops--and this is the African countries that have formed the African Union force--is simply to monitor and report on the current cease-fire. That is insufficient. I am going to detail why it is insufficient and what has happened because of their insufficient mandate and rules of engagement not being appropriate for the circumstances.
To date, they have largely written and filed away reports. Without a mandate robust enough to protect the civilians or prevent violence or assistance robust enough to provide a well-sized and equipped force, there is not much hope for the people seeking safety in Darfur.
A few weeks ago, the African Union came out with their strongest statement regarding the violence. This was a clear call for the international community to shine the spotlight on this crisis and to realize the implications it will have on the entire region.
While the parties are engaged in the sixth round of peace talks--and that is progress; we do have peace talks engaged in by the people in Darfur, the Government in Sudan, the jingaweit militia that has been given equipment by the Government in Sudan--violence continues to take place even as these peace talks move forward.
In the last few weeks, attacks have been carried out by the jingaweit militia, the Government forces, and the rebel movement--all three. The African Union announced:
You would recall that in the past one month, we witnessed a series of violations in Darfur, with widespread violence against villages, commercial and humanitarian conveys, and even IDP camps.
These are camps where individual citizens are going to get away from the raids and carnage.
This rendered the work of the humanitarian agencies and NGOs in the area difficult and, in some cases, they were forced to suspend their activities.
There was an unprecedented move against IDP camps and the first reports of the Government of Sudan's use of helicopters since January. A number of coordinated attacks has been reported since mid-September involving hundreds of jingaweit militia--this is the militia armed by the Government of Sudan--and Government forces working together killing and injuring many and displacing thousands more. Just this week, a number of civilians were killed in fighting that took place in the town of Kutum after a rebel and Government force clashed.
The African Union articulates:
A clearly premeditated and well rehearsed combined operation was carried out by the Government of Sudan military and police at approximately 11 a.m. in the town of Tawilla and its IDP camps in North Darfur. The Government of Sudan forces used approximately 41 trucks, 7 land cruisers in the operation which resulted in a number of deaths, massive displacement of civilians and the destruction of several houses in the surrounding areas, as well as some tents in the IDP camp.
In addition to these violations, there are reports that the Government of Sudan has painted their military trucks in the African Union colors, making it extremely difficult for civilians to distinguish between monitors or attackers. All parties have violated the cease-fire agreement on several occasions since it was established in 2004. Conditions for humanitarian organizations remain extremely difficult. This week, the United Nations announced its plan to withdraw all nonessential staff from Darfur.
In addition to an upsurge in violence by the Government and the government-backed jingaweit militia, I am very troubled by the recent violence aimed at the African Union by rebel groups. In particular, the recent kidnappings and killings of African Union troops should be strongly condemned and swift justice should be brought to the perpetrators of these crimes. The African Union has called for these events to be brought to the attention of the Security Council in their communique of October 10 of this year.
The New York Times reported yesterday that some of the once-government-backed militia groups are fracturing and targeting government-run entities, such as police stations. Infighting amongst the rebels is another common hurdle to achieving peace. This is the chaos that has plagued Darfur.
Ambassador John Bolton's recent decision to block the UN Envoy on Genocide from testifying before the Security Council has undoubtedly raised some eyebrows. However, if he means what he says--that actions speak louder than words--then I urge the Congress, the administration, the United Nations, and the international community to do something. I applaud Ambassador Bolton's recognition of the fact that the current arms embargo is not adequate, it must be expanded, and there must be compliance.
I urge my colleagues to consider these recent events and to redouble our efforts to bring an end to the genocide that is happening as I speak. I urge my colleagues and the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee to quickly report out the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act. I have not spoken directly to it, but I will speak about getting this act passed. We need to get it put into law.
This legislation increases pressure on Khartoum, provides greater support for the African Union mission in Darfur to help protect civilians and impose sanctions on individuals who are responsible for the atrocities, and encourages the appointment of a U.S. special envoy to help advance a comprehensive peace process for Darfur and all of Sudan.
It also calls for the United States to push for a strong Security Council resolution, amongst other things, that expands the arms embargo.
We can no longer remain indifferent to the suffering Africans of Darfur. We must move beyond the politics and agree on the fundamentals that will help save lives immediately. It is quite simple. When the ``never'' is removed from ``never again,'' it will happen--again and again and again. We cannot be silent and inactive on Darfur as people die.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
