Public Statements
Governor and Water Vision Team Focus on Meeting the State's Current and Future Needs
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 12, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Sam Brownback today told more than 650 attendees with diverse water interests that now is the time to act to meet current and future water supply needs for Kansas.
The Governor shared his long-term vision for water resources at the Governor's Conference on the Future of Water held today in Manhattan. Conference attendees heard the guiding principles for implementing the water vision and establish the regional goals. Regional planning areas will be established to address the priorities shared by Kansans.
"I appreciate the thoughtful and extensive input received throughout this past year from Kansans," said Governor Brownback. "That input now serves as the content of the vision. We need Kansans to act now on a shared commitment to preserve the water resources necessary to support our social, economic and natural resource needs for not only our current generation but most importantly our children and grandchildren."
Governor Brownback identified the first two priority action items that will improve coordination on water related issues with the state's primary water related agencies by:
-Creating the Governor's Water Resources Sub-Cabinet at the Executive level with additional regular agency collaboration to implement joint activities.
-Establishing a Blue-Ribbon Task Force to develop a balanced, affordable and sustainable method to provide financing for water resource management and protection; including alternatives that utilize public and private partnerships.
"The attendance at this year's conference is indicative of the interest and concern Kansans have regarding our water resources," said Tracy Streeter, Kansas Water Office Director. "I'm enthused with the feedback we've received and look forward to implementing many of the action items contained in the proposed Long Term Vision."
"Leadership at the local level is the most critical for the success of this Vision," said Secretary of Agriculture Jackie McClaskey. "Local decision makers must listen to their constituents while at the same time balancing the future needs of their communities."
Featured speakers on the first day of the conference included Paul Wenger, President of the California Farm Bureau Federation, Rhett Evans, CEO of Golf Course Superintendents Association of America, Brigadier General Duke DeLuca and Darron Leiker, city manager of Wichita Falls, Texas.
Thursday's agenda focuses on building water policy and vision discussions from the previous day with technical presentation posters and talks. Graduate and undergraduate students will present their research. Jerry DeNoyelles, Deputy Director of the Kansas Biology Survey will present Reservoir Sedimentation: Challenges in Kansas.
For a complete list of the conference's speakers and topics and to view the second draft of the Vision, visit: www.kwo.org.
The Governor's Conference on the Future of Water in Kansas is co-sponsored by the Kansas Water Office (KWO) and K-State /Kansas Water Resources Institute. Sponsors for the event come from multiple diverse water interests. Major sponsors for the event include Black & Veatch, Burns and McDonnell and Select Energy.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2014/11/12/governor-and-water-vision-team-focus-on-meeting-the-state-s-current-and-future-needs
