Public Statements
CBS "Face The Nation" - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 9, 2005
Location: Unknown


CBS "Face The Nation" - Transcript
MR. SCHIEFFER: Today on "Face The Nation," the earthquake in Pakistan may have killed as many as 30,000 people. We'll start there, and then we'll talk about the Supreme Court nomination of Harriet Miers. In a period of months that have seen some of the world's worst natural disasters and terrorist attacks, the earthquake in Pakistan may be one of the worst yet. We'll get the latest from Richard Roth in Islamabad. Then we'll turn to the nomination of Harriet Miers to the Supreme Court. We'll talk with conservative Republican Senator Sam Brownback, who has real reservations; and Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer who, like many Democrats, has so far held his fire. Jan Crawford Greenberg of the Chicago Tribune will join in the questions, and David Brooks of the New York Times will be here to talk about the rest of the week's news. I'll have a final word on the terror threat to New York, and how New York officials reacted. But first, the earthquake in Pakistan on "Face The Nation."
ANNOUNCER: "Face The Nation" with CBS News Chief Washington Correspondent Bob Schieffer. And now, from CBS News in Washington, Bob Schieffer.
MR. SCHIEFFER: Good morning again. We're going to start with the latest on this horrible earthquake in Pakistan. We have reached CBS News Correspondent Richard Roth, who is in Northern Pakistan. Richard, tell us what you know so far?
MR. ROTH: Bob, what's most striking is the almost unimaginable enormity of the damage, the death and destruction that's been caused, and also the extreme isolation of where it's happened. We've been just outside the town of Balakot, which is about 30,000 people, but you can't get there. People have been streaming out on foot, many carrying bodies, many carrying wounded people on bed frames. Some walking alongside them carrying intravenous foods being dripped into their veins. The people who come out say there are bodies in the street, there are many, many dead. One man says to me, the town has been flattened, it's as if it was crushed like sugar cane.

Source:
