Public Statements
ABC "Good Morning America" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 5, 2005
Location: Unknown


ABC "Good Morning America" - Transcript
DIANE SAWYER: Senator, welcome to "Good Morning America." Thanks so much for getting up with us.
So I wonder if you have enough time for the kind of lobbying the White House is going to be doing with you. Is Ms. Miers coming to see you?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes, she is tomorrow, and I'll be visiting with her for the first time tomorrow.
MS. SAWYER: I know one of the things you're going to be watching is abortion. I want to play just a quick excerpt of what the president said yesterday when asked if he's ever had a conversation with her, talked to her about the subject. Let's listen.
PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH: (From videotape.) Not to my recollection have I ever sat down with her. What I have done is understand the type of person she is and the type of judge she will be.
MS. SAWYER: I just wondered your reaction to that. Is it possible that the president has never talked to her about abortion?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, it's clearly possible. Earlier, when he was asked a very similar question, he seems to sidestep that issue, and so I don't know if they've ever had any direct/indirect conversations. He clearly, though, continually says during the interview and during the process of that press conference that he knows her heart, that he knows her, and that she's not going to change after years on the bench. There's some comfort in those statements, but again, that's just a shred of evidence, a bit of evidence. We need to build a full case of what kind of jurist she would be.
MS. SAWYER: On this question, on this question of abortion, personally, based on her religious views and some of her friends who have spoken out, they keep saying that in fact she's very much pro- life and anti-abortion. But if she does not say to you, "I will vote to overturn Roe versus Wade," will you vote against her; if she's equivocal at all?
SEN. BROWNBACK: No, and she's not going to say one way or the other would be my impression on Roe versus Wade. That would be something that would be prejudging on a case, and clearly there are going to be abortion-type cases coming up in front of her.
What I can garner from her is some sort of judicial philosophy of how she looks at the Constitution. Is it a living document or is it something that's more strictly construed? Hopefully I'll be able to ascertain that. But without the written record and background, you're really still trying to guess in the future, two years, five years from now, how will she look at the Constitution and the role of the courts in this society.
MS. SAWYER: But there are many people who think Roe versus Wade is settled law, many judges who think that. If she implies she thinks that it's settled law, would you vote against her?
SEN. BROWNBACK: There's a good chance that I would then in that case. And John Roberts, he came out in favor of Griswold, which is a base sort of case in the privacy rights area, but then he stopped short in Roe versus Wade. He said we need to view this again and see -- he didn't say that, but by not addressing it, he leaves open the fact to deal with that. If she says Roe versus Wade is settled law, which I and many millions and millions of Americans would disagree with, if for no other reason for because of the effects that Roe versus Wade has had throughout the society, and obviously on the unborn.
MS. SAWYER: So are you getting ready for a bruising fight here?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I don't know I would call it a bruising fight, but one word, it's almost a CSI-type of case, where you're having to really investigate and get in pieces of evidence because in the crazy system anymore you seem like you can't know where a candidate would go as a philosophy on the bench, so you're left piecing together bits of evidence to try to ascertain what kind of jurists that they would be on the bench. And so that's really the process I'm doing now.
MS. SAWYER: So you will have your microscope out, I don't doubt. Senator Brownback, again, thank you so much for joining us this morning.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Diane.

Source: http://www.abcnews.go.com/gma
