Public Statements
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 20, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2006 -- (Senate - November 09, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues from Oklahoma and from Virginia for allowing me to speak on this important amendment. This morning, I started my day in the Senate as the Presiding Officer. I started it standing next to Chaplain Black, who is a Navy chaplain. He gave the opening prayer for the Senate. We have had an opening prayer for many years. I found it inspiring, encouraging. I found it uplifting and important that we open this body with a prayer. We do so on a daily basis. As I sat as Presiding Officer, I looked at the door opposite me. Right above it, on our mantlepiece, we have ``In God We Trust,'' as we have on our coinage and in our beliefs and hearts. To many Americans, we are one Nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
It is with this in mind that I rise in support of the amendment of the Senator from Oklahoma, No. 2440, that protects the ability of superintendents of military service academies to set appropriate policies for the offering of voluntary nondenominational prayers at authorized events. This is basic. It is important. It is the protection of the practice of religious liberties at our military institutions.
Prayer in military environments, as well as in public settings generally, has come into question in recent years. This amendment has specific relation to the 2004 Supreme Court decision not to hear a case regarding the challenge by the American Civil Liberties Union to mealtime prayers at Virginia Military Institute.
This follows on a series of cases for 40 years now of an attempt by the hard left in America to have a naked public square, to have no recognition of a divine authority, to have no recognition of seeking a divine authority or guidance, but a naked, sterile public square. That was not contemplated in our Constitution. It called for a separation of church and state, but not the removal of church from state which is what this seeks to perpetuate.
The mealtime prayer at Virginia Military Institute was a respected and time-honored practice, a military institution that has played a critical role in training U.S. military leaders for over 160 years. Sadly, the majority decision of the Supreme Court not to hear the case allowed a decision by the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals to stand which prohibited VMI from sponsoring a daily supper prayer.
However, other circuit courts have rejected challenges to nondenominational prayer at the college level. And we should, too; we should allow this prayer to take place. We shouldn't have a naked public square. We should have a robust one that lifts up faith and lifts up the seeking of those to a higher moral authority.
Freedom of religion as protected in the U.S. Constitution does not require the removal of all religion from public settings. Such secularity is not what our Founding Fathers envisioned when they established religious liberty as one of the basic tenets of the Republic. I support the Senator from Oklahoma in his effort to clarify to the judicial branch and the military Congress's understanding of this fundamental constitutional right with regard to military academies. This is important. It is one of those things, as we try to stop this onslaught of the removal of religious liberty, which is what the move is about and what the Senator from Oklahoma is trying to prevent, the removal of religious liberties, to allow the robust practice of religion, nondenominational, nonsectarian, yet seeking that God in whom we trust.
I yield the floor.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
