Public Statements
Honoring Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 7, 2005
Location: Washington, DC

HONORING CHIEF JUSTICE WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST -- (Senate - September 07, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to pay tribute to William Rehnquist, 16th Chief Justice of the United States. That is the title, Chief Justice of the United States. While the ceremony honoring him goes forward I think it is appropriate that we in this body recognize his incredible service to the Nation. His biography, where he came from and what he did, has been spoken of a great deal. What I wanted to speak about is not only that, but also his personal impact on me, one that he wouldn't have known or known about.
As a young law student in the early 1980s at the University of Kansas, I can remember studying constitutional law and other areas where his opinions came forth. Frequently, in those days he was in the minority opinion role.
Many of my law school professors would say: Can you believe what this guy wrote? I remember reading his opinions and thinking his opinion seemed very logical. It seems to me, he believed in holding with the great traditions of being a nation of the rule of law, not the rule of man. The Constitution is a textural document. Chief Justice Rehnquist had a big impact on me in his writings and what he believed we stood for as a nation. He has had a big impact on this Nation, and he will be sorely missed.
He was genteel in all of his dealings. Even when he presided in the Senate over the impeachment trial for President Clinton, he did so in a very stately, gentle fashion. Just his presence was one of a man at peace with himself, who knew what he was about, and knew his role and his duty. He fulfilled his duty to the best of his abilities as Chief Justice, Associate Justice on the Supreme Court, as presiding over an impeachment trial, and working with clerks.
I think one of most telling things for an individual is what the people say that worked for you, and particularly those who worked for you perhaps in a lower capacity. It seems uniform that the clerks for Chief Justice Rehnquist admired the man while they worked for him. It is a tribute to him how well they worked together and how he helped form them. There is a great symmetry about this in John Roberts being nominated now, as a former clerk of Chief Justice Rehnquist, and now nominated to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court left by his former boss. John Roberts is an outstanding nomination to the Chief Justice position. I hope we can move forward with in an expeditious fashion, certainly thorough, but in an expeditious fashion.
That is not what we are here today to talk about. Today it is to talk about and to reflect upon an amazing American in William Rehnquist. He grew up in the suburbs of Milwaukee, WI. His father was the son of Swedish immigrant parents, worked as a paper salesman. His mother was a multilingual professional translator. Shortly after graduation from high school, Chief Justice Rehnquist enlisted in the Air Force and during World War II served as a weather observer in North Africa. On completion of his service in the Air Force, the Chief Justice began his undergraduate work at Stanford University. Yes, he did it on the GI bill.
In 1952, Rehnquist graduated first in his class from Stanford Law School, certainly a monumental accomplishment, an accomplishment of great discipline. Following law school, he clerked for former Supreme Court Justice Robert Jackson. In 1953, he began work at a law firm in Phoenix, and his brilliance was noted by the Nixon Deputy Attorney General at that time, Richard Kleindienst. On October 22, 1971 President Richard Nixon, nominated him to serve as an Associate Justice on the Supreme Court. He was confirmed less than 2 months later, which would be record speed for this body by today's standard.
During his time on the Supreme Court, Chief Justice Rehnquist has defended the original text of the Constitution. To a number of people that may seem like a simple task. After all, it is the Constitution. It is the basic law of the land. What is there to defend? The law speaks for itself. It is a set of plain words on a clear document that has such a significant historical place in our hearts and minds. Yet he comes along on a Court at a point in time when a number of people are saying: It is a living document, it can move with the culture, and we can interpret the words more broadly. We can interpret it not by what it says, but by what we would like it to say.
Chief Justice Rehnquist fought against that and fought for the original text of the Constitution and said it is as it is. This is a textural document. If we want to change it, that is fine, but it is changed by two-thirds of the House and two-thirds of the Senate and three-fourths of the States, not by five people on the Court. Those are not his words, but they are the principles he stood for.
The role of a Justice on the Supreme Court is to look at the plain meaning and the original text of the Constitution, not at your own cultural bias of the moment and what you believe America may need and therefore may be willing to move to.
The problem with a living document is that you don't have the rule of law. You are more of a rule of man. So he defended this proposition of the original text of the Constitution, the intent of the Framers.
Certainly, he was a promoter of life. It was in the 1973 dissent in Roe v. Wade that then-Associate Justice Rehnquist wrote, ``To reach its result, the Court necessarily has had to find within the scope of the Fourteenth Amendment a right that was apparently completely unknown to the drafters of the Amendment.''
These are the Associate Justice Rehnquist's words. In his early years of lonely dissents in cases like Roe, Rehnquist made his mark by standing for constitutional principle over the political preferences of an unelected judiciary. With the retirement of Chief Justice Warren Burger in 1986, President Reagan then elevated Associate Justice Rehnquist to the Court's top post, where he served with distinction until his death.
The last 19 years have shown that Chief Justice Rehnquist was a terrific choice to lead the Supreme Court. He authored countless landmark decisions and thought-provoking dissents. In carefully reasoned opinions, he insisted that the principle of federalism is an integral part of our nation's constitutional structure. He recognized that our Government is one of enumerated rights and dual sovereignty, with certain functions and powers properly left to the States.
One example of Chief Justice Rehnquist's commitment to the laws is his opinion in Dickerson v. United States. Although a long-time critic of Miranda v. Arizona, Rehnquist nevertheless placed his past position aside and wrote the opinion in Dickerson, effectively affirming the holding of Miranda. He served well. He served nobly, and he served with courage. I might note that even during his recent sickness, he found the strength to do his duty and to serve in office. He found the strength to administer the oath of office to President Bush, to consider the challenging cases that came before the Court.
Peggy Noonan wrote of President Bush's inauguration, ``the most poignant moment was the manful William Rehnquist, unable to wear a tie and making his way down the long marble steps to swear in the president. The continuation of democracy is made possible by such gallantry.''
While some of his colleagues on the Court disagreed with him at times, there will there can be no doubt that they admired his strong leadership, his likable personality, and his ability to build consensus. That is the noteworthy quality of a gentleman. He served with distinction. He served us well. He carried his course out, and he is now at rest.
I yield the floor.
http://thomas.loc.gov

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
