Public Statements
Commemorating the 25th Anniversary of Polish Solidarity
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 29, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


COMMEMORATING THE 25TH ANNIVERSARY OF POLISH SOLIDARITY -- (Senate - July 29, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, at the end of World War II, Poland, like other Central European countries, fell behind the Iron Curtain. As the country struggled to recover from the brutal ravages of war and occupation, Soviet-backed communist elements seized the reigns of power. For many decades, those who sought to be free fought what seemed to be a losing, even hopeless, battle. Many were sent to prison, others were murdered or executed.
The light of freedom in Poland was never truly extinguished. Year after year, decade after decade, disparate individuals pursued separate paths towards the same goal: a free Poland, a free people.
By 1980, these individuals had learned much. First, they had learned to build bridges, bridges that would unite disparate segments of society. By 1980, workers and intellectuals, who had separately fought for reform, and separately failed, came together: electricians and factory workers, writers and teachers. And they learned, following the historic visit of Pope John Paul II to his homeland, in 1979, to ``be not afraid.'' Together, Poles could carve out a space of independence from the regime that sought to control them. Together, in the shipyards of Gdansk, they gave birth to the Solidarity movement.
1980 was not, of course, the first time Polish workers had gone on strike, nor would it be the last. But it was the strike that, for Poland and beyond, demonstrated the capacity of a nonviolent movement to stare down a seemingly more powerful force.
Of course, the imposition of martial law on December 13, 1981, was a dark and shadowy detour on the path to freedom. Introduced to stave off a Soviet invasion, it could not, ultimately, stave off the inevitable march of democracy: Solidarity had let the genie out of the bottle, and there was no getting it back. In 1983, Lech Walesa, the electrician who bravely scaled the shipyard wall in August 1980, to join his fellow striking workers, was awarded the Nobel peace prize. Elsewhere in Central Europe, dissident movements intensified their demands for human rights. Economic reform moved from an option to a necessity. Even in Moscow, a pro-reform apparatchik, Mikhail Gorbachev, rose to lead his country.
By 1989, Solidarity leaders sat across the table from Wojtech Jaruzelski, the general who had imposed martial law. They negotiated what had seemed to most of the world impossible: the peaceful transition from communism to free and fair elections. In August of 1989, less than a decade after the Gdansk shipyard strikes that gave birth to Solidarity, Poland would elect its first non-communist prime minister since the fall of the Iron Curtain.
Today, we remember and honor those events, not only because of what it meant for Poland, but for what it means for all of us, and for people round the globe who continue to struggle to live in freedom and dignity. The Solidarity movement represented the culmination of enormous, powerful, even irresistible ideals, ideals that we must seek to spread to the dark corners of the globe that have yet to see their light.
http://thomas.loc.edu/
