Public Statements
Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 - Conference Report
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 29, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2006--CONFERENCE REPORT -- (Senate - July 29, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I, too, wish to recognize the comments made by the majority leader this morning and to thank him for his call for a ban on human cloning, which was one of the principles that he outlined when he spoke this morning. I am interested in bringing this important topic to the Senate floor for debate.
I would note a couple of points about the different issues we face when we consider the many new aspects of evolving science. Yesterday morning's Washington Post found pluripotent adult stem cells being able to make eggs. Also, the June edition of the Science journal talks about the antibodies and the alleged problems with embryonic stem cell lines that are currently being developed. This article states that the concern with the lines being built on mouse feeder cells is overblown, and that those concerns are overstated. In addition, I think more of these lines may end up being available.
I note for my colleagues and the Majority Leader, whom I regard very highly--he is a brilliant individual and works very hard--that he articulated 10 principles regarding ethics in research and medical treatment, and I appreciate them. I was there 4 years ago when the Majority Leader articulated the 10 principles--this is before he was Majority Leader--and he has stuck by them today.
However, there is a basic principle involved that is here, and that is whether or not a young, living human embryo is a life or a piece of property. And how is it going to be treated? I think we have to deal with the precursor principles before we can go ahead with unrestricted research on this issue. Even as carefully as such research may be drawn, one has to make this determination: Is it life?
