Public Statements
Bloodshed in Chechnya
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 29, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


BLOODSHED IN CHECHNYA -- (Senate - July 29, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, the Romans, said Tacitus, ``created a desert and called it peace.'' The Russian Government has created a wasteland of death and destruction in Chechnya and called it ``normalization.''
Over 10 years since the beginning of the Chechen war in post-Soviet Russia, the carnage in Chechnya continues, taking the lives of Chechens and Russians alike. Moreover, the echoes of the conflict are now stretching across the entire North Caucasus region. Given the information blockade that the Russian Government has thrown up around Chechnya, the world hears little of the violence and suffering taking place in those mountains far away.
Nevertheless, some information does get out. As Chairman of the Helsinki Commission, I would like to share some of this information with my distinguished colleagues.
According to Agence France Press, on June 4, 2005, an estimated 200-300 armed men, arriving in jeeps, trucks and armored personnel carriers, staged an attack on the village of Borozdinovskaya, near the border with neighboring Dagestan. These villagers are not Chechen, but Avars, Dagestan's most numerous ethnic group. The raiders beat dozens of men and torched at least three houses. Eleven men vanished and are feared dead. The villagers have no idea who the assailants were, but evidence points to a battalion of amnestied former Chechen rebels allegedly operating under the command of Russia's military intelligence.
In fear of their lives, almost the entire village has fled to the Dagestan side of the border, camping out in tents in a field, fearing to return.
There has been no official explanation for the raid.
This is only one example of the violence that may engulf an unsuspecting village that comes into the crosshairs of the pro-Moscow Chechen militias that operate with impunity and unrestrained cruelty. A number of these militias are no more than marauding gangs only nominally under the authority of the pro-Moscow regime in the Chechen capital of Grozny.
In its March 2005 publication, ``More of the Same: Extrajudicial Killings, Enforced `Disappearances', Illegal Arrests, Torture,'' the International Helsinki Federation reports:
``There are a few signs of peaceful life. Compensations for lost housing are slowly beginning to be paid (on rare occasions, even without kick-back to relevant officials), separate islands of reconstruction are appearing in Grozny, and many cars are visible on the streets. The central open-air market is ever so busy.
But some other things have not changed at all: Abductions and illegal detentions of civilians by unknown armed persons dressed in camouflage are still pervasive. The only difference is that these people now do not arrive exclusively in military vehicles, but in regular cars as well. As a result, murders, torture, and beatings have remained unchanged. And the prosecutor's office is still unable or unwilling to provide effective investigation into these endless cases.''
Let me make it clear. I have no sympathy for Chechen partisans, or those purporting to sympathize with them, who have committed, and may yet commit, terrorist attacks against the innocent citizens of the Russian Federation, or against those Chechens who may not support the secessionist movement. When we speak of the terrorist attacks on New York, Washington, Madrid, London, Bali, and other cities around the world, we must not forget Moscow, Budennovsk, and Beslan. There must be no double standard in judging terrorism, nor is there any justification for people resorting to terrorism against innocent civilians.
But I refer to one of the most perceptive editorials written on the subject of Chechnya. In the November 11, 2002 issue of Newsweek, Fareed Zacharia wrote:
``[The Chechens] have been ruthless warriors for their cause, utterly unable to form a stable government, and have indeed resorted to terror. But Russia's actions have helped turn them into terrorists. Russia has destroyed Chechnya as a place, as a polity and as a society. Chechnya is now a wasteland, populated by marauding gangs Putin has spoken of Al Qaeda's presence in Chechnya, but none existed until recently when Chechens, devastated by the Russian onslaught, took help from wherever they could get it.
Some residents of Chechnya, having despaired of finding justice in the Russian judicial system and rejecting terrorism, have applied to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. They are seeking redress for human rights violations committed under cover of Moscow's ``anti-terrorism campaign.'' Many of these applicants have been harassed and detained by the authorities.
One applicant, Zura Bitieva, had filed an application with Strasbourg regarding the abuses at the notorious ``filtration'' prison at Chernokosovo. Subsequently, she was killed in May 2003 along with her husband and son during a raid on their home.
The world recoiled in horror from the murderous attack on children in Beslan, North Ossetia. This is but one example of the spread of the cancer of violence emanating from Chechnya. A few days ago, President Putin made an unannounced visit to Dagestan to review the deteriorating security situation in that unquiet Russian republic. Unrest and violence have occurred also in Ingushetia and Kabardino-Balkaria.
Russia is entitled to protect its territorial integrity and to preserve order within its borders, but Moscow's methods hark back to the practices of the Middle Ages. It is as if the principles of the Geneva Accords, the UN, the Council of Europe and the OSCE are completely unknown let alone apply--in Chechnya.
To the best of my knowledge, no one in the Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs has had to answer for the brutality that has taken place at the Chernokosovo prison. When horrific practices at Chernokosovo became known to the international community, Moscow merely shifted the facility's jurisdiction to the Ministry of Justice. According to human rights activists, ``filtration'' procedures simply moved to smaller, less visible places.
Does no one in the Kremlin stop to consider that continued brutalization of the population and corrupt governance will likely increase the appeal of Islamic radicals in the region? Is Russia's policy in Chechnya the strategy of a serious partner in the war against international terrorism? Or is Russia fighting a fire with an extinguisher filled with gasoline?
Next year Russia will chair the G8. Many informed observers doubt whether Russia should remain a member of the G8, given the downward trajectory of human rights and civil liberties in Russia today.
The Russian Federation's policy in Chechnya reinforces those doubts.
FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF THE MURDER OF PAUL KLEBNIKOV
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I would like to engage in a colloquy with my colleague from New York and fellow member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, Senator Clinton.
Mrs. CLINTON. Mr. President, I am pleased to join in a colloquy with the senior Senator from Kansas, and my chairman on the Helsinki Commission, Mr. Brownback. We are united in believing the subject we will address is of great importance to this body. I appreciate my chairman's willingness to present these issues to our colleagues.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, 1 year ago this month a tragic crime occurred on the streets of Moscow. On July 9, 2004, Paul Klebnikov, the 41-year-old American editor of Forbes Russia, was murdered in a gangland-style shooting near his Moscow office. His death was an enormous loss for investigative journalism and for efforts to establish the kind of transparent civil society that the Russian people so want and deserve.
Mrs. CLINTON. The most plausible explanation for his murder appears to be the power of his investigative journalism, which explored the connections between business, politics, and crime in Russia. His murder has galvanized those who care deeply about justice, as well as the fate of democracy and the rule of law in Russia.
Paul Klebnikov was a descendant of Russian émigrés and a New Yorker. His widow Musa Klebnikov and children still live in New York City. Paul's murder shows us in tragic terms one of the threats faced by the press and civil society in Russia. The silencing of Paul Klebnikov's voice is a direct challenge to independent journalism, democracy, and the rule of law.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Reading his reporting from Russia, one could tell that he was deeply troubled by the crime and corruption that plagued his ancestral homeland. His personal association with his subject, combined with an educational background in economics, his excellent command of the Russian language, and 15 years experience with the Forbes organization, made him uniquely qualified to report on the nexus of business, politics, and crime in today's Russia.
Paul Klebnikov's killing epitomizes the brazen lawlessness that still plagues Russia even after the ascension to power of a putatively ``law and order'' ex-KGB official. For all the talk about stability in Russia today, it is sometimes a stability based on not asking the wrong questions about the wrong people.
Mrs. CLINTON. Paul Klebnikov's widow Musa has explained that Paul, through his journalism, sought to foster hope in the hearts of the ordinary Russian citizen, bring corruption to light and focus attention on positive models of how a democracy ought to operate.
Chairman Brownback and I have sought to keep the attention of the United States Government focused on reinforcing with Russian authorities the vital need to hold to account all those responsible for Paul Klebnikov's murder. I was pleased to join with nine of my colleagues on the Helsinki Commission in writing to President Putin and calling for an aggressive investigation into the killing.
I also wrote to President Bush to ask him to raise the issue of Paul's murder with President Putin during their meeting in Bratislava, Slovakia on February 24th. That meeting with President Putin presented an opportunity to make clear that all those involved in instigating, ordering, planning and carrying out the murder should be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.
The Helsinki Commission and my office have been assured that representatives of the State Department have expressed to the Government of Russia the United States Government's desire to see a thorough and complete investigation of this murder.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Yes, State Department and other administration officials have raised the issue frequently with their Russian counterparts. Furthermore, State and other relevant Government agencies have formed an interagency working group to follow the case and consult on strategy. Secretaries of State Colin Powell and Condoleezza Rice met with Klebnikov family members to keep them informed on progress. In addition, Secretary Rice's public remarks during her February 5 visit to Warsaw are heartening. She said it ``is important that Russia make clear to the world that it is intent on strengthening the rule of law, strengthening the role of an independent judiciary, permitting a free and independent press to flourish. These are all the basics of democracy.''
Mrs. CLINTON. For their part, Russian law enforcement authorities have made arrests and filed charges. While Russian authorities should be commended for the energy they have shown to date, there are additional steps that would increase the chances that all those responsible are held to account. I hope that the United States Government will continue to make clear to Russian authorities that resources such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation are available to assist Russian authorities in the investigation.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Earlier this year, Russian authorities charged two Chechens, Musa Vakhayev and Kazbek Dukuzov, with killing Paul Klebnikov, and subsequently announced that the man who ordered the murder was one Khozh-Akmed Nukaev a former official of the rebel Chechen government. Klebnikov had interviewed Nukaev extensively in his book ``Conversations with a Barbarian,'' and supposedly Nukhayev wanted revenge for the journalist's critical portrayal of him in the book. Mr. Nukaev's present whereabouts are unknown. I should add that relatives and friends of Paul have expressed their doubts about this accusation, which raises more questions than it answers.
Mrs. CLINTON. These recent developments underline the fundamental importance of transparency. I hope the Russian authorities will share as much information as possible with Paul Klebnikov's family. Without a transparent process, doubt will remain that the person or persons truly responsible for ordering Paul's murder will be brought to justice.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Paul believed that the press was the last outpost of freedom of speech in Russia. The fear and self-censorship generated by killing journalists benefits corrupt government officials and businessmen, as well as organized crime figures.
Solving the murder no matter where the investigation leads--will send the signal to other malefactors who seek to muzzle free speech that the days of impunity and lawlessness are over. As we wrote to President Putin, this case is not just about one person, but about what he represented to a new and democratic Russia. I would note also that at least two more journalists have been killed in Russia since Paul's death.
Mrs. CLINTON. Paul Klebnikov's work continues to serve the people of Russia and the cause of democracy. We should continue to press authorities to find everyone who was involved in Paul's murder and hold them to account.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I agree with my colleague from New York. And as Members of the Helsinki Commission, let us work to achieve the goal of freedom of the press, transparency and democracy in Russia.
Mrs. CLINTON. That would be an appropriate gesture in honor of Paul Klebnikov. I look forward to continuing my work with the senior Senator from Kansas and chairman of the Helsinki Commission, and I thank him for his leadership.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I commend the active interest the junior Senator from New York has taken in the Klebnikov case, and I look forward to our further collaboration on other vital OSCE issues before the Helsinki Commission.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
