Public Statements
A Tribute to the African Methodist Episcopal Church
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 26, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


A TRIBUTE TO THE AFRICAN METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH -- (Senate - July 26, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure to rise today and to honor the work of the Women's Missionary Society of the African Methodist Episcopal Church, whose annual conference will be held in my home State of Kansas. As you may know, the African Methodist Episcopal Church has a magnificent and marvelous history in this country. The A.M.E. Church was the first African American Church founded in this Nation. Borne out of the struggle to worship our almighty and benevolent Father without persecution, the A.M.E. Church was founded in order that African Americans could worship freely. And unlike the churches of their time, the co-founder, Bishop Richard Allen, insured that any person regardless of race, creed, or color could worship in church.
It is with that spirit and the spirit of benevolence toward one another that the Women's Missionary Society was formed. Through the vision of Mrs. Sarah Allen, the wife of Bishop Richard Allen, there was formed the Women's Missionary Society of the African Methodist Episcopal Church in an effort to mobilize and encourage women in the area of missions. Today the missionary society is still committed to spreading the principles of Christian love and boasts a membership of over 800,000 worldwide. It is their charge and duty to serve God in all they do and to assist in the progression of serving all people worldwide.
Indeed, the Women's Missionary Society has a wonderful 130 year history within the A.M.E. Church. In early 1900s the Kansas/Nebraska Conference Branch Women's Missionary Society was formed. At this time, Kansas/Nebraska conference began to serve and meet the needs of the church and the community. During their 130 year history, the Missionary Society encountered many social challenges. And holding true to their legacy, they learned to adjust, adapt, and to be of service to the A.M.E. Church and the African American community. As a conference, they sponsor and hold workshops and seminars to educate the A.M.E. Church and the community on social issues that affect the Black community daily.
The Kansas/Nebraska Missionary Society has had several Episcopal supervisors who met the challenges of mission with the A.M.E. Church and the African American community in general. Today, the missionary society has opened a new chapter of missions with a Supervisor who has a global mission to serve abroad as well as at home, Reverend Dr. Cecelia Williams Bryant, who is affectionately known as ``Rev. C.''
Holding true to the A.M.E. Church legacy, Rev ``C'' is a true visionary. Under the direction of Rev. ``C,'' the missionary society will create opportunities for those in need, obtain resources for the changing needs and work to address the concerns of people throughout the world. They will also offer aid and assistance to women's organizations throughout the world as well. They also plan to pray and enthusiastically send the message throughout the Nation and the world that prayer will and can make a difference.
On the evening of September 6, 2005, at St. John African Methodist Episcopal Church, Topeka, KS, the Kansas/Nebraska Conference Branch Women's Missionary Society of the African Methodist Episcopal Church will proclaim ``The Healing of the Nations'' as they explore and tell the story of the women in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, India and the Boothheel of Missouri.
Mr. President, it is quite evident that the Kansas/Nebraska Women's Missionary Society is ready to accept the challenges to move forward and continue to serve this Nation and the world in the areas of missions.
http://thomas.loc.gov/
