Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 21, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS -- (Senate - July 21, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
By Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself, Mr. Corzine, Mr. DeWine, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Coburn, Mr. Lautenberg, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Bingaman, Mr. Coleman, Mr. Talent, Mr. Salazar, Mrs. Dole, and Mr. Bayh):
S. 1462. A bill to promote peace and accountability in Sudan, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise with my colleague Senator CORZINE and 11 other cosponsors to introduce the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of 2005. I applaud Senator CORZINE for his tireless work on this issue--he has traveled on several occasions to Sudan, and was instrumental in moving the U.S. to declare the atrocities genocide. In addition, there is a strong bipartisan coalition forming to address one of the greatest moral issues that faces our world today.
I wish to thank many of my colleagues for their support for the Darfur Accountability Act that was introduced in March and passed unanimously by this body as an amendment to the Emergency Supplemental. Unfortunately, that provision was stripped in conference.
Since that time, several relevant U.N. Security Council resolutions have been passed, NATO has committed to assisting the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS), and the National Unity Government of Sudan was established just two weeks ago on July 9, following the Comprehensive Peace Agreement between the North and the South. While we applaud the recent peace agreement ending the longest civil war in Africa, we pause with great concern that genocide continues in Darfur. There can be no comprehensive peace in Sudan until the crisis in Darfur has been resolved.
Just today news reports were swarming about the Sudanese officials who manhandled Secretary Rice's staff and reporters during their meeting with President Bashir. When a U.S. reporter asked a question about the killing of innocent civilians, she was taken by the arm and promptly removed from the meeting.
It is unfortunate that the ``international incident'' not being reported is about the hundreds of thousands of lives lost, or the 2 million refugees who live day to day on inadequate portions of food and very little clean water.
In remarks prior to the G-8 summit on June 30, 2005, President Bush declared, ``the violence in Darfur is clearly genocide,'' and ``the human cost is beyond calculation.''
While momentum for international support to end this crisis has been building, the violence and humanitarian
crisis continues. Rape is still being used as weapon against women. Some women who have become pregnant due to brutal rape, have been forced to abort their babies and other women have been imprisoned for bearing illegitimate children. In addition, the government seems to be prepared to raze the Kalma refugee camp of 120,000 people against their wishes, sending them back into areas where there is no security against these rapes and killings.
I remind my colleagues that it was one year ago, on July 22, we stood together in Congress to denounce the atrocities in Darfur as genocide. Twelve long months later is not the time to start thinking about easing sanctions or restoring certain diplomatic ties, rather it is time to address the needs of the African Union and it is time to sanction those responsible for genocide.
That is why we are joining with colleagues in the House to introduce new bipartisan legislation called the Darfur Peace and Accountability act of 2005. This bill increases pressure on Khartoum, provides greater support to the African Union mission in Darfur to help protect civilians, imposes sanctions on individuals responsible for atrocities, and encourages the appointment of a U.S. special envoy to help advance a peace process for Darfur. I applaud our colleagues in the House, including Congressmen HYDE, TANCREDO, PAYNE, WOLF, SMITH and others, who have diligently worked with us to ensure a strong piece of legislation that we hope will move quickly and be enacted so that we may provide further relief to the suffering victims.
I urge my colleagues to support this very important piece of legislation. For the first time in history we publicly speak of genocide while it is underway, yet we have broken our promise of ``Never Again.'' We can no longer be indifferent to the suffering Africans of Darfur. We have got to move beyond partisan politics, and agree on the fundamentals that will help save lives immediately.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
