Public Statements
CNN Inside Politics - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 20, 2005
Location: Unknown


CNN Inside Politics - Transcript
Wednesday, July 20, 2005
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
MALVEAUX: Bill Schneider, thank you very much.
Now, earlier in the program, we heard from Democratic Senator Patrick Leahy. A short time ago, I spoke with Republican Senator Sam Brownback, who is also a member of the Judiciary Committee. I started by asking Brownback that, given Roberts' limited paper trail as a judge, is there a risk for conservatives that he might be more moderate than most people believe?
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R), KANSAS: Well, that's an area of concern. And I wish we had somebody in that setting, in that sense, that we knew more about their view of the Constitution and its meaning and the court's role in the society. We don't have that.
We clearly have a brilliant jurist. This gentleman is brilliant. He's a great lawyer. He's argued a number of cases in front of the Supreme Court, Harvard Law School, Harvard undergraduate, brilliant gentleman.
What I hope we can find out during the hearing process is his view of the Constitution. Is it a living document that changes, or is it a set document by its text? That's what I'm interested in.
MALVEAUX: And how do you get to those answers?
BROWNBACK: Well, I think you really ask the question basically that way. You don't ask people about Roe versus Wade. You don't ask people about property rights cases that might come in front of them. But you ask them, "What is your view of the Constitution and the role of the courts in enforcing this Constitution?" And you really try to get their view of how they see that constitutional document.
MALVEAUX: Now, let's talk about Roe v. Wade, because you recently chaired the first of several Senate hearings evaluating the ramification of that. In a recent CNN-"USA Today"-Gallup poll showing 68 percent of Americans say that the Supreme Court should not overturn Roe v. Wade.
How much do you think abortion is going to play into these hearings?
BROWNBACK: It will play into it, because it's the lead social issue of our day from both sides. But I think one ought to back up on it and say, "Instead of looking at abortion, let's look at the Constitution. What's in the Constitution?"
And let's look and examine that for the topic, because that's really the issue here, and the role of the courts in the country today, rather than honing in on this particular issue or privacy issue, all of which the nominee is not going to answer these questions, because that would be to prejudge a case. And that would be inappropriate for us to ask.
MALVEAUX: Now, obviously, this is going to be a battle. Because we have already heard from Senator Reid. He said, "Clearly, a judicial nominee should not comment on pending cases. But there are many other questions that a nominee should answer."
And he goes on to say, "I encourage Judge Roberts to be forthcoming in responding to the committee's questions, providing written materials requested by the senators and so forth."
Do you think that Roberts should be expected to answer at least some of those sensitive questions on issues like abortion during these hearings?
BROWNBACK: Well, did Ruth Bader Ginsburg answer those questions? I've looked early at the transcript and she did not. She replaced Byron White, who was a dissenter on Roe, and here was Ruth Bader Ginsburg who was, at the time, a lawyer for the ACLU. She didn't respond to those questions.
You can ask all those questions. It's fine to do that. But if people look at the past and they project into the future, nominees have never answered that specific prejudging a hypothetical question. They're not going to do that. They haven't in the past; they shouldn't now.
MALVEAUX: Now, of course, many people have been talking about the possibility of a filibuster here. Many members of your party said they don't believe the filibuster will be used. But we heard from Senator Schumer who said that he would not rule it out, necessarily.
Is this a concern for Republicans that could be a option?
BROWNBACK: It's very much a concern that it's an option, because that then raises the bar from 51 votes to 60 votes to approve a nominee, which we've never had that in the history of the republic on a judge. The bar should be 51 votes, a majority of the people in the United States Senate.
And I think a filibuster would be just simply wrong. This is not an extraordinary circumstance. This is a highly qualified nominee. You may disagree with him. You may agree with him. But it should be a vote, and it should be a majority vote.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0507/20/ip.01.html
