Public Statements
MSNBC Hardball - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 6, 2005
Location: Unknown


MSNBC Hardball - Transcript
Wednesday, July 6, 2005
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
MITCHELL: Welcome back to HARDBALL.
To continue our conversation about the vacancy on the Supreme Court, we're joined now by a new member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Kansas Republican, Sam Brownback.
Welcome, Senator.
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R), KANSAS: Thank you, Andrea.
MITCHELL: Senator, is it your interpretation that there should not be a filibuster unless there is a personal problem in this person's record? Or is Senator Lieberman correct, that extraordinary circumstances, the terms of agreement of the gang of 14, could include an extraordinary ideological issue?
BROWNBACK: Well, I don't think there should be a filibuster at all. And remember, Andrea, too, it's not 14 members that you have to get to change this. It's two of that 14 that you have to get to actually change this rule.
It requires only a 51 vote in the Senate to be able to change the rule. And I really think that the Democrats in particular have played through this hand, to where I hope that really the filibuster option is off the table and we're actually going to have a dignified, thorough process and a vote on the Supreme Court nominee.
MITCHELL: But do you think the Democrats-you don't think the Democrats have a right to hold that out as an option if the president nominates someone who they believe is an extremist, an extreme conservative who would be taking the seat?
BROWNBACK: Well...
MITCHELL: This is the seat, of course, of Sandra Day O'Connor, a pivotal swing seat, rather than the more anticipated seat, conservative seat, of Justice Rehnquist.
BROWNBACK: We'll, these seats aren't owned by any side one way or the other. They're not owned by conservatives or liberals.
The seats are owned by the American people and the process is, the president nominates and then the Senate votes on a majority vote. The constitution never contemplated a super-majority vote. And I think it will be for the president to determine who does he think that should go in, not saying, OK, this was a moderate seat and therefore you have to put a moderate jurist on the bench.
MITCHELL: What would your position be if the president determines that Alberto Gonzales is the right person for this seat?
BROWNBACK: Well, I would want to see his view on how he would interpret the court's role and the Constitution.
To me, the key issue here for the courts, for the Constitution and for the country is for the courts to be the court and not a legislative body, a super-legislative body, and for the Constitution to be the document it is, not what somebody would hope or wish it to be or try to invent it to be. And that's what I would be looking at on Attorney General Gonzales or any other nominee, is how they view the Constitution and the court's role in upholding that Constitution.
MITCHELL: Do you share some of the wariness of conservative members of your party and some of the activist groups such Tony Perkins, who believe that-that the attorney general is too close to the moderates, that he doesn't have enough of a paper trail, and that in fact he might be a closet moderate?
BROWNBACK: Well, I share that concern of anybody that doesn't have a thorough paper trail, that you know the thought pattern of how this person views the Constitution.
Remember, during the last presidential campaign, President Bush's lead applause line was when he would say that he was going to nominate judges that would uphold the Constitution, not try to rewrite it, that would uphold and enforce the law, not write the law as they wish it would be. I mean, his whole point of this-and the people applauded for that-was for judges to be judges, not legislators.
And the problem with anybody that doesn't have a pretty thorough paper trail is, you're not sure how they're going to view the Constitution, whether it's a living document that can change and move or if it's a set document and the words mean what they say.
MITCHELL: Do you see any value in having a female nominee or an Hispanic nominee, someone other than a white male, given the composition of the rest of the court, with Justice O'Connor leaving?
BROWNBACK: You know, I think those are pluses if we have somebody nominated of that nature.
But at the core of this has to be somebody's view of the Constitution and the role of the courts. And that's really what is at stake here. And that's why there's been such fervency and strong feeling about the Supreme Court position, because the court itself has placed itself in the middle of so many controversies that, in the past, were always left up to legislative bodies to hash out and to think about and to move and to have different elections.
And, instead, the court has stepped in, big-footed these issues or, in this recent New London case, has come in and really changed the thought pattern of what public use is for private property rights. And this really stirs a lot of people up.
MITCHELL: The 5-4 decision on eminent domain.
Before I let you go, briefly, Senator, how do you feel about the push by a number of journalist groups for a shield law to protect journalists from having to reveal confidential sources now that Judy Miller has gone to jail?
BROWNBACK: Well, I know Judy Miller, and I've been at conferences with her.
And I also know a number of reporters. They want to be able to protect the confidentiality of who they're reporting on and who they're getting comments from or they're not going to be able to get the type of information that they-that they seek. I think this is something that we should contemplate.
There can be and in cases there are extraordinary circumstances, where safety of individuals, other individuals is involved. And you've got to think of that as a primary concern when somebody else's life or lives are at stake. But I do think we should do everything we can to protect confidentiality of reporters and their sources.
MITCHELL: Thank you very much, Senator Sam Brownback.
BROWNBACK: Thank you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/8498025/
