Public Statements
Retirement Of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 1, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


RETIREMENT OF JUSTICE SANDRA DAY O'CONNOR -- (Senate - July 01, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the retirement of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor from the U.S. Supreme Court. First, I wish to applaud her public service that has been part of her entire life. She is a fantastic role model; she is a role model to two of my older of five children. My two older daughters have seen her as someone who moved into an area that had not been occupied by a woman before--the Supreme Court of the United States. One of my daughters got to meet with her at one time. It was quite an event in her life, being able to see a woman on the U.S. Supreme Court at a young age. And that has been replicated, of course, with Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Women have broken through. That will continue to be the case, and will continue to be an inspiration to people throughout the world in general, and my family in particular.
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor was raised in southeastern Arizona on her family's ranch. Her humble beginnings contributed to her appreciation for common sense and limited government, which she carried forward on the Court. She received her undergraduate degree from Stanford University; one of the great schools of our country. At Stanford, she successfully pursued a degree in economics and graduated third in her class at Stanford Law School. It was during law school that she met her husband John.
As a young female attorney, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor faced great adversity in finding employment. It does not seem possible that someone graduating third in their class from Stanford Law School would face this problem. But those were different times, and she was a woman and was looking for employment in the private sector.
She persevered, accepted a position as deputy county attorney for San Mateo County in California, where she served with distinction.
In 1958, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor began a small private practice in her native Arizona.
In 1965, after returning to work following a brief hiatus to care for her children, Justice O'Connor accepted a position as an assistant attorney general for the State of Arizona.
In 1968, she was appointed to the Arizona State Senate by the Governor to fill a vacancy. During O'Connor's tenure in the State Senate, she demonstrated wisdom and excellence to become the majority leader.
O'Connor was elected judge of Maricopa County Superior court in 1975 and served until 1979 when she was appointed to the Arizona Court of Appeals.
In 1981, President Ronald Reagan fulfilled his promise to nominate the first
[Page: S7896] GPO's PDF
woman to the Nation's top Court. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor was confirmed unanimously by the Senate.
It is hard to think of a Supreme Court nominee getting a unanimous confirmation in this body today, but it happened in 1981.
Justice O'Connor's life is a testament to perseverance, integrity, and appreciation of constitutional government. She served as a role model to a generation of women in the legal profession. I commend her for her 24 years of dedicated service to the U.S. Supreme Court.
In her letter to the President announcing her retirement, I was impressed by Justice O'Connor's reference to the ``integrity of the Court and its role under our constitutional structure.'' I think it is important to remember that in our system of government, the courts have but limited jurisdiction: they should neither write nor execute the laws, but simply ``say what the law is,'' in the famous phrase of former Chief Justice Marshall. As Alexander Hamilton explained, this limitation on judicial power is what would make the Federal judiciary the ``least dangerous branch.'' They were not meant to resolve divisive social issues, short-circuit the political process, or invent rights which had no basis in the text of the Constitution.
Unfortunately, the courts in recent years have not kept themselves within the circumscribed role envisioned by the Framers. Hamilton himself likely would be shocked at the broad sweep of the exercise of judicial power in America: Federal courts today are redefining the meaning of marriage, removing the role of faith in the public square, running prisons and schools by decree, enhancing Federal power at the expense of the States and, just last week, radically expanding the power of government to take private property from one individual and hand it over to another in the name of public use; by 5-to-4 decisions--5 for, 4 against. The expanded role assumed by the Federal courts generally in recent years makes it all the more important that the upcoming nominee exhibit the proper respect for the restrained role of the Federal courts in American Government, staying within the text of the Constitution.
Given the President's repeated statements during his campaign that he would pick Justices who would faithfully interpret the text of the Constitution and the resonance his position had with the American people, I am confident that he will nominate a well-qualified individual who will refrain from making law from the bench.
I will conclude by simply saying, in the confirmation process, I hope this body can take a position where we hold fair hearings, where the nominee is not maligned by outside groups seeking to cast aspersions that are clearly not there, or trying to paint an individual where the factual setting is not there; that it will be a process of 51 votes and not 60 votes, that there will not be a filibuster for this Supreme Court nominee position. It should not be an extraordinary circumstance. The position is to be filled by a majority vote of this body, not by a supermajority vote of this body.
I hope we could move forward with a confirmation process through the Judiciary Committee, on which I and the Presiding Officer serve on, in a timely and reasonable fashion; that we could bring the nomination in front of this body, have a robust debate on it, and then vote. The person either goes on the Supreme Court or they do not go on the Supreme Court--by 51 votes. That is what it should be. I think that is clearly the case of what was anticipated by the Framers in the overall process.
I see my colleague from Texas is here, who is to speak on the floor. I do want to end by again commending Sandra Day O'Connor's lifetime of service, the inspirational role that she has played for many people in this country--to people in my family. I thank her and say Godspeed to her and her family, and I am sure she will continue to serve this Nation.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
