Public Statements
Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 30, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


DOMINICAN REPUBLIC-CENTRAL AMERICA-UNITED STATES FREE TRADE AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION ACT -- (Senate - June 30, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, on this beautiful day in Washington, DC, we are about to create some great opportunities for Kansas farmers, Kansas manufacturers, and opportunities of hope for people in Central America. That is to me what this CAFTA bill represents. I do not want to oversell it. I do not think it should be oversold. I do not think it is a panacea for democracy building or opportunity in Central America. I do not think it is a panacea for all my farmers and manufacturers in the State of Kansas. But I do think it is a little more good in the world, a little more good for opportunities for people in the United States, lowering tariffs and trade barriers in our neighborhood, in this region of the world, a little more good and opportunity for economic chances and opportunities in Central America and the Dominican Republic, chances that do not exist today, chances that are not doing well today in Central America, chances that are hurting the spread of democracy, free societies, even in our own hemisphere.
I was troubled recently when I read a poll published by one of the major newspapers in this country. The poll was asking people in Central and South America would they give up their democracy if their economy would grow. In other words, if a dictator comes in and can produce economic reform and opportunity where you would have a growing economy instead of the stagnant situation you are in today, would you give up democracy?
A surprisingly large number of people said yes. I suppose in their hierarchy of needs, what they were looking at is: Look, democracy is great, but what I need right now is a job, what I need right now is income for my family, what I need right now is to be able to pay my bills and send my kids to school. If I have to give up this other right to do that, I am willing to look at it.
I was very troubled by that poll. I have relatives traveling to Central America talking with me in return about the troubling aspects of what they are seeing in the willingness to give up democracy and the fragility of democracy in our own hemisphere because of a lack of economic opportunity.
I think as well a lot of this is because of the juggernaut China is today, more than we solve by CAFTA. CAFTA is a little more good. CAFTA is a positive step in the right direction for those democracies to build economies and for opportunities for us in this country. It is not opportunities for everybody. There will be winners and some losers, as there are in trade agreements, because on the basis of a trade agreement, each country does what they do best and then you trade goods back and forth. Overall, the economy is lifted. There are people who are dislocated and harmed in these processes.
Overall, there is a betterment of societies, cultures, and opportunities. That
[Page: S7699]
is what I think overall will take place with CAFTA.
I do believe we have an extra issue that is at risk and is rewarded by CAFTA, and that is democracy building in our hemisphere. I do not think it can be put forward too lightly.
While I do not think people in Central America will say, OK, I am going to rejoice with the passing of CAFTA, that this is going to solve all my problems, I do think it will remove a great deal of hope if this does not pass. It will certainly have a negative impact in Central America if it does not pass, and I think we have to look at that as well.
Everybody has heard the numbers until I am sure they are blue in the face. The U.S. tariff regime is one of the lowest in the world, 3 percent. For a State such as mine, Kansas, having open markets is vital for the exportation of agricultural commodities. The aircraft industry is also dependent upon an export market. So additional liberalization should benefit our producers.
About one-third, or $3 billion in farm cash receipts out of a total of $9 billion of gross farm income in Kansas comes from exports. Kansas ranks sixth in the Nation for States with the greatest share of agricultural exports. Movement toward freer economies is helpful in doing that.
I want to focus briefly in the time I have on a couple of specific products that will benefit my State. As I mentioned, we have a heavy agricultural export industry. Agricultural exports support some 47,000 jobs in Kansas. I think, in this particular case, we have a decent chance of expanding more agricultural exports.
Beef is our largest section of the agricultural economy of my State. We are the second largest beef exporter in the country. As I mentioned, it provides the single largest source of cash receipts in agriculture in my State at over $5.6 billion. We believe CAFTA will help the cattle industry.
Pork producers, who add about $252 million to Kansas annually, will also benefit from the trade agreement.
Current import tariffs on U.S. beef exports is as high as 30 percent in some of these countries. Duties on the products most important to the U.S. beef industry--prime and choice cuts--would be eliminated immediately in these Central American countries.
I don't want to paint that again as a panacea because I don't think there is going to be a large initial export. There is not a large market of that cut initially, although there is market opportunity.
The American Farm Bureau Federation economic analysis of CAFTA estimates that Kansas will increase meat exports to the six countries by $130 million per year on the full implementation. That full implementation has a very long window to it, 2024. This is some period to come.
These are economic analyses which are useful to use to generally show trend lines. I have learned enough over the years to not rely upon these as money in the bank because factors come in to play--sanitary issues enter the picture, and we have recently been wrestling with BSE. Those all are major factors. Still, it points to a positive trend line.
As the Nation's top wheat exporter and with State farm cash receipts of $1.3 billion, Kansas wheat producers will benefit from CAFTA. Grain suppliers will benefit from zero tariffs immediately on wheat in all six countries, as well as some processed grain products.
Again, the American Farm Bureau economic analysis of CAFTA estimates that Kansas will increase wheat exports to the six countries by $8 million per year. Again, this is after full implementation of CAFTA. That is some time in the future. Its economic analysis could well be off, but it shows a generally positive trend line--small but positive. That is why I say a little more good in the world for my producers.
I conclude by saying, as we continue to fight this global war on terrorism, we must continue to spread democracy and hope throughout the world. Engaging in free trade practices and policies helps improve relationships with other countries and improves the standard of living in these developing countries. Helping to improve other countries' standard of living will result in a more hopeful society and a more peaceful world.
Certainly we have learned over the years that democracies are far easier and better for us to deal with. If we can help strengthen democracy, particularly in our hemisphere, by this passage, minor as it might be as a positive point, that is a good and hopeful sign and something we should do.
I support CAFTA, and I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of passage of the CAFTA trade agreement.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
