Public Statements
CNN Inside Politics - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 29, 2005
Location: Unknown


CNN Inside Politics - Transcript
Wednesday, June 29, 2005
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
HENRY: Earlier in the program, I discussed the president's Iraq speech with a leading house Democrat. With me now live from Capitol Hill to offer a Republican perspective on Iraq and other topics is Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas.
Welcome, Senator.
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R), KANSAS: Thank you, Ed. Good to join you.
HENRY: Thank you.
The president made it clear last night this is tough work. He didn't sugarcoat it at all. Do you think it's good that it appears the White House is rejecting what Vice President Cheney had been saying about the insurgency being in its last throes? Are they finally being direct and saying, "It's not going to be easy"?
BROWNBACK: Well, I think it's very clear -- and it's been very clear from the outset -- that this is not going to be easy and that what the president said last night, and what the vice president has said about the difficulties and the insurgency, are both very consistent and accurate.
This is tough work. This is tough sledding. It needs to be regularly taken to the American public and said, "Here's where we are. Here's what's taking place. Here's the progress that's been made. And here's what's yet to be done."
I think the president laid that out. And yet, also, others are saying to the American public, "We've got a difficult insurgency that's on our hands. We're dealing with it. The Iraqis are increasingly dealing with it. But we've got a long ways yet to go."
HENRY: Now, what do you say to Democratic charges that the president went overboard by tying 9/11 to Iraq? Do you feel it was out of bounds or not?
BROWNBACK: I don't think it's out of bounds, particularly -- I think really you can go back to 10 years prior to 9/11 and see this terrorist insurgency, this real militantized Islam growing in force and attacking us at embassies in Africa and the USS Cole, building, and building, and building, until we saw what took place at 9/11. And then since 9/11, we have been aggressively responding to that building that had been taking place for 10 years prior.
HENRY: Now, what about the Democratic charge out there today that this is the president's third rationale for war in Iraq, that he started out on WMD? They were not found. He shifted to creating more democracy, spreading democracy through the Mideast, and now he's focusing on Iraq being a hot bed for terrorism. Fair charge?
BROWNBACK: Well, I think you can clearly make the charge -- and it's very, very clear to date -- we have not found weapons of mass destruction. We've looked all over. I hope, at some point in time, that we will find them someplace, because that was one of the basis for the war.
It was the intelligence report before we went into the war, from all major intelligence agencies, that it was weapons of mass destruction were there. But they're not.
And I think one of the key things that the president is saying to the American public, to all of us right now, is, "We cannot abandon this effort." That the military itself is saying, "What is the body public going to do?"
And the foreign people that are attacking us, the militant terrorists that are attacking us, know that the weak part of our military is U.S. public opinion. Will we stay the course and see this on through? And the president's saying, "We have to, if for no other reason that we see through what we do, and it is clear that we need to do this to support our military."
HENRY: Senator, you also sit on the Judiciary Committee, which would handle any confirmation hearings, if there are Supreme Court retirements. What kind of intelligence, tea leaf reading are you getting right now? Have there been any consultations with the White House about possible picks?
BROWNBACK: I've not received any consultation, and I don't think they're going to be consulting with many people because this is such an extraordinary hot issue, even with these recent cases that have come out within the last seven days.
The impact of the Supreme Court on this nation is profound. So there's not going to be any consultations prior to any sort of statement of a stepping down from the court. Then they'll begin a process afterwards where there will be a good discussion, and it needs to take place, but not before.
HENRY: What about the 2008 presidential campaign? We all know that you're testing the waters. How's the water so far?
BROWNBACK: You know, it's quite good. It's a long ways out. And many things will happen between now and then.
But a lot of people are very interested in the topics that I'm putting forward, that we need to renew the American culture and support the American family, that we have to have a robust foreign policy. Those are things that really strike at the chord of what most people want to see develop, and grow, and improve in this nation.
HENRY: OK. Senator Sam Brownback, we'll have to leave it right. Thank you very much for joining us today. Really appreciate it.
BROWNBACK: Thank you.
HENRY: Thank you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0506/29/ip.01.html
