Public Statements
Energy Policy Act Of 2005
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 22, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


ENERGY POLICY ACT OF 2005 -- (Senate - June 22, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Oklahoma for yielding time off of Senator Domenici's allotted time.
I rise today to address the important topic of global climate change, the McCain-Lieberman amendment. I am a strong fan of both the sponsors of this bill. I believe them to be excellent legislators, wonderful individuals, outstanding Senators from both sides of the aisle. They represent this country in the greatest traditions of the democracy and this body. These are outstanding individuals.
I have wrestled a long time with the issue of global climate change. I call it a problem because I believe it to be so. I believe global climate change is occurring. Furthermore, I believe this occurrence can be traced, in some part at least, to man's increased emissions of carbon into our atmosphere.
Some believe carbon to be a pollutant. However, I do not believe this to be the case. Carbon is a naturally occurring element in our atmosphere. It is essential to our survival as human beings. Carbon is a greenhouse gas. Yet, the greenhouse effect is also critical in certain aspects for our survival as well. Without the warming effect provided by carbon and other greenhouse gases, the primary being water vapor, we would freeze. So it is important. We clearly need greenhouse gases in our atmosphere. Yet, on the question of carbon loading in our atmosphere, we must ask how much is too much.
With respect to global climate change, I think we must be persistent, temperate, and wise. We must pay close attention to what the science is telling us. Our actions, which will have real consequences with both the climate and our economy, must be based on data and not on rhetoric.
As I stated at the outset, I admire Senators McCain and Lieberman for their persistence in the pursuit of their legislative action on climate change, addressing a real issue in a serious manner. They both have done an outstanding job in shaping the climate change debate thus far. However, I do respectfully disagree with my colleagues that we are at the point in this debate at which we ought to be enacting cap-and-trade regulatory regimes offered in their amendment.
In fact, in taking a look at some of our friends around the world who have implemented a mandatory cap-and-trade system, I believe that the facts show that this approach has not worked in those countries. This regulatory restrictive approach has not worked. There is another method, another way, for us to approach this.
Canada, for instance, which has enacted the Kyoto treaty cap and trade, projects it will exceed its Kyoto commitments by well over 50 percent. Japan, the ``home of Kyoto,'' has projected it will exceed its Kyoto commitments by 34 percent. Our friends in the EU are projecting they will miss its collective Kyoto commitment by 7.4 percent. Many other projections coming from places other than Brussels have the EU doing even worse. In fact, only two European Union countries, the United Kingdom and Sweden, are on track to meet their 2010 targets.
Germany, despite its head start on shutting down some of the industrial base actually of East Germany after reunification, is not projected to meet its burden-sharing target. In Sweden, they have switched to nuclear production and away from traditional sources of power like coal. I believe nuclear power needs to play a greater role in our own power generation, and I think it will lead clearly to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
I respect Sweden for their adoption of nuclear power, and it is my hope the United States will see fit to follow suit, as it fits, in this country.
The United Kingdom is meeting its target by three fundamental shifts in their economy, two of which I do not believe to be helpful. First, they are burning less coal and more natural gas due to large stockpiles of natural gas. This is actually as a result of Prime Minister Thatcher's desire to break some of the unions organized around coal in the 1980s. This accounts for about one-third of their reduction. I wish we had the natural gas base that they do. We have some. We have some in my State. It looks as if we will be able to bring in more liquefied natural gas. That will help. But that model does not particularly fit within the United States.
The second place in which the United Kingdom has reduced its carbon emissions is by losing manufacturing and industry jobs to developing countries such as China and India. That is not a model that we want to follow. The United Kingdom may get credit for reducing emissions, but it goes to developing countries like China and India that in many cases are using outdated technology, and therefore producing more total emissions than if these jobs had stayed in the United Kingdom. We want these jobs to stay in the United States, not move out of country. Plus, the countries of China and India are emitting more pollutants, such as sulfur and nitrogen, into the atmosphere as well.
It is clear that while the United Kingdom can claim reductions due to this shift, the atmosphere is in fact worse off with this kind of shift. This is obviously not a way the United States should seek to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions.
Finally, the United Kingdom has reduced their emissions through advanced technologies and is producing energy more efficiently. That is clearly a preferable way for us to move forward in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. That is why I supported the Hagel amendment. I believe it is a positive step in that direction. I want to commend my colleague from Nebraska for offering a voluntary approach, providing incentives for new greenhouse gas-reducing technologies and technology transfer that would help our friends in developing regions of the world such as China and India. This technology transfer would happen through demonstration projects in developing countries, export initiatives, also establishing a climate credit board. I think these sort of voluntary approaches of us working here and technology transfer around the world are a key way to actually get these greenhouse gas emissions down, not a heavy regulatory regime.
There are also things I think we should do that would have a positive effect on our net national carbon emissions, that I do believe are having an impact on the overall global climate change. I think we can do these net national carbon emission reductions that will have a positive environmental benefit and which can have also a positive effect on our economy, not a negative effect, as a regulatory regime. I am referring to projects like carbon sequestration and soil conservation practices. These are projects that not only extract carbon out of the atmosphere but have the more immediate and tangible benefits of improving water quality and preserving wildlife habitat. We have seen this taking place in my home State.
Carbon sequestration--or the process of transforming carbon dioxide in the atmosphere to carbon stored in trees and soils--is a largely untapped resource that can buy us one of the things we need most in the debate over global warming, and that is time and accomplishment at the same time.
The Department of Energy estimates that over the next 50 to 100 years, agricultural lands alone could have the potential to remove anywhere from 40 to 80 billion metric tons of carbon from the atmosphere. If we expand this to include forests, the number will be far greater, indicating there is a real difference that could be made by encouraging a carbon sink, a carbon sequestration, type of approach.
This alone cannot solve our climate change dilemma, but as we search for technological advancements that will allow us to create energy with less pollution, as we continue to research the cause and potential effects in climate change, it only makes sense that we enhance a natural process we already know has the benefit of reducing existing concentrations of greenhouse gases, particularly when this process also improves water quality, soil fertility, and wildlife habitat.
As I say, this is a ``no regrets'' policy, similar to taking out insurance on one's house or car. We should do no less to protect the planet.
Another way in which we can help reduce the amount of carbon emitted into our atmosphere, while helping our environment, is through the increased uses of renewable energy, namely biomass converted into electricity. I believe this could revolutionize the energy sector and greatly help a number of places around our country.
Energy can be created from biomass by using many agricultural waste products such as wheatstalk, wood chips or even livestock manure. It also harvests grassland that is currently in the Conservation Reserve Program or other conservation reserve programs for biomass production. Not only does this provide a clean source of energy, it also creates a new market for many of our agricultural producers.
Another renewable source of energy comes from wind development. I am a fan of wind development. I believe it
to have great potential in producing clean energy that will help the United States with our energy independence. However, I also believe our environmentally sensitive areas and environmental treasures should be protected from wind development. That is why I am also pleased to support my colleagues, Senator Alexander and Senator Warner, on their environmentally responsible Wind Power Act of 2005. In my home State of Kansas, we are blessed to have a large portion of the last remaining tall grass prairie in the Nation. The Flint Hills of Kansas have virtually been untouched and unplowed by man. It would be a shame to wreck these treasures for future generations simply as a way of putting wind turbines on them.
I am in favor of wind development. However, we must be wise not to harm our environmentally sensitive areas or unique environmental treasures.
Because of my belief in the future potential of energy production from biomass and wind development, I supported Senator Bingaman's renewable portfolio standard amendment that passed the Senate last week. Not only will our Nation benefit from cleaner energy that is produced at home, but my home State will as well and will lead the way.
Finally, I believe we, as a Nation, need to invest more in nuclear energy. I commend both Chairman Domenici and Ranking Member Bingaman for their hard work on this bipartisan Energy bill that includes many strong provisions for expanding our Nation's nuclear power industry. I heard my distinguished colleague from Tennessee, Senator Alexander, mention that nuclear power represents 20 percent of our total power, yet accounts for 70 percent of our carbon-free power.
Clearly, more needs to be done in diversifying our energy sources, and I believe this Energy bill is a step in the right direction. I do commend my colleagues, Senator McCain and Senator Lieberman, for adding a robust nuclear section in their climate change bill. This obviously may have upset some, but it is the right step. I believe we could go even so far as to say that this move may have had dangerous political consequences for their bill, but I believe it is the right step for us to move forward.
As I stated at the outset when I entered into this debate, I believe we are seeing global climate change. I do believe that consequences of man's actions are here. I believe, though, we have a series of options that are more likely to produce the results we need than a heavy regulatory approach. While I appreciate the McCain-Lieberman approach, I think this other route is a better way to go.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, we have had a big debate about this in Kansas. We embrace wind power, wind generation. We will be a major benefactor and producer of wind energy. In the middle of the State, we have a tallgrass prairie, which is also in Oklahoma. This is really a majority of the untouched, unplowed, tallgrass prairie that remains in the United States. Over 90 percent is in a swathe between Kansas and Oklahoma. What we are asking and are part of in this bill is that those areas that are protected within the Flint Hills Refuge, the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve, and the Konza Prairie be within the designation areas that don't get the tax credits for the wind energy and the 20-mile radius around. That is responsible.
These are very key areas, and the impact on the viewscape around it is significant and important. That is why I am pleased to be part of and I support this amendment that my colleague from Tennessee has put forward. This is a responsible way to do it. We need to embrace wind power and generation but not in environmentally sensitive areas. This is a responsible way to do it. I am glad to support this amendment.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
RING FENCING
Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, The Senator from Kansas and I would like to engage in a colloquy with Chairman DOMENICI and Ranking Member BINGAMAN about an issue that we're concerned could adversely affect electricity consumers and small businesses.
Mr. DOMENICI. I understand the Senators from Wisconsin and from Kansas have concerns about the potential for regulated utilities to cross-subsidize the business ventures of some of their affiliate companies.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Yes. Several small business groups have brought to our attention concerns they have about their ability to compete with energy service companies that are separate from, but affiliated with, regulated utilities. These small business groups are concerned about utility ratepayers subsidizing these competitive businesses. Because of these concerns, I have cosponsored an amendment with Senator FEINGOLD to give the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission authority to require greater structural and financial separation of utility companies and their affiliates and to prevent anticompetitive abuses which are especially harmful to America's small businesses.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. The amendment is simply intended to ensure a level playing field between small businesses and utility affiliates, to protect ratepayers, and the financial integrity of utilities, and to preserve fair competition.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
