Public Statements
Rescue and Restore Program
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 7, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


RESCUE AND RESTORE PROGRAM -- (Senate - June 07, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to mark the occasion of the 500th nonprofit and faith-based group joining Rescue & Restore Victims of Human Trafficking, an initiative by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Rescue & Restore is a project to help protect the victims of trafficking in human beings.
After years of working on a bipartisan level with colleagues to pass the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, it is my distinct pleasure to commemorate this landmark achievement. Rescue & Restore is a multicity, decentralized national coalition to find, identify and rescue victims of human trafficking in the United States and restore them to a condition of human dignity. The program does this through the engagement of thousands of individuals and hundreds of government and community organizations. TVPA was designed to protect the victims of involuntary servitude, sexual exploitation, forced labor and other forms of a contemporary slave trade.
Since the launch of the first Rescue & Restore city coalition in 2004, the rate of trafficking victims rescued has more than doubled over the previous reporting period--from 107 victims receiving certification letters, to 224. More victims are being identified every day. There are now more than 10,000 ``boots on the ground'' in 14 cities and trained advocates actively seeking out trafficking victims.
Today, June 7, a statewide Rescue & Restore coalition is set to be launched in Illinois in cooperation with the administration of Governor Rod Blagojevich. The Chicago rollout is a true watershed in the mission to locate, identify, rescue, and restore trafficking victims to a condition of human dignity. This is a statewide endeavor, the first of its kind, involving the full panoply of Illinois state and local government law enforcement and health and human welfare agencies working in a coalition with more than 60 nongovernmental and social welfare organizations, child advocates, and health care professionals mobilized to combat trafficking. Other coalition launches are planned for Long Island NY, Houston, and Los Angeles later this year for a total of 17 geographical regions to be served.
Human trafficking is the fastest growing criminal industry in the world today, affecting as many as 900,000 victims worldwide. The CIA estimates that as many as 17,500 men, women and children are brought into the U.S. annually by force, fraud or coercion as victims of human trafficking. Others are victimized right here in America, trafficked into prostitution or forced labor. Many of the victims are women or children who are forced into prostitution; others are pressed into labor slavery such as sweatshops, peonage, or domestic servitude.
Rescue & Restore coalition partners are using their existing channels of communication and growing public awareness to help Americans recognize the existence of human trafficking. They are educating their associates and constituents on how to identify and assist trafficking victims. We now have taken vital steps toward wiping the scourge of human trafficking from our shores.
http://thomas.loc.gov
