Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 26, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS -- (Senate - May 26, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
By Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. ALLARD, Mr. BUNNING, Mr. CHAMBLISS, Mr. COBURN, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. CRAIG, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. DEMINT, Mr. ENSIGN, Mr. ENZI, Mr. GRAHAM, Mrs. HUTCHISON, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. MCCAIN, Mr. SANTORUM, Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. SUNUNU, Mr. TALENT and Mr. THUNE):
S. 1155. A bill to establish a commission to conduct a comprehensive review of Federal agencies and programs and to recommend the elimination or realignment of duplicative, wasteful, or outdated functions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Commission on the Accountability and Review of Federal Agencies, CARFA, Act with over 20 original cosponsors.
This is an important measure that I have been developing and advocating over the past few years. CARFA's premise is simple: Members of Congress need a tool that will help them use taxpayer dollars more efficiently.
Members of Congress need a tool like CARFA because the special interest in keeping a program alive is almost always more powerful than the general interest to realign or even end a Federal program.
A good example of this is tobacco. While there is a general interest in discouraging smoking--and while we spend many taxpayer dollars to this end--there is also strong special interest pressure to keep taxpayer tobacco subsidies alive. Thus, the Federal Government both subsidizes and discourages tobacco.
CARFA is the tool that would give members a chance to advance the general interest. CARFA would take all Federal Government agencies and programs--both discretionary and entitlement--and put them under the review of a bipartisan commission. Members of the commission would be appointed by both majority and minority leaders in both House of Congress and by the President.
The commission would review Federal agencies and programs in order to present draft legislation to the Congress that would realign or eliminate duplicative, wasteful, inefficient, outdated, irrelevant, or failed agencies and programs.
Each House of Congress would get one vote on the draft legislation--up or down--without amendment.
CARFA would create a new approach to increase the efficiency of the Federal Government by giving the general interest a stronger voice in the system. For example, there might be a program that is important to my home State of Kansas that would be cut by the proposed legislation, but I only get one vote and there are a variety of other programs that I really do think need to be eliminated.
Since I only have one vote, I can justify voting for the measure when I go back home by showing to my constituents that there were a number of other programs that needed to be realigned or cut. Thus, CARFA makes the overall goal of balancing the Federal budget more achievable.
We need CARFA now more than ever. The Federal Government spends $2,292,000,000 per year on discretionary and mandatory spending. That is a lot of money. My Kansas constituents often say: ``I don't mind paying my taxes, but make sure my hard-earned money is well spent.'' At a time when Federal spending is at an all time high, topping $20,000 per household, we owe our constituents the accountability that would result from CARFA.
Last year, we had a bipartisan hearing on CARFA, at which all witnesses supported the CARFA concept. We have incorporated some of the suggestions made at that hearing, and I believe this year's version of CARFA is even better.
I am pleased that the Senate is already on record supporting the CARFA concept through Section 502 of this year's budget resolution, and it is my hope that we will be able to work with leadership to see CARFA become a reality this year.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
