Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Committee on Indian Affiars on Acknowledgment and Apology
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 22, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Hearing of the Senate Committee on Indian Affiars on Acknowledgment and Apology
STATEMENT OF HON. SAM BROWNBACK, U.S. SENATOR FROM KANSAS
Senator Brownback. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Thank you for holding this, to my knowledge, first ever hearing on a topic of this nature, an official apology to the
Native Americans of the United States. I think it is an issue that is very important to the long term health of the United
States and it is an issue that has lain unresolved for far too long.
You will hear from several experts today about what happens to a people group when a wrong has been committed and nothing ever acknowledged and yet, years later it continues to fester and remain in place. The issue is our Nation's relationship
with the Native peoples of this land and it goes that basic.
Every member of this committee is very familiar with the legacy of the native tribes on our continent. We know that long
before 1776 and the establishment of the United States of America, this land was inhabited by numerous nations. Like our
Nation, many of these peoples held a strong belief in the Creator and maintained a powerful physical and spiritual
connection to the land itself. They sowed the land, tilled it, journeyed it, and protected it.
My constituents in Kansas and myself have a similar attachment to the land. Like many in my State, I was raised on
the land. I grew up farming it and caring for it. I, and many in my State, established a connection to it. We care for our
Nation and the land of our forefathers so greatly that we, too, are willing to serve and protect it, as faithful stewards of
the creation God has blessed us with. I believe without a doubt that citizens across this Nation share in this sentiment and
know its unifying power. Americans have stood side-by-side for centuries to defend and benefit this land we love.
Both the Founding Fathers of the United States and the indigenous Tribes that lived here were attached to this land.
Both sought to steward and protect it. There were several instances of collegiality and cooperation between our forbearers that are well known, examples such as Jamestown, VA, Plymouth, MA, and in aid to explorers Meriwether Lewis and
William Clark.
Yet, sadly, since the formation of the American Republic, numerous conflicts have ensued between our Government and many of these tribes, conflicts in which warriors on all sides fought courageously and in which all sides suffered. Yet, even
from the earliest days of our Republic, there existed a sentiment that honorable dealings and peaceful coexistence were
preferable to bloodshed. Indeed, our predecessors in Congress in 1787 stated in the Northwest Ordinance, ``The utmost good
faith shall always be observed toward the Indians.''
Many treaties were made between this Republic and the American Indian Tribes. I have read most of all those that were
entered between tribes that were in or moved to the State of Kansas. Treaties, we know, are far more than words on a page.
Treaties are our word, our bond.
Treaties with other governments are not to be treated lightly. Unfortunately, too often the United States of America
did not uphold its responsibilities as stated in its covenants with the Native American tribes. Too often, Mr. Chairman, our
Government broke its oaths to the native peoples.
For too long, relations between the United States and the native peoples of this land have been in disrepair. For too
much of our history, Federal-tribal relations have been marked by broken treaties, mistreatment, and dishonorable dealings. I
believe it is time we worked to restore these relationships to good health.
While we cannot erase the record of our past, I am confident that we can acknowledge our past failures, express
sincere regrets, and work toward establishing a brighter future for all Americans. It is in this spirit of hope for our land
that I have introduced S.J. Res. 15 to extend a formal apology from the United States to tribal governments and native people
nationwide.
I want my fellow Senators to know that the resolution I have introduced does not dismiss the valiance of our American
soldiers who fought bravely for their families in wars between the United States and a number of the Indian tribes. Nor does
this resolution cast all the blame for the various battles on one side or another.
What this resolution does do is recognize and honor the importance of Native Americans to this land and to our Nation,
in the past and today, and offers an official apology to the native peoples for the poor and painful choices our Government
sometimes made to disregard its solemn word.
Mr. Chairman, this is a resolution of apology and a resolution of reconciliation. It is a first step toward healing
the wounds that have divided us for so long, a potential foundation for a new era of positive relations between tribal
governments and the Federal Government. It is time, it is past time, for us to heal our land of division, all divisions, and
bring us together as one people.
Before reconciliation, there must be recognition and repentance. Before there is a durable relationship, there must
be understanding. This resolution will not authorize or serve as a settlement of any claim against the United States, nor
will it resolve the many challenges still facing native peoples. It does recognize the negative impact of numerous
deleterious Federal acts and policies on Native Americans and their cultures. Moreover, it begins the effort of
reconciliation by recognizing past wrongs and repenting for them.
As I close, allow me to commend President Bush for his poignant words in Latvia earlier this month that I think bear
repeating and serve as a statement here. He said, ``The only way we found to rise above the injustices of our history was to
reject segregation, to move beyond mere tolerance, and to affirm the brotherhood of everyone in our land.'' I sincerely
hope we can affirm the brotherhood of this land between all people groups, especially the Native people with whom the U.S.
Government has a special covenant relationship.
The United States is admired by many around the world as a beacon of freedom and a respecter of human dignity. I hope we can recognize our wrongs against our Native brothers and seek healing.
Dr. Martin Luther King, a true reconciler, once said, ``The end is reconciliation, the end is redemption, the end is the
creation of the beloved community.'' This resolution is not the end, but, perhaps it signals the beginning of the end of
division and the faint first light and first fruits of the creation of beloved community.
I worked with a number of people in the last Congress, Senator Campbell, Senator Inouye, in crafting this apology
resolution. I also worked with a number of the tribal groups. The resolution before us today, S.J. Res. 15, is identical to
the version that was approved unanimously by this committee last year.
Before I leave, I would like to enter into the record, remarks made by the head of the Bureau of Indian Affairs [BIA]
on the 175th anniversary of the BIA, September 8, 2000, acknowledging a number of the specific wrongs and saying there
were a number positive things that have been done but we also must acknowledge this past. There was actually an apology
issued by the BIA to the native tribes. I would like to put that into the record.
Senator McCain. Without objection.
[Referenced materials appears in appendix.]
Senator Brownback. I would finally note, Mr. Chairman, this has been a long journey for me. It started when I was first
elected to the Senate and went to the tribes in the State of Kansas to meet with them and at the Haskell Indian University
in Kansas to meet with people there.
There was a deep-rooted bitterness there. It was very apparent. I said what is the source of this. The more I was
around the native people, their American experience and the shared tragedies that were continually passed down from
generation to generation had built in a deep rooted bitterness that needs to be resolved and needs to be dealt with.
This doesn't finish that off but it does start the process and I think it is an extraordinarily important and necessary
step for us to heal the land. That is why I am so strongly in favor and supportive of it.
I really appreciate you holding this first ever hearing. You are very busy with a number of issues you could take up.
This is not an easy one, although I know the chairman doesn't pick easy tasks as reflected this week. I can't think of a
better person for this to come before than yourself.
Thank you.
http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=109_senate_hearings&docid=21531.wais
