Public Statements
Executive Session
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 18, 2005
Location: Washington, DC - Senate


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Alabama for his presentation and his work on the Judiciary Committee since the time we have both been in the Senate. He has served for some time and has done an excellent job. He brings a lot of good sense to it. We are both very familiar with Janice Rogers Brown and Justice Owen. They have been in front of us for years now. Priscilla Owen was in front of us when I was last on the Judiciary Committee over 2 years ago. I can remember that during her confirmation hearing, she gave a law school professor dissertation to almost every question that came up. She had the answers. She responded directly to our colleagues. She is a brilliant lady, both on resume and in person.
Something you said earlier caught my attention, because it is what a lot of this battle is about. The left in America doesn't get this agenda through the legislative or executive branch, so they go through the courts.
And that is really what we are fighting about now, it seems to me--you have judges we are putting forward for confirmation who are strict constructionists, meaning they will rule within the letter of the law of the Constitution. The left wants people who will be super legislators, legislating from the bench. In your experience on the Judiciary Committee, have you heard that debate taking place, or is it always pretty much underneath the water, you really don't see it? Have you heard that debate rise up where people say, well, we cannot change the marriage definition in the U.S. Congress or in the States, so we are going to do it through the courts?
Mr. SESSIONS. This motive is not talked about regularly in an open way, but in a way it did become open. Shortly after Justice Owen was nominated, the Republicans lost a majority in the Senate. I was chairing at that time the Court Subcommittee of the Judiciary Committee, and that changed and Senator Schumer became chairman of the committee. He announced that all judges were basically driven by their politics, and they all had ideologies, and that we ought to just consider their politics when we are confirming them. We had a hearing on the politics of ideology and how we should handle it. I thought the witnesses were uniform, including Lloyd Cutler, counsel to Jimmy Carter and to President Clinton, in their rejection of that principle.
They all agreed that the classical American rule of law says that judges are to be nonpartisan, that they are referees and arbiters and objective interpreters of the law, and it would undermine that principle to start treating them like politicians. So it was discussed in a way that was honest, actually, and I think the overwhelming result from the ABA and the witnesses was that considering politics during the judicial confirmation process would not be a good way to go.
I know Senator Brownback is aware that a lot of the groups that drive the objections to these nominees are very agenda-driven groups, they are activists, and I think that is pretty obvious to anybody who is watching.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, that has been my view of what has been taking place recently. Individuals increasingly have said we cannot win this legislative fight in the States or in the Congress, so we are going to take it to the courts. A judge who is a strict constructionist would ask, is this within our purview under the Constitution? And if it is not, the case would be thrown out, rather than the judge saying that the Constitution is an organic, living document, and I can look at this law imaginatively, how I want to, and then somehow find a way to reach the conclusion I want.
To me, that is what the frustration of the public has been--that somehow they are now thrown out of the process. They can vote for or against the Senator from Alabama or the Senator from Kansas or the Senator from New Hampshire or the Senator from Massachusetts on the basis of a policy issue. But they don't have any right or ability to be able to contact a judge. Yet you have these massive issues that directly impact people regarding marriage and life. We have a bill up now where a Federal court has said that the Congress has appropriated this money and that is inappropriate and they must give these moneys out. Under the Constitution, the appropriation powers are clearly given to the Congress. The court is now stepping into that.
My question to my colleague would be, Where does this stop if you don't start putting on judges who are judges rather than super legislators? Where does it stop?
Mr. SESSIONS. I could not agree more with the Senator. He stated that so beautifully and, I believe, so fairly. It is the real question here. As you know--and I am not sure most of the people in our country have fully thought it through--once a judge says the Constitution means that marriage should be redefined and every legislative finding to the contrary is void, the only recourse the American people have is to try to pass a constitutional amendment that requires, as you know, a two-thirds vote of both Houses of Congress and three-fourths of the States. It is a monumental task. And then if you criticize the judge for their ruling, people say: Oh, you are violating the separation of powers. I think when the courts tread into those areas and start imposing political views, they can only expect that there will be criticism in return.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I would think they would expect criticism on that. But that has been the built-up frustration, where people say the only way we can go is to amend the actual Constitution in the process. I do not believe that is the right way for our democracy to be going. I appreciate my colleague from Alabama and his work on these issues. I believe that is really at the core of these matters.
Mr. President, I note that we have had a lot of debate on Priscilla Owen and Janice Rogers Brown. I don't think anyone who listens to any of this debate is unfamiliar with these two individuals. I am going to talk some more, as well, about these individuals and answer some questions and comments made from the other side about these two individuals.
At the end of the day, we need to recognize what this is about. I believe President Bush responded to this well at his last press conference when he was asked: Why do you think the Senate Democrats are opposing your nominees? Do you think it is based on the religious preference of your nominees? Some of these are people of faith who have religious conviction. He said: No, I think it is because they would interpret the law rather than trying to rewrite the law, that these are people who would stay within the construction of the law and the construction of the Constitution and not try to rewrite it.
I believe that is what really is at stake here.
Are you going to have a super legislative judiciary, or are you going to have one where it is the role of a judiciary to determine what is constitutional within the framework of the Constitution, not what some sort of expansive living document reading of the Constitution would be? That really is the heart of the matter we are debating here today. It is a very live issue in front of us right now.
I note to those who may be listening to these proceedings right now, last week, a Federal judge in the State of Nebraska ruled that the State constitutional amendment that the people in Nebraska had passed defining marriage as the union of a man and a woman--the people of Nebraska passed a State constitutional amendment with 70 percent of the vote, which is a high mark in any election, saying, yes, we agree that the union of a man and woman is the definition of marriage in Nebraska. A Federal court in Nebraska ruled that is not only unconstitutional under several different provisions, but that civil unions must be granted to people of the same gender. The Federal court is saying you must give that.
So it is not just saying that the State of Nebraska is wrong and cannot define marriage, which we have left up to the States in the history of the Republic, but it is also saying that the U.S. Constitution, in some reading of it, actually requires the recognition of same-sex civil unions. Where was that ever written in the Constitution? Where was that ever considered in any sort of constitutional debate? Why is that, at this point in time in our Constitution, seen as somehow in this organic document of where we are today?
I think we have had 17 States now directly vote on the issue of marriage, and every one of them said marriage is the union of a man and a woman. Now you have a Federal court that says, no, that is not allowable for States to determine. States in every place and every region in the country have passed this when the people were allowed to vote. Now you see again the issue-setting of an activist judiciary going in and saying: We know what the people think and what the people vote on this, but we say different. You are going to create yet another festering frustration among the people of America if the court starts walking--and apparently it has--into this issue of the definition of marriage. These are things, if properly left to legislative bodies to determine, look at and figure, wrestle with, and have elections about, which people can have an impact on and say, I think this should be a certain way, and a determination is then made by the people. That has been left up to the people, and it should be.
When the court steps in and makes a new determination, makes a new ruling on it, that is going to build to that festering. It happened in 1973 in Roe v. Wade, where the Court discovers this right to privacy that is a constitutional right to abortion, which cannot be limited in any means, by any State, by the Federal Government, by the Congress.
Prior to that period of time, it had been held valid, constitutional, and appropriate for States to regulate and to deal with this issue, so we had different States ruling different ways prior to Roe v. Wade. This is what would happen again if and when Roe v. Wade is overturned; the States simply would then handle this issue as they did prior to 1973. But once the Court discovers this constitutional right to privacy that is interpreted to mean there is a right to abortion, the states cannot decide for themselves at all.
We are starting down the same path with marriage. We can look around the country and ask: Why are people fired up about the judiciary? Why, during the last election cycle, was the lead applause line for President Bush's rallies about appointing judges who will stay within the laws rather than rewriting them?
The reason is people have this deep-felt frustration at how the courts are coming at all of these opinions, so contrary to the feelings of the vast majority of people in the United States. And where is it written within the Constitution, if it is within the document, that we should have a constitutional right to abortion? Bring it to this body, with two-thirds of the House and two-thirds of the Senate, three-fourths of the States passing it. That is how you amend the Constitution, not by a majority vote of the Supreme Court. That is the durable way we amend the Constitution and deal with it, instead of this building up of frustrations to the point where people say: I have been disenfranchised. I thought the people voted, that the people ruled, within the parameters of the Constitution.
Remember, the Constitution gives a broad swath of power to the people and limits government. That is the role of the Constitution. It gives broad authority and power to the people and limits the role of the government.
We have embarked today upon addressing this issue. Really what we are seeing take place now are these large plates pushing against each other. Political scientists for years have debated the issue of Presidential power taking away from legislative power. That has always been the debate over the years.
During a war, a President is stronger; the legislative body is considered weaker. Outside of war, it reverses and the legislature assumes more authority over the executive branch. And for years political scientists have debated this back and forth--who is gaining, who is receding. Yet we have seen taking place now over the past 40 years an ever-increasing encroachment of the judicial branch within these purviews reserved under the Constitution for the legislative and the executive branches.
I spoke of one just previously with my colleague from Alabama, and that is the appropriation of money. In the Constitution, the appropriation of money is given to the legislative body. That is specifically stated within the Constitution.
Jerry Solomon, a former Congressman from New York who passed away, observed that a number of colleges in the United States were not allowing military recruiters to come on to their college campuses. He said they ought to at least have them come on to the campuses and have their voices heard. The colleges said no.
Congressman Solomon put forward an amendment that if a college decides to bar military recruiters from its campus, that is its right, but it then cannot receive certain Federal appropriations. The amendment said if you are not going to let military recruiters on campus, then we have the right to withhold these Federal funds. If you are not going to give them a chance at free speech, we think there is some price to be paid with that.
It is the authority of the Congress to appropriate money. That was done with the Solomon amendment. It passed by a majority vote. It passed by a majority vote in the Senate and was signed into law by the President of the United States.
Now a Federal court says, no, Congress, you cannot do that. The money must go to those colleges in spite of the Solomon amendment. How many places across the country are courts allocating money for States? These are specific authorities and powers reserved to the legislative body, and the reason is, the Founders, in all their wisdom, said legislators are elected by the people, and the allocation of money is one of the key power for any governmental entity that should belong to the elected representatives of the people. But now we have the courts continually taking, taking, taking. The judiciary continues to come in to areas reserved for the executive and legislative branches, and so we come to where we are today: President Bush seeking to appoint judges, bright judges, well-qualified judges, balanced judges, ones who say the law should be interpreted as to what the law is, not what they choose for it to be or what outside groups want it to be. The Constitution is what it is, and it is not something through which I can invent new rights, however much as I think they should be in the Constitution. If that right is to be, it should be passed by two-thirds of the House, two-thirds of the Senate, three-fourths of the States, and then it becomes a constitutional amendment, not by a majority vote at the Supreme Court.
This is what these judges generally stand for. It is what we should get the judiciary back to. And yet nominees who would do that are being blocked, they are being filibustered inappropriately.
Priscilla Owen, Janice Rogers Brown--we have a group of four judges who collectively have been filibustered for a total of 13 years. It is amazing that they would be filibustered for that period of time.
This is a key, defining moment for us as a country. Will the judiciary be the judiciary, or is it to continue to accumulate power and become more of a superlegislative body? That is much of the debate that is in front of us today with the judges. That is taking place in the form of Priscilla Owen, Janice Rogers Brown, and several other judges. That remains the issue.
When a Supreme Court position comes open, will we appoint somebody who will stay within the letter of the law of the Constitution or not? Will it require 60 votes to approve a Supreme Court judge, something that is never required, or will it be a majority vote? Must we have a supermajority?
If you want a supermajority to approve a Supreme Court judge, then amend the Constitution to state that it requires a supermajority, like we do with respect to treaties, what it takes to approve a treaty. The Founders did not say that. They said advise and consent. They did not say a supermajority or two-thirds vote of the body. They said advise and consent. Do you anywhere interpret a supermajority vote to be required to approve a Supreme Court nominee? No, that is not within the reading and understanding of the document. But because this role of judges as legislators keeps coming back up, particularly from the left, it is going to continue to be pushed.
There have been a number of issues raised regarding the nominees. I now want to address what has been raised.
It has been asserted that current Attorney General Alberto Gonzales accused Priscilla Owen of judicial activism. He is Attorney General of the United States and was on the Texas Supreme Court with Justice Owen. I asked the Attorney General in his confirmation hearing for Attorney General if that was something he had said about Priscilla Owen. He said no. He testified under oath that Justice Owen is a great judge he never accused of judicial activism. That is Alberto Gonzales, under oath, in front of the Judiciary Committee of the Senate.
I think that should put that to sleep. He testified under oath that he had never accused Justice Owen of engaging in judicial activism.
Justice Brown was accused of justice activism in supporting the Lochner case. Again, I want to put that issue to rest. Indeed, Justice Brown has taken issue with the Lochner decision. This is considered a judicial activism case. She is being accused of supporting it, when in fact she actually stated in an opinion that:
The Lochner court was justly criticized for using the due process clause as though it provided a blank check to alter the meaning of the Constitution as written.
That is Justice Janice Rogers Brown, in a written opinion on Lochner. She cannot be accused of this. Maybe her words in a speech are accused, saying she is supportive of Lochner, but her actual stated written opinion says, no, that the Court was justly criticized for the Lochner case. I think those are important things to put clearly in the record.
Mr. President, I inquire of the Chair how much time remains of my allocation?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Kansas has 10 minutes remaining.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I want to cover some of the ground on Janice Rogers Brown that is well known in this situation because she has been in front of us so much, so long, but I think it bears repeating. She was born to sharecroppers, came of age in the Jim Crow era, went to segregated schools. Do you know what motivated her to become a lawyer? It was her grandmother's stories of NAACP lawyer Fred Gray, who defended Rosa Parks, and her experience as a child of the South.
When she was a teenager, Justice Brown's family moved to Sacramento, CA. She received her bachelor's degree in economics from California State in Sacramento in 1974 and her law degree from the UCLA School of Law in 1977. These are all well-known matters.
I don't know if people know as well all of her public service, but they probably cannot because it is so extensive. All but 2 years of her 28 years in her legal career have been in public service. This is a public servant of 26 years standing.
I ask the Presiding Officer or anybody listening, if you serve as a public servant for 26 years in the State of California, how can you be a radical conservative out of the mainstream judicial thought? Can that be while you are serving for 26 years in public service in the State of California in various capacities? She began her career in 1977 and served 2 years as a deputy legislative counsel in the California Legislative Counsel Bureau. From 1979 to 1987 she was deputy attorney general in the office of the attorney general of California. Governor Pete Wilson selected her to serve as his legal affairs secretary from 1991 to 1994. She then served on the State court of appeals for 2 years before joining the California Supreme Court where she served with distinction until 1996. Then she was involved in her community.
So we have 26 years of public service in the State of California. I do not see how that person could be somebody out of the mainstream of thought and serve in so many capacities in that State. That seems to me to defy logic.
She has performed a lot of community service. She served as a member of the California Commission on the Status of African-American Males, focused on ways to correct inequities in the treatment of African-American males in employment and in the criminal justice and health care systems. Is this out of the mainstream? She was a member of the Governor's Child Support Task Force which reviewed and made recommendations on how to improve California's child support system. Out of the mainstream? She was a member of the Community Learning Advisory Board of the Rio Americano High School and developed a program to provide government service internships to high school students in Sacramento. Out of the main stream? She taught Sunday school at the Cordova Church of Christ for more than 10 years, just as former President Carter teaches Sunday school. Out of the mainstream?
Given the impressive range of her activities and legal and personal experiences, it is no surprise that the President would nominate her. What is surprising is that she would be labeled somehow out of the mainstream. I think this is simply and demonstrably ridiculous. If Janice Rogers Brown is an extremist, the people of California, I guess, must be so, too. In 2002 they overwhelmingly approved her in a retention election with 76 percent of the vote. Her support was more than any other justice on the ballot in that election.
If Janice Rogers Brown is extremist, so, too, must be a bipartisan group of 15 California law professors who wrote to the Senate Judiciary Committee in support of Janice Rogers Brown, knowing her to be:
..... a person of high intellect, unquestionable integrity and evenhandedness.
She is not out of the mainstream. She is extraordinarily qualified, and this is just an attempt to smear a good candidate.
I turn, finally, to one issue about the approval rate of court of appeals judges under President Bush. We heard a lot of numbers thrown around about judges and the number who have been approved by this administration and what happened under the remainder of the Clinton years administration. I want to put up one chart about this and talk briefly about it.
We have a Republican President and a Republican Senate. I am delighted. I think we are going to make good progress for the American people and show progress in moving things forward. I want to go back to two other Democrats, two Democratic Presidents who had Democratic Senates under them, an appropriate comparison of apples and apples, and look at the approval rate of circuit court judges. Remember you have federal district court judges, circuit court judges, and then Supreme Court Justices. Circuit court and Supreme Court jurists are the ones who have the most latitude on enforcement, interpretation, or rewriting of laws.
Look what we had under Democrat President Johnson, a Democrat President: 95 percent approval rate of circuit court judges. President Carter, Democrat President, Democrat Senate: 93 percent approval rate. President Bush, Republican President, Republican Senate: 67 percent approval rate of circuit court judges.
What changed during this period of time? I suppose some would say they are nominating a different sort of nominees who are not qualified or outside the mainstream, but I think that argument has been put to rest. What you have taking place is the unprecedented use and threat of the filibuster that has never been used before and is targeted at the circuit court, not at the lower Federal court, the finders of fact at the district court level, but at the appellate level so that continued broad interpretation of laws by which some would seek to put their own views more in, can continue to be expressed: 95, 93, 67.
Others will argue, What about the Clinton years? You have a Republican Senate and a Democrat President. There are obviously differences of opinion that will occur during that period of time, more so than when you have a body that is of the same party. But even then, we move forward large numbers of Clinton nominees. This is unprecedented, 67 percent, the falloff from what has taken place because of the use of the filibuster.
This needs to change back to where the filibuster is not used against judicial nominees. Actually, I encourage my colleagues on the other side of the aisle not to use the filibuster on this so we can move forward with up-or-down votes and leave the institution intact, the way it has been for two centuries, where the filibuster is not used on the advice and consent provisions of judges that is required. Filibuster means supermajority vote on circuit court or Supreme Court nominees. That is not contemplated, it is not considered, it is not appropriate under the Constitution.
It is time to move these judges on forward. We are going to have a robust debate for the next several days about this. The issue underlying that is really going to be about the role of the judiciary, whether it is expansive in rewriting broadly laws and the Constitution, or if it is more strict constructionist, staying within the roles and boundaries of what the judiciary should be.
I offer to have the American people decide what role the judiciary has, what role the United States Senate has on appointing people to the judiciary. I regret we are at this point. I regret this chart shows this way. But nonetheless it is what it is. It is something that now we have to deal with. It will be a robust debate, and I hope at the end of the day what we will have is the approval of circuit court judges who are mainstream and who are consistent; the role of the judiciary being appropriate as it was designed by the Framers of the Constitution and the Founders of the Republic and within the lines of the Republic. If that is what we will get back to, their proper roles, the legislative, executive, and judicial branches, it will be a long time coming. But I think it is important and it is worth doing.
Mr. President, I thank my colleagues and yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
