Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 17, 2005
Location: Washington, DC - Senate


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
By Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself, Mr. Smith, Mr. Chambliss, Mr. Dodd, Mr. Feingold, and Mrs. Clinton):
S.J. Res. 19. A joint resolution calling upon the President to issue a proclamation recognizing the 30th anniversary of the Helsinki Final Act; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, as Chairman of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe I am pleased to submit a bipartisan resolution in support of the vital work of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in conjunction with the 30th anniversary of the signing of the Helsinki Final Act on August 1. I am pleased that Senate Commissioners Smith of Oregon, Chambliss, Dodd, Feingold, and Clinton are included as original cosponsors of this resolution.
For three decades the OSCE has provided an important framework for advancing democracy, human rights and the rule of law in an expansive region encompassing the U.S. and Canada, Europe and the countries of Central Asia. Over the years, the OSCE participating States have hammered out an extensive body of commitments agreed on the basis of consensus. Our Commission was established by Congress to monitor and encourage the OSCE participating States--now numbering 55--to implement the commitments they have accepted. The Commission's mission can be distilled to a single word, accountability. As President Ford remarked when signing the Final Act on behalf of the United States, ``History will judge this Conference ..... not only by the promises we make, but by the promises we keep.''
The Final Act inspired courageous individuals in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe to form monitoring groups to assess how their respective governments lived up to the commitments they had endorsed on paper. For their temerity in seeking accountability most activists were imprisoned, banished or exiled. Many endured years of suffering in the gulag. Some paid the price with their very lives. Ultimately, their sacrifice and the work of countless others began to bear fruit, ushering in the dramatic changes of the late 1980's and early 90's.
A catalyst for change, the Helsinki Final Act and the process it began provided an important backdrop against which President Ronald Reagan, standing in front of Berlin's Brandenburg Gate, could boldly declare, ``Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall.'' Bold leadership led to concrete results with the resolution of hundreds of cases of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience as well as the reunification of tens of thousands of families. Progress in implementing existing commitments paved the way for the participating States to address the need for systemic change to ensure sustained respect for human rights. In 1990, as the Iron Curtain began to fall, the leaders of the then--35 participating States declared, ``We undertake to build, consolidate and strengthen democracy as the only system of government of our nations.'' The following year they categorically and irrevocably declared that human rights commitments ``are matters of direct and legitimate concern to all participating States and do not belong exclusively to the internal affairs of the State concerned.'' In a step designed to preserve the unity of the Helsinki process, each country that joined the OSCE after 1975 submitted a letter in which the accepted in their entirety all commitments and responsibilities contained in the Helsinki Final Act, and all subsequent documents adopted prior to their membership. To underscore this continuity, the leaders of each of these countries signed the actual original 1975 Final Act document.
With the break up of the Soviet Union, many observers believed--or hoped--that the fall of communism would usher in a new era and the relatively speedy emergence of states that treat their citizens and neighbors with respect. Regrettably, the gap between commitment and the situation on the ground in a number of OSCE participating States remains wide, and in at least a couple of countries is growing alarmingly wider.
Elsewhere, the OSCE has played an important role in the aftermath of conflicts that ravaged much of the Balkans region. The atrocities committed during these conflicts, in particular during the Bosnian conflict from 1992 to 1995, represent the most egregious violations of Helsinki principles in Europe since the Final Act was signed, indeed since World War II. By placing field missions throughout that region, the OSCE has helped heal the wounds, in particular by facilitating the return of those displaced from their homes, by improving conditions for elections, by training local police and by monitoring borders used by criminal gangs who profit from the chaos of conflict. There have been improvements in recent years, but there is still plenty of work to do to build the democratic institutions and respect for the rule of law.
Freedom is on the march in places some had written off as unsuited for democracy. Kyrgyzstan's Tulip Revolution, Ukraine's Orange Revolution, Georgia's Rose Revolution, and Serbia's Democratic Revolution testify to the enduring power of the ideas reflected in the Helsinki Final Act and other OSCE documents. As we approach the 30th anniversary of the Final Act, a number of signatory states--most notably Russia and Belarus--seem determined to diminish the democratic content of the OSCE and rewrite related commitments they accepted when they joined the OSCE. It is imperative that the United States hold firm to the values that have inspired democratic change in much of the OSCE region, even as we redouble our efforts to encourage all participating States to implement their freely accepted commitments.
In recent years the OSCE has made significant inroads in confronting and combating the rise in anti-Semitism and related violence in the OSCE region, including the United States. I would point out that the OSCE was the first multilateral institution to speak out against anti-Semitism. While many OSCE states have responded appropriately, vigorously investigating the perpetrators and pursuing criminal prosecution, we must remain vigilant in addressing manifestations of anti-Semitism. The OSCE conference on anti-Semitism and other forms of intolerance to be held in June in Cordoba will provide a timely opportunity for countries to report on measures they are taking to address these concerns.
The OSCE is also playing an important role in promoting the right of individuals to freely profess and practice their faith. A number of countries in the OSCE region have adopted or are considering laws on religion that would severely restrict or otherwise regulate this fundamental right. Similarly, the OSCE has given priority attention to efforts to combat trafficking in human beings, encouraging a number of participating States to adopt measures to prevent trafficking, prosecute perpetrators, and protect victims.
In her confirmation testimony, Secretary of State Rice referred to the potential role that multilateral institutions can play in multiplying the strength of freedom-loving nations. Indeed, the OSCE has tremendous potential to play an even greater role in promoting democracy, human rights, and rule of law in a region of strategic importance to the United States.
Over the past three decades the OSCE has served as an important catalyst for change. An important aspect of the success of the Helsinki Process has been the strong partnership forged with human rights advocates, including non-governmental organizations. As we look toward the work ahead, we would do well to recall the insightful observation of renowned physicist, humanitarian, and Nobel Peace Prize laureate, Andrei Sakharov, ``The whole point of the Helsinki Accords is mutual monitoring, not mutual evasion of difficult problems.''
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov/
