Public Statements
Governor Sam Brownback Named to National Board of Jobs for America's Graduates
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 28, 2014
Location: Topeka, KS

Governor Sam Brownback was elected unanimously to the national board of Jobs for America's Graduates. The Governor was named to the board in July and will serve through January 2017.
Jobs for America's Graduates (JAG) is a national education and employment system designed to improve graduation rates and academic achievement for at-risk students. Currently, 25 Kansas high schools across the state are participating in the JAG program.
"The JAG program has profoundly affected the lives of the students participating in it," said Governor Brownback. "I am pleased to serve on the board and to work with JAG in its efforts to prepare students to succeed both academically and personally, providing them skills to build a positive future."
Earlier this week, Governor Brownback visited with students and JAG specialists in Salina, Concordia, Pittsburg, Hutchinson and Wichita. In the first year of the program, the 2013 graduation rate for JAG students was between 90 and 100 percent. Photos from those visits are available at https://www.facebook.com/govsambrownback
For more than 30 years, the JAG model has worked to keep at-risk students in school through graduation or completion of a GED; encourage them to pursue post-secondary education; and secure entry-level employment with opportunities for advancement.
"We are pleased to welcome Governor Brownback," said Kenneth Smith, president of JAG. "He brings experience and leadership in improving education, preparing students for jobs and supporting positive outcomes in higher education to this position on the board."
The Kansas "Jobs for America's Graduates" program is administered by Communities in Schools of Kansas in partnership with the Kansas Department for Children and Families and the Kansas State Department of Education. For more information on the JAG program, visit the national website at www.jag.org

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2014/08/28/governor-sam-brownback-named-to-national-board-of-jobs-for-america-s-graduates
