Public Statements
Filibuster of Judicial Nominees
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 11, 2005
Location: Washington, DC - Senate


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am going to follow on the presentation of my colleague from Idaho on the issue of judges because it is the pending issue before the Senate. We are on the highway bill, and it is important legislation, but this issue is what has captured the attention of this body, the executive branch, and people across the country: the problem of getting judges approved.
My colleague from Idaho well portrayed some of the nominees and what is taking place. I will point out a couple of common issues. I serve on the Judiciary Committee. We have had these individuals in front of us, in some cases, for 4 years. They are well known to this body, to the people here, and they have been fully vetted. The reason they are at this point in getting through is they are extremely well qualified. There may be philosophical differences with them, but if they are allowed to have a vote, they will be confirmed because they are well qualified. If they were not well qualified, if they were outside of the mainstream of judicial thought, they would not be confirmed and we would not be debating this issue.
We have the Democratic Party deciding: OK, we are going to stop them. Actually, they are well qualified and we cannot stop them on a majority vote; we are going to stop them on a filibuster and require a supermajority vote.
They have taken that tactic. It is unprecedented. They have taken that tactic which is within the rules of the Senate.
I want to point out what is going to happen if they persist in that tactic because then they put it back on us or the President to take action in response.
We can say we are not going to do anything, we are just going to let an unprecedented filibuster take over, to which a lot of us are saying that is not right, that is not our job. This may force the President to do a whole group of recess appointments, a right he has under the Constitution. He has been waiting for 4 years for some of these nominees. He would rather not do that, I am sure. I have not talked with him, but I am sure he would rather not do that. He can say: If you are not going to let my judges through, you are supposed to give advice and consent, and if you are not going to give advice and consent, then this is the action I have to take. Or it is going to force us to change the filibuster rule on the issue of judges because of the unprecedented use and requirement of a supermajority.
