Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 10, 2005
Location: Washington, DC - Senate


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise with several of my colleagues to speak about the importance of the renewal of the Burma sanctions. I also wish to speak candidly about the Burmese Military Junta's continued oppression of their people through rape, torture and other severe human rights abuses.
As the world's only imprisoned Nobel Peace Prize recipient, Aung San Suu Kyi continues to inspire the democracy movement and seek support for their peaceful cause. It has been reported that the National League for Democracy has collected more than 300,000 signatures on a petition calling for change in the country. Those who sign are actively putting their lives in danger by publicly stating that they seek democratic change and some 1,400 political prisoners are locked up for supporting human rights and democracy.
The human rights abuses in Burma continue daily against ethnic minorities, political activists and others who simply suffer as innocent bystanders. A 2002 Human Rights Watch report found that Burma has nearly 70,000 child soldiers in its army, more than any other country in the world. Up to 2 million people have been forced to flee the country as refugees and migrants and the burning of villages continues in eastern Burma, especially in the Karen and Karenni states. Last year I drew to your attention a report titled ``Shattering Silences'', in which the Karen Women's Organization carefully investigated and recorded the Burmese military regime's use of rape as a weapon of war against ethnic minority women, revealing a shockingly brutal and callous practice.
For the past two years, I have joined my colleagues in reauthorizing the Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act, which bans mainly textile and garment imports from Burma. When I chaired the East Asia and Pacific Subcommittee I held a hearing on this very subject. In that hearing I spoke about the importance of a multilateral isolation policy. I urge my colleagues to consider the strides that have been made in just two years of promoting such a policy.
In a major and important move, the European Union, in October 2004, followed the lead of the United States and significantly strengthened its sanctions on Burma, including a ban on investments in enterprises of the ruling regime and a strengthened visa ban. The EU also pledged to join the United States in opposing loans to Burma's regime from the International Monetary Fund and World Bank. The European Parliament passed a resolution calling ``on the UN Security Council to address the situation in Burma as a matter of urgency.'' Additionally, 289 members of the British parliament tabled a motion calling on the UN Security Council to address the situation in Burma.
After both houses of Congress passed resolutions in October 2004 calling on the UN Security Council to address the situation in Burma, the parliament of Australia followed suit. The Australian motion called on the government to, ``support the Burmese National League for Democracy's call for the UN Security Council to convene a special session to consider what further measures the UN can take to encourage democratic reform and respect for human rights in Burma.''
Support at the United Nations is growing as well. Burma was one of only a few countries on which resolutions were passed by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. This was led by the European Union with strong support from the United States as well as support from Japan. The resolution strongly condemned what it called ``the systematic ongoing violation of human rights'' in Burma.
There has been unprecedented action on Burma within ASEAN. Whereas in the past ASEAN refused to even comment on what it deemed Burma's ``internal affairs'', many members of the organization are now publicly pressuring Burma to step aside as the chair of the association in 2006.
The tough approach maintained by the United States towards Burma, including import sanctions and a possible boycott of 2006 meetings, is for the first time encouraging many Asian nations to rethink whether the Burmese regime should assume the rotating chairmanship. There is widespread belief within the leadership of ASEAN countries that Burma has failed to deliver on its promises to the region.
In all of the above-mentioned instances, the strong stand of the United States has influenced countries around the world. The movement at the EU, UN, and within ASEAN is unprecedented. We must keep up the tough pressure by the United States.
I urge my colleagues to reauthorize the sanctions as a strong and clear signal that the United States will not support this brutal regime and their continued oppression of activists and minorities.
http://thomas.loc.gov
