Public Statements
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2005
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 14, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2005 -- (Senate - April 14, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am delighted to join my colleague from New Jersey on this amendment. I think by definition a supplemental is about emergency needs and emergency spending. I don't know of a bigger one taking place right now in the world than in Darfur. So it is my hope that within this supplemental we will be able to deal with this issue of Darfur, both in funding and in some language to be able to stop this. This is a completely manmade genocide; it is a completely manmade disaster. It is one that can be stopped with a reasonable number of troops on the ground, with a reasonable engagement strategy.
This can stop. Instead of the 300,000 deaths going on up, this can and will stop. They need food aid, and they need allocation of funds for African Union forces. We will have Assistant Secretary Zoellick on the ground in Khartoum. He is going to go to the south, and then to the western part of Sudan after that, to look and to press the situation. The administration is engaged and is pushing. We need to do this in the supplemental. It is important for it to take place.
Lest people think this was last year's disaster that we are just putting forward more now and saying wasn't that terrible then, we should have acted, I want to show you pictures from this year. Senator Corzine showed pictures earlier. This is of a village; it was taken by African Union monitors. It is completely burned out, razed. You can still see the smoke smoldering. This was taken by monitors, and they got there just after the village was burned.
I have some very graphic pictures I am going to be showing. If people don't want to see them, please turn away. It is the face of genocide. Genocide, by definition, involves the killing of one group of people by another. That is taking place and is taking place now. This is a young child who was shot in the upper right portion of the torso, and it exits here. You can see the gash here. We don't know if this child lived or died. He probably died given the state of health care there. This happened after a raid that took place. This is a child shot in a raid because he was an African child.
This is a gentleman who was killed and burned.
This is a village that is on fire. Someone in a helicopter took this picture, supported by the African Union.
These are all current pictures.
This one I believe my colleague showed as well. It is of a gentleman who was tied up, killed, and probably brutalized in Darfur.
These are the faces, and this is the picture of genocide. It is continuing to occur, and it is occurring now. I encourage my colleagues to vote for the passage of the amendment Senator Corzine and I and others are putting forward. It is an amended version of the Darfur Accountability Act. It has the wide bipartisan support of 30 members. The amendment calls for several steps to be taken, which my colleague outlined: a new U.N. Security Council resolution with sanctions against the Government of Sudan; an extension of the current arms embargo to cover the Government of Sudan; military no-fly zone over Darfur; expansion of the U.N. mission in the Sudan; and a mandate to protect civilians in all of Sudan, which includes Darfur. It calls on the United States to appoint a Presidential envoy to Sudan and to raise this issue at the highest diplomatic levels in bilateral relations with Sudan, the Chinese, and other governments that can be of assistance. This calls for accelerated assistance to the African Union mission in Darfur and an expansion of the size and mandate of the mission necessary to protect civilians.
In addition, I hope the administration will push for a coalition of conscience. My colleagues mentioned a coalition of willing nations to join the efforts and demand an end to the genocide by making a declaration of conscience and backing it by actions if the U.N. Security Council fails to do so.
Last week was the 11th-year anniversary of the genocide in Rwanda, when we declared and the world declared ``never again.'' We are now seeing it take place yet again. Can we learn from that? This is stoppable, and it is not by a huge commitment. We are not asking for 100,000 U.S. troops to go there. We are not asking for any U.S. troops. We are asking for financial support for the African Union and food aid to be able to maintain the villagers who have been run out of their village. With that, we believe firmly that this can and will stop and that people will be able to return to their villages.
Time is of the essence. Every day in this harsh climate in this region is a day that more people die. There simply are not the resources in the area to be able to support the individuals who are involved.
My colleague covered most of the points. I plead with my colleagues to pass this amendment in the supplemental. It is an emergency need. It is an emergency that is taking place. With this, we will be able to save lives. Keep it in the conference report so it gets to the President, it gets implemented and the help does come, so when Secretary Zoellick returns from the region, he will have this level of resources to work with, he will have this commitment from the Congress to work with, and we will be able to move forward.
If the U.N. fails to act--and I am terribly disappointed in what the U.N. is doing in this situation; they are not doing anything at all--the United States must press forward with those willing to act so the genocide can stop, so the killing will stop, so we can move forward with peace and people can go back to their lives.
I hope people can start to feel and see some of that pain in front of our very eyes that we can stop. We can stop this. I plead with my colleagues to please stop it and support this amendment.
I do believe we will get this passed. We need to pass it. I hope it is kept in the bill through the entire process.
I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I add one postscript on this Darfur Accountability Act. The House has language dealing with Darfur. We did not have as much of it in here. It is two parts: food and military assistance. We are working closely with the committee to try to get this worked through. It will not go over the amount that is in it. It will be offset in other places within the budget. I want to make sure that is clear to my colleagues who are interested in this. They are supportive, but they do not want to bust the supplemental caps. This will be taken from other places we are working on right now.
Senator McConnell, Senator Cochran, and other of our colleagues are working diligently with us. It is in two places as far as food aid and its assistance to peacekeepers. These will be African Union peacekeepers. So I want to get the practicalities of it out.
I also admonish my colleagues that where we sit as the most powerful Nation on the face of the Earth, we are called on to remember those who are in bondage as if we were in bondage ourselves. That may seem a strange concept, but when others are free, we are free. If others are in bondage, we are going to feel those chains and it will constantly rub against our souls. This is something that is important and it is also historic for us.
When we fought against slavery in this country, the issue was that the bondage of others was our bondage and people felt it, they fought against it. It is in the great heritage of this country to fight for freedom for other people, so
that when they are in bondage we feel that, but when we can help break that, we will also break bondages on ourselves and make us use the greatness of America for the goodness of the world. It is that goodness that keeps us moving toward greatness.
This is not a large sum of money we are talking about, but it is critically important.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
