Public Statements
Congressional Budget for the United States Government for the Fiscal Year 2006
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 17, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2006--Continued -- (Senate - March 17, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, for the past few years I have been advancing a concept that embodies fiscal responsibility, a concept that--if enacted--would be a sure sign to hard-working Americans that the Federal Government is serious about fiscal discipline.
Federal spending is at an all time high, now topping $20,000 per household, and that does not include spending from state and local taxes. This is the highest level of federal spending since World War II.
The Federal Government is now spending $2,292,000,000 per year on discretionary and mandatory spending, including Social Security.
Mr. President, $2.292 trillion is a lot of money. My Kansas constituents often say: ``I don't mind paying my taxes, but make sure my hard-earned money gets spent wisely.''
Does Federal spending need to be so high? We would all agree that the Federal Government has an essential role to play in various capacities, but are taxpayers getting the most out of every dollar sent to Washington? Again, I ask, does the Federal Government really need $20,000 per American household in order to operate?
And what real safeguards do we have in place to ensure that these $2.292 trillion are being spent wisely?
I am proud to have been elected to serve my constituents on a platform of reducing wasteful Federal spending and reforming Government. After 10 years though, I can testify that it takes a great deal of effort to keep a positive attitude. Balancing the budget, reducing Federal spending and returning taxpayer dollars to the families that earned them is hard work.
The reason for the difficulty in achieving success, in what would seem to be an obvious thing to do--reducing government waste and prioritizing spending--is that the specific interests trump the general interest on Capitol Hill.
For instance, there is a general interest to discourage smoking, and we spend many taxpayer dollars both to this end and on the treatment of lung cancer; however, taxpayer dollars are also still spent to subsidize tobacco because there is such specific interest pressure to keep tobacco subsidies alive.
The budget we are debating cuts the deficit in half in 5 years. I think we should balance the budget in seven years, but to be effective, we must work within the parameters of the system.
Systems matter, and to get solid reform accomplished you must have an approach that recognizes this reality. The problem with our current system--with the specific interest crowding out the general--is that it makes reform very difficult. Former Senator Phil Gramm taught me this truth in the Senate.
I believe that we need a new systematic approach to spending in Congress. This whole week, amendment after amendment has been offered on the Senate floor; generally speaking, each one of these amendments has the voice of a particular specific interest behind it. After all of the specific interest issues are raised, I will be happy if we can just cut the deficit in half in five years.
We need to create another mechanism, which will allow for the general interest to overcome the specific. Therefore, I put forward a new systematic approach.
Over the last few years, I have developed the Commission on the Accountability and Review of Federal Agencies, CARFA Act, which is a systematic approach.
Last year, we had a bipartisan hearing on the measure, in which all witnesses supported this new concept. In this year's version of the bill, we are incorporating some of the suggestions made at that hearing.
CARFA would take all of the Federal Government agencies and programs and put them under the review of a bipartisan commission--the members of which are appointed by both Congress and the White House.
The commission would review Federal agencies and programs, and present draft legislation to the Congress to realign or eliminate duplicative, wasteful, outdated, and failed agencies and programs.
Each house of Congress would get one vote on the bill--up or down--without amendment.
For example, if the commission finds 563 programs that are duplicative, wasteful, or already have accomplished their purpose and recommends their realignment or termination, then the Congress would vote--up or down--without amendment to realign or eliminate all of them or keep all of them. And you get only one vote--one vote in the House and one vote in the Senate--to send it forward to the President.
It is a systematic approach to address the specific interests dominating the debate in Washington.
The CARFA approach tries to get at the issue and create a systematic approach by giving the general interest a voice in the system. So now you have these 563 or 284 programs, and people come up to me and say: ``Well, what if you've got an agriculture program that has some benefit to Kansas, that you want to help and keep?''
Then, I look at the program and see that it does help Kansas, but I only get one vote and there are all of these other programs that I really do think need to be eliminated. And it makes the overall goal of balancing the Federal budget more achievable.
I am pleased that, once again this year, the chairman of the Budget Committee has seen the need for this measure and recognized how vitally important it is, as he has included a sense of the Senate calling for a commission along the lines of CARFA.
It is my hope that we will be able to work with the leadership this year and see the new CARFA systematic approach become a reality.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
