Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 17, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS -- (Senate - March 17, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
By Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself, Ms. LANDRIEU, Mr. ALLARD, Mr. BUNNING, Mr. BURR, Mr. CHAMBLISS, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. CRAIG, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. DEMINT, Mr. DEWINE, Mrs. DOLE, Mr. DOMENICI, Mr. ENSIGN, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. HAGEL, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. KYL, Mr. MARTINEZ, Ms. MURKOWSKI, Mr. SANTORUM, Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. SHELBY, Mr. THOMAS, Mr. THUNE, Mr. VITTER, Mr. VOINOVICH, and Mr. TALENT):
S. 658. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to prohibit human cloning; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the Brownback-Landrieu Human Cloning Prohibition Act, which we introduce today.
The Brownback-Landrieu Human Cloning Prohibition Act remains the only effective ban on human cloning.
This legislation has passed the U.S. House of Representatives twice by large margins. This bill would also bring the U.S. into conformity with the recent vote at the United Nations, where the General Assembly called on all member states ``to prohibit all forms of human cloning'' by a strong 84 to 34 margin.
President Bush has also spoken eloquently on the Brownback-Landrieu Human Cloning Prohibition Act, when he ``wholeheartedly'' endorsed the legislation.
The President said: ``Human cloning is deeply troubling to me, and to most Americans. Life is a creation, not a commodity.
``Our children are gifts to be loved and protected, not products to be designed and manufactured. Allowing cloning would be taking a significant step toward a society in which human beings are grown for spare body parts, and children are engineered to custom specifications; and that's not acceptable. .....
``I strongly support a comprehensive law against all human cloning. And I endorse the bill wholeheartedly endorse the bill--sponsored by Senator Brownback and Senator Mary Landrieu.''
The President could hardly have been clearer.
We should take a stand against those that would turn young human beings into commodities and spare parts. We should not use human life for research purposes.
The legislation introduced by Sen. Landrieu and myself, along with over one quarter of the Senate, answers that human life should not be used for research purposes.
Let there be no doubt. Science affirms that the young human, at his or her earliest moments of life, is a human. It is wrong to treat another person as a piece of property that can be bought and sold, created and destroyed, all at the will of those in power.
The issue of human cloning--and specifically how we treat the young human--will determine the kind of future we will give to our children and grandchildren.
The essential question is whether or not we will allow human beings to be produced, to preordained specifications, for their eventual implantation or destruction, depending upon the intentions of the technicians who created them.
Will we create life simply to destroy it?
I firmly believe that human life should be cherished and that human dignity should be protected.
I also firmly believe that ethically-sound research should proceed in the search for cures. The legislation that we introduce today takes a very thoughtful approach and is careful not to ban or interfere with gene therapy, IVF practices, or DNA, cell or tissue cloning--other than with cloned embryos.
Now, some of our colleagues will tell you that they oppose `reproductive cloning,' but then turn around and call for `therapeutic cloning' or `SCNT.' Whether intentional or not, to argue that there are different types of human cloning creates a distinction that simply does not exist.
All human cloning is `reproductive.' The question is simply: What do you do with the young, cloned human? Do you implant it and bring it to birth--like the sheep Dolly--or do you research on and kill the young human being, as advocates of so-called `therapeutic' cloning would have us do?
Any other so-called human cloning bans, outside of the Brownback-Landrieu Human Cloning Prohibition Act, are not enforceable. Once the young human has been cloned, you cannot distinguish it from any other human embryo produced by IVF or embodied sexual intercourse.
If so-called `therapeutic' human cloning proceeds--and there are no laws in the U.S. against it--one of these human clones will be implanted, and there is nothing we can do to stop human cloning once we reach this point.
Even if we detected a clonal human pregnancy, nothing could be done about it. Any remedies or punishments would be highly unpopular and unenforceable.
As I have already stated, over a quarter of all U.S. Senators have agreed to be original cosponsors of this bill, and it is our intention to press for a clean vote in the Senate during the 109th Congress.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
