Public Statements
Terri Schiavo
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 17, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


TERRI SCHIAVO -- (Senate - March 17, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. I join my colleagues from Pennsylvania and Florida to talk about Terri Schiavo's case, and to the names of the people around the world who are praying for Terri Schiavo, a lady they have never known. They have seen pictures of her on television, but something is just striking at them, saying, this woman deserves to live. She deserves to have another review. The covenant with death needs to be broken, and will be.
This body has spoken tonight in a bipartisan, unanimous fashion to work on this. There are a lot of opinions on the factual and legal issues surrounding it, but we came together unanimously to give her that right to have one more review by a Federal court.
I thank Senator Reid from Nevada, who was very helpful in working this, Senator Wyden, who worked on things for his State, and Senator Levin. A number of people helped to make this move forward, and Senator Martinez carried the freight with Senator Santorum.
This is a fine moment for this body, but it should not end here. I plead with those people involved directly, the courts directly involved in this, let this process move forward. Don't pull the tubes out tomorrow.
We passed one bill in the House and one bill in the Senate. That should be extraordinary enough that they say this deserves one more look. Why wouldn't we give one more look? This is a purely innocent life we are talking about. The lengths we will go to for people who are convicted of a crime--we give much further review by a court of law. Here is a purely innocent life. Tomorrow, this could all end. But it shouldn't. It must not end that way.
We have some differences between the House and Senate version. Frankly, for myself, I think the House version is good. We could not move that through. We will keep meeting here. I met with the House leadership and chairman in the House with concerns, feeling theirs is a better approach. That is accurate. That is the way to go.
