Public Statements
The Prenatally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 17, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


THE PRENATALLY DIAGNOSED CONDITIONS AWARENESS ACT -- (Senate - March 17, 2005)

Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I recently introduced S. 609, the Prenatally-diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act, with my colleague, the senior Senator from Massachusetts. This bill will accomplish the following:
One, ensure that pregnant women facing a positive prenatal test result will be more likely to receive up-to-date, scientific information about the life expectancy, clinical course, intellectual and functional development, and prenatal and postnatal treatment options for their child;
Two, provide pregnant women referrals to support services such as hotlines, Web sites, information clearinghouses, registries of families willing to adopt babies with disabilities, and parent-to-parent programs where people with children with disabilities meet with the newly diagnosed family to provide support and real-world information;
Three, improve epidemiologic understanding of prenatally-diagnosed conditions, within a strict set of confidentiality protections;
Four, support health care providers who perform prenatal tests and deliver results; and
Five, authorize a study of the effectiveness of existing health care and family support services for children with disabilities and their families.
The need for this legislation and the public dialogue I hope it encourages could not be more urgent. Medical science has provided the opportunity to obtain a massive amount of information about our own bodies and health and that of our children. But I am concerned that our ethical dialogue has not kept pace with new ethical challenges. We have been able to screen for certain conditions in the womb for quite some time now, but I am concerned that we don't have a great track record for handling that information very well. For some conditions that can be detected in the womb, such as Down Syndrome, we are aborting 80 percent or more of the babies who test positive. The effect of this sort of ``weeding out'' represents a sort of new eugenics, a form of systematic, disability-based discrimination.
Worse, trends suggest that this atrocity doesn't just end in the womb. The Netherlands has recently enacted policies that make it acceptable for doctors to end the lives of terminally ill children up to age 12, resulting in about 100 cases of pediatrician-induced homicides of children with severe handicaps each year. Belgium is considering similar policies. Unfortunately, these policies are starting to trickle into our own country. In Texas, a court recently upheld a hospital's decision to remove life support from a 6-month-old handicapped baby, against his mother's wishes.
It sounds too crazy to be true, but it is not just fringe thinking--leading so-called ethics experts have supported the killing of children with disabilities, such as Princeton Professor Peter Singer, who wrote in 1993 in his book Practical Ethics, ``killing a defective infant is not morally equivalent to killing a person ..... sometimes it is not wrong at all.'' These ideas echo back to Nazi Germany, and, unfortunately, there is a tragic history, even in our own country, of abuse of institutionalized people with disabilities, only a few decades ago. Once one goes down the path of valuing some lives more than others, of saying that people with disabilities don't have the same dignity and right to live as others, there are very few means that don't justify the so-called ``worthy end'' of a disability-free society.
When I see beautiful children with Down Syndrome, spina bifida and other differences, I can't imagine why our society would ever condone this sort of unnatural selection. We don't want a world where parents feel driven to justify their children's existence. In addition to the many abilities that people with disabilities have which are equivalent to others, these individuals so often have a perspective the rest of us don't have. We learn compassion, heroism, humility, courage and self-sacrifice from these special individuals, and their gift to us is to inspire us, by their example, to achieve these virtues ourselves.
Published surveys suggest that our legislation is desperately needed. A survey of 499 primary care physicians delivering a prenatal diagnosis of Down Syndrome to expectant parents found that 10 percent actively ``urged'' parents to terminate the pregnancies, and 13 percent indicated that they ``emphasized the negative aspects of Down Syndrome so that parents would favor a termination.''
This bill offers support to ensure that prenatal testing need not be a negative experience for those whose children are diagnosed with a condition like Down Syndrome. For instance, some pregnant women might choose to carry their child to term if they knew there were waiting lists of families willing to adopt children with Down Syndrome. Some parents might be reassured about keeping their children if they were able to spend some time talking with a family that has a special needs child about their real-life experience. Some parents would be helped by hearing a positive message about the potential and joy of living with children with disabilities, while also being presented with a realistic assessment of the challenges.
There are many people to thank for helping prepare this bill for introduction, and I hope they will continue to help us as we move this bill towards the President's desk. In particular, I am honored to have my friend the senior Senator from Massachusetts as a lead Democrat on this bill. Senator KENNEDY is an incredible champion for people with disabilities. As we have worked together, he has educated me about some of the challenges faced by families with children with disabilities. In particular, I want to thank Connie Garner on Senator KENNEDY's staff, whose tireless advocacy for the dignity and rights of people with disabilities has been an inspiration to me and my staff.
Many thanks to our partners in the House of Representatives, who I hope will speedily pass the companion version of this bill, especially lead sponsor Chairman SENSENBRENNER. Key House support has also come from my friend Congressman PETE SESSIONS and Congressman JOHN HOSTETTLER.
I urge my colleagues to co-sponsor this legislation and I look forward to working with my colleague from Wyoming, the Chairman of the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, and the majority leader, to speed Senate passage of this important legislation.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
