Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 16, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS -- (Senate - March 16, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
By Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself, Mr. Bingaman, Ms. Cantwell, and Mr. Dodd):
S. 644. A bill to establish new special immigrant categories, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, many innocent human beings are forced from their homes and separated from their families because of war and civil strife. We are seeing it right now in Darfur, Sudan where over 2 million have been displaced from their homes due to the conflict and ongoing genocide. It is frightening to think that some of those people are still susceptible to persecution just for being a woman or a child. I have heard stories that the refugees and internally displaced persons (IDPs) are still not safe from being persecuted by their attackers. Today, I am pleased to introduce legislation that will save the lives of some of the world's most vulnerable populations.
The Widows and Orphans Act of 2005, similar to the one I introduced last Congress, will benefit women and children fleeing war and civil strife, who are often vulnerable and in grave danger. They may not be fleeing political persecution--something that would allow them to apply for refugee status--but they may nevertheless be subjected to violence or exploitation. When a culture does not recognize female heads of households, when a young child loses his or her family structure, or when a woman's home community will not allow her to return at the end of hostilities, abuse and exploitation often follow.
For example, a widow fleeing an armed conflict risks being raped, being sold into sexual slavery or becoming a victim of violence. In another example, a child who loses his or her parents when fleeing a conflict is in grave danger of sexual exploitation and forced servitude. The child could even be forced into service as a child soldier, as we have seen happen to scores of children in Northern Uganda. Even within a refugee camp--a place that might otherwise be thought of as safe--women and children face forced prostitution and involuntary servitude.
U.S. and international law does not currently provide refugee protection for age and sex-based violence. The Widows and Orphans Act of 2005 is much-needed legislation which would fill this void by admitting as special immigrants children and females at risk of harm. Under this bill, government officials, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), and appropriate non-governmental organizations will be able to identify vulnerable women and children for consideration as special immigrants who then can gain permanent residence in the United States.
This legislation will allow officials in the field--those monitoring armed conflict and civil strife and those in refugee camps--to identify women and children who face harm because of their sex or age and refer them for consideration as special immigrants. The bill will essentially speed up the acceptance process by allowing officials with first-hand knowledge of cases to step in and identify those in dire need. With reliable security measures, it will also help eliminate fraud and abuse from those who wish to do us harm.
For widows and orphans, abuse and exploitation are immediate dangers. This legislation provides officials at the grass-roots level the ability to prevent further harm from coming upon those who have already faced terrible situations.
More than 80 percent of the world's displaced people are women and children, and thousands of them are waiting patiently for the OK to enter our country. While they wait, they are often victimized; some even die waiting. We must not stand by as they are left to die.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
