Public Statements
Hearing of Senate Committee on Energey and Public Works Subcommittee on Natural Parks on S. 175, S. 322, S. 323, S. 429
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 15, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


Hearing of Senate Committee on Energey and Public Works Subcommittee on Natural Parks on S. 175, S. 322, S. 323, S. 429
Prepared Statement of Hon. Sam Brownback, U.S. Senator From Kansas,
on S. 175
Chairman Thomas and Members of the Committee, thank you for the opportunity to speak on behalf of a bill that I authored with Senator Pat Roberts, Representative Jim Ryun and the Kansas Congressional
Delegation. It is with great pleasure that I speak to you not only on behalf this bill, but on behalf of the State of Kansas in supporting the establishment of the Bleeding Kansas and the Enduring Struggle for Freedom National Heritage Area Act, which will serve to nationally commemorate and educate Kansans and our nation on the significant contributions and sacrifices Kansas has made to our nation.
The great story of Kansas can be summed up in the state motto, ``Ad Astra per Aspera,'' to the stars through difficulties. Though only a short phrase comprised of four words, the meaning and passion behind the Kansas motto are as profound as they are descriptive of a state that though smaller than some, was a catalyst for racial equality and cultural change in this nation from the Civil War, to Reconstruction to the Brown v. Board of Education Supreme Court decision to the present.
From inception, Kansas was born in controversy--a controversy that helped to shape a nation and end the egregious practice of chattel slavery that brutalized an entire race of individuals in this country. I cannot think of a nobler or more important contribution provided to our nation--though arguably it was one of the most turbulent and darkest hours of, our history. Without this struggle however, the battle to end persecution and transform our country into a symbol of freedom and democracy throughout the world would not, have been realized.
Last year, 2004, marked the sesquicentennial of the signing of the Kansas-Nebraska bill which repealed the Missouri compromise, allowed states to enter into the Union with or without slavery. This piece of legislation, which was passed in May 1854, set the stage for what is now referred to as, ``Bleeding Kansas.'' During this time, our state, then a territory, was thrown into chaos with Kansans fighting passionately to ensure that the territory would inter the Union as a free state and not condone or legalize slavery in any capacity. At the end of a very difficult and bloody struggle, Kansas entered the Union as a free state and helped to spark the issue of slavery on a national level. However, Kansas' contributions to the realization of freedom in
this nation did not stop with the Kansas-Nebraska Act.
Keeping true to our motto, to the stars through difficulties, Kansas opened up her arms to a newly freed people after the Civil War ended. Many African-Americans looked to Kansas for solace and prosperity when the South was still an uncertain place. Perhaps one of the best examples of Ad Astra per Aspera was the founding of Nicodemus, a town in Kansas by African-Americans coming to our state to begin their life of freedom and prosperity.
Founded in 1877, Nicodemus, which was named after a. legendary slave who purchased his freedom, is the most recognized historically black town in Kansas. Nicodemus was established by a group of colonists from Lexington, Kentucky and grew to a population of 600 by 1879. However, Nicodemus is not the only Kansas contribution that shaped a
more tolerant nation. Kansas was also one of the first states to house an African-American military regiment in the 1800s, the Buffalo Soldiers.
The Buffalo Soldiers were, and still are, considered one of the most distinguished and revered African-American military regiments in our nation's history. One of those regiments, the 10th Cavalry, was stationed at Fort Leavenworth, KS. In July 1866, Congress passed legislation establishing two cavalry and four infantry regiments that were to be solely comprised of African-Americans. The mounted regiments were the 9th and 10th Cavalries, soon nicknamed ``Buffalo Soldiers'' by the Cheyenne and Comanche tribes. Until the early 1890s, the Buffalo Soldiers constituted 20 percent of all cavalry forces on the American frontier. Their invaluable service on the western frontier still remains one of the most exemplary services preformed by a regiment in the U.S. Army.
Finally, perhaps one of the most influential Supreme Court cases heard was sparked by a citizen of Topeka, KS, Oliver Brown. Though there were previous cases that challenged the legality of the separate but equal doctrine, it was not until the now famous case, Brown v. Topeka Board of Education, caught fire and changed the course of America's history and the way in which we view equality in the eyes of the law. When the Supreme Court ruled in 1954 that school segregation laws were unconstitutional, the Court demolished the legal foundation on which racial segregation stood. The Court's opinion, written and
delivered by Chief Justice Earl Warren, also served as a stirring moral indictment of racial segregation, and an eloquent challenge to America to cast off its prejudices and extend its promises of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness to all citizens, regardless of race or color.
Indeed, Kansas has a very special place in our nation's story and this story should be told and should be shared with the nation. That is why I am proud to support and help guide the Bleeding Kansas National Heritage Area through Congress and I thank this committee for hearing this bill today.
Already we have seen wonderful benefits in our state with the creation of this initiative. Through the great work of the Territorial Kansas Heritage Alliance and the chair of their planning committee, Judy Billings, there is a renewed fervor surrounding the history of Kansas within our state. We are seeing more coordination and networking between our rural and urban communities, which not only strengthens the effort to create this National Heritage Area but also strengthens these
cities as well.
Since 1999, the Territorial Kansas Heritage Alliance, which is comprised of historians, tourism agencies as well as grass roots organizations, have worked hard to ensure that the guidelines set fourth by the National Park Service were reflected in every aspect of this process, including protections for private property owners. Additionally, since its founding, the Alliance has conducted numerous town hall meetings around the State, one of which I was pleased to host. Currently, the Alliance is drafting a brochure that will highlight the initiative and begin the process of promoting this project throughout the State. As you can see, this has been a very transparent and inclusive process--one that has encompassed 27 counties in our State. Furthermore, the Alliance not only worked to sustain the Bleeding Kansas Heritage Area initiative but they also worked
tirelessly to assist in the celebration of the 150th anniversary of Territorial Kansas.
These are just a few examples of why I am pleased to join with my colleague from Kansas, Senator Pat Roberts, and enthusiastically support this bill before this Committee today. Specifically, the Bleeding Kansas National Heritage Area Act will designate 24 counties in Kansas as the ``Bleeding Kansas and the Enduring Struggle for Freedom National Heritage Area.'' Each of these counties will be eligible to apply for the heritage area grants administered by the National Park Service.
The Heritage Area will add to local economies within the State by increasing tourism and will encourage collaboration between interests of diverse units of government, businesses, tourism officials, private property owners, and nonprofit groups within the Heritage Area. Finally, the bill protects private property owners by requiring that they provide in writing consent to be included in any request before they are eligible to receive federal funds from the heritage area. The bill also authorizes $10,000,000.00 over a 10 year period to carry out this act and states that not more than $1,000,000.00 may be appropriated to the heritage area for any fiscal year.
Indeed, Kansas has much to be proud of in our history and it is vital that this history be shared on a national level. By establishing the Bleeding Kansas and the Enduring Struggle for Freedom National Heritage Area, we will ensure that this magnificent legacy lives on and serves as a stirring reminder of the sacrifices and triumphs that created this nation--a nation united in freedom for all people.
I again thank you for the opportunity to speak on behalf of this bill and look forward to working with you in order to move this bill through the Senate.
http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=109_senate_hearings&docid=21332.wais
