Public Statements
Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 8, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


BANKRUPTCY ABUSE PREVENTION AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT OF 2005 -- (Senate - March 08, 2005)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I yield myself as much time as I may consume from the Republican side of the agenda.
I thank my colleagues for this good debate on an important issue that does not belong on this bill. There are several key reasons, clear reasons why this amendment of the Senator from New York should be rejected. This is an important piece of legislation, the bankruptcy legislation. This amendment brings the most difficult social issue we have of our day into this debate. It does not belong here. It is not the right place to do this. We have plenty of pro-life issues to come before this Senate, and not to tie the bankruptcy bill up would be an important thing to do.
The membership opposes this amendment because, as we learned in previous Congresses, it is a poison pill.
The amendment is meant to kill the overall bankruptcy reform bill. I would hope that is not what the author's intent is. But that is the effect of this amendment. It kills the bill.
If the author of this amendment wants bankruptcy reform to move forward, it is something that needs to move forward. I have voted against bankruptcy reform in the past because I didn't think it was proper. I thought particularly we have problems on homestead provisions that we have been able to get worked out over the years we have been considering this legislation. Now we have that worked out as many other pieces have been refined over the 6 years this has been considered.
Now is not the time to add this most contentious issue into the debate. It is not the proper place, and it is time that we move the bill forward, move it to the House and to the President for signature.
Bankruptcy reform is an important matter. It would be my desire for my colleague not to offer the amendment so that we can focus on the particular critical issue facing our Nation in the form of the need for fundamental bankruptcy reform.
Aside from the abortion issue, I am deeply concerned about what I believe to be a lack of fairness and justice embodied in this amendment. There is a fundamental fairness issue involved with this amendment. No one in this Chamber condones violent crime. I am certain that everyone believes violent crime should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. While the pending amendment is presented as a way to address violent crime, it would primarily and inappropriately intimidate and harm peaceful protesters. In fact, were the Schumer amendment to become law, no crime would even be necessary to trigger its sanctions. Merely violating a Federal or State civil statute, such as a minor trespass, would be enough to place a violator in financial jeopardy.
Historically this legislative body has fashioned criminal and bankruptcy penalties in a manner proportional to the gravity of the offense and the degree of injury and culpability. If enacted, this amendment would be a radical break with this tradition of prudence and fairness. For example, under current law, there are only a few extreme cases where a debtor is prevented from seeking discharge of his or her debts through bankruptcy protection. For example, instances in which discharge of debt is prohibited include intentional financial wrongdoing, such as fraud and embezzlement, or cases where the debtor has created a grave unjustifiable risk to human life, such as injury caused by drunk driving. Those are appropriate.
The Schumer amendment would put a peaceful pro-life protester who, in the course of exercising his or her first amendment rights, simply steps in the wrong place--trespassing--on a par with embezzlers or drunk drivers. Should the price of constitutional freedom be the risk of financial ruin? Amazingly, this amendment says yes. The amendment says that people who protest and who do no physical harm, have no malicious intent should be singled out for harsh treatment.
While I make no excuse for violations of the law, I have to ask again: Should not the gravity of the punishment correspond with the offense? I don't think that is at all the case in this particular amendment.
A literal reading of the Schumer amendment would strip a peaceful protester of bankruptcy protection should he or she simply step in the wrong place while leafleting or even praying the rosary. Whether the fine involved is $10 or $1 million, we are talking about a peaceful individual and families with young children who should not be forced to risk paying this price simply for doing what the Constitution permits.
Fairness and the great tradition of our first amendment freedoms counsel against the adoption of this amendment.
I urge my colleagues to vote against it. It kills the bankruptcy bill. It is against fundamental fairness and freedom for people to exercise their right of free speech.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
