Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 2, 2005
Location: Washington, DC

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS -- (Senate - March 02, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, today with several bipartisan colleagues, Senator CORZINE and I introduced the Darfur Accountability Act of 2005. For nearly a year, this body has been aware of the ongoing genocide in Sudan. Last July we declared genocide in Darfur, followed shortly thereafter by the same declaration by former Secretary of State Colin Powell. Yet no punitive measure has been taken by the international community against the Government of Sudan for these egregious human rights violations. Some sources estimate that as many as 400,000 people have died as a result, and nearly 2 million have been displaced from their homes.
Yesterday I spoke on the Senate floor in an attempt to display the face of genocide. Photographs of scorched bodies, castrated men, dead children, and burned villages were provided to me by Nicholas Kristof of the New York Times. These photos do nothing less than display the cruel impunity of those committing genocide. The haunting reality is that the international community has failed on their promise of "never again."
The United Nations should take immediate steps to end this genocide and Kofi Annan should lead the Security Council to pass a strong, meaningful resolution that will immediately change the situation on the ground. There is no longer an excuse; we must call this what this is, and we must immediately act to prevent further pillaging and death. I have called on Annan several times to lead or leave. He should pass a resolution with mechanisms to see that the impunity ends and if he fails to do so, resign in moral protest at the international community's inaction and complacency.
Our bill, the Darfur Accountability Act of 2005, calls for several key measures to be taken, including: a multilateral arms embargo to include the government of Sudan; a no fly zone; multilateral sanctions; targeted sanctions including travel bans and the freezing of assets of criminals; accelerated assistance to AU monitoring troops, and several other items that will secure a peaceful Darfur.
I encourage my colleagues to join us in moving this bill through Congress. We do not have days or weeks to spare when millions of lives are in jeopardy. We cannot grant the government of Sudan and the janjaweed more time to execute the African tribes in Darfur. I look forward to working with Senator CORZINE and other colleagues to see passage of this bill immediately.
http://thomas.loc.gov
