Public Statements
Iraq
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 1, 2005
Location: Washington, DC

IRAQ -- (Senate - March 01, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Texas for her kind comments. I ran into a number of great troops from Texas, from Ft. Hood, TX, and individuals from Texas who are doing a fabulous job, putting their lives on the line and showing the definition of courage and honor. Those guys go right into the face of the fire, and when the fire fight comes when the bullets are flying, they are running towards the fire. It was really a beautiful modern-day story of courage under fire and of doing the right thing.
That right thing is now yielding, in the last week, multiparty elections in Egypt. Mubarak has not stood for elections in 25, 30 years. It is going to do that. With a protest now taking place, the Lebanese Government has withdrawn and is asking Syria to withdraw and to allow democracy to flourish in Lebanon. Saudi Arabia had flawed local elections, but they at least had somewhat of an election.
I met with officials in Iraq who are now discussing how to maintain a balance of power and an open society. The policies in Iraq are yielding enormous fruit-still difficult, still very fragile, but those soldiers who have put so much on the line are really changing the world. I thank my colleague from Texas for her support in that effort. What we are seeing taking place in that region is amazing.
Our troops are in harm's way. We continue to see the number of improvised explosive devices about the same as they have in the past, although our number of wounded troops has gone down in the last 2 weeks about 40 percent, which is encouraging. That also means, apparently, that more of the attacks are directed at the Iraqis. We saw yesterday the horrific tragedy, over 100 Iraqis killed in a massive car bomb, that clearly the insurgency, much of it commanded and controlled out of other countries-and Syria has complicity of allowing some of this operation to take place-has to be pressured against that. But we have to get at that command and control structure of the insurgency and break that to be able to stop some of this incredible carnage that is taking place, people being killed in a country that just seeks to be free, seeks to be an open, fair society. It is difficult. In the early stages of democracy there will be flaws and missteps, but it is really changing the face of the region.
