Public Statements
Class Action Fairness Act of 2005-- Resumed
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 8, 2005
Location: Washington, DC

CLASS ACTION FAIRNESS ACT OF 2005--Resumed -- (Senate - February 08, 2005)
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. THUNE). The Senator from Kansas.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak about the Class Action Fairness Act. It is the pending business before the body today. I want to spend a few minutes talking about this bill and talking about it in the context of some of the issues that the prior speaker has spoken about, the Senator from North Dakota, whom I have worked with on a number of issues over time. We agree on some issues; we disagree on some. We hopefully are going to be able to work together on a number of these issues.
I view this bill as a chance for us to grow the economy, as a chance for us to do something to create jobs and opportunities. We may disagree on what are the various issues and what we need to do to create those jobs, to address issues for people who have lost work in a certain area, and to create them in another area. But what we are dealing with in this class action reform bill, this Class Action Fairness Act-I serve on the Judiciary Committee; we passed this bill out on a bipartisan vote in the Judiciary Committee-is to try to deal with the legal system that is putting too much burden on business so that it cannot create jobs here, and so then those jobs and economic opportunities go somewhere else.
It was a bipartisan vote coming through the Judiciary Committee. If you look at the membership on that committee, you can see these are dedicated people from both sides of the aisle. But they look at this issue, and they say, here is a chance for us to reform a system, create growth and opportunity, create fairness within the country, within the system.
That is the overall way we ought to be going. That is what we ought to be doing. That is why this is one of the lead substantive bills coming from the Senate right now. That is why we are hopeful of keeping it amendment free, so we can get it through the House, passed, and on to the President, so the American people can see some product, and they can see us dealing with a problem that they believe is there: too much litigation, litigation where it is not fair, litigation in ways that tend to help lawyers more than helping people-lawyers are people, but tending to help the lawyers who are bringing the case more than the people who are supposed to be attracted and dealt with in the case and in the class.
