Public Statements
Family Entertainment and Copyright Act of 2005
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 1, 2005
Location: Washington, DC

FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT AND COPYRIGHT ACT OF 2005 -- (Senate - February 01, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Judiciary Committee be discharged from [Page: S827] further consideration of S. 167, and the Senate proceed to its immediate consideration. The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered. The clerk will report the bill by title.
The assistant legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 167) to provide for the protection of intellectual property rights, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I am pleased that today the Senate will pass the Family Entertainment and Copyright Act of 2005. This bill completes the ambitious package of intellectual property legislation that we undertook, along with our counterparts in the House of Representatives, to enact at the end of the 108th Congress. This is a bipartisan bill that makes important changes to our copyright laws and that will help ensure the preservation of America's cultural heritage. Today's passage of this bill is testimony to the efforts of several in this Chamber to ensure we make good law, capable of swift enactment, and for that I thank in particular the bill's cosponsors, Senators HATCH, FEINSTEIN, ALEXANDER, and CORNYN.
The FECA bill is made up of four important provisions. Title I of the bill contains the ART Act, which will criminalize the use of camcorders to steal movies surreptitiously from the big screen. The second title of the bill is the Family Movie Act, which was designed to allow consumers to view only those portions of movies, in their own homes, that they want to. Title III of the bill contains the Film Preservation Act, legislation that I sponsored in the last Congress. The Film Preservation Act will allow the Library of Congress to continue its important work in preserving America's fading film treasures. What is more, the bill will assist libraries, museums, and archives in preserving films, and in making those works available to researchers and the public. Finally, the bill contains the Preservation of Orphan Works Act, which will correct a drafting error in the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act and will allow libraries to create copies of orphan works-copyrighted materials that are in the last 20 years of their copyright term, are no longer commercially exploited, and are not available at a reasonable price.
I thank the cosponsors of the Family Entertainment and Copyright Act, and I hope the House of Representatives will move with dispatch to pass and send to the President this consensus legislation.
http://thomas.loc.gov
