Public Statements
Executive Session
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 1, 2005
Location: Washington, DC


EXECUTIVE SESSION -- (Senate - February 01, 2005)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise in support of Judge Gonzales, President Bush's nominee to serve as our Nation's 80th Attorney General. I want to address a few points that have been brought up today and discuss those a little bit. We will be able to vote on this nominee this week. I think he is going to make an outstanding Attorney General. He has been an outstanding lawyer in various capacities throughout his professional career already. He is going to continue to show that. I want to articulate why that is going to be the case.
His background is well known. I serve on the Judiciary Committee. We had lengthy hearings with Judge Gonzales. We had multiple rounds. Everybody on the committee got to ask and have answered every question they asked. This is a nominee who has been through the question-and-answer process on a lengthy basis. It is time we move forward. The President needs an Attorney General. This is the office that heads so many of our functions that are very important in the war on terrorism, and we need to move forward with this.
It is well known to people who have been watching this debate. As the son of migrant workers from a family of seven children, the first to go to college, he is the epitome of the American dream. He has a law degree from Harvard. He could have done anything, yet he chose a path of public service. And he is an extraordinarily good public servant--humble, wise, has a tremendous ability to persevere through difficulty.
Through his work as chief counsel to the President, Judge Gonzales has become seasoned in national security issues and legal challenges that are essential to the job of Attorney General. He is unquestionably qualified for the position, and I have no doubt he will be confirmed by the Senate this week and should be confirmed and should be given our strong support.
I am deeply saddened by many distortions and unjustified criticisms of Judge Gonzales's nomination that he has had to go through and to face. Even if you disagree with the administration in the war on terror, Judge Gonzales should have been treated during the nomination process with a level of dignity and respect by this body in going through the discussion. One can say: I believe that this is a good nominee, that this is a good person, and they should look at those criteria and those qualifications and not say: I am voting against him because I have a disagreement with the administration on a policy issue.
Undoubtedly, there are disagreements on policy issues. Undoubtedly, there are a number of people who disagree with Judge Gonzales on how he would view policy issues. But that is not the issue in the confirmation process. The issue is, is this person qualified to hold this job? Will he do a good job? The President, in winning the election, does need to have his people in key positions to be able to carry out policies that he put forward, that the American public has passed on in the election process.
In the past few weeks, there are some who have done all they can to associate Judge Gonzales with the word ``torture'' and the disturbing pictures from Abu Ghraib because he offered a legal memorandum stating that the Geneva Conventions do not apply to members of al-Qaida. These kinds of accusations are factually inaccurate and only serve to bring down the reputation and morale of our Armed Forces
who are serving honorably and nobly in defense of this Nation. As we saw over this past weekend, there was an incredible vote by the Iraqi people that was so heartening to myself and to all of America because this is something we have fought for, that our young men and women have died for, to give them freedom. Now they have it, and they are expressing it.
Clearly, there are going to be problems ahead and difficulties, and it is not going to be anything close to a perfect democracy. Ours isn't yet, although we continue to aspire and are moving closer and closer toward that end. They are going to have difficulties. Yet they have made a step that would not have happened had our young men and women not put their lives on the line and the President made bold decisions that this body authorized to go to war to remove Saddam Hussein from power. Judge Gonzales has been part of the Bush team and the White House. He has done a good job there, and he will do an excellent job as Attorney General.
I wanted to take a few minutes to set the record straight on some key issues. Some have questioned Judge Gonzales's independence from the President. Judge Gonzales understands that his role as Attorney General of the United States will be very different from his role as counsel to the President. He has made that quite clear in his confirmation hearing. He stated:
I do very much understand that there is a difference in the position of Counsel to the President and [that of] Attorney General of the United States. ..... As counsel to the President, my primary focus is on providing counsel to the White House and to White House staff and the President. I do have a client who has an agenda, and part of my role as counsel is to provide advice that the President can achieve that agenda lawfully. It is a much different situation as Attorney General, and I know that. My first allegiance is going to be to the Constitution and to the laws of the United States.
Upon confirmation, Judge Gonzales will be ready and able to take on the independent responsibilities of the Attorney General. His service as a Texas Supreme Court justice proved his ability to be independent from then-Governor and now-President Bush. At his confirmation hearing, he indicated he would be very sensitive to any perception that law enforcement was being politicized by the White House and would seek to avoid such perceptions by ``talk[ing] to the career staff ..... to make them understand that [he's] coming to th[e] department with a clear understanding of the distinct roles between the two jobs.
Remember, this is a gentleman who earlier in his professional career served on the Texas Supreme Court, a Supreme Court of one of the States of United States. He understands a different position. He has been in an independent position. He understands these different roles and the places they serve in Government. And he understands how they work and he will abide by them.
Also at his hearing he emphasized the ``very restrictive contacts policy between the [Justice] Department and the White House, limiting who from the White House can contact the Department of Justice,'' saying that ``what we don't want to have is people from various divisions within the White House calling the Department about an ongoing investigation.''
He offered his commitment to ensure that the contacts
policy is as strong as it should be. He also offered his commitment to abide by that policy. Judge Gonzales has stated his commitment to respecting and fostering the professionalism of the career employees of the Department of Justice. In response to written followup questions from the Senator from Massachusetts, Judge Gonzales said he would ``do everything in [his] power to reassure the career professionals at the Department and the American people that [he] would not politicize the Department.''
There is a direct statement from Judge Gonzales of how he would operate.
Judge Gonzales emphatically endorsed the proposition that ``all government lawyers should always provide an accurate and honest appraisal of the law, even if that will constrain the administration's pursuit of desired policies.''
Again, that is another direct quote from Judge Gonzales in response to a question by a Member of the Senate.
Judge Gonzales also suggested in his response to the Senator from Massachusetts that his close personal relationship with the President would make it easier for him to be honest and forthright with the President. So he has a personal relationship that he can build on as well, but he understands the professional relationship. He is a lawyer, and he understands the role in which he would be serving.
I would like to make it clear that on the issue of the Geneva Conventions, despite what you are hearing today, the United States is committed to complying with the governing law and treaty obligations in the war on terrorism.
There have been some criticisms of Judge Gonzales regarding the Geneva Conventions. Some have claimed that Judge Gonzales finds the Geneva Conventions to be an impediment, a hindrance to our present efforts, quaint and obsolete in important respects. Others are claiming that the administration had refused to apply the Geneva Conventions to the conflict in Afghanistan:
Afghanistan was the first time in which we said that it did not apply to a conflict.
Senators have accused the administration of taking its obligations under the Geneva Conventions lightly.
The administration has fully and faithfully adhered to its obligations under the Geneva Conventions. Judge Gonzales's critics meld together two different issues: First, whether the Geneva Conventions apply to a particular armed conflict and, second, whether particular individuals in that conflict are entitled to a particular protected status under one of the Geneva Conventions. The mere fact that the Geneva Conventions apply to a conflict between two nations does not mean that all persons involved in that conflict qualify for a particular status, such as prisoner-of-war status, under the terms of the conventions.
The administration and Judge Gonzales have been very clear in separating the two issues. But as demonstrated in the claims made above, Judge Gonzales's critics have sought to confuse the issue by mixing the two questions.
The administration did not determine that the Geneva Conventions did not apply in enemy conflict in Afghanistan. Rather the President determined that the Geneva Conventions do, indeed, apply to the conflict in Afghanistan, but that neither al-Qaida terrorists nor Taliban fighters qualify for prisoner-of-war protections under the Geneva Conventions.
This obvious distinction is grounded in the very text of the Geneva Conventions. This has been ignored by Judge Gonzales's critics. The judge explained the distinction quite clearly in his testimony before the Judiciary Committee. He stated this:
There was a decision by the President that Geneva would apply with respect to our conflict with the Taliban. However--and I believe there is little disagreement about this as a legal matter--because of the way the Taliban fought against the United States, they forfeited their right to enjoy prisoner-of-war legal protections.
Judge Gonzales has repeatedly affirmed his respect for the Geneva Conventions. He has worked to ensure that we protect Americans from the threat of terrorism, while treating al-Qaida and Taliban detainees humanely and, to the extent appropriate and consistent with military necessities, in keeping with the principles of the Geneva Conventions.
Judge Gonzales has also stated further at the hearing:
I consider the Geneva conventions neither obsolete nor quaint.
In closing, we have an outstanding nominee in judge Gonzales. His personal background is one of incredible accomplishments. His ability and his legal mind are excellent. His commitment to public service is tremendous. The faith that people have in him is there and is what we need in a person who is Attorney General of the United States. We need to have a person there that people look up to and say this is a person who will uphold the law, who is an upright individual, and will do all he can to make this a better place. Judge Gonzales will do all of those things and he will do it in a tremendous fashion.
I don't think this is a particularly helpful or good debate, where we question a person's ability to stand independent, or to do these other things, when that person stated clearly he would and his past track record has shown that he will.
For those reasons, I hope we can move expeditiously through this debate. Let people question his ability if they choose, but let's have the vote and get Judge Gonzales approved to serving this country in this important time and in this very important job.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
http://thomas.loc.gov
