Public Statements
Brownback Resolution Calling for Release of Tibetan Prisoners Passes Senate
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 7, 2004
Location: Washington, DC

U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today announced the Senate has passed his resolution calling for the release of Tenzin Delek and other Tibetan political prisoners.
"I am pleased the Senate has joined me in calling upon the Chinese government to release these prisoners," Brownback said. "Their only crime was peacefully serving the community of Tibet. It is time for the government of China to stop holding innocent religious figures in captivity merely for peacefully protesting China's occupation of Tibet."
The resolution passed today outlines China's violation of internationally recognized human rights standards and calls on the Chinese government to release Tenzin Delek and the other Tibetans who remain in jail. The International Campaign for Tibet estimates that there are 150 political prisoners in Tibet, and nearly 75 percent of them are monks and nuns. Those unfortunate enough to find themselves in a Chinese prison are often subjected to physical and mental torture, isolation, and death.
On April 7, 2002 Tenzin Delek and three other monks were arrested at their monastery. Tenzin Delek and Lobsang Dhondup were both convicted of inciting separatism after being held incommunicado for eight months. They were subsequently sentenced to death following a closed door trial. Lobsang Dhondup was executed on January 26, 2003, only one month after the sentence was handed down. Given the arbitrary and political nature of China's judiciary, Tenzin Delek could be put to death at any time. This December marks two years since he was sentenced to death.
Tenzin Delek moved to a monastery at the young age of seven, and by early adulthood he was active on issues of culture and religion and a dedicated supporter of the Dalai Lama and his teachings. His community work and societal influence left him subject to the suspicion of the Chinese government. It is this sort of peaceful protest of China's occupation of Tibet that has landed many Tibetans in jail.
For more than 50 years the Tibetan people have struggled to preserve their 1,000 year-old sovereign national identity. The Chinese occupation that began in 1949 brought with it the subjugation of the Tibetan people at the hand of the People's Liberation Army, who aimed to destroy Tibetan culture, language and religion. The PLA destroyed thousands of monasteries and shrines, and the Chinese prohibited Tibetans from practicing the Buddhist faith.
Senators Bingaman, Kyl, Durbin and Coleman were cosponsors of the original resolution that Brownback introduced last May.
Brownback is chairman of the East Asia Subcommittee.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=229477&&days=365&
