Public Statements
Unanimous-Consent Agreement - S. 2845
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 9, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


UNANIMOUS-CONSENT AGREEMENT-S. 2845
BUSINESS AIRCRAFT
Mr. BROWNBACK. I want to thank the distinguished chairman of the Committee on Finance, as well as the chairman of the Ways & Means Committee, Mr. THOMAS, and all the conferees on H.R. 4520, for retaining the provision allowing business aircraft purchased this year to qualify for bonus depreciation if the aircraft is delivered and placed in service in 2005.
This provision is important to the hard-working Kansans who build these aircraft. Provisions such as this will help to further bolster our rebounding economy with respect to expensive and complicated equipment like business aircraft. Without bonus depreciation, there is a risk of a shortage of orders for delivery next year with a resulting impact on employment.
It would have been better if this legislation had been enacted earlier this year, but, even now, this provision will allow manufacturers several extra weeks to take orders for delivery by the end of 2005. That should help to ensure that there will be planes to build in 2005.
I ask the chairman a technical question on the effective date of this provision.
Mr. GRASSLEY. I thank the Senator from Kansas for his kind words, and would be happy to respond
Mr. BROWNBACK. The effective date of the placed-in-service-extension, section 336 of the conference report, states that the amendments "shall take effect as if included in the amendments made by section 101 of the Job Creation and Worker Assistance Act of 2002." I believe that this means only that, if a purchaser orders a plane for delivery in 2005, the limitations on the amount of the deposit, time for construction and purchase price must be met. It does not mean that taxpayers who did not or will not take delivery and place the aircraft in service after December 31, 2004, would retroactively be subjected to these limitations. The limitations apply only if a taxpayer wishes to take advantage of the extended placed-in service period. Does the Chairman agree with this interpretation?
Mr. GRASSLEY. The Senator is correct. The new provision is not intended to apply to aircraft placed in service before January 1, 2005 and does not limit or deny bonus depreciation for aircraft or any other asset that would qualify under the general rules. I would refer the senator to page 30 of the Conference Report. On that page, the conferees clearly state that this provision "will modify the treatment only of property placed in service during calendar year 2005,"
Mr. BROWNBACK. I ask the chairman for a further clarification. Section 336 of the conference report includes amendment of clause (iv) of Internal Revenue Code section 168(k)(2)(A) to apply the additional year to place an asset in service to assets described in subparagraphs (B) and (C). Subparagraph (B) of the Code applies to certain property having longer production periods. Section 336 of the bill adds subparagraph (C). I would like to be sure that, by using the word "and", the conferees did not intend that a business aircraft would have to be described in both the existing subparagraph (B) and the new subparagraph (C) in order to qualify for the additional year to place the aircraft in service. As the chairman knows, the standards for qualification are substantially different under the two subparagraphs.
Mr. GRASSLEY. I agree that the drafting is not as clear as it might have been. However, it is very clear from all the legislative history that, by adding the new subparagraph, we intended to add a new class of property, business aircraft, to those assets which qualify for the additional year to be placed in service. We did not intend that aircraft which qualify under subparagraph © must also qualify under subparagraph (B).
Mr. BROWNBACK. I would like to ask the chairman to address one final point. As the chairman knows, an amendment added to the Senate bill during floor debate temporarily reversed a Tax Court decision, affirmed by the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals, concerning the limitation of business deductions for personal entertainment use of a business aircraft. This provision was drastically expanded and made permanent in the conference report. I am very concerned that this provision will have a substantial negative impact on the sales of new aircraft because, much of the business deduction for a new aircraft in its first few years is depreciation. In the same bill that Congress extends the period to place an aircraft in service and still qualify for bonus depreciation, Congress also reverses current law and limits depreciation and other business deductions, even when an employee has income imputed to him for any personal use of the aircraft.
I can understand that the facts of the tax court case that was intended to be reversed involved a high percentage of nonbusiness use. However, it would seem to me that some sort of de minimis amount of personal travel treated as taxable compensation should be allowed without reducing otherwise applicable business deductions. I can also understand limiting deductions for incremental operating costs incurred for a personal flight, but the aircraft depreciates whether it is in the air or on the ground. I do not see the rationale for this extraordinary provision in the conference agreement far beyond the scope of the original Senate provision. The section which the conference report amends concerns entertainment facilities such as hunting and fishing lodges which have no other use than for business or personal entertainment. An aircraft is purchased by a business because they have a business need to be served. It is not the same thing as a hunting lodge. It is difficult for me to believe that, if a court addressed the specific question of whether a business aircraft were an "entertainment facility" under present law, that it would rule against the taxpayer.
I hope that the chairman would be willing to consider a de minimis rule or other modification to limit the scope of this limitation in future tax legislation to allow occasional personal use without limiting otherwise deductible business expense deductions relating to the ownership and use of a business aircraft.
Mr. GRASSLEY: I appreciate the Senator's concerns and will keep them in mind in the future, although I would not anticipate repeal of the full provision included in this conference report.
