Public Statements
Commending Dr. Jim Marks
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 8, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


COMMENDING DR. JIM MARKS
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I would like to make a few remarks commending Dr. Jim Marks, who will be leaving the Department of Health and Human Services in December.
Dr. Marks has directed the National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention since 1995. During Dr. Marks' tenure, the CDC has had a significant impact on the lives of all Americans through programs to prevent and promote cancer's earliest detection. Under Dr. Marks' direction and with the support of Congress, the Division of Cancer Prevention and Control has grown from approximately $123 million to over $313 million. This growth has afforded CDC the ability to provide national leadership in the cancer prevention and control. Dr. Marks was instrumental in leading efforts to partner with States, territories, tribal organizations as well as national, State and local partners to monitor cancer trends; conduct research and evaluate cancer prevention and control activities; apply scientific advances and develop strong cancer control programs; and to educate public health professionals and the public about cancer prevention and control.
Some specific accomplishments during Dr. Marks' tenure include: the total number of woman ever served by the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program NBCCEDP, reached 1.9 million in 2003. Under Dr. Marks' guidance, the NBCCEDP has helped uninsured and underinsured women gain access to lifesaving screening and diagnostic testing programs for the early detection of breast and cervical cancer. To date, the program has: provided over 4.6 million screening examinations; diagnosed 17,009 breast cancers; 61,474 precancerous cervical lesions; and 1,157 cervical cancers.
Expansion of the National Program of Cancer Registries (NPCR) to cover 96 percent of the Nation's population. The cancer information gathered by the NPCR serve a key role in determining cancer patterns among various populations; monitoring cancer trends over time; guiding State planning and evaluation of cancer control programs; assisting States in setting priorities for the allocation of resources; and, advancing clinical, epidemiologic, and health services research. The data gathered through the NPCR coupled with information from the National Cancer Institute and the North American Association of Central Cancer Registries was combined to produce official Federal statistics on cancer incidence in the report entitled, U.S. Cancer Statistics: 2000 Incidence.
Development and expansion of the National Comprehensive Cancer Control Program to 61 programs in States, territories and tribes. CDC support permits the respective health agencies to establish broad-based Comprehensive Cancer Control, CCC, coalitions, assess the burden of cancer, determine priorities for cancer prevention and control, and develop and implement CCC plans.
Development of A National Action Plan or Cancer Survivorship: Advancing Public Health Strategies, 2003 in collaboration with the Lance Armstrong Foundation and national experts in cancer survivorship and public health. The action plan charts a course for how the public health community can more effectively and comprehensively address cancer survivorship and focus on improving the quality of life for survivors.
Dr. Marks' leadership and direction in CDC's cancer control and prevention efforts helped Americans lead more productive and healthier lives.
