Public Statements
National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 1, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE REFORM ACT OF 2004
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for their work on intelligence reform. I want to make a few remarks on the intelligence reform bill.
I am supportive of the overall efforts of the Governmental Affairs Committee, what my colleague from Kansas, Senator Roberts, and my colleague from West Virginia, Senator Rockefeller, are doing as well on intelligence reform, and I want to support this overall effort.
Before I proceed, it is important to underscore why this is such an important debate in the United States, especially when it is so deeply engaged in many places around the world and particularly in the Middle East and Iraq. In the context of the underlying bill, we need to make sure we clearly understand this.
There is some public uncertainty regarding these issues. As the debate showed last night, we have fundamental differences even between President Bush and Senator Kerry. But both agree, in my opinion, why the U.S. commitment to Iraq is absolutely essential and why we must not fail in Iraq or in this effort to reform our national intelligence.
For purposes of discussion, I recommend a rereading of Osama bin Laden's declaration of war against the Americans. He issued this in 1998. It is in the 9/11 Commission Report and it is chilling, but it tells you what is at stake in this debate.
He says this, and this is a direct quote from that declaration of war:
The Defence Secretary of the Crusading Americans had said that the explosions at Riyadh and Al-Khobar had taught him one lesson: that is not to withdraw when attacked by cowardly terrorists.
bin Laden continues:
We say to the Defence Secretary that his talk could induce a grieving mother to laughter! And it shows the fears that have enveloped you all. Where was this courage of yours when the explosion in Beirut took place in 1983 . . . You were transformed into scattered bits and pieces: 241 soldiers were killed, most of them Marines.
bin Laden continues:
When tens of your soldiers were killed in minor battles and one American pilot was dragged in the street of Mogadishu, you left the area in disappointment, humiliation, and defeat, carrying your dead with you.
Clinton appeared in front of the whole world threatening and promising revenge, but these threats were merely a preparation for withdrawal. You had been disgraced by Allah and you withdraw; the extent of your impotence and weaknesses became very clear.
As bin Laden had explained earlier in the declaration:
Efforts should be concentrated on destroying, fighting, and killing the (American) enemy until, by the grace of Allah, it is completely defeated.
The task is stated quite simply by bin Laden:
Killing Americans.
In June 2002, bin Laden spokesman, Suleiman Abu Gheith, placed this statement on the al-Qaida Web site:
We have the right to kill 4 million Americans-2 million of them children-and to exile twice as many and wound and cripple hundreds of thousands.
He said that:
We have the right to kill 4 million Americans-2 million of them children. . . .
What can we do to forestall these promised attacks? According to bin Laden, if we follow what he says, we can forestall these promised attacks if "America should abandon the Middle East, convert to Islam and end the immorality and godlessness of its society and culture," for according to bin Laden, "It is saddening to tell you that you are the worst civilization witnessed by the history of mankind."
That is what we fight, and that is what we must stand strong against and be as strong and as organized as we possibly can and have as good intelligence as we possibly can to fight these fanatics.
These terrorists are fanatics. They are wrong about America, and America will fight. They may be fanatics-and they are-but James Schlesinger reminded us earlier this year in the Foreign Relations Committee that they are deadly serious and thoroughly persistent.
We have to therefore anticipate we will be engaged in this global war on terrorism for years to come and we must not waiver in this effort.
As Osama himself has said:
When the people see a strong horse and a weak horse, they naturally gravitate towards the strong horse.
Therefore, we as a nation and as a body must do everything within our means to demonstrate that we are not the weak horse. That is why retreat before we have successfully stabilized Iraq is not an option. Nothing was more dramatically visible throughout the Middle East and elsewhere of our retreat than were those earlier retreats cited by Osama bin Laden.
The debate over Iraq will continue, even after the election, regarding the timing of our move into Iraq, but that is a moot issue. We are there now and our soldiers are doing the best they can under difficult circumstances. We will bring them home, but make no mistake about the fact that we are anything but united in our determination to persevere and to prevail in Iraq. Success is the only acceptable course of action.
How then are we to be successful in sustaining order and stability in Iraq and bringing order to the chaos that the terrorists can potentially produce around the world? Only by embracing certain fundamental realities. First and foremost, establishing reasonable security is the prerequisite for achieving the goals of political stability. We are doing that in Iraq and we are doing that in Afghanistan. It is slow going and it is difficult, and there will be bumps along the way.
Second, neither the American nor the coalition forces can by themselves impose security on Iraq. Iraqis themselves must provide indispensable support and their own security. Only Iraqis can gather the intelligence to identify the regime remnants and foreign terrorists who must be largely neutralized before adequate security can be assured.
Moreover, it will be essential for Iraqi security forces to be the principal elements in rooting out terrorists and destroying their cells, with the coalition military increasingly in a supporting role.
Similarly, America must take charge of its own security in a way that is consistent with the changed realities in our post-9/11 world. This legislation we are debating, the first major overhaul of the intelligence system, is a major step in that direction. We have the capability, the ability, and the motive-our national security-to do this now and to do it right.
As my colleague Senator Kyl from Arizona said yesterday, the problem before 9/11 was not due to too much intelligence. The problem obviously arose because we did not have enough intelligence, smart intelligence, creative intelligence. We could not gather enough information in a timely way to put together all of the possibilities in order to connect the dots, in order to predict that a particular kind of attack was going to occur on that day.
We have had a lot of good, constructive suggestions, from many places, from the 9/11 Commission, from the Senate Intelligence Committee, the great work of its chairman and my colleague Senator PAT ROBERTS from Kansas, from the administration, from the work of the Governmental Affairs Committee, Senator Rockefeller also on the Intelligence Committee, from other commissions in trying to understand why we did not have enough intelligence and why we could not put it all together ahead of time.
Many of the recommendations of the Commission and legislative solutions in the proposed bill try to correct that problem of not having enough good intelligence and knowing precisely what we need to do with the intelligence once we have it.
Most importantly, we need to find a way of bringing the creativity and imagination back into the intelligence business. For too long, the system has been hampered by bureaucracy that by design is risk averse and unwilling to take the offensive. As Senator Kyl mentioned the other day, if we look back at President Clinton's directives to the intelligence community, he tried to be forward leaning, especially with regard to al-Qaida and Osama bin Laden. But even though the President himself seemed to say we have to do everything we can to try to get these guys, he ran into bureaucratic barriers. Repeatedly, efforts were made to bring to his attention operations that would have either improved our intelligence or operationally deal with al-Qaida and Osama bin Laden, but they were shot down by various portions or places within the bureaucracy or lawyers within the system. If someone tried to do something, somebody else said this is too risky, we cannot do it.
We have to change that mentality. That was why the 9/11 Commission, the Senate Intelligence Committee, and many other observers have said we have to get out of this paralyzing risk-averse environment where people are afraid somebody is looking over their shoulders, is going to jump on them if they do anything that is the least bit out of the ordinary or risky. We have to get this bureaucratic mindset out because our very security depends on it.
I thank the chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee, Senator Collins, for her great work on this, and the ranking member, Senator Lieberman. I appreciate the important work of my colleagues Senator Roberts and Senator Rockefeller, and I hope that we will speedily get to a resolution so we can pass this important bill soon and change the dynamic and make a safer America.
I yield the floor.
