Public Statements
North Korean Human Rights Act of 2004
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 28, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


NORTH KOREAN HUMAN RIGHTS ACT OF 2004
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the pending business be set aside and that the Foreign Relations Committee be discharged from further consideration of H. R. 4011 and the Senate proceed to its immediate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered. The clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 4011) to promote human rights and freedom in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Brownback amendment at the desk be agreed to, the bill, as amended, be read a third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 3728) was agreed to.
(The amendment is printed in today's RECORD under "Text of Amendments.")
The bill (H. R. 4011), as amended, was read the third time and passed.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, for the information of my colleagues, what we are considering is something that has been negotiated extensively. It has passed the House of Representatives. It has been negotiated extensively in the Foreign Relations Committee amongst the members interested. It is on the issue of North Korean human rights, or the lack thereof, and U.S. policy.
This bill establishes for the first time-the first time in at least a generation-a human rights principle toward North Korea. Everybody is familiar with the six-party talks that are going on regarding North Korea and nuclear weapons and the threatening nature of the North Korean Government, of its testing missiles, of it moving military operations to threaten people around the country, in South Korea, in Japan, and in particular the United States to give them direct aid to guarantee their security, and issues mostly surrounding the nuclear weapons development.
This bill brings into focus a United States Government position on North Korean human rights abuses, which are extensive, probably the worst human rights abuses in the world. It is at least in the top two or three, and that is saying something when you consider what is taking place in the Sudan and Iran.
North Korea lost 10 percent of its population in the last 10 years to starvation. We think they have something around 150,000 people, maybe more, in the gulag system, political prisoners. There is trafficking of individuals taking place within that country. They are counterfeiting money. They are drug running. They are gunrunning. This is a criminal enterprise that is taking place.
This bill deals with the human rights issues. It brings it front and center. The bill requires a report to be issued. It requires the Secretary of State to put forward a person of high distinction to press the human rights agenda, and we hope to get the issue of human rights in North Korea elevated to the same level or in the level with the talks in the six-party system.
The North Korean Government, when it talks about nuclear weapons development, will bluster and talk a great deal and say they need to be able to do this and they are threatening, but when you raise the issue of human rights, they go silent because there is no response to the shame of what they have done to their own people.
We are elevating this issue and making clear the United States Government position on the issue of human rights in North Korea. This is a very important bill. I am delighted we passed it this evening.
I wanted to give that brief explanation of this bill as it moves through the process, now to go back to the House and to the President.
I thank my colleague from Maine for yielding the floor and giving me this time. I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.
