Public Statements
Governor Brownback Responds to Pattern of Intrusion into Kansas Agricultural and Ranching Operations
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 10, 2014
Location: Unknown

Governor Sam Brownback today talked with members of the agricultural community concerned about recent federal actions, specifically the listing of the Lesser Prairie Chicken as a threatened species and proposed new definitions under the Clean Water Act.
"The combined effect of these two actions shows a continued pattern of intrusion into the lives of Kansans by the federal government," Governor Brownback said. "The most recent actions by the Environmental Protection Agency, with proposed sweeping new definitions under the Clean Water Act shows a complete disregard for Kansas business, industry and farm and ranch families."
The Governor's comments come as EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy continues a tour of the Midwest as part of a media campaign related to the proposed rules change. During the tour, McCarthy referred to some of the concerns of the farming and ranching community as "ludicrous."
Proposed definitions under the water act would extend federal jurisdiction beyond that authorized in the Clean Water Act (CWA) and create the opportunity for federal intervention in upland practices. The EPA proposal would bring many ponds, puddles, ditches, and even dry land under federal regulation, requiring more permits for routine farming activities.
"Despite EPA statements, the agency narrowed statutory exemptions for agriculture under the CWA," said Jackie McClaskey, secretary of agriculture. "These requirements will prevent expansions, conservation practice implementation, and other beneficial activities that provide jobs and water quality benefits for Kansas."
Governor Brownback also announced new actions to protect the Lesser Prairie Chicken, including directing the Kansas Department of Wildlife and Parks and the Kansas Department of Agriculture to develop a plan for the captive breeding of the Lesser Prairie Chicken.

Source:
