Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions - S. 2789
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 10, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself and Mr. SANTORUM):
S. 2789. A bill to reauthorize the grant program of the Department of Justice for reentry of offenders into the community, to establish a task force on Federal programs and activities relating to the reentry of offenders into the community, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am pleased to join with Senator SANTORUM today and introduce a bill that will have a dramatic and positive effect in the lives of individuals re-entering society after incarceration. The Second Chance Act: Community Safety Through Recidivism Prevention is a bill that will not only protect our Nation's citizens but will more importantly help to reduce recidivism in our Nation.
A hallmark of any just society lies in its ability to protect the interest of all its citizens, and I am proud that the United States is a leader in this regard. Yet, while we continue to strive toward this lofty goal, we must realize that there are areas in which we, as a society and as government, must do more to improve. Nowhere is that more apparent than in our Nation's prison system.
Today, we have challenges within the prison system that range from high recidivism rates to budgetary and safety concerns. With this bill, we will be able to address this pressing problem within our society. Already we have seen innovative and model programs within the States and the faith community, and I am proud to say that Kansas is a leader in this regard. However, we must stimulate innovation in this area on a national level, and that is what this bill will accomplish. It is paramount that we ensure the safety of our communities and ensure that those incarcerated have the tools necessary to succeed after they rejoin society.
With this bill, we will be able to combat the extremely high recidivism rates plaguing the prison system, currently as high as 70 percent, as well as address the financial burdens that hinder many of our State penitentiaries. We will also be able to help those incarcerated make positive changes within their lives so that when they do rejoin society, they will be able to do so with the confidence of knowing that they can contribute to society in a positive manner.
Specifically, this bill facilitates change within our current correctional system, and promotes coordination with the Federal government to better assist those returning to our communities after incarceration and their children. The bill reauthorizes the Re-Entry Demonstration Project with an enhanced focus on jobs, housing, substance-abuse treatment, mental health, and the children and families of those incarcerated. The bill authorizes $160 million over a period of two years to fund these demonstration program and creates performance outcome standards and deliverables. It will also encourage States to enhance their re-entry services and systems with grants to fund the creation or enhancement of State re-entry councils for strategic planning and review the State barriers and resources that exist.
Additionally, the bill creates a Federal interagency taskforce to facilitate collaboration and identify innovative programs and initiatives. The taskforce will review and report to Congress on the Federal barriers that exist to successful re-entry.
Finally, the bill will create a $45 million two-year mentoring program geared toward reducing recidivism and the societal costs of recidivism. This mentoring program will help ex-offenders re-integrate into their communities. This initiative will specifically harness the resources and experience of community-based organizations in helping returning ex-offenders.
We have an incredible opportunity to re-shape the way in which this Nation's prison systems operate. Much like welfare reform in the mid 1990s, we have a chance to make real and effective change in an area where change is sorely needed. I look forward to pushing this legislation forward.
