Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee - Current Situation in Sudan and Prospects for Peace
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 9, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE
SUBJECT: CURRENT SITUATION IN SUDAN AND PROSPECTS FOR PEACE
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR RICHARD LUGAR (R-IN)
WITNESSES: SECRETARY OF STATE COLIN POWELL
LOCATION: G-50 DIRKSEN SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
And, Secretary, thanks for being here.
Mr. Chairman, at the outset, I'd like to have the trip report that Frank Wolf and I filed included in the record.
SEN. LUGAR: It will be placed in the record in full.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Secretary, thank you. God bless you. I really appreciate you stepping up on a tough issue like you always do, and taking a very careful consideration, setting a factual basis for it, making a determination and then articulating it very clearly. And I think this is very important. Words don't always capture the day, but words are important, and this word, the word on genocide is very important and will have ramifications, I believe significant ramifications, around the world and in the government in Khartoum. So I really appreciate what you're doing and the care with which you do it as well I think is very important.
I want to ask you-you've had a good discussion here, it seems like to me, on a number of tools that are available in your tool chest. Because I know when you consider an issue, the administration considers an issue, when they take a stance, then you got to figure out, okay, how are we going to get this done? It's not just that you issue the word, and okay, we said it, that's good enough. It's then, all right, how do we follow on through it?
You're going to the U.N. now for a resolution, starting a process there for them to review the genocide. And if they make the genocide determination, as I understand it, then a series of issues and actions, required actions, kick in, which I think are appropriate.
And by the way-and this is a side bar-I think this is an enormously important time for the world where we are stepping up while a genocide is occurring and calling it as such to protect the people there. You know, the State Department has said we've got 30,000 to 50,000 people have died, but the likelihood of 300,000 is clearly there, given the situation. But we're trying to stop this before it gets to 300,000. And I think this is a great time for the world to say we're going to step into these things before all the people die that are there.
As you look at the tools in your chest-you've described several of them already-but are there other leverage points that you can use, tools, to get some of this forward? Will there be discussion on the sanctions, particularly oil, because that's the major issue for the Sudanese, that okay, we will do this, and the U.N. will do this and push this, unless Khartoum allows the international troops in. Somehow we've got to get the security situation-you've identified it as a security humanitarian crisis, totally security- driven humanitarian crisis. It is. Can we use that tool, that threat of a sanction-but it's got to be a very real threat-to get the troops in on the ground? Can we personally, as the U.S., leverage more towards China, where they're the principal conduit through which the oil comes out of the country-not the only one, but the principal one-their companies, their market; can we leverage more our pressure on China to step on Khartoum to get the international troops in?
And in Egypt, which I'm-I appreciate some of the words that they've said, but this is not enough given the humanitarian crisis. And it is right there on their border, and it is right there on their door. And their relations with Khartoum are probably some of the better in the world, and they're a big ally of ours and we work closely with the Egyptians.
I think they are woefully, woefully inadequate in their actions and even in their words to date that they have issued. Is there more in our tool chest that we can do towards the Egyptians to get the troops, the international troops moved in to deal with the security situation?
SEC. POWELL: The issue of sanctions comes up frequently, and the one with the most bite and leverage to it I think would be oil. That would of course require concerted U.N. action, and the U.N. would have to do it in the form of a resolution so that it becomes binding in international law. There's nothing that can be done unilaterally on that. And, yes, I think we can do more in talking to the Chinese, Pakistanis, the Egyptians, the leadership of the Arab League to put more pressure on Khartoum.
I do think we will be able to persuade the Sudanese-and it won't take too much time, I hope-that it is in their interest to allow this monitoring force to be built up, this protection monitoring force to be built up as quickly as we can build it up, and that's going to be the focus of all our efforts and energies in the days ahead. And I will be talking to both the Egyptian as well as Chinese leadership about this.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And Arab League leadership you mentioned as well.
SEC. POWELL: Arab League as well.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What-do you see other tools available to you that have not been discussed today to try to get those troops in on the ground in that western --
SEC. POWELL: The logistics problem of getting it done; getting the troops equipped so that they can perform the mission; making sure there's a concept, an operational concept so that they know what they're going in to do; and then getting the actual contributors, not just sort of expressions of interest-"we might be prepared to do something"-we'd get the nations of the African Union to make specific commitments in quantities and then put in place a command- and-control system. So it's really sort of military logistics and command-and-control issues that I think we have to focus on right now.
The Sudanese don't want to be in the position that they find themselves in now, with this kind of pressure. We were looking forward to a much more promising year 2004 with respect to U.S.- Sudanese relations. As you recall, Senator Brownback, I went there last fall and said, "Let's get this Naivasha deal done by the end of December." Well, they all said yes, a bit optimistic. It took another five or so months, but we got it.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Got it done.
SEC. POWELL: And we were saying we were going to have a White House ceremony for this. We are going to get 8,000 or more peacekeepers to come in from throughout the United Nations to help you implement this accord. All sorts of economic benefits will flow from this accord. All of that is still there, waiting. So there is an incentive for the Sudanese government to do the right thing now if they'll only do it because benefits will flow from the Naivasha accord and from an East-West settlement, the end of the crisis in Darfur. It will be to the benefit of all Sudanese people and to the benefit of the Sudanese government as they try to come out of the isolation that they have been in, at least with respect to the United States and with respect to many of the nations in the world, especially in Europe, and to help them develop the resource that they have, oil, to benefit all of the people of Sudan.
And that of course, you'll recall, Senator Brownback, was one of the major sticking points in negotiations between the north and the south as we worked on the Lake Naivasha Accord. But we solved it. We got an understanding of how that oil revenue would be distributed.
So this is a country that has resources and assets, and they want to use them. And to use them properly, they need to be part of the international community and not a pariah of the international community. And so I think we've got to continue to put the pressure on them, and the number one item we should be working on now is the AU force getting in.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I want to thank you and really praise your work and the president's work and Jack Danforth's work. I've been around the Sudan issue quite a while, Senator Frist has, a number of people on the dais have-Senator Corzine, Senator Feingold, Senator Alexander. I mean, there's a real chorus of people. But you guys are the first ones to really lean in and put action to your words. You've leaned in and you've fought for the peace agreement between north and south, got it done. We passed the Sudan Peace Act. You're using some of the tools available to that, and there are carrots and sticks with it, and there are a lot of carrots that are here. And then I was, as well with you, hopeful we were going to finally resolve this longest- running civil war this past year, and then this has stepped up.
I do, in the conclusion, want to hope and urge that we will support financially the African Union effort, but also the Europeans particularly will step up with this. They should. They are in a position to do so, should get that done.
And finally, Chairman, I'd like to recognize particularly one writer that traveled with us, Emily Wax with The Washington Post-doing extraordinary work. I think she should get a Pulitzer Prize for the work that she's done, because a lot of this has been moved forward because the press has really focused in and people have put some of their lives on the line to really cover this story in its graphic depth. And it is a horrific story. It is a very troubling story, but they've been there, and I really hope they keep reporting and shining the light on it.
Thanks, Secretary Powell.
