Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee - NASA's Space Shuttle Program
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 8, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE SENATE COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE
SUBJECT: NASA'S SPACE SHUTTLE PROGRAM
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS)
WITNESSES:
SEAN O'KEEFE, ADMINISTRATOR, NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION; LIEUTENANT GENERAL THOMAS P. STAFFORD, U.S. AIR FORCE (RET.), CO- CHAIRMAN, RETURN TO FLIGHT TASK GROUP
LOCATION: 253 RUSSELL SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Good morning. I call the hearing to order. I want to thank the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee chairman for holding this hearing on NASA's Space Shuttle Program. Chairman McCain will be in I think in about a half an hour or 45 minutes to chair the hearing. Until that time, I'll be chairing that.
Before I begin, I understand the recent hurricanes in Florida did significant damage to our space facilities there; I saw an article in this morning's paper. And I want you to know that I share the concerns for NASA's people and programs in Florida and offer my full support in our efforts to recover from the damage, Mr. Director, on that and to all Floridians. I think we all watched that storm come in, a storm the size of Texas, over Florida and just amazed at the power and the destructive capacity and we'll want to hear about what that has, its impact. But our first and foremost concern is for the people and we hope and pray that they're safe and sound and will be able to recover, as well as for all Floridians. And we'll hear from Senator Nelson here in a minute, who can give us some more personalized detail of what's been taking place.
The space shuttle is a magnificent machine and it's clear that the dedicated and talented people at NASA are doing their best to return it to flight. I am concerned, though, to be sure about the schedule and the cost of this return and that's what I want to particularly focus on this hearing this morning. I'm confident that with enough money and time we will succeed, but the more we spend on this legacy system the more we mortgage our future.
I believe in the administration's space exploration program. I believe space offers enormous opportunity for our people. I'm concerned that our economic and military competitors around the world are breathing down our neck in space. This is one competition we can't afford to lose. Every dollar spent on space exploration must be spent extremely wisely.
As the space shuttle return to flight cost amount and schedules become less certain, the time has come to find alternatives, I believe, to the shuttle. As I've said before, we're never going to realize the benefits of space without full mobilization of all the assets that we have available to us as a country, including the private sector. A number of private concerns, including some of the nation's largest aerospace firms, have told me they have affordable near term options to offload some and perhaps all of the space shuttle's launch requirements.
In previous testimony, NASA said it hasn't concerned alternatives to the space shuttle for completing and maintaining the Space Station. Yet, recent external studies, such as one done by the Planetary Society, suggest that as few as 10 to 12 shuttle flights, and not 30 as the plan now stands, could suffice to complete the Space Station if alternative means of access are also used. For these reasons I've asked, in concert with my House colleagues, for a GAO analysis of these issues.
I helped commission the Congressional Budget Office to study the issue of space exploration costs. They tell me that the president's space exploration program is affordable within the money we budgeted, provided we come to grips with an affordable launch system. Meanwhile, every day we focus our resources to maintain the current shuttle infrastructure is a day we delay our people's exploration and expansion into the solar system.
This is an important issue. I look forward to hearing NASA's information today about the program because we do want to see what it is that's costing us and what the timeframe is going to be on return to flight on the space shuttle, and is there a way for us to be able to go to fewer flights and then move those resources into moon, Mars and beyond in the manned space program.
I want to turn the podium over to Senator Nelson. And, again, our condolences to all of Florida and all Floridians for Hurricane Frances. And as I understand, there may be another one coming through.
Senator Nelson.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you. And as I said at the outset, our thoughts and prayers do go up for the Floridians. We have two people on the panel: the Honorable Sean O'Keefe, administrator of NASA, and Lieutenant General Thomas P. Stafford, U.S. Air Force retired, cochairman of the Return to Flight Task Force.
Gentlemen, we look forward to both your testimony.
Director O'Keefe, let's take your comments and your testimony first. Thank you for joining us.
MR. SEAN O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
And, Senator Nelson and Senator Lott, a pleasure to see you as well.
I've got a statement for the record I'll submit and just briefly summarize.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And it will be put in the record.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much and we look forward to some-our discussion.
General Stafford, thank you very much for joining us. The floor is yours.
GEN. THOMAS P. STAFFORD: Mr. Chairman and members of the committee --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Get one of those microphones a little closer to you if you would.
GEN. STAFFORD: Mr. Chairman and members of the committee, thank you for the opportunity to appear before you today to discuss the status of the Return to Flight Task Group's assessment. I have a written statement that I'd like to submit with your permission, Mr. Chairman, at this time.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That will be accepted in the record.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much, General. And we'll proceed to a round of questions of five minutes each and go by order of arrival. General, I want to make sure I understand what you're saying here then. You're saying that we are not going to be able to remove the falling of debris from the takeoff, which is what-when we held these original hearings, Mr. O'Keefe, people said this is going to be really tough to stop. You're saying we're not going to be able to stop the falling of debris, so we're going to go to reducing debris and second then either an in-flight repair option or a rescue option in space. Is that correct?
GEN. STAFFORD: Mr. Chairman, NASA has made considerable progress in eliminating large areas that could be shed. And we're doing continual testing, analytical areas and this is an ongoing process. But there can be no guarantee that-or certification that a critical piece will not come off. Even though we're certifying certain parts of the vehicle, there would be a minimum piece for certain areas, certain angles. And Mr. Cuzzupoli has followed this on a day-to-day basis and he can give you up-to-date information on that. And most of it occurs in the first parts of the launch phase when you have maximum aerodynamic pressure and heating there on the spacecraft. And if you'd-if you want any sub-details, Mr. Cuzzupoli can certainly give you that.
Now also, as we said, we are continuing on for the inspection and repair. There are certain areas that it looks like we could repair either cracks or holes up to a certain criteria. Also, the inspection capability is increasing every week. We don't know if we can have a complete 100 percent. Again, Mr. Cuzzupoli is up to the day-to-day technical details on that and we're starting to assess the safe haven of the International Space Station for rescue mission, Mr. Chairman.
MR. O'KEEFE: Mr. Chairman, if I could just quickly add to that? I think exactly as General Stafford has described, the objective here is to eliminate the critical debris that could cause a catastrophic loss of the orbiter. And so as a consequence, that has been isolated to determine exactly what would constitute that kind of a condition-which has been the case since the very first flight and all the way up to the last, is a flaking effect that occurs with insulation. It's much like you'd see on any other kind of insulated case where there is a foam kind of exterior to something. Given the circumstances and the intensity of the heat and so forth, the objective is to eliminate the critical items of departure from the external tank itself, and that's what we're trying to work our way through and I think we've developed a design that eliminates that prospect.
That said, what we've done is tested every one of those scenarios. I mean, not just put it through a computer model; we've literally gone through the effort of looking at varying kind of scenarios and shooting the foam at leading edges to determine exactly what the consequence will be. So this is not something we're speculating on or just running through some model. It's actually being conducted as a test to determine what can the orbiter withstand.
I'm reminded of a comment that Admiral Gehman offered during the course of the investigation on several occasions, which is this is one tough piece of machinery. And the issue is to determine exactly at what point, at what stage does that tough piece of machinery take a catastrophic hit? And that's exactly what I think the Task Group has helped us sort through and make sure we isolate as a condition.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, that leads to my next question on this. You've-according to our staff report on this, return to flight to date-well, in July of this year we had projected it was going to cost $1.1 billion. That's now been upped to $2.2 billion in the July '04 report of NASA to this committee and to others; double the cost on return to flight. You've done five of the 15 items that are required, so you've got 10 more yet to go and to check through. What's this going to cost? Are we anywhere close to really knowing what this is actually going to cost to get the shuttle to return to flight?
MR. O'KEEFE: This is, again, the primary consequence of the changes that have occurred here in the overall projections, and this is over a span of time, just not concentrated in Fiscal Year '05 exclusively. It is a combination of two events. The first one is, again, there's going to be some sustaining engineering expenses necessary. What the Accident Investigation Board pointed out and observed as made as part of their recommendations is you've got to have a more robust capacity organizationally to deal with this --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Director, I don't mean to cut you off but my time is really short.
Are we confident that the $2.2 billion will be the ultimate cost of return to flight?
MR. O'KEEFE: It's getting a lot closer, that's for sure. And I think the primary components of what contributed to these particular cost projections are, again, the induction of all three orbiters into an orbiter modification program right now, the effort to put on a series of sensors on every single one of the orbiters. There's a whole range of things we did not contemplate a year ago that we're doing now. So I don't see any new unknowns coming down the road. Whether or not this adjusts by some fraction or amount is almost a certainty given the dynamics of this. But I don't see this as being a large increased differential in the time ahead, because the changes have primarily contributed to the options we picked.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And the date? You'd still believe we will return to flight in spring of '05?
MR. O'KEEFE: Looking promising. I certainly wouldn't want to put a date/time group on it by any means. We're going to make sure that when we've met these milestones, that's when we're fit to fly and that's the occasion on which it will occur, and it looks like it's tracking towards a spring opportunity.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I agree with that. We don't want to go to flight until it's ready and safe.
MR. O'KEEFE: Yes, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: General, you had a --
GEN. STAFFORD: Mr. Chairman, I say that in our interface with NASA, the Return to Flight Task Group has observed that really NASA is milestone driven and not schedule driven. Certainly, you have to have a schedule out there for your planning factor, but we've said we have conditionally closed fire. We're anticipating that most of our task will be finished by December. Again, it has to be a milestone to complete that.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I agree with that.
Senator Nelson.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
Senator Lott.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Senator Hutchison.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Senator Breaux.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Director, I feel like now we're getting somewhere, okay, on the discussion because this is what I've looked at as well for some period of time and have been very strongly supportive of the president's exploration vision. It's time to-it's time on the manned space programs for us to really look beyond where we are right now. I think on the unmanned programs you guys are doing a fabulous job. It seems like a good vision, well established, it's being accomplished, things are moving well. So you kind of set that portfolio aside and say, great job from a policy point of view. Policy point of view on the manned space program, though, you look at that and you-I think we're stuck too much paying for the legacy of the past and not projecting on into the future here.
I mentioned at the outset here about looking at the shuttle. One outside group has said, do we need 30 more missions with the shuttle? Now, this is over the life expectancy of the shuttle. That's not this next budget year which you're focused on, and I understand that. But if you look at what they're saying, they're saying you can do this in 10 to 15 flights not 30 if you offload a series of things. I know you've been looking at this internally as well. Looking on down the road, isn't it time we have that type of policy discussion of saying that the legacy cost of this is just too much? We have some other options and we really need these funds to go into the next phase for human space flight and try to really have that level of policy discussion if we're going to whittle these down to half the number so that we can get that money flowing towards the exploration vision the president articulated in the middle of January?
MR. O'KEEFE: I take your point. And please be assured that the approach that we've used in trying to come up with what is the longer term objectives and completion of International Space Station has been driven by the general mantra of every single flight has to fight its way into the manifest, has to justify the reason why we're going to fly it. And what it really comes down to is we've done a terrific job over the years of designing every one of these components and modules to fit precisely into the space shuttle cargo bay. It is the asset that gets it all there. It's lined up impressively. It's one of the facilities that rode out this hurricane with great skill, is all those modules are lined up perfectly and going through testing --
SEN. BROWNBACK: I understand.
MR. O'KEEFE: -- at Kennedy Space Center, and that's the only way to get them there.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yet the Planetary Society and, as I understand, some of the internal discussions were saying you could offload a number of these missions and get it down to 10 to 15. Have you looked at either their studies or your own internal ones that would say we could cut the number of shuttle missions in half?
MR. O'KEEFE: With all due respect to the Planetary Society, we are desperately trying to accomplish the task of getting the modules we know are there through the means that is feasible to do-that's known. And anything we can offload in terms of logistics requirements, whatever else, we are actively exploring those alternatives now to see what kind of in-space-I'm sorry, commercial servicing options may be pursued. We put out a request for information on that. The industry is out examining that now.
But I don't see a real significant diminution of the flight rate because it's just a sheer volume of hardware that fits exactly within the shuttle and there's no other means lift in order to accomplish that task that we know of. We'll continue to look at that constantly. This is an ever moving effort and our friends in the International Space Station partnership, their only interest is not how does it get there, but that it does get there. They are agnostic to the question of exactly how it's accomplished. And so the means by which we achieve that goal is the objective, and we're constantly looking for new ways to do that.
SEN. BROWNBACK: We will continue that discussion.
General Stafford, I want to ask you something on heavy lift capacity, because this is something else that we've wrestled with here for some period of time-and I don't mean to put another issue on the agenda, but as we do budget these things on out, you chaired a study-gosh, that's over a decade ago. And thank you for your continuous service to this government and your repository of knowledge that you continue to provide to us. But you said then that we were-experience has shown that large liquid hydrogen and oxygen engines have been expensive to develop and operate. Oxygen hydrogen propellant is not an attractive option for the first stage of heavy lift launch vehicle because of the large tank volume and safety concerns of using hydrogen below an altitude of 100,000 feet. I don't mean to drag you back to a decade old report.
GEN. STAFFORD: That's fine, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You probably know this well, but aren't we at a stage now we really need to be focusing on different or better options for heavy lift capacity, as well as we look forward into the future?
GEN. STAFFORD: Well, we were looking at the time that I chaired the Synthesis Group, sir, to look forward and one of the key efforts for exploration is a large mass to Low Earth Orbit and from that it takes a heavy lift. And we're looking at the lessons learned from Apollo, we're looking at lessons-and we had inputs from academia, from industry, all over and at the time it said for the first stage for volumetric efficiency it was probably still the LOX or something like that with kerosene.
And the upper stages would certainly be a very high efficiency with hydrogen and oxygen. Now, things have progressed since then. You can use booster stages on the side. But the main criteria is a large mass to Low Earth Orbit, Mr. Chairman.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Have we accomplished that? Are we getting the heavy lift capacity now that we need?
GEN. STAFFORD: Well, the only heavy lift capacity that exists in the United States today is the elements from the space shuttle. And if-there have been, you know, certain ideas put forward like the Shuttle C at one time. That was back in the '90s and that would put about 140,000 to 170,000 pounds, if I'm correct, into Low Earth Orbit. The Saturn 5 at the peak put about 300,000 pounds when the third stage shut off, and then to escape velocity was approximately 120,000 pounds.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I'm concerned we've not addressed adequately this, and this is a big, big issue as well --
GEN. STAFFORD: Yes, sir, I'm --
SEN. BROWNBACK: -- moving forward with exploration and this is one-this is an issue that's been around for some period of time.
GEN. STAFFORD: That is correct, Mr. Chairman. And I agree, we have to have a heavy lift for a large mass to Low Earth Orbit.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Senator Nelson?
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Could I just-because you did that for moon/Mars mission review at that time and talked about the need for heavy lift capacity to be able to do that. Now, maybe it's a different ball game now, and hopefully it is. It's just as an issue I-as I look, saying, okay, we want to get to this new vision for manned space exploration. I want us to invest our dollars there and it seems like we've depreciated out the old machinery here and it's time to move on forward. It's got a heavy expense in repair if we're going to use it and, you know, we're at $2.2 billion on return to flight now. We don't know if that's the exact number it's going to finish with. You've got five of 15 items accomplished, but you've got 10 more to do. We don't-we've got to either have a system where you can repair in-flight or rescue. That seems like to me you're going-you're talking about some serious dollars being able to do either of those types, or probably you'll want a system where you can do both of those if we're going to use the shuttle. And I'm just-I'm looking at this thing and this thing has got a lot of costs associated.
MR. O'KEEFE: Mr. Chairman, if I could, the one point I would caution is that this is not an additive or exponential equation here where you take five recommendations and it costs this much to get there and another 10 to go and so you take the exponent and you just escalate it. I mean, this is basically what the cost is. Last summer when we estimated the cost of what we were doing there, we were really doing a forecast that was well within a swag because the Accident Investigation Board recommendations were just codified on August 26 of last year. We formulated our best bet in putting this together for part of the budget and what we've now encountered is a whole series of things that we've done that I think in the end is not so much an increase in cost as much as it's just a front loading of cost.
What we're doing-again, all three orbiters in major modification. That would normally happen over a span of five or six years. The fact that it's intensively happening all in the span of about 18 months is what's front loading these costs. It means you save costs from the out years of not having to do that. The second thing we're doing is a lot of sustaining engineering effort. One of the observations of the recommendation in the Accident Investigation Board report was the requirement for inspections and a whole range of different kind of capabilities organically within the agency to do this. That's going to cost over time organizationally the effort necessary-and that's what I think Thomas Stafford has observed is that we're really tapping some of the best folks out there.
But that's kind of getting to be a diminished number because we're recruiting them all in to be part of the Engineering and Safety Center, to be part of the independent technical authority, to be part of the sustaining engineering effort at Johnson, at Marshall, at Kennedy in order to assure we've got a robust engineering capacity in those places. That's going to cost and it's going to be cost over time in terms of those organizational changes, and it isn't directly related exclusively to shuttle itself. So part of this is an adjustment of costs up front rather than an increase or an additive cost over time. And, indeed, we'd much rather see that happen now during this time when all the orbiters are down so we can do the kind of repairs necessary, to make the upgrades necessary for sensors and the booms and everything else, to do that right.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And that's agreed. It's just I don't think we know that the $2.2 billion is a hard figure either. I mean, it ought to be and it looks like to me it's probably more than a swag off of this one. But still you just don't know what these things are going to consume budgetarily. I mean, I hope this is the end of it for as far as, okay, yes, we can do it and we're not driven by dollars or timeframes, we've driven by milestones. So nothing happens until this thing is certified that we're clear and we're good to go on it. But, you know, that's --
MR. O'KEEFE: Well, for what it's worth-I mean, you're absolutely right. I don't want to mislead you in any way that they've got a firm fixed handle on these numbers. No doubt about it. There's always going to be something that's going to come up here. I mean, it seems like it's a daily event, you know, between acts of God and everything else that occur. That said, the number we're looking at today, the cost we're looking at, the efforts we're engaged in, what we're doing to kind of work through each of these recommendations by the end of this year is a whole lot better understood than where it was on this very date one year ago. And at that time it was, you know, a forecast at best. Today we combine this within a parameter.
GEN. STAFFORD: Mr. Chairman, I want to say we have conditionally closed out five of the 15 recommendations. We're also way down the road on many of the other 10, Mr. Chairman, and hopefully in the next two to three months we can close out another four or five. Our planning factor is the end of December, but we're not going to stop until everyone has met those milestones. But we're way down the road on considerably more than just those five that have been conditionally closed, Mr. Chairman.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So you believe as you independently review this, by somewhere end of this year you should be able to close out all 15?
GEN. STAFFORD: If the conditions are met by NASA, that is our planning factor. If they're not, we'll go right on over into the next year.
SEN. BROWNBACK: No, I understand the planning factor. But I'm just saying as you observe from outside NASA and what it is doing, you believe they are on track to hit all 15 milestones by the end of this year?
GEN. STAFFORD: It may be difficult on several of them, sir. And particularly, as I outlined, the biggest challenge is the external tank and the outlining on the critical debris. So the technical part is really the critical part. And Mr. Cuzzupoli could enlighten you if there's any further sub-details that you would need.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So you believe the technical ability is there even on the external tanks to be able to accomplish this limitation of debris?
GEN. STAFFORD: We know that a lot of the areas have been accomplished and right now the milestone looks like that they should ship the tank there in November. But, again, they won't ship the tank until the criteria has been closed.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Cuzzupoli, do you want to comment on this? Do you mind? I hate to extend this, but this really goes to the core of what we're trying to get at at the hearing.
MR. JOSEPH CUZZUPOLI: Thank you, Senator.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Are we going to be able to technologically address the issues on the external tank?
MR. CUZZUPOLI: Yes, we will. And from an independent viewpoint, NASA has done one great job of identifying their fixes on the external tank, and they've got a real good path of getting there. The issue, again, is to make sure that none of the foam comes off the critical debris area and that's a tough job. The CAIB has put some very strong recommendations, very high recommendations, and NASA again has lifted the bar over that recommendation and it's going to be a difficult work going forward. But I believe what the general said, that by the end of the year-right now the recommendations look like we can maybe conditionally close all of them. Some of them will have to stay open based on verification, but they're on a milestone schedule to complete everything by the end of the year as far as recommendations.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So no technological hurdle that's insurmountable on the foam issue in the external tank?
MR. CUZZUPOLI: We on the independent parties have seen none that can stop them from going forward.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And you, as an external reviewer, believe that they are on track to be able to close this out, at least conditionally, by the end of this year?
MR. CUZZUPOLI: Yes, Senator.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay. Good. All right. Gentlemen, thank you very much.
Mr. Director, I might add, though, one final thought in. As we're putting the appropriations together for this year, it seems like we really-it may be time, given the administration's view on this and a veto threat-or recommendation of a veto by key advisers to the president more accurately, it may be time to try to get some of the chief sponsors of this together to try to discuss that while we may talk about an out year issue, you've got a near term this year issue that we need to resolve. We've got budget caps, we're trying to get back into a balanced budget and everybody understands that, you more than anybody, having worked on this process before. And you understand where you are in the appropriations process. But it might be wise to try to get some of the key-chief people together in the House, Senate and the administration to try to resolve this issue here pretty near term so we could maybe come up with a number that not anybody is completely satisfied with but that's workable on this year, and on a this year appropriation. And that would seem like it may be a wise thing to do here pretty near term.
MR. O'KEEFE: No, I appreciate that, Senator. And this is certainly a clear understanding on our part of how challenging this is. This is a really tough budget year, there's no doubt about that. That said, I think you put your finger right to it. A lot of the debate and discussion about what we do in the out years and what's the right permutation and when is the gap and-that's academic if we can't get through this first stage. And we understand that to be two critical factors. The first one is we have to demonstrate a proficiency, technical and professional proficiency, of return to flight. That's our fundamental objective right now to do that. And number two is, and equally important, is the Congress of the United States, if it would simply support what the president's budget request has done, that will get us towards that objective. So how we debate what these out year permutations are are really important. They're significant, they're imperative for accomplishing this strategy. But we can't even get out of the starting gate unless we can accomplish this in this coming year on those two variables, and that's where the issue resides right now. Mr. Chairman, if you would permit me one last point --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let me finish with that thought, though, because what it seems like I'm observing is that you've got a pretty strong group supporting space shuttle, you've got a strong group supporting the exploration mission, and then you've got a strong group that doesn't want to concentrate resources in fewer areas, which you're going to need to do to be able to get these done. And what I would hope we could do is in the near term-the first year let's try to agree on a number that we can hit those as we continue to negotiate that three-that set of three policy issues that are out in front, which I think is all doable but you are going to-it is going to have to take somebody kind of pulling the pot together and getting it made so we can get that done.
MR. O'KEEFE: Fair enough. I agree with you wholeheartedly.
If you'd permit me one last comment, sir?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Please.
MR. O'KEEFE: There was at the point which there's a couple of discussions of what the morale and what the condition of it is across the agency. Let me just offer, rather than my opinion, as anecdotal evidence I admit a missive that was sent out a couple of weeks ago by the deputy program manager of the space shuttle program, Wayne Hale, that he sent around to all the shuttle team members and all the colleagues we have that are working this issue. It really is uplifting. It is a piece that speaks more in my judgment to what the morale of the people who really matter, that are really turning the crank and doing this job and are dedicated to this task have summarized, and this is something I consult just about every day now because it is an important reminder of what this is all about and why people care about it. It's a really great piece and if you'd permit me, sir, to insert that for the record at the point in which that discussion occurred with both Senator Breaux as well as with Senator Nelson, I'd appreciate it very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That will be in the record without objection.
MR. O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, you're very kind. I appreciate that.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Gentlemen, thank you all very much. And I want to congratulate you, Director O'Keefe, General Stafford, really for the work that you guys are doing. And while the questions may be, you know, back and forth and seem pretty aggressive at times, it's our role to try to do some oversight where we try to dig in to the issues of the day, and we're wrestling with a big set of policy issues as you are and we want to review your policy decision.
MR. O'KEEFE: We'd be disappointed otherwise, Mr. Chairman.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, we wouldn't want to disappoint you. But I don't want that thought to diminish the thought as well that we really want to commend you for the work that you're doing. I see a lot of very positive things that are very uplifting for the country and there are going to be struggles, and this is a cutting edge area that you're in and so they're just-there's going to be difficulties with that, and sometimes it's hard to explain to the American public too, when they'd rather have a pothole fixed in the street, that this is important. It is important and we need to be always out there talking about that. But we also need to make sure that the policy directions are one that the vast majority of the United States public supports, it's not a partisan issue, it doesn't cross-doesn't cut Republican or Democrat. This is about America leading on forward and I think you're both doing very commendable work in that and I want to thank you for doing that.
GEN. STAFFORD: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you all for coming. The hearing is adjourned.
