Public Statements
CNBC Capital Report - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 4, 2004
Location: Unknown


CNBC News Transcripts
SHOW: Capital Report (7:00 PM ET) - CNBC
HEADLINE: Senator Sam Brownback discusses key battleground states and issues being raised in the presidential campaigns
ANCHORS: ALAN MURRAY
BODY:
ALAN MURRAY, co-host:
Well, today probably won't be the last time Bush and Kerry stump on the same turf. Iowa is one of a handful of Midwest battleground states where both candidates will be spending a lot of time between now and November. What do they need to do to win over these heartland voters? Joining me now: Republican Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas.
Senator, thank you very much for being with me.
Senator SAM BROWNBACK (Republican, Kansas): Happy to join you.
MURRAY: Explain why both candidates are in Iowa today.
Sen. BROWNBACK: It's a swing state, it's a battleground state. It's a lot like a number of the other Midwestern states that are ones that people are still looking, thinking and seeing where each of the candidates are, even though most of the people, I think, are decided.
MURRAY: And in those battleground states, what do you think the key issue is? Is it homeland defense, is it Iraq, or is it the economy?
Sen. BROWNBACK: You know, I just finished our primary here yesterday in Kansas, and there was a primary in Missouri yesterday. And I found two key issues really resonated. Number one was security, and that was that we give the terrorists no rest, no sanctuary anywhere in the world. And the second issue was the set of values issues-they're tough to talk about, they're difficult-but particularly this issue of marriage. In Missouri yesterday constitutional amendment defining marriage as between a man and a woman passes with 72 percent of the vote. Those two key issues are really resonating.
MURRAY: So it's not the economy, stupid?
Sen. BROWNBACK: Well, the economy's a base issue. You've got to have the economy performing well before you get to other issues. But the economy's really starting to pick up. We've got to do more. We've got to create more jobs. But people really are concerned about security, these terrorists-that we not give them rest. And they also are concerned about the American culture and, really, what's happening to these basic institutions of the American culture.
MURRAY: Well, we've got a strong indication of that in Missouri with this vote banning gay marriage, the first vote to ban gay marriage in the United States. How significant do you think that is?
Sen. BROWNBACK: I think it's huge, and it's a battleground state. And it wasn't even close. This is 72 percent on a constitutional amendment. And as I campaigned, it is one of those issues where people say, 'You know, we really need to protect this.' This is the core around which we build families. And we don't get it right a lot of times, and we have difficulties, but we still need to hold the aspiration that we have men and women bond together for life in low-conflict households that bring up the next generation. And that's not what everybody's in.
MURRAY: Yeah.
Sen. BROWNBACK: But it is what we aspire to do.
MURRAY: Now one of the things John Kerry was doing in Iowa today was unveiling a list of 200 businesspeople that have endorsed his campaign, saying that a lot of these people are concerned about the deficit; they're concerned about what problems overseas have done to our international relations. What's your response to that?
Sen. BROWNBACK: Well, my guess is George Bush could bring out 2,000 if John Kerry's unveiling 200 and that the businesses like the combination of low interest rates that the Fed is doing and low taxes, which the Bush administration has pushed, which is key in growing this economy. We have to create a growth platform out of the United States and have it growing rapidly here. And George Bush is the one that's committed to doing that. And I think you'll hear him start talking about a flat tax, really getting the tax code out of so much impact on people's lives, having it level and causing growth to take place in the United States.
MURRAY: You think George Bush is going to propose a flat tax?
Sen. BROWNBACK: We'll see. But it's something that a lot of economists-when they look at this, they say, 'If you want to create growth, great growth, 3 to 6 percent GDP growth, like George Bush has produced, this is one of the key issues to look at.'
MURRAY: Do you think the American people don't want progressivity in their tax system, which is to say they don't believe that affluent people should pay a higher percentage of their income in taxes than poor people?
Sen. BROWNBACK: Oh, I think they're fine with the concept, but I don't think they think it works in practice. When you look at this tax code, this thing is so confusing. It is such a mess. People don't understand it. You can call the IRS with one question to 20 different analysts in the IRS, and you'll get 20 different answers.
MURRAY: Yeah.
Sen. BROWNBACK: People are very frustrated with this tax code, and that's why they really would like the simplicity issue of a flat tax.
MURRAY: All right. We're going to talk about that issue in a little bit with the speaker of the House, Dennis Hastert. But thank you very much, Senator Brownback, for being with us on CAPITAL REPORT.
