Public Statements
Panel One of a Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee - The Middle East Road Map
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 20, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service
HEADLINE: PANEL ONE OF A HEARING OF THE SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE
SUBJECT: THE MIDDLE EAST ROAD MAP
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR RICHARD LUGAR (R-IN)
WITNESS: DAVID SATTERFIELD, DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR NEAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
LOCATION: 419 DIRKSEN SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes. In fact, if I could just briefly, Mr. Chairman, and apologies for being here late. I just got off a plane from Tel Aviv, and was there and talking with the Israeli leadership, and looking at the security fence. So, I apologize for coming late, and I apologize I haven't heard all the testimony and questions earlier.
It does strike me from being there that until there is somebody to negotiate with at the PA there isn't a whole lot that's going to be able to happen. And that the Bush administration, at least certainly from the Israeli leadership, is doing everything that they can. But until the Palestinians sort out their own leadership discussion/debate, there's just not a whole lot that really can happen. And what you're doing is appreciated, but we can't determine the Palestinian leadership, the Palestinians have to determine their own leadership, and they should determine their own leadership, and that they're involved in, it looks like to me, a very messy dispute right now to determine who is going to lead and how, and that could take some time to sort out.
I don't know what else you do. The Bush administration can't go in there and say, okay, this is the person that's going to lead. The Quartet can't go in there and say, okay, this is the person that's going to lead the Palestinians. That has to be resolved by themselves, and it could be a difficult period of time. I think we can encourage them to select leadership, and should, and get the Quartet to encourage them to select leadership and should, but until they pick that I don't see who is there to negotiate with. You can't just negotiate with yourself.
Now, on the security fence, I toured several areas of the security fence. I don't think there's any question but that this has been, as a security fence, has been successful. It's something, I think, Mr. Chairman, we probably would do here if we were confronted with a very similar situation of such close proximities to a population, and so many terrorist bombings taking place, that we would probably do something really quite similar as a democracy that's first call is to protect its own citizens. It's hard to see much any different than what's taken place.
I would urge the administration and the Israeli leadership, as I did there, to work with as many people as possible so that the route is the least intrusive on people's normal lives if they can do that, and they seem to be very open to being a part and to do that, and they're reconstructing it at a number of points to try to make that take place.
I appreciate what you guys are doing. And, Mr. Chairman, not to prolong this, but I just would encourage you to stay as engaged as you can, but I think there have to be a couple of factors that are going to have to put into place before a whole lot more can happen in the region, and the first of that and foremost is going to be the Palestinian leadership. Thank you for being here.
Mr. Chairman, thanks for holding the hearing.
