Public Statements
Panel One of a Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee - Latest Round of Six-Way Talks on Nuclear Weapons in North Korea
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 15, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service
HEADLINE: PANEL ONE OF A HEARING OF THE SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE
SUBJECT: LATEST ROUND OF SIX-WAY TALKS ON NUCLEAR WEAPONS IN NORTH KOREA
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR RICHARD LUGAR (R-IN)
WITNESSES: JAMES KELLY, ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR EAST ASIAN AND PACIFIC AFFAIRS; JOSEPH DETRANI, SPECIAL STATE DEPARTMENT ENVOY FOR SIX-PARTY TALKS
LOCATION: 419 DIRKSEN SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you for holding this hearing and your focus on North Korea and, Secretary Kelly, welcome and I appreciate all your great work in this area. And I really appreciate what the administration is doing and holding a light up on what's happening in North Korea and not just taking kind of an easy answer, let's put a Band-Aid on this, and let's move on. Because we've done that before, and it's failed, and it's been a great problem. So I appreciate the difficulty of what you're doing, and I appreciate that you're taking to get real answers in this.
I do, though, want to raise a series of questions about who we're dealing with in Kim Jong Il in this regime and what we know. And you know this regime very well, and you've been-you've been more successful than anybody about getting truth out of them-to admit things that we've alleged for years, and that they have said but-it is a terrorist state, by our own definition; it's a charter member of the "axis of evil," by our definition; by the numbers I have, they have killed about 10 percent of their own population over the last 10 years through starvation, deprivation, about 2 million of a 22 million population, a little under 10 percent. If you have different figures on any of this, correct me as we go through it.
They operated a gulag system and for that, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to enter into the record, at this point, the summary of a hearing we held on David Hawk's "The Hidden Gulag," exposing North Korea's prison camps, which I know the Secretary is familiar with.
SEN. LUGAR: It will be included in the hearing record.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I'd also like to include in the record an article by Anne Applebaum, who is an authority on gulags about Auschwitz under our noses.
SEN. LUGAR: That will be included.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Where she talks about the gulag system in North Korea being very akin to Nazi Germany's gulag system. You know people that have come out, and I know you've met with some that have come out of the gulag system, as I have. We think there's somewhere -- 150,000, 200,000 people in the North Korean gulag system. They operate that type of horrific system. They've lied or at least misled us in credible ways on nuclear negotiations in the past-the 1994 agreement, I believe, according to Secretary Powell-the ink wasn't even dry, and they were looking for other sources of nuclear material. I have that from one of the top defectors that came out, and I believe it's in public knowledge, or realm, at this point in time. So this is not a trustworthy regime to negotiate with on nuclear issues, given past performance in the 1994 signed agreement.
They are arms merchants for virtually every evil regime in the world. They are drugrunners, as a government; held a hearing on that. Counterfeiting-money, other items, a number of places, U.S. currency; human traffickers-I've got the State Department Trafficking in Persons report of June 2004 and, Mr. Chairman, I'd like for this to be entered into the record-the page on North Korea. Just to read it very briefly, if I could-"source country for persons trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation, DPRK operates forced labor prison camps to punish criminals and repatriated North Koreas of slave-like labor conditions on its prisoners." This is a State Department document. Kidnappers in Japan-maybe they're starting to get those cleared up; chemical weapons test on prisoners-now this is only according to the BBC and several other documents coming out, so it has-in my estimation, hasn't risen to the level of proof yet, but I quote here from this Anne Applebaum story of a former administrator of a North Korean camp-"I witnessed a whole family being tested on suffocating gas and dying in the gas chamber. He said, 'The parents, son, and a daughter, the parents were vomiting and dying but until the very last moment, they tried to save the kids by doing mouth-to-mouth breathing'"-chemical testing on their own people.
As I stated at the outset, a charter member of the "axis of evil." This is Kim Jong Il's regime that we're negotiating with. Can you really negotiate with this group-that we have this track record of what they have or are doing?
MR. KELLY: There is no way to put a good face on the DPRK, and there is nothing you've said, Senator Brownback, that I could-that I have any evidence to deny. To the best of my knowledge, everything you said there-or at least a vast majority of it-is absolutely unchallenged and widely known.
Can we negotiate with them? We don't intend to negotiate with North Korea ourselves. We believe that the multilateral process-that the international community is very much involved in this, and that's why we want the six-party talks or other international forum to take that lead.
With that said, is it possible for us to be a party to any negotiations? The answer, yes, sir, is that it is. I had the honor to work for the late President Reagan, and he put it best-"Trust but verify." If there is the verification, if there is a dismantlement, even then we may not be 100-percent sure. But I certainly would feel much more comfortable if the kind of quantities that I believe are there, of nuclear material, were removed from North Korea.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And I would, too. But let me finish on this point-with all these human rights abuses at the extraordinary level, comparing their gulag with Hitler's concentration camps, tier 3 trafficking, chemical weapons tests on their own people, and 10 percent of their population dying the last 10 years-if we provide resources from here for something in North Korea in exchange for their dropping of nuclear weapons, completely verified nuclear weapons dropping-we see it, we take it out of the country, or the Chinese with us watching-take it actually physically out-it is dismantled. And you're still giving money to a country operating a gulag, operating trafficking, operating chemical weapons tests on its own people? I, for one, and that's the heart of the North Korea Freedom Act that we've put forward, that I've talked with you about, is that I cannot, in good conscience say, "Okay, we're going to fund something in here," and recognize we'll get a verifiable nuclear weapons removal when all the rest of this is going on. And we know it's going on, and it's right there in front of our eyes, and we just can't deny it.
I really would plead with you that you tell the North Koreans that Congress is requiring you to put the human rights issues in this portfolio. I know they don't want to talk about it. I wouldn't want to talk about it if I were Kim Jong Il or anybody in his regime, given their track record. But this is horrific. I've spoken to you privately about that, and I will continue to do so, and I really hope that we can put that issue in there rather than us saying we will fund this for the nuclear weapons, given the level of other things that are going on in that regime.
MR. KELLY: Senator, we're not seeking funds, and we have no plans to provide funds. The one possible exception might be the Nunn- Lugar money precisely for dismantlement of nuclear weapons. But we're not seeking funding. We're not looking to bribe North Korea to end its nuclear weapons state. We see this as a very important objective, but then we have made clear that normalization of our relations would have to follow these other important issues. And human rights is coequal in importance, perhaps even more important, than conventional forces, chemical weapons, ballistic missiles, matters of that sort.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you for your work on this. I don't want to demean it because I think you've done a very important work, but there's a level of frustration with what's there, too.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Chairman, could I ask one more (on the round ?) --
SEN. LUGAR: Yes, Senator Brownback.
SEN. BROWNBACK: -- and I very much appreciate, Senator Biden, you getting to the bifurcation, the issue there.
Secretary Kelly, I'm sure you've talked about this a lot, about putting the human rights issues on the table now to get them in the negotiations. It sure seems to me that that's really the key in driving this, and we look at past negotiations with the Soviet Union at another time, with the set of human rights issues at the front end of it that really drove the radicalized change in the regime and in the country, and that these are critically important. Now, I understand the difficulty, by why not put these in the first tranche and not on the bigger package of normalized relations when you have such a horrific set and such a useful tool actually to talk about with them?
MR. KELLY: The human rights issues are out there, and the work you've done, Senator, the reports that you cite are a part of this. This is not completely ignored in other parts of the world, although I don't think it receives the attention that it really needs to. So these things, the movement of refugees into China and on to South Korea and to other countries is something that goes on. There is this, in the background. Whether or not we should make the nuclear issue co-dependent and coequal with the human rights issue is a, really, a question of tactics as to what would come first. And our consultations with the allies and partners is that they feel that it is best to try to get movement on the nuclear weapons issue first, if only because of the additional progress that is being made in developing ever greater amounts of fissionable material.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
