Public Statements
CNN Lou Dobbs Tonight - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 14, 2004
Location: Unknown


CNN
SHOW: LOU DOBBS TONIGHT 18:00
HEADLINE: Same-Sex Marriage Amendment Fails; CAFTA Vote Delayed
GUESTS: Sam Brownback, Barbara Boxer, Pete Peterson, Karen Tumulty, E.J. Dionne
BYLINE: Lou Dobbs, Casey Wian, Lisa Sylvester, Jean Macklin, Peter Viles, Kitty Pilgrim, Ed Henry, Jamie McIntyre
HIGHLIGHT:
Senate Republicans fail to pass a constitutional amendment that would have banned same-sex marriage. Democrats said the effort was not about protecting the institution of marriage but rather about dividing the country. President Bush has decided to delay a vote on the United States' next major free trade agreement. The Central American Free Trade Agreement, or CAFTA, has become so controversial that the president will not ask Congress to vote on it until after the November election.
BODY:
HENRY: Senators John Kerry and John Edwards skipped this vote, saying it was just procedural and their votes wouldn't have tipped the balance anyway. Edwards, however, did put out statement charging that Republicans are trying to use the constitution as a political tool.
A Bush/Cheney campaign aide responded by saying, in part, quote, "it takes a special kind of Senator to attack others over a vote that they don't show up for-Lou.
DOBBS: A lot of special senators involved in this one. Thank you very much Ed Henry.
Critics of the amendment to ban gay marriages have charged Republicans with playing politics. Backers of the amendment say their goal is to protect the institution of marriage. The Gay Marriage Amendment is the subject of our "Face-Off" tonight.
Joining us Republican Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas. He co- sponsored the amendment. Democratic Senator Barbara Boxer of California. She says the amendment was nothing more than election year politics.
We thank you both for being here. Senator Brownback, if I may begin with you. This is a significant defeat. Word is that Republican Party on this issue.
BROWNBACK: Well, I think it leaves the Republican Party where it has been all along, in support of marriage being the union of a man and woman.
And this is not an unusual place for these things to develop at this point in time. This issue is driven by the courts. It's being pushed forward by the courts. And what we're trying to get is the elective bodies involved in this. As we've seen many of the states start to pick this up on state constitutions. We're needing to address the issue. We need to address this at the federal constitutional level. And it would be great if we didn't have to, but the courts are engaged and the courts are pushing this. And if we don't address it you'll have a redefinition of marriage done by the courts without the people speaking.
DOBBS: Senator Boxer?
SEN. BARBARA BOXER, (D) CALIFORNIA: Well, first of all, not one federal court has even ruled on this. So, this whole thing is timed because they wanted to have a vote before the Democratic Convention.
And you know, I engage in politics. I think it is a worthy career. I have done it for awhile. But you don't need a degree in political science to see how the timing of this was just before the Democratic election. And to hurt certain Senators.
But there's two things I would like to respond to that Senator Brownback, my friend, said. No. 1, he said the Republicans have come out strong and so on. Well, they were divided. That's No. 1. And even Lynne Cheney, who isn't in the Senate, spoke out. George Wills spoke out on our side and on the more moderate Republican side. So it's a very interesting kind of lineup.
And also, this wasn't about whether you are for gay marriage or domestic partnerships or civil unions I don't understand. It was about should we amend the constitution. That's what this was about.
DOBBS: Senator Brownback, let me ask you this: The issue of amending the U.S. constitution and denying marriage to same sex couples, that would be the only amendment that was constraining of rights rather than embracing or empowering. Does that give you pause at all?
BROWNBACK: Not on this in the least. And the reason I say that is, you're talking about the fundamental institution around which we build families in this country. And you're talking about a fundamental institution that's been under attack for nearly 40 years and in a lot of difficulty. And you're talking about a fundamental institution that you've seen in other countries that have engaged in same sex unions has declined even further.
And so really what you're talking about is the children. Where's the optimal setting? And what can we do to encourage that family and that mother and father bonded together for life in a low conflict union that raises children that will be the next generation?
Children are raised in a lot of different settings nowadays. That's certainly the case. But we know the optimal place. We know the place we want to push for. And I think that's worthy of enshrining in the constitution with a simple statement that marriage in the United States is a union of a man and woman.
DOBBS: Senator Boxer?
BOXER: I have to say that is the most pessimistic view of marriage I have ever heard. Marriage has been under attack for 40 years? Not in my community. Not where I live.
And I have to tell you, if we want to ease the burden from families there are things we need to do. Lou, you've talked about the outsourcing of jobs and the pressure that's putting on our families. We see that the income has gone up about 1 percent while cost of health insurance and college tuition is running away.
So if there are ways that we can help marriage, let's do it. But let's not amend the constitution for something that isn't even a threat at this point. It doesn't even make any sense at all.
DOBBS: May I ask you this, Senator Boxer. Because Senator Brownback raises the issue referring to some of the Scandinavian studies in which same sex marriages have been permitted-unions, in many cases. There has been a decline in the institution of marriage. How do you respond to that particular relationship?
BOXER: You know, it's interesting that they're making this relationship and they did this on the floor of the Senate, that my friend Sam and others, that said that because-and they use the Netherlands-allows gay marriage, there's been more illegitimate children.
And I don't really get that tie-in. I have looked at it and I have seen a bigger rise in Ireland, where there is no gay marriage and illegitimate children.
So I don't really see the connection. I think what's important here-and Sam is right to talk about children. We want to make sure that children are raised in loving homes. That's important. That separate and apart, whether or not we have a constitutional amendment here. And that was the issue today.
DOBBS: Senator Brownback, you have the last word.
BROWNBACK: It's not separate and apart. We know the best place to raise children. We know the ideal. We know how difficult that ideal is to achieve, of having that loving parents together and bonded together for life. But we should push for that ideal. And I see no problem with putting in the constitution that the marriage in the United States is the union of a man and woman. It's something that's written on our hearts. And we understand that that's the right way and the right place to do that. It's important for the future of this country.
DOBBS: Senator Brownback, Senator Boxer we thank you for being here.
BROWNBACK: Thank you, Lou.
