Public Statements
News Conference - Situation in Sudan
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 13, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service
HEADLINE: NEWS CONFERENCE WITH SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS); AND SENATOR JON CORZINE (D-NJ) RE: SITUATION IN SUDAN LOCATION: SENATE RADIO AND TV GALLERY, THE CAPITOL, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you for joining us today.
Two weeks ago, Congressman Frank Wolf and I returned from Darfur, Sudan. We saw conditions that you see in some of these pictures here, and then after the presentation we'll have a short video pulling all that together. We drove by and walked through burnt and pillaged villages. We heard the stories of the victims who had been shot, raped and beaten.
Based on what we saw and the trip report that we have filed and released, we gave the Khartoum government two weeks to begin taking immediate action to disarm the Janjawid, and to provide security to the internally displaced persons and protection for the NGOs and access for the foreign aid workers.
As of today, those two weeks are up, and what have we seen the Sudanese government do since then? Reports I received as late as yesterday indicate that the government of Sudan not only continued to deny that ethnic cleansing is going on in Darfur, but as late as this weekend, according to reliable sources on the ground, more than 30 villages have been destroyed by the Janjawid since our departure. Individual displaced people continue to be hassled, and foreign aid workers are still being denied access.
While the world debates what it-while the world debates about what it should do, people in Darfur die. It is time to end this debate and start saving lives.
That's why I'm pleased to join my colleague, Senator Corzine, in announcing our introduction of a resolution calling the crisis in Darfur a genocide. This is the same resolution that Congressman Payne introduced in the House. As I discussed with Congressman Payne, he'll be modifying his resolution slightly to expedite the process by which this resolution can be introduced as the same and passed, hopefully soon, before the August break, in both the House and the Senate.
I want to take a moment and commend Congressman Payne. He and I have worked on the Sudan for many years. As a matter of fact, my first trip into the Sudan was with Congressman Payne. He had been there already several times before. I've noticed him over the years that he certainly leads with courage and conviction. His Sudan resolution is a prime example of that, in which what calling the Sudan crisis a genocide. He did that first. He led on that. It is true. It is happening. It's time it passed.
What this resolution does is to add the political pressure on everyone. It requires the United Nations to take decisive and and necessary action.
Any country on the Security Council that opposes or thwarts actions that the U.N. might wish to take under Chapter 7 of its charter will have, in effect, approved of the genocide occurring in Sudan or, worse yet, just not care. Those nations will be on notice. More importantly, Sudan itself will be on notice. It will become a pariah among nations and will carry with it the shame of doing nothing to prevent the wanton murder of its own people, even participating in it.
The atrocities that are continuing today in Darfur are unconscionable, and this is why the U.S. Congress must take immediate and decisive action. Time has run out on the Khartoum government, but more urgently, time is running out for the people of Darfur.
Unlike Rwanda, where afterwards we pronounced genocide, after 800,000 died, here is a chance for the international community to step in and stop the death. If we will act decisively and now, we can stop hundreds of thousands of people from dying. If we don't, they will die.
We must act. We need to pass the Sudan resolution, and we need to pass it now.
Now I'll call on my colleague in the Senate Senator Corzine for his comments.
SEN. CORZINE: Thank you, Senator Brownback. I appreciate your leadership, your moral courage, to stand up and take on an issue which-all of us who are in public life need to stand firm, to recognize that if we do not act, we are putting at risk literally hundreds of thousands of human beings. And it is time for us to act.
I want to congratulate the Congressional Black Caucus and particularly my colleague from New Jersey, Congressman Payne, who has made this an incredibly important part of his service to our country. And as Senator Brownback mentioned, the Sudan and Africa in general have been foremost on his agenda. And I am proud to stand with him, as I am with all of the members of the Congressional Black Caucus and Congressman Wolf as well, because this is something that we have no right to not speak out about. We have a responsibility to recognize and to do everything we can.
As we stand here, 30,000 innocent lives have been lost, and there are discussions of as much as 300,000 and as many as a million people who could potentially lose their lives-Darfurians of Muslim religious faith and African ethnicity, most of them women and children.
It's widely reported, documented-and as Senator Brownback reported-rape and murder are used as deliberate tools of policy for ethnic cleansing and ethnic conversion. This must stop.
This is not an acceptable behavior, and it's one that we recognize exists, we must act. We should not be put into a position where we remember and recognize actions after the fact while they are in front of us today. We have no reason not to act today.
As we gathered last month at, I thought, a very moving press conference at the museum, the Holocaust Museum, to bear witness to the events in Darfur, we had survivors from the Holocaust and family members from Darfur to speak out, and to speak out passionately about what is going on.
The actions have been limited. We're quite pleased and respect the efforts of Secretary Powell and U.N. Secretary-General Annan's visit. And I congratulate Senator Brownback and Congressman Wolf for their visit to try to bring attention to these issues. But laying markers down and no action taking place is unacceptable. It's unacceptable to all of us and we need to move forward. It's not about rhetoric, public promises; it's about doing something. It's about making sure that this behavior stops. And it is absolutely unacceptable for those of us in public life not to speak up and speak out. We need to avert this tragedy. We need to get Khartoum to move. That is what we are trying to do and what we're speaking about today.
We want the provisions of the 1948 U.N. Convention on Genocide to be implemented. They're specific. They require action. We can do that. Let's get on with it. We need to declare it genocide. We need to make sure that actions are taking place. The United States needs to make sure that it's providing support to the African Union so that we can have something more than 60 observers and 300 troops watching millions of people, or at least a million people. We need to make sure that America's oldest ally, France, which has military bases in Chad, is involved; that this is not just a U.S. effort. We need to make sure that the politicians in Khartoum recognize that actions are important; that they need and will be held accountability if they do not protect their most vulnerable citizens. And the militias need to make sure that they know that they are going to be held responsible, and that we need to move against them.
These terrorism outrages need to stop, and we need to take all necessary action to protect and effectively assist those Darfurians who are under threat of violence, famine and disease. It is absolutely essential that we act today. We do not-as Senator Brownback said-want to look back and understand-know what we know today, and see hundreds of thousands if not a million people die, the way we had to commemorate, just this past May, the 800,000 deaths in Rwanda.
We know what's happening. It's time to act. And so all of us here, with all of the challenges we have as a nation today, with all of the important agenda items we have, and we certainly have many-in national security, economic security, and all kinds of things-we have no right to not deal with this issue.
And so I am pleased to work with Senator Brownback on this effort. I am honored to stand with my congressional mates from the House who have taken early action on this. It is time for us to move forward. Today we will introduce that resolution that makes that happen.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thanks, Senator.
Congressman Don Payne.
REP. DONALD M. PAYNE (D-NJ): Thank you very much.
Let me begin by saying it's a real pleasure and an honor to stand between Senator Brownback and Senator Corzine, as well as my colleagues here, in declaring genocide is occurring in Darfur. The reason I say it's a pleasure is because it's not a popular thing to say, to do. I really commend these senators for saying that, even though when you mention the word genocide, you invoke a word that obligates the world to act, and that's why it's very reluctantly said or used.
And so I seriously commend both of these senators for taking the moral stand-not a popular stand, even in the world, but we're calling it what it is, because the '48 convention talks about the prevention of genocide, and that is exactly what we're attempting to do. Because if things continue to go on, there is no question about the fact: genocide is going on now, and we can look back, as we did in Rwanda, and said we should have done something.
And so our House Con. Res. 467, which will be modified to conjoin it with the Senate resolution-when we introduced it, we got 30 sponsors immediately; we now have 60 co-sponsors. Probably before the end of the day, we will have 100. And so we know that the houses of the Congress are taking this situation very, very seriously.
The U.S. Agency for International-AID-have told us about the problem in this part of the world. We have seen the government of Sudan and the Janjawid change uniforms so that they, the Janjawid, could look like policemen.
We saw, when Secretary Powell visited Darfur, whips were used to keep people away from them in light of one of the most powerful men in the world. When Secretary-General Kofi Annan was in Khartoum, students were actually fired on and shot who attempted to present a petition to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, and that was in front of cameras, in front of the world. And so we know if this government would do that out in the broad and open and light, we know that it's a government that must be held accountable.
The numbers will go up. The rainy season is coming. I spent the last two weeks talking to parliamentarians from Germany and the Netherlands and the U.K. in Edinburgh, England last-Scotland last weekend. Just returned from the Netherlands yesterday, afternoon meeting with representatives of the Dutch government, where they are now bringing in military craft, three helicopters and trucks that they now will be able to bring in some of the AU's-the African Union's persons.
And so as we move, we must get the rest of the world to also say genocide is occurring and we have to isolate this government and force it to do the right things. And those countries that want to be obstructionist-the People's Republic of China said that they don't want to see a resolution come through-then we need to take a look at our most-favored nation treaties. We have to get serious about this. Our friends in Pakistan have said we should not intervene. We must make this an issue that the entire world will join us.
And so I commend our two senators again, Congressman Wolf of course, Congressman Tancredo, Congressman Royce, and our chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus who have made this a number one issue at the Congressional Black Caucus. I commend all of them.
Thank you very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thanks, Don.
Congressman Frank Wolf.
REP. FRANK WOLF (R-VA): Thank you, Sam. Senator Brownback and I were there two weeks ago, seeing firsthand.
The United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide describes genocide as "acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, national, ethnic, racial or religious groups." Specifically cited is killing members of the group. Thousands of black Africans have been killed. I had a telephone call yesterday with regard to an individual that saw mass graves: 14 black Africans face down, gunshot wound in the back of the neck.
Causing-it also says "causing serious bodily or mental harm" to members of the group.
Sam and I heard stories of rape and branding. Some women were told they were being raped because they were African. One woman told us that the Janjawid told her that she was being raped to create, quote, "lighter-skinned babies."
We were given a letter from a group of women who were raped, and here's what the letter said-which meets the test legally, if you will, of genocide. It said, "We are 44 raped women. As a result of that savagery, some of us became pregnant. Some have aborted, some took out their wombs, and some are still receiving medical treatment. We list the names"-and they all listed their names. It was incredible. We have not released their names, but they listed their names-"of the raped women and state that we have high hopes in you and the international community to stand by us, not to forsake us to this tyrannical, brutal and racist regime which wants to eliminate us racially, bearing in mind that 90 percent of our sisters in the camps are widows."
It is clear that the complete eradication of the Darfurian African population will occur if people do not return to their homes. We stood in the burned villages, as Sam said. The Janjawid have systematically ensured villagers cannot return. It's a harsh climate. When you push people out of the villages, they die and are forced to live in crowded IDP camps.
I believe personally, after seeing with these eyes that the good Lord gave me, that there are indications that what is happening in Darfur meets the test of genocide. But whether you call it genocide, ethnic cleansing, crimes against humanity, people are dying as we now speak, on a massive scale that is unacceptable. And so as several-one of the senators and Don Payne said, it's action.
And the United Nations Security Council needs to take immediate steps to end this crisis. A large peacekeeping force-there are 15,000 peacekeepers in Liberia; Liberia is half the size of Darfur; and there are 360 people watching there. So a large peacekeeping force made up of troops from the African Union is needed to allow the Darfurians to return to their homes, because security is the number- one issue. They are afraid to go back. The men will be killed, the women will be raped, and the children will be abducted.
And they have to verify that the government of Sudan is actually disarming the rebels-we must remember that the government of Sudan armed the rebels, the person who said they're going to disarm the rebels are the people who armed the rebels-and they are disarmed. We need monitors, including, quite frankly-and it's painful to say this-we need forensic experts on the ground now to preserve the evidence for future war crime trials.
Every day we delay, as Don said, and hesitate, more people die. We were told in the one camp, the best-run camp-we were in a lot of poorly run camps-we were told in the best-run camp, Abu Shouk, nine people die every day.
We left Abu Shouk 15 days ago. By those estimates, in that one camp, the best-run camp, 135 people have died since. And yet Abu Shouk is only one of 129 refugee camps in Darfur.
Thanks.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thanks, Frank.
We now have the chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, Congressman Cummings.
REP. ELIJAH CUMMINGS (D-MD): I just want to thank you, Senator Brownback, and I also thank all of my colleagues.
But I want to just say I am so pleased that we have left our party affiliation at the door, and we have come together to make a difference for so many people. And I think that that makes a very, very good statement for the Senate and the House.
I also want to take a moment to thank Senator Brownback and Senator Wolf for going over to Sudan. Don Payne, who leads our efforts in the Congressional Black Caucus, has been there many times and advises the caucus on matters with regard to the Sudan. I thank him. And I thank all of our other colleagues who are here today, Senator Corzine and everyone else.
You know, the thing that I guess concerns me most is that we do have genocide going on in Sudan. When we looked at the pictures from Iraq and saw what was happening to the prisoners there, all of us became very, very upset. We said that this must never happen again and that we live in a humane world and that we must treat people in a humane way. And we all cried out.
Here we have people dying, 200 a day, dying, and the whole idea of women being raped, for-as Congressman Wolf said, one woman talking about-said that she was being raped because the raper, rapist, wanted to create lighter-complexioned children. I mean, give me a break.
We have a duty. This is not about just a lot of rhetoric. We have a duty to act. And that's why I am so supportive of this resolution, and that's why the 39 members of the Congressional Black Caucus will do everything in our power to make sure that the House resolution is passed, and we'll work with our Senate colleagues to make sure that the Senate resolution is passed.
Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not act today, then we open the door or we leave the door open for future rapes, we leave the door open for many children to be orphaned, we leave the door open for many people to be murdered and severely harmed.
And so we move forward from here committed to making a difference. And so often, I think, when we are in a far-off land, we sometimes say, "Well, that's over there, and we're over here." Well, as we all know, our world is a very, very small world. The man in Sudan, or the woman in Sudan is just as valuable as a person in the Congress of the United States or living here in our country, and we have to treat them as such.
And so I want to thank my colleagues. I think, as far as I'm concerned, this is one of my proudest moments in my nine years of being in the Congress. And I also take my time to salute Mr. Conyers. Mr. Conyers has stood up over and over and over again addressing-doing everything in his power to address this issue; has brought it to the light of day, and has constantly worked with the members of the Congressional Black Caucus. And so we're going to-we're united on this. And let the word go out that this is not a Democratic issue, this is not a Republican issue, this is a humanity issue.
Thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
Congressman Tom Tancredo, Colorado, who traveled with me the first time around that Don Payne and I went into the Sudan.
Tom?
REP. TOM TANCREDO (R-CO): Thank you very much.
It is true that it is gratifying to see a combination of House/Senate leadership here, House/Senate support for this issue, Democrats and Republicans. It's also worth noting, I think, that this is an issue that has no political constituency necessarily in our individual districts. Nobody comes here because they're getting some sort of political pressure to do this. There are no votes to be gained by becoming involved to the extent that we become involved in this issue. There's no political advantage, really. We are here because it is the right thing to do. It's not the politics of it, it's the morality of it. And that is-well, it's just not seen all that often in political life. And so I am very pleased that I've been allowed to participate in this.
You know, not too long ago, the secretary of State I believe said that what we see in Darfur are the seeds of genocide. But I would suggest that those seeds have been planted and they are in fact sprouting, and those vines are killing thousands of people. We are past the time that we can just see the beginnings, the possibility of, be in anticipation of genocide. It is here. It is now. We have to recognize that. All of us in our hears I think really do know that this is true.
It was interesting; Congressman Payne and I just recently returned from Scotland, where we were at a meeting of the OSCE, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and our task there was to bring this issue to the attention of our European colleagues. And you know, in fact, America can be quite proud of itself in this respect: we are ahead of the curve on this. We have done more than anyone else in the world, both in humanitarian efforts, the amount of money that we are putting into it, and the political pressure. It's not enough, don't get me wrong, but it's interesting to see that there is such a lack of leadership or interest or involvement on the part of our European allies, or even the Organization of African States for heaven's sake. It's fascinating. It's disconcerting to say the least.
So you know, we are taking the lead in pressing for this, both internationally and here domestically. It is right for us to do it. I am glad that we are doing it.
Kofi Annan just said-he is reported to have said today, in reference to a different plight, "there must be no more sticking heads in the sand, no more embarrassment, no more hiding behind the veil of apathy." He's right. He's right. He's talking about the AIDS crisis. He could also be talking about the crisis in Sudan because that is exactly what has been happening, and that has to stop.
So the last quote, I guess, I would give is when Ronald Reagan said, "It's up to us to work together for progress in humanity so that our grandchildren, when they look back at us, can truly say that we not only preserved the flame of freedom, but cast its warmth and light further than those who came before us." This is a moral duty. It's not a political issue at all. I'm glad to be here.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
REP. TANCREDO: Thanks, Senator.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Congressman Conyers called a meeting last week of all the people here, others, and out of that was really the discussion of let's move forward with this resolution on genocide. So I want to call him up and recognize that he was the galvanizing force to get this moving forward.
Congressman Conyers.
REP. JOHN CONYERS (D-MI): Thanks, Sam. Thank you.
Good morning, you all. I first want to announce that we will be meeting this Thursday at 2:00 in Rayburn 2237 to continue the really surprising combination of men and women in the House and the Senate that have come together around this. It's a very inspiring activity on our part.
Martin Luther King, Jr. would be so proud of what we are doing in the name of peace and humanity and justice for this potential genocide that is staring us in the face. The United States plays an inordinate role, both in the United Nations and in shaping world opinion, and I'm very proud to stand with the men and the women that are joining us in this effort.
And I thank you so very much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Congressman.
Questions? Does anybody have-yeah?
Q Senator Brownback, could you talk a bit about discussions that you had with the administration, the administration's view on this resolution being introduced now? Also, you or perhaps others, could you just talk about the rationale you're hearing from Europe and the African Union for not being willing to act? What is your view on this, why they're not doing more?
SEN. BROWNBACK: The administration has been very pointed on Sudan.
Secretary Powell was there. He asks, I'm told, internally virtually daily about what's taking place in Darfur. He went to a refugee camp. The Sudanese government said all the right words in return. And yet he knows better than to trust their word; he wanted to see action, and that has not been forthcoming.
So, you know, they're-I don't know that they have an administration position on the resolution, an official one to announce. But I know they've been very involved, and I'm sure they'll be putting forth statements. I've talked to Steve Hadley in the National Security Adviser's office. I think Frank has talked with Secretary Powell himself about this.
For as far as why the others aren't pressing, like the African Union and some other countries, as much, that remains a puzzle to me. I don't know why. This is so clearly genocide that's taking place, and we actually have the chance to save lives, if we act now. But it's like there's, particularly in Africa, maybe the countries just all together, they don't want to see the internationalization of anything in a person's country because it might come to their country. And so that they don't speak out on ones.
But maybe others have better insights on that thought.
REP. TANCREDO: Congressman Payne has stated on more than one occasion that his concern is that-and his belief is that the reason why the Organization of African States do not do more is because there is a-I don't know if it's a spoken or unspoken arrangement that they will not criticize each other; that no African state will criticize another African state for anything because they are still operating in a-you know, sort of an anti-European bias, anti- Western bias, growing out of the years of colonialization; that they're still in that mode of thinking. That's Congressman Payne's opinion.
Q Let me follow on the administration part. In your conversation with Steve Hadley or with Secretary Powell, with others, talking about this resolution, did the administration say specifically yes, go ahead; don't go ahead; or don't do it for this reason?
SEN. BROWNBACK: They have not stated that to me. My statements have been we need to put the pressure on the international community. A declaration of genocide at the U.N. requires international action, and that's what we're attempting to do with this, is to put pressure on the international community. This should not be a U.S.-versus Sudan fight. This should be a global effort against Sudan to stop-the Sudanese government, in order to stop the genocide. And that's what we're trying to get with this.
Q Has the leadership in both chambers said that they would bring this to a vote? What are they saying?
SEN. BROWNBACK: We'll be going and trying to secure those votes quickly. I've talked with Bill Frist about the Sudan.
I believe he himself is planning a trip to the Sudan in the near future. I know Senator Corzine is. I think we'll be able to get that. But they haven't declared on the Senate side to me yet, "yes, we will bring this up at this time." But we're going to push for a vote.
REP. WOLF: I think in the House the expectations are it will probably come up next week. Mr. Hyde is working on it.
Q I heard a Sudanese government official say last week in an interview-I think with you, Congressman-that, first of all, we don't understand what's going on; second of all, that they are disarming the Janjawid; and third of all, that what they really need is money. And I'd be interested to get some reaction to that.
SEN. CORZINE (?): Wrong, wrong, wrong. (Laughter.)
REP. WOLF: No credibility on any basis. There is significant money in the defense appropriations. There was also a motion to instruct, which we accepted, and so there is money in both the House and the Senate. I think Senator Brownback got it in over here, and a group of us got it in over in the House.
Secondly, the last place we were-and Senator Brownback can comment-in N'Djamena, we saw a military base, and then about 150 yards from that we saw a Janjawid camp, and 150 yards from that we saw the two helicopters-the Hind helicopters-and the Antonov bombers. Everyone we talked to in the villages said first the bombers come in, then the helicopters. And the Janjawid don't fly helicopters; they don't fly the bombers. Then the Janjawid come in on horseback and kill the men, rape the women, take the loot away and burn the place. So there is interconnectivity, which is very obvious-obvious with my eyes, and I think Sam should comment; but obvious with the comments that all of the people made.
And lastly, I did hear that comment. We have a significant amount of money in both the House and the Senate, which is on the Department of Defense appropriation, which should pass before we go home.
Q I'd like to know what role humanitarian observers and physicians, scientists on the ground have played in evolving your awareness and decision to call what's happening genocide, and what role you think they will continue to play-the data they have in convincing your colleagues?
SEN. BROWNBACK: They have played an enormously positive role. When Frank and I were there, they would tell us things that they could not say publicly, or else the government of Sudan would thrown them out. And they had come to the conclusion that is was better that they were there and operating on the ground and not saying anything, rather than speaking out and getting thrown out of the country and then not able to provide the humanitarian aid. But they were very clear in their comments that this is genocide and it's occurring before our very eyes. And the Sudanese government is complicit, if not directly involved, in this taking place.
I think it's critically important they stay there providing the humanitarian aid, because if that doesn't get provided, even more people die quicker; and second, also keeping eyes and ears there on the ground to tell us what's taking place.
Let's just bounce around here and we'd come back. Yeah?
Q I mean, if the U.S.-if it does pass and the U.S. were to invoke genocide-and correct me if I'm wrong, but that would make the United States legally required to intervene in some way. What-and whether or not the rest of the world joins in, do you see some kind of military component, some kind of robust enforcement mechanism that the U.S. can use to-basically, yeah, to enforce the -- (off mike)?
SEN. BROWNBACK: What we're doing with this is putting pressure on the international community to act. If genocide is declared by the United Nations, it requires internationalization and action occurs, must occur. It's not a permissive setting under the genocide treaty or the genocide convention that Senator Corzine talked about.
What we're doing by this is trying to put pressure on the international body to act and also pressure here, to come from here, to act. And I think the only way you resolve this any time quickly is going to have to-you have to deal with the security issue. It is a security-driven crisis, as the secretary said, as we saw, and you're going to have to get some international force of troops of a credible size and nature into the region. And that's what we're hopeful of pushing at the international community. African Union troops seem to be the most likely. Perhaps it's international peacekeeping forces. But it needs to be those, and I think those are the places it should come from.
Q So you don't see a role for U.S. troops, then?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I-there are-I think you'll see U.S. involved. We are providing about 70 to 80 percent of the humanitarian aid. I think you'll see us involved in the security question of this as well, in leadership and in support of it.
SEN. CORZINE: A declaration now puts a legal mandate that those steps have to be followed through to that conclusion: that there are actually military forces provided to inhibit and break down the continuation of genocide. So that's what this is all about. That's why it's so important that we actually get the legal definition. This is a moral cause, but we need to use the legal system that is in place, which is the '48 convention, and that's what we're trying to do. That's what-that's the essence of this. And whether it is the African Union or it's some international coalition or it's forces chosen by the Security Council, something has to happen, or otherwise there will be no action.
REP. TANCREDO: You know, I think we should mention here that it may not come to that. It may not come to actually putting troops on the ground there.
But if we get that kind of commitment from the U.N., if we just get the Article 7 invoked, I think you will see Sudan-the government of Sudan in Khartoum back off, because they've done this over and over again. They just push you to the very brink. Once you put up, you know, a defense that they can see and that they know you're sincere about, they will back away. So it is very possible we would not have to do it. But we have to take the step of going to the U.N. and pressing for it.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let me bounce around here. Anybody who hasn't asked a question yet.
With the press?
Q No.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Are you with the-no? Okay.
Yes?
Q This speaks to the evidence question -- (off mike) -- and it may be in the video, but could you characterize the evidence that's been gathered so far? Is it mostly reports of villagers and aid workers? Is there any-do we have visually the footage of the -- (inaudible) --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes. Actually, if you don't mind, let's show you the video footage. This is what Frank Wolf-Dan and Frank Wolf's office took. We took-we were there three days, two nights. We took video footage.
