Public Statements
Federal Marriage Amendment
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 13, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


FEDERAL MARRIAGE AMENDMENT-MOTION TO PROCEED-RESUMED
Mr. BROWNBACK. I thank the Senator from Colorado for his leadership in putting this issue before the U.S. public and before the world. This is something we need to debate.
I want to specifically address the argument that is being put forward so often from the other side that we do not need to do this now; there is no fire burning; there is no particular issue that is going on here; the States can easily handle this; just let them handle it and take care of it; we do not need to do this until the Supreme Court takes it up.
I want to talk about, Why do we need to take this up now? Fortunately, we have a case study. People who went to business school, went to law school, learn through case studies. You study a case, study what took place, and you try to analyze what happened there to figure out what could have been done better, what should have been done, what was done, and what was its impact.
We have an excellent case study in the Netherlands on what is taking place when this sort of debate occurs. The reason it is important to engage this debate now and not wait until after the Supreme Court might rule, or after this goes through a number of States, is because of what they went through in the Netherlands.
I want to talk about one chart, the out-of-wedlock birth rates in the Netherlands, 1970-2003.
You can see it does not have a favorable trendline. In 1970, it is down around 2 percent. Indeed, the Netherlands was noted for a long period of time for having a very low out-of-wedlock birth rate, and among European countries they were highly regarded for that. Even though it was an open society, it had a very low out-of-wedlock birth rate. People had children in wedlock.
Then you can see in 1980 this thing starts rocketing and really taking off. What took place in the Netherlands-and I am going to have quotes from some Dutch scholars that just recently came out. We have the material from Stanley Kurtz that a number of people talked about. But what happened there was this ongoing debate for a period of about 10 years before same-sex marriage passed in the Netherlands, this public debate about, you know, we can have different sorts of family arrangements, we can have registered partnerships. They had that before same-sex marriage passed.
We had symbolic marriage registers for same-sex couples. We had the first supreme court case loss, first court case loss-and what we had was just this debate and discussion with the society, the culture, over a period of years saying we can separate this issue of raising children and the issue of marriage. We can have marriages just be an expression of care and concern and love for each other without really considering or thinking about what it is, the union of man and woman and raising children together.
We now have social science data. We have discussed a lot on this floor that the best place to raise a child is in a family with a man and woman, a husband and wife, bonded together for life in a low-conflict marriage. We know that is the ideal place. We have discussed that. The social science data is clear on it.
Yet what you saw take place here as you engage this debate and society started talking to itself, reforms and court orders, we saw society saying it is not that critical how marriage is organized in looking at children. It is more about the adults than about the children. Let us open this institution.
What took place was you had this huge growth to where it is up to 30 percent of children born out of wedlock in the Netherlands in 2003 from the 1980 total here at 5 percent over that period of time.
What do scholars say about this? Dutch scholars are actually saying we have to figure some way to try to reinstitute the notion and the nature of traditional marriage. The marriage between a man and woman, raising children in this type of household, is the best place for us to do that.
In recent years, they note, there is statistical evidence of Dutch marital decline, including "a spectacular rise in the number of illegitimate births." By creating a social and legal separation between the ideas of marriage and parenting, these scholars warn, same-sex marriage may make young people in the Netherlands feel less obligated to marry before having children.
Again, this ongoing debate about marriage isn't about forming this bond and a family unit. It is how two people express love for one another, and then that started permeating and getting into society.
One of the signatories, Dutch law professor M. Van Mourik, said that "the reputation of marriage as an institution-in Holland-is in serious decline." The decision to legalize gay marriage, said Mourik, should certainly have never happened. "In my view, that has been an important contributing factor to the decline in the reputation of marriage."
One of the letters' other signatories, Dr. Joost van Loon, believes gay marriage has contributed to a decline in the reputation of Dutch marriage. It is "difficult to imagine" that the Dutch campaign for gay marriage did not have "serious social consequences," said Van Loon, citing "an intensive media campaign based on the claim that marriage and parenthood are unrelated."
My point in saying this and addressing the concerns from the other side that it is not particularly timely, we need to do work on other things, is if we don't engage and discuss this and talk about the importance of marriage and the natural union and raising children in that setting, you will see society say, I guess it doesn't matter, these things are separate. And you will see this taking place more where we have slowed down and stopped the rise in out-of-wedlock births in the United States. This isn't something that has been charting up for a long term here, and that has been capped and started back down.
Now we are pushing in a welfare reform bill-a discussion about marriage and the welfare reform bill-because we know it is the best place to raise children. It will result in a healthier relationship for a man and a woman on a long-term basis. People will live healthier, longer, and happier.
We don't want this to happen in the United States. The case study is here, and we look at the incredible social experiment-something that has not been done in societies for 5,000 years. We are talking about putting that in society. We need to push back and say no, this is not good for children. It is not good for families. It is not good for America, nor the American culture.
I urge my colleagues when they say this isn't timely to look at what has happened in the case study we have. If this isn't discussed at a very early stage and people say, no, this is not the way we want to go, then you will get this rise taking place and the situation none of us want and that everybody agrees is not good for the children. I think one has to ask oneself in this debate, where are we going to focus? Are we going to focus on raising the next generation or are we going to focus on other issues? I think clearly the right focus for legislators in looking to build a good, strong society in the future is to focus on that next generation.
I thank my colleague from Colorado for leading this debate. I thank the Chair and yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, will the Senator from Alabama yield for another question?
Mr. SESSIONS. I will be pleased to yield.
Mr. BROWNBACK. If I can ask the Senator from Alabama, it seems to me that we have been discussing for at least 2 years, maybe 5 years now, ways to strengthen marriage in America. I believe the Senator supported the elimination of the marriage tax penalty. We have had huge debates about that marriage tax penalty, the whole issue being, how can we strengthen marriage and why do we want to do that. Because it is the best place to raise children and the Government has a great interest in it.
We just embarked, I believe, on a welfare debate where we were debating the issue within welfare and trying to encourage marriage amongst people on public assistance because it raises them out of poverty and helps children; is that correct, we have been debating those two issues as ways to strengthen marriage?
Mr. SESSIONS. The Senator is absolutely correct. Dr. Wade Horn, from the Department of Health and Human Services, who testified before my committee, says that any welfare reform we pass must help strengthen marriage because without marriage, poverty is increased.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Then it seems questionable to me, if we have done these sort of things, we have invested billions of dollars to try to strengthen marriage, we are doing away with the marriage penalty tax because we want to encourage marriage because that is good for children and good for America, and we are trying to encourage marriage in the welfare reform bill because it is good for children and good for people in poverty to lift them out of poverty, and the Senator was citing that, then why would we allow the courts to redefine marriage to include same-sex unions where we know in case study after case study that weakens the institution of marriage, that hurts the creation of strong, vital marriages, and it is defining marriage downward? Why would we do something that is so counter to what we have been trying to change over the past several years by making promarriage policies and we would now do something that is antimarriage and against the children?
Mr. SESSIONS. I could not agree with the Senator more. Why would we do this? I think most Senators who are elected to this Senate have campaigned on and heard from their constituents a growing concern and unease about some of the cultural trends we are seeing, particularly in family and values in the family. All of us have said we are going to do something about it. We need to strengthen family and not undermine it. I believe this is a step downwards.
I know the Senator was an admirer, as I have been, of former Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a great scholar, a man who studied social policy in depth as a professor, as a Cabinet member, and as a Senator. The Senator stated the other day how important that Democratic Senator from New York felt about marriage. If the Senator recalls those words, it would be important for us to hear them again.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I worked with him on a number of issues, and he was a great study of culture. He actually said the central conservative truth is that culture is more important than government. What culture honors and what it does not honor, what it upholds, what it says is good, and what it says is wrong is more important than the government around it. He was saying actually that the central role of government at all levels should be to see that children are born and remain in intact families. This was his comment. He was saying that because that is the central foundational character of building the institution that we have. It is not government. Government is important. It provides a number of very useful functions, but it is not the central entity. It is that family basis that builds the strong citizenry, strong people.
As a cultural commentator, he saw that. As a matter of fact, he nearly lost his job in the 1960s by commenting about the disintegration of the American family in a particular ethnic group at that time, but he was just saying that if that family unit is ruined, it goes downhill and has an effect on the children. That is why he felt so strongly about it and why I feel so strongly about it. In looking at these cultural indicators, we need to do everything we can to help this institution that is in trouble.
Marriage is in trouble in America. I have a chart that I will quickly share with my colleagues to show the type of trouble we are in.
Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I yield the floor to the Senator from Kansas.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Kansas is recognized.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, to make this point, and I will not belabor it with my colleagues who want to speak, but I want to show the portion of children entering broken families has more than quadrupled since 1950. I think a lot of us in this room were born in the 1950s. We can see on this chart the children born out of wedlock and as parents are divorced in 1950 is about 12 percent or so. Going to the year 2000, it is up to about 55 percent. The reason that is problematic is we know children operate and function best in a family with a mom and a dad and a low-conflict union. We know that marriage is incredibly important to the formation of these children for the next generation. That does not mean they cannot succeed in this type of setting. They can, and many do. It just means the odds are tougher. It is more difficult for them.
Now if we take this institution of marriage that is already having difficulty, already is having trouble staying together, and say to it basically we are going to define it differently now than we have through 5,000 years of human existence-and the reason it has been defined this way for 5,000 years of human existence is there is a natural order to us. We know that marriage is between a man and a woman. It is written in our hearts. We understand that. A law does not have to be written on it; it is in the natural order of mankind. If we start telling people by the law, and the law is a teacher, no, it is not really that, it can be any sort of union one wants: It can be two men, it can be two women, then it starts to further make difficult this situation and it further erodes the marital union. That is the problem.
This is not about same-sex marriage. This is about kids. This is about a 5,000-year-old institution that has served society throughout history, and it is being redefined in a way that goes against what we understand it is in our hearts. This is harmful, and we know that from other countries that have engaged in it.
This is going the wrong way, and it is against clear public policy trends that we have engaged in in this body. It is even against what everybody in this body says. Everybody in this body says they are for traditional marriage between a man and a woman. So if they are, then vote that way and stand up for it instead of further harming these trendlines of an institution that is vitally important. We should not do that.
Mr. ALLARD. Will the Senator from Kansas yield for a question?
Mr. BROWNBACK. Yes, I would be happy to.
Mr. ALLARD. I have always felt that marriage was the fundamental building block of any society, and especially if one is talking about a democracy like we have in the United States. I have always been of the view that as long as there is a good basis for families to function, that means there would be less need for government, and there would be fewer programs. That has always had a particular appeal to me because I do not believe we need more government; I believe we need less government.
I have always felt that there is definitely a role for a mother and a father and a husband and a wife, and that the culture that promotes the basic fundamental unit where they teach their children about the future based on their experiences in life is something that is very difficult to supplant as an effective unit, and I think historically over thousands of years that has proven true. We are on the verge of redefining marriage which will put this basic unit that is so fundamental to society at risk. Would the Senator from Kansas agree with that?
Mr. BROWNBACK. I could not agree more. Since I have been in the Senate, I have been one who has spoken out about the cultural problems that we have had and that we are in. If we take an already weakened institution-that is, the central basis by which we have values that we pass on to the next generation the lessons learned from the prior generation, where there are people who care and are in a bonded relationship that is there for life-if that is further eroded by teaching through the law that it can be any sort of arrangement one wants it to be and it is about how people care for each other, if they have love for each other, and not about the next generation or building that family and building children for the next generation, we really are moving ourselves into a terrain we have not seen in human history. What we see taking place now says it takes us in the wrong direction.
We know that clearly from the Netherlands and we know that from their scholars now who are saying they have to figure some way to try to again instill traditional marriage because people are walking away from it. There are counties in Norway where 80 percent of the children are born out of wedlock because you have defined away that marriage institution and you have said it is not a sacred institution, it is a civil rights institution, and it can be any arrangement you want. It weakens a fundamental institution we need for this country to be strong in the future.
Mr. ALLARD. I would like to thank the Senator from Kansas for his leadership. He has become recognized as a strong proponent of families and proponent for children. I, for one, appreciate his leadership in the Senate.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I thank my colleague and yield the floor.
Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield for two brief questions? One is, as you discussed and I attempted to discuss, isn't it valid and doesn't a government have a rational basis to affirm traditional marriage? Isn't there evidence, based on the data we have heard and seen, that there is a rational, foundational basis for a government to affirm the traditional marriage as opposed to other relationships in society?
Mr. BROWNBACK. There is not only a rational basis as the legal argument would have it, there is a moral imperative to do so. If you want a strong citizenry in the future, raised in a situation that is optimal-a mom and a dad bonded together for life, in a low-conflict union-if you want an optimal setting for most of your citizenry, you are obligated to push this union in a setting and to say, in speaking to the society, this is where we need the children raised. This is the optimal setting. This is the place.
Not that everybody will achieve the optimal. They clearly will not. All families in this country, mine included, have had difficulties in this area. There is no question about that. But if you remove the optimal and say it is too hard, we can't get there, and let's give up, it is a sure way to pave the road down. We know that from other countries' experience.
It is not only a rational basis, a legal argument, I would say it is a moral imperative as a government official that you press as much as you can to have children raised in this optimal setting.
Mr. SESSIONS. I couldn't agree with you more. You stated it so well.
I do not want to demean or speak down about any relationship or any persons and the choices they make. But let's say this. Statistically speaking, do fathers and mothers both make different contributions to the health and development of a child?
Mr. BROWNBACK. Obviously we know that from the social data. I have charts I have gone through previously that show that each contributes differently to the makeup and the nature of that child and making a healthy, well-rounded child. We know that from the social data.
But there is another argument that I think is actually more powerful. We know that in our hearts. We know that from the time we have come up in this society. We know that from 6,000 years of human history. That is one of those things that, again, is written on the heart of man, that you know this is the way it is to be.
Even when you talk with people today who are raising children in a single-parent household, by and large virtually all of them wish what they had was a mom and a dad here in a bonded relationship who love each other and care for each other, that recognize divine authority in their lives and that pass on to that next generation the hope and their love and the yearning for yet a better era coming forward.
That is what we all want. It is not by accident or even by social programming that we want that. That is written on our hearts. All of our colleagues would agree with that. I think we should recognize the truth of that and not say that may be written on your hearts but that was programmed when you were a kid growing up in Parker, KS, and this is different. This is there. It is there for a reason. It is there because it is best for the kids.
Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I yield the floor.
