Public Statements
Brownback Statement on Fifth Anniversary of Iranian Student Protests
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 9, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Statement on Fifth Anniversary of Iranian Student Protests
WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today made the following statement on the fifth anniversary of massive student protests in Iran.
"Five years ago, on July 9, 1999, the students of Iran marked a turning point in Iran's opposition movement. That evening the mullahs sent its police forces to attack the dormitories of Tehran University. By morning three students were dead, and many more had been beaten and arrested.
"But the regime's attack, far from stopping the students' movement, pushed the resentment of the Iranian people to a breaking point. Students leapt into action by the thousands, overtaking streets and staging sit-ins in major cities throughout Iran for several consecutive days. The upheaval was quickly put down by the regime, but it announced the birth of a nationwide opposition movement.
"Opposition groups and student unions have since emerged in great numbers in the wake of July 1999. While they may have appeared to be spontaneous and without identified leaders, they agreed on a general consensus for the future of the Iranian nation: the establishment of a secular state, and basic civil liberties such as freedom of the press. United by these goals, they began demanding for the first time the complete removal of the Islamic theocracy.
"Since then, little has changed, but the atmosphere inside Iran has grown more stifling. The ruling clerics have gone out of their way to protect their conservative way of life, have closed reformist newspapers, arrested and tortured opposition leaders, and dispatched their young religious vigilantes, known as Bassijis, to break up student demonstrations. The reforms that the 'moderate' Khatami seemed to represent have all but disappeared.
"On this anniversary, we remember the sacrifices made by the students on behalf of the people of Iran and take this opportunity to encourage them to continue fighting for freedom. To the students and the people of Iran, we say to you, we have not forgotten you. We will never forget you. Free people in the United States and around the world unite with your cause for freedom. We stand with their silent struggles and long for a day when freedom and liberty will prevail.
"We will never forget you."
