Public Statements
CNN American Morning - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 2, 2004
Location: Unknown


CNN
SHOW: AMERICAN MORNING 07:00
HEADLINE: Iraq Reacts to Saddam's Trial; FBI Urges Vigilance Against Terror on 4th of July
GUESTS: Sam Brownback, John Burns, Jesse Jackson, Serena Torrey, John DeVore, Mark Simone, Scott Erwin
BYLINE: Soledad O'Brien, Jack Cafferty, Sean Callebs, Brent Sadler, Betty Nguyen, Alina Cho, Jeffrey Toobin, Bill Hemmer, Aaron Brown, Andy Serwer
HIGHLIGHT:
In its weekly bulletin to law enforcement agencies, the FBI is now urging vigilance against possible terror activity during the 4th of July holiday. Blasts come in Baghdad as Iraqis continue to try to come to grips with seeing their former leader facing charges in court.
BODY:
O'BRIEN: More than 30,000 people have died in 16 months of bloodshed in Darfur. Arab militia are accused of killing and raping black African villagers in an ethnic cleansing campaign. The fighting has displaced a million people from their homes, left more than 2 million others desperate for aid.
Kansas Senator Sam Brownback has just returned from Sudan. He's a member of the Foreign Relations Committee and he joins us this morning from Topeka, Kansas.
Nice to see you, sir. Thanks for being with us.
We just heard the secretary calling it a humanitarian and a security catastrophe as well. Describe for me, with as much detail as you can, the scope of the human suffering that's going on in Sudan.
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK ®, KANSAS: It's massive. The scale of human suffering is-is almost unbelievable. And it's all manmade.
You have these Arab militias that are being armed and provided logistics by the government, going in and burning entire villages. We've got satellite photography of over 300 villages that just burned. They go in and shooting the men, raping women, driving them into these large refugee camps.
Frank Wolf and I, a congressman from Virginia, visited five of the refugee camps. The stories are very consistent of each of them from the individuals that are there. We have lost we think somewhere around 30,000 individuals already, and the scale will scale up substantially if the international community does not step in aggressively, and now, to deal with this security crisis. And that's primarily what it is. It is a security crisis, created and propelled by the Sudanese government.
O'BRIEN: Before we talk about the international community's reaction, let's talk a little bit about the Sudanese government reaction. The U.S. obviously very vocal about its opposition to what it has seen. What's been the reaction to that opposition by the Sudanese government?
BROWNBACK: It seems to be evolving. At first, they just completely denied that there was anything going on, any crisis whatsoever. Now they seem to be saying, yes, there is a crisis, come help us with it, but are denying complicity with the Arab militias.
I think we have to put the bead right on them. And the people in the refugee camps do not trust the Sudanese government. At one point in one of the camps, even if we-we had Sudanese government officials around us, the people are yelling, "They're killing us! They're killing us!"
So they've got dirty hands. And the people do not trust the Sudanese government. We really need to get pushed, and push the Sudanese government to accept responsibility and to work with the international community to solve this before it gets much, much, much bigger.
O'BRIEN: What specifically needs to be the reaction, do you think, on the part of the international community?
BROWNBACK: I think Kofi Annan really needs to step up on this one. And that he needs to press the Sudanese government that this is preventable, the further crisis taking place. But if you don't, you're going to be guilty of a series of international violations. The top potential one being genocide.
But this doesn't need to-to be at that level, if we can force the international community to press the Sudanese government. But it-the Sudanese government can't be trusted to do this. They have dirty hands here and they're not trusted by the people.
O'BRIEN: It seems like Sudan has become a priority for the Bush administration. Do you think that's fair to say? And, if so, why and why now?
BROWNBACK: Well, it's a priority because the level of human suffering is just so profound. We've got tens of thousands already killed. And this is just in the western part.
In the southern part, you had up to 2 million people were killed over the last decade by this same government in Sudan. This is the same government that hosted Osama bin Laden from 1991 to 1995. It has this really militant Islamic nature to it. And they seem to be trying to go through a metamorphosis.
But they-it's tough for-for a leopard to change its spots. And I think you really have to press and watch these guys very aggressively, to see that they don't let just more suffering and more death taking place.
The other thing that's interesting about this in the western part of the country, it is Muslim on Muslim. It's Arab Muslim and it's black Muslim that is the nature of the conflict. So it's not a religious-based. As far as in the north and south, it's a Muslim on Christian crisis.
O'BRIEN: Kansas Senator Sam Brownback, who's returned from the region, talking to us about Sudan. Thanks for being with us. We appreciate it.
BROWNBACK: Thank you very much for covering it.
O'BRIEN: It's our pleasure.
