Public Statements
NBC Nightly News - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 1, 2004
Location: Unknown


NBC News Transcripts
SHOW: NBC Nightly News (6:30 PM ET) - NBC
HEADLINE: Senator John Brownback gives firsthand report on the human devastation in Sudan
ANCHORS: TOM BROKAW
BODY:
TOM BROKAW, anchor:
Visiting Sudan this week, UN Secretary General Kofi Annan gave the government 48 hours to come up with a plan to end the so-called ethnic cleansing in that northern African nation. Some 30,000 people have been killed over 16 months so far, and perhaps a million are at risk. Republican Senator Sam Brownback just returned from the western part of the Sudan where he saw firsthand the human devastation. His account now, in his own words tonight.
Senator JOHN BROWNBACK: The level of suffering and the atrocities is-is profound. It's-it is catastrophic. This Arab militia, called the Janjaweed, have been going through and burning villages, killing men, systematically raping the women, and now everybody has fled from their villages and are concentrated in these large, unsanitary refugee camps. The longer you keep people in these concentrated areas like this, the easier and the more likely it is you're going to hit these disease disasters. Time is of the essence. They're entering the rainy season. This is when their farmers go out to plant. If you don't get them back to their villages to be able to plant soon, they're going to be a whole year without a crop.
We went to several of the villages that have been burned out. Whole village, just wiped out. And they would just do this in camp after camp. We have satellite photography of over 300 of these small village-small to midsized villages being burnt and attacked. The problem is the government of Sudan has dirty hands. They-they are using the Janjaweed to ethnically cleanse, to terrorize this region. The UN needs to step up on this. The good part about it is, if the international community will act quickly, the level of death that will happen will go down dramatically. But time is of the essence. Things have to move quickly to avert a much bigger disaster.
BROKAW: Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, just back from Sudan in his own words tonight.
