Public Statements
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2005
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 24, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2005-CONTINUED
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I join my colleague from Ohio in supporting this amendment that will put forward $95 million in emergency aid to the Sudan. I thank him for bringing this forward. I thank the Chair for holding a hearing on this recently to highlight what is taking place. He outlined what is occurring. This is happening before our very eyes.
I associate myself with my colleague's statement that we need to say to people around the world that when genocide occurs, we will respond. There will be consequences on governments that conduct genocide in their nations.
What we are seeing taking place today is something on a massive scale before our very eyes. We had satellite photographs appearing today. We see vast sections of communities wiped out, burned out. We see militias going in, backed by the government, burning communities, poisoning wells, putting dead animals down in the bottom of wells so they are not usable.
This is a marginal region in the first place, where, if you push people out of their homes and away from their encampments, it is difficult to survive. We now have by estimates about 1 million people on the move in this region. We have, by estimates, the capacity to feed 300,000 people, with 1 million people on the move. One can see that if the situation does not improve, we are going to have a large group of people who are not going to get fed, housed, and are vulnerable. Many will die. Many will perish. We are going into the rainy season in this region.
There are a couple of items we need to do. No. 1, we need to get this aid passed. I thank the chairman for allowing us to bring up this amendment, and I urge my colleagues to adopt it. We need to get the international community engaged with the international observers, the African Union, the United Nations, with observers and peacekeepers in this region. We need to force the Sudanese Government to stop their sponsorship of the Jingaweit. This is the Arab militia that is going into the region and burning communities and attacking communities with machine guns.
We need to stop the Sudanese Government from using helicopter gunships for aerial bombardments, from going into these communities and driving people out, killing them with bombings or by military attacks. We need to speak very clearly and then act decisively.
Time is of the essence. We need to act now for us to be able to save the lives in this region that are so vulnerable and will be lost if we do not act.
I applaud the Secretary of State for announcing today that he will be traveling next week to the Darfur region in the Sudan. Congressman Wolf and I will be traveling there shortly as well to view this situation and to put pressure on the Sudanese Government to stop this and to put pressure on the international community to effectively respond.
We can act, and we can stop this if we act now. Mother Teresa, when she came to this country and people were asking her what can they do to help the poor, to help those in trouble, responded by saying: We all have our Calcuttas. There are things each of us can do. We all have our Calcuttas.
Here is a situation to which we can respond. We can do something. We need to adopt this amendment. We need to put pressure on the international body and the Sudanese Government, and we can save lives by doing so. I urge the adoption of this amendment.
I yield the floor.
