Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee - U.S. Space Exploration Policy
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 17, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE SENATE COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE SUBJECT: REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON IMPLEMENTATION OF U.S. SPACE EXPLORATION POLICY
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS)
WITNESSES:
EDWARD C. ALDRIDGE, JR., CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON IMPLEMENTATION OF U.S. SPACE EXPLORATION POLICY
LOCATION: 253 RUSSELL SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Good afternoon, everybody. We'll call the hearing to order and welcome everybody here, delighted you're here.
Mr. Aldridge, good to have you here, and I'm looking forward to this report. I've seen some of the media briefings on it but I look forward to get it straight from the horse's mouth, as it were. Not that you're a horse, but get it straight from you.
On January 14th of this year President Bush presented the nation with a vision for space exploration. This is a vision of unlimited opportunity for our people. It is a vision of continued American leadership on this most important of frontiers. It is a vision which focuses on human voyages to the moon and Mars and beyond. It also includes robotic exploration of these worlds and others in the solar system and it's a vision which includes exploring the whole universe, continuing the legacy of science and discovery of space craft such as the Hubble Space Telescope.
The president asked Mr. Pete Aldridge to lead a presidential commission on implementation of U.S. space exploration. Today we have with us Pete Aldridge to present the committee with the results of the space exploration commission. The commission released its report yesterday and we're pleased that Mr. Aldridge can be with us today to discuss the commission's findings and also several of the other commissioners here as well. I've reviewed the commission's report. I'm very pleased with the result.
You and your colleagues, Mr. Aldridge, are to be commenced for producing a thoughtful and compelling road map for our future exploration activities. This subcommittee has been working with NASA and the commission to provide the necessary legislative support for our renewed journey into the solar system. Today we're introducing our authorizing legislation for NASA's 2005 program. This legislation will provide the necessary authority for NASA to implement the exploration commission's recommendations.
Let me highlight just a few areas. Key to a successful and affordable human and robotic exploration program, as the commission so eloquently states, is to transform NASA with a far larger presence of private sector involvement. Our legislation provides the necessary congressional support for NASA to do just that. I'd like to highlight two other items.
First, I believe that the private sector can get us back to the moon in an unmanned vehicle affordably within three years. We are urging NASA to pick up on the commission's approach and initiate a private sector managed robotic mission to the moon in three years to ensure America remains in the lead in understanding and utilizing this body. To ensure that private sector prerogatives are preserved. We're asking, as does the commission, for the administration to clarify U.S. positions on private property rights for those seeking to develop space resources and infrastructure.
I applaud the commission's support of prizes. We will soon see that private sector initiatives motivated by prizes can duplicate and exceed for very low cost the first steps of the Apollo program. The soon to be completed X-Prize suborbital flights are the first step to full private sector entry into and use of outer space. We've included in the authorization bill the necessary legislation to enable NASA to offer such prizes. We propose that NASA's first big prize be for full orbital flight duplicating or exceeding Yuri Garagan's and John Glenn's historic flights in the 1960s.
The commission has recommended a big change in management of NASA and this I also applaud. The transformation of the big NASA government labs into private sector managed research and development centers is a major step towards streamlining NASA. I've called in the last few months for a new look at what functions and facilities NASA maintains. Having the private sector take a much more active role in managing some of these facilities is a first step but it must be followed with a hard look at consolidation of those facilities as well.
And finally I'm quite thrilled that the commission believes the first step in truly activating the private sector is having private concerns take over routine access to space. In particular, I've held hearings investigating how we might offload international space station support and construction flights to private sector space access firms. I've not received, to my estimation, satisfactory answers from NASA. In concert with my House of Representatives colleagues I've asked the GAO to take a look at this possibility. Perhaps the urging of Congress coupled with your commission report will encourage action in this critical first private sector enablement by NASA.
Some of my colleagues question why we are making a major new space initiative now. My answer to that is simple: we're doing this to maintain American leadership and opportunity. None of us wants to explain to our children why other nations and people are walking on the moon and Mars and we are not. Some of my colleagues also question how we can afford this new initiative without vast sums of new money.
I think your commission has answered that, Mr. Aldridge, by empowering the full potential of our private sector we can not only make space exploration affordable, but we can open the full range of opportunities to all of our people. I look forward to hearing your testimony as we move forward in this authorization process and a new architecture-new legislative architecture as we move forward in our exploration of space.
I want to turn to my colleague from Florida, Senator Nelson, if he has any opening comments.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
Our witnesses, the Honorable Edward C. Aldridge, Jr., chairman, President's Commission on Implementation of U.S. Space Exploration Policy. Pete, welcome to the committee. I invite you to introduce your other colleagues who are here with you, and the floor is yours.
MR. EDWARD C. ALDRIDGE: Well, good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. It is an honor to be here and I'm glad the report is finished. It's been a hectic few last weeks.
I appreciate Senator Nelson's comments. Just a little side note, Senator Nelson and I were training together to be astronauts together in Houston at one time. He got to go and unfortunately we had Challenger that got in my way. But it was an interesting experience in Houston and that training and I know we both enjoyed it very much.
I am the chairman of the President's Commission on Implementation of U.S. Space Exploration Policy. I'd like to submit the commission's report which is entitled A Journey to Inspire, Innovate and Discover as my formal statement for the record.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It will be in the record without objection.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much as commission chairman and presenting that report.
We've got a vote on in less than 10 minutes to go. What I thought we'd do at this point is if any of your colleagues had a summary type of statement or a punctuation mark that you wanted to put on anything on what your commission chairman had to say, if you would feel free to say something like that right now and then we'll take a couple of those and we'll head over the floor and vote. We'll be in recess for a few minutes and then come back.
General?
GEN. LESTER L. LYLES: Yes, Senators. One, we as commissioners, from the very first day were sort of unanimous in our realization that this is a national vision and it needs to be treated as a national vision and national imperative for-not just NASA but for our country. All of our recommendations are intended to help ensure success, if you will, towards implementing this vision and we've laid out we think the recommendations and the findings to support each one of the elements that our chairman pointed out, particularly the issue of sustainability, affordability and credibility.
Those are three sort of major imperatives behind which all of the other recommendations fall. And we I think are unanimous, in spite of different backgrounds in coming to this particular commission and our particular experiences. We are unanimous in thinking that this vision is the right one for our country and the recommendations we think will help support that.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Very good.
MS. MARIA ZUBER: Our nation must lead in high technology areas. One of those high technology areas is in space. We are not training enough scientists and engineers in this country. I'm on the faculty of MIT and 60 percent, over 60 percent of our graduate students are foreign born right now.
As undergraduates we do better, we have 90 percent U.S. undergraduates but that's because we have essentially a quota system where we limit the number of foreign undergraduates. But as we go on in high technology, we're losing out in U.S. students who are going into those areas. For us to continue to lead the world in high technology areas, we must be at the forefront of developing in those areas where high technology matters.
Space is one of those areas where the decision needs to be made by the students is when they're in middle school and when they need to decide whether or not they're going to take the easier path, or whether or not they're going to take the honors math that leads them into science and engineering degrees. And this is an area where space is of great interest. And so I would just leave it to you that in the future students are engaged in this.
This semester the enrolments in the science and aeronautics classes spiked considerably, and we can attribute that to two things: to the announcement of the president's vision and to the success of the Mars Rovers. Those two things together have caused our class sizes at MIT to increase. It happens every time something like this gets announced. So for those who would say people aren't interested in this any more, I would say talk to the students.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You didn't think it was your football team's successes that -- (laughter.)
MS. ZUBER: A lot of people don't know we have a football team.
SEN. BROWNBACK: We're going to put this is in recess, we'll go vote, and then we'll come right back.
We're in recess.
(Recess.)
SEN. BROWNBACK: I call the hearing back to order. We are between votes right now so I hate doing this now, but rather than you waiting through four votes that I'll come running back and forth and it's better for exercise that way.
Mr. Aldridge, we'd gone through I think two commission members. I don't know, Dr. Zuber, if you had other thoughts to add. But if not, if either of the other commissioners had a word to put forward.
MS. LAURIE LESHIN: Thank you, and thanks for the opportunity to be here and for the kind words about the report.
I want to pick up on this theme of maintaining our competitiveness and about the future prosperity of the nation which we, all the commissioners agree that this is fundamentally about. Part of that competitiveness is our scientific competitiveness, maintaining our leadership in the world in science and, after all, exploring the frontier is all about creating new knowledge. And as a scientist I just wanted to tell you that this is an extraordinarily exciting opportunity for us to make incredible discoveries and in fact things that will be absolutely spectacular. We have the opportunity with this vision to really be able to ask and answer some of the most profound questions conceivable: where did we come from? What is the fate of our planet and our biosphere? And are we alone in the universe?
And the answers will be spectacular and we really believe that this kind of focused effort is going to be required if we're going to get the answers to these absolutely important questions. And of course the answers are going to be engaging to the children and adults of America, and in fact I think the whole world. So I'm proud to be a part of it. I think it's one of the most exciting things that we can do as a nation.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
Mr. Spudis?
MR. PAUL SPUDIS: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
In addition to endorsing and seconding the comments of my colleagues, I'd just like to add that it's been an honor and a pleasure to serve on this commission. I applaud the president's vision. I think for the first time we have a long range strategic direction that makes political sense, makes economic sense, and it makes strategic sense.
And one of the most important things in it, I think that's particularly interesting, is that by undertaking to start to use the resources of outer space, we can fundamentally change the rules of the space flight game. We will no longer be limited to things that we can only drag up from the bottom of the gravity well of the Earth. We'll be able to create new capability which will in turn give us much more benefit in a variety of fields-not just scientifically but also economically and in terms of our national security.
So I appreciate this committee's attention and interest in our report and will be happy to answer any other questions you may have.
MR. ALDRIDGE: Mr. Chairman, can I just fill in just a little bit.
This commission had a diverse group of individuals and I'd like just to state who the other members are because I think it's important. We had Carly Fiorina who is the CEO of Hewlett Packard, a very kind of a different perspective on things. We had Mike Jackson who was a former deputy secretary of Transportation and is currently a senior vice president in a local company. We had Neil Tyson who is the director of the Hayden Planetarium in New York City, an astrophysicist. And we had Bob Walker who, as I think many people know, was the former chairman of the House Science Committee and certainly a chairman of the Aerospace Commission.
These people-they were not bashful, as you well know, and we had some fairly lively discussions and debates, but we are absolutely unanimous about every aspect of this report. I think that just is a sign of an indication that we tried to explore all aspects of this particular problem and we believe we've got the right answer. Thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Mr. Aldridge.
And I want to say what I'm seeing develop here in Congress is the same sort of okay, we're narrowing in on how do you do this and what we should be doing, and that it's time to move forward. That the international space station is good and it's important, the space shuttle is, but it's time that we move and look forward to the next vision and how we're going to do that.
I want to get right to the real tough question concerning Washington is can we afford to do this? You must have looked extensively at the cost issue of this new vision of going moon, Mars and beyond, and can we financially afford to do this?
MR. ALDRIDGE: The commission talked a lot about that and we agreed yes, you can. And the way we're proposing, as we've then described in the report, is "go as you can pay" which says the following: the president has laid out a plan with rough order of magnitude of the resources, a slight increase in NASA over the next two or three years and then a flattening of the funding for the budget that will grow with inflation. We believe you can, with proper discipline, when applying all the management principles we've got, taking into account the private sector, taking into account the available resources that are being applied to similar technologies in other agencies of the government-and that's what the national view is important-and having the discipline to get rid of things as their utility ends, such as phasing out the shuttle and allowing those resources to be reallocated to this mission.
So it's going to take commitment to make sure that funding which has been laid out is there and the commitment to make sure that those missions that no longer are applying to achieving this vision are no longer being developed within NASA. And again using those resources from other agencies and so forth. So it is affordable under those conditions.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But then that-what you're laying out is a competition for resources within NASA and the other agencies and focusing more to the moon Mars mission then.
MR. ALDRIDGE: Yes, sir. It doesn't mean that we take resources out of the Department of Defense or out of Department of Energy, but we would make sure those agencies that have these types of technologies such as tremendous technologies being developed within the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency for Space, let's use those resources so that NASA doesn't have to duplicate that effort for themselves but make sure those technologies are being transferred to NASA and to the private sector which is supporting this. That's the kind of discipline in operations we're going to have to have.
Plus the fact the idea of how do you manage these very complex systems within the resources you have. One of the concepts that we've talked about is spiral development. Don't try to develop something with 100 percent of the requirement on the first step. Take an 80 percent solution or a 70 percent solution and go after that step. Have a technology plan that allows you periodically spin off that technology as it matures into a new configuration, and then a few years later spin it off again into an upgraded configuration. By doing so you're reducing the risk of being able to achieve what you've set out to achieve, your costs certainly would be better, and the performance, even though it's not 100 percent, should be achievable within those type of parameters.
And I applaud NASA. That's what they're going to do with the crew exploration vehicle. They're going to impose spiral development concepts on that. And if we do it that way, then we're avoiding these peaks of spending that occur by having these things pop up every so often and we can fund the program with this "go as you can pay", this flat line budget that NASA has. It will work if you're disciplined to make these kind of processes implement-able.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Can you meet the president's timeframes that he established in putting forth this vision with that funding stream that you're talking about?
MR. ALDRIDGE: If we follow the recommendations of our report we believe we can. But those are goals. If, for some-there will be uncertainties as we move along. We probably don't know what technology we're actually going to apply to achieving those goals 20 years from today. But we have a plan laid out, we believe it's affordable within the funding stream that's been directed by the president, the so-called sand chart that is there, and if we do in fact achieve the phase out of the shuttle on the 2010 timeframe, resources will become more available to this mission.
But we believe we can but if, for some reason, we have a technology failure we would adjust the timeline, not try to put more money into the program. Let the funding be as described and let the milestones be adjustable according to how well you do in technology development. As you approach risk in the program and uncertainty, we will adjust the timeline accordingly.
SEN. BROWNBACK: One of the proposals that I've put forward previously here and in some other places has been consolidation of resources within NASA, a BRAC type of process so that you try to pull your resources from other areas that may have been good programs when they started, achieved their mission but now you've got a specific item that you really want to accomplish and you pull resources from those into this. Did the commission look at that type of system or did you come up with others that you were recommending as ways of consolidating resources to make the moon Mars mission work?
MR. ALDRIDGE: The commission talked a lot about instituting something, a BRAC type process. We clearly saw that the political implications of trying to do that in our report-in fact, I think I said yesterday the report would have been burned the first day it arrived if we'd have proposed a BRAC. So we said there is another way to address this problem, and one of the ways to address it is let-our review of it said it looks to us like the infrastructure of NASA is too large in combination to achieve the vision that we've laid out, and we would like to see some of that reallocated.
But the way to do that is not going with a BRAC. Let the centers become more like private sector type operations and they will define their own level of competence and capability, and that's where the FFRDC concept arrives. That in the case of these centers, if they are converted to FFRDCs, NASA would not necessarily have to pay for the entire size of the FFRDC; they would only have to pay for the size that they needed, and the FFRDCs could then sell their capabilities outside of NASA for other things. And if their capabilities were really good, they could in fact expand themselves much larger.
If their capabilities were not very good, then they would shrink according to the pressures of the private sector. So we didn't have to address the horrible process of BRAC when in fact if we start down the path of making NASA more private sector oriented, it will achieve a natural size in itself because the private sector will get rid of waste and redundancy itself. So that was to us a better approach than a BRAC.
However, we did recognize there are some things that NASA doesn't have to do to achieve this vision, and they've already done some of that. For example, the expendable launch vehicle activity has now moved to the Department of Defense. That was a proper thing for them to do. They've made some adjustment in the programs within NASA to reflect the new vision.
Now, we also looked at what about aeronautics and what about earth sciences? Is that something that NASA to be doing or should that be transferred? Well, if it transfers, the money probably goes with it as well so there's not a financial benefit. But the focus was it looks to us now that the earth sciences and aeronautics have a synergy with the vision.
I mean, you've got to go through the atmosphere to get up and you've got to reenter so there's some aeronautic synergy. And certainly earth science and planetary sciences are very much synergistic. But every year-or every so many years, NASA needs to reevaluate what it's doing and how does it contribute to the mission? And our recommendation was that this be done on a periodic basis, kind of a zero based budgeting to make sure that all the activities in NASA are really related, have a synergy and are contributing to the mission.
SEN. BROWNBACK: One question we had, and then I want to turn to my colleagues so they can get some questions in before we have to run back. There's a 10 minute vote on. The Virtual NASA Academy, that seems to be an intriguing concept to put that on forward. And it appears as if something we could do on a pretty low cost scale, to be able to do that?
MR. ALDRIDGE: Yes. Well, I'd like to turn it over to Maria, because she was the one who wrote that part of the report, and let her respond, if you don't mind.
MS. ZUBER: It was pretty clear to us that there is a great need to train the next generation of individuals who are going to be contributing to space exploration. And there are some programs at universities that provide this kind of training. There are some programs at NASA centers, at JPL and within the Defense Department and even private industry that provide internship opportunities that are relevant to the kind of training that needs to be done.
And so we had thought about a number of ideas, including should we start an academy, similar to the military academies, with bricks and mortar, but that would take years to get going. And we decided, well, to really test out the interest in this and see if there is as much interest as we anticipate that there would be, that the best thing to do is to start with university based programs that are at accredited universities and that have some strength already and to leverage those and then to try to combine those with programs that exist within NASA, the Department of Defense, you know, even industry of organizations that have a vested interest in producing these next generation of workers. And these are people that may ultimately go on to the space industry, but what it really is is bringing students into the high tech industry using a mechanism of great interest to them.
So we're talking about, you know, students who might be in aeronautical engineering, mechanical, electrical, but also science disciplines as well, and then to build on this. And you could get this started I think-I mean, now. Why couldn't we start now?
SEN. BROWNBACK: That looks good. I want to turn over to my colleague Senator Nelson. I want to run and vote and if I'm not back in time, just put us in recess.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: The hearing will come back to order. I apologize profusely for holding you and closing it and opening it back up, but we've had the series of votes on and if we're not there in person, it just doesn't count.
So we apologize for having to do it this way. We are able to finish up the hearing at this point in time. What we'll do is go through a round of questions through myself and Senator Nelson and then we'll close it at that point in time.
I want to get back again to the payment question and the ability to pay for this, because this is just such a central issue involved in all this. You envision-in the commission report you envision a go as you can pay type of approach. Do you think that's going to provide for sufficient planning opportunities? That if you're saying, okay, we're just going to do this as we can pay for it, is that going to allow us to produce the plan that we need to be able to have to do something so bold as going to Mars?
MR. ALDRIDGE: Yes, sir, I believe it will. Again, you have to have some projection about how much you're going to have to spend. Clearly, if you said that we're going to cut the NASA budget by one half, that plan is not achievable. But given the fact the way the president has laid out that this is going to be roughly seven-tenths of 1 percent of the federal budget, which is-some people will say they never believed it was that low, and you project out that for the future around that number, we believe this vision is feasible to --
SEN. BROWNBACK: To go to Mars?
MR. ALDRIDGE: To go to Mars.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Manned mission to Mars?
MR. ALDRIDGE: So long as we're able to get-reallocate the resources like the several billion dollars a year that will become available to us when the shuttle gets done, and assuming that we can make progress on this without some major failure of some type, certainly. You have to make assumptions about all these things and there are assumptions that say, no, that you can't do it. But in the case that we've laid out, we believe that that is affordable within those constraints.
People have asked me and said, well, how much is this going to cost? And I tell you I have not a clue. And I tried to draw the analogy that says well how much is it going to cost to cure cancer? I haven't a clue for that either. But I do know the goal is to get a cure and we're going to spend whatever we can afford on an annual basis to get there. That's the kind of model that we're talking about here. Within the parameters we've been given of roughly seven-tenths of 1 percent, the NASA budget growing roughly with inflation over the next 20 years, there should be sufficient resources to do this mission.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Did you get any of the debate or discussion about man versus robotic? I continue to get that growing to me is that we're just-it costs so much more to put a person in this vehicle and get it man rated than it does to do it robotically. We can do so much more with robotics. We really just should move out with robots and we can get a lot further faster.
MR. ALDRIDGE: Well, I think our view of it, and I'll let some of the other people comment on it as well, is that it's both. We were talking yesterday about a picture of it and we'd really like to see is see a human and a robot doing a high five on the moon or on Mars. But I think robots do certain functions and they can do it faster and learn a lot. But eventually you're going to have to put the human body on the moon and put the human body on Mars because it can do so much that robots can never do. So it's a combination of those things. And, yes, it's going to take longer for the human-to be able to put humans back on the moon and Mars. But it's a combination of both.
Any comment?
MR. SPUDIS: Well, I'll just second that. I think the commission feels very strongly that there are unique capabilities that people bring to the exploration process. And primarily it's the involvement of not just sensory capabilities but the cognition and the expert knowledge base that are all in close proximity to whatever the object being studied is. That's the essence of doing field science. That's how we explore the planets.
I can give you examples from the Apollo program where specifically we went to sites on the moon that, under extremely limited time pressure, we were able to comprehensively sample and understand it, primarily because there was a human involved. Now, you could argue, well, if a robot was there it could take as long as it needed. But the problem is robots have a lifetime too. They don't last forever. They run out of power, they wear out, they jam up with dust, their mechanisms freeze.
And fundamentally people bring unique abilities to exploration and you need both to get-take advantage of the benefits of each. Robots are very good, robust and rugged for harsh and extreme environments. They can sense parts of the spectrum that humans can't, but they can't think. And we're a long way from artificial intelligence, so we really believe that both are needed to fully explore the solar system.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Aldridge, what about the engagement of the private sector and what you've cited in your testimony as a robust space industry? How do you envision that being brought into a moon Mars mission?
MR. ALDRIDGE: Well, a couple of ways. One-certainly the first one is bring the private sector in to achieving cargo to Low Earth Orbit. Don't buy the rocket, buy the service of putting the pounds into orbit. Another concept is if we're ever to do lunar mapping or if we need telecommunications satellites around the moon or Mars, buy the service not the satellite. And so let the private sector get involved in participating in this mission and let NASA get focused on the real difficult and clearly non-private sector types of things that they're going to have to do.
But there are functions, services, buying data, buying maps that can be done by the private sector that does not have to take the attention of NASA and it can be if-in making sure that there is a business case for doing that, NASA has to develop how they can participate. And we're proposing that the architecture for this moon to Mars and beyond activity have in it specific things that the private sector can do to deliver services as part of its design. Another part of it is-and certainly the private sector is going to be building pieces of the crew exploration vehicle and they're going to be building a lot of things for NASA on its normal contracting process. But in addition to that, buying the services.
Another way is the prizes that we talked about, getting the entrepreneurs involved, getting the guys in the garages developing new ideas, getting private sector interest in building new things. Another way to do it which we believe is important-one of the recommendations we made is to employ the services of a lead system integrator. System integrators are types of people or types of organizations that look at all the pieces of this very complex mission that we call the moon to Mars and beyond, and understand the interface that exists on all the pieces and can write the specifications down. But system integrators are interesting because they're the ones who have to determine who are going to build the various components. And they can bring small businesses in that may not be-that they, the integrator, would be aware of that maybe the government would not be aware of so small businesses can participate.
International partners can participate in the same way. The integrator can find here is a component that can be developed in Italy or Germany or France or anywhere, the U.K., and they can go and compete for those kind of complements. The system integrator can play that kind of role. So I think having a combination of all these things working, with a cultural shift that says we are going to develop more private sector involvement into the space program. I think we can provide incentives for the private sector to become even more involved.
GEN. LYLES: Senator, if I could add we also recommended that NASA could benefit from having an organization like DARPA, the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency, an organization that's chartered to do high risk development of technologies and to reach out to the private sector, small businesses, entrepreneurial, innovative sources. Define those kinds of things that the entity itself, the organization itself, may consider too risk to take on. But somebody has an idea out there that could be very helpful and having an organization like a DARPA of reporting to NASA that could look for those kinds of things and even be willing to fail occasionally, like DARPA does, we think not only reaches out to the private sector but gives an opportunity to really stimulate R&D in science and technology across the board.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Why go this route, Mr. Aldridge? We've gone on the Apollo programs and these before in a very much government organized, government funded, government structured and been successful at this. Why go to these different models?
MR. ALDRIDGE: This is not an Apollo program. This is a series of missions and events that need to be integrated and planned in a way that we know the milestones, we know the interfaces and it's a much more-I would say a much more difficult mission than Apollo was. Apollo was focused on doing a single thing. This is a multiple activity. It takes a management approach that's different. It is a system of systems. There's an interrelationship between robotics and the human space flight part. There is a relationship between what kind of crew exploration vehicle one has and the propulsion system that's used to deliver it.
Whether it's a chemical rocket or a nuclear rocket, whether it-all these things fit into a very complex vision and mission that has to be interrelated and planned that it, in our view, takes a combination of focus of government and a real activity for the private sector to contribute as much as it can where it is able to do so, and have NASA focus on the right thing. And the role of a system integrator and the system of systems and spiral development all are management techniques that could make this thing work, in our view. And that's why we've said if we want to implement for success, it's going to take all of those things to make this work and it's different than the Apollo mission.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Good.
Senator Nelson.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Good line of questioning. Also on the Gehman Commission he talked about the management of NASA and the overall operation of it needing updating which you build on that as well. I find these hearings-and they're backdrop a lot of times for how we move legislation and how things move on forward, but fascinating and particularly for space exploration for us at this point in time. We clearly are frothing about, figuring out how is it that we get this done but we also are clearly moving forward.
So you help bring us into a focus a lot more on that, and I want to thank you, Mr. Aldridge, for doing that. I want to thank your commissioners for participating in that process because that's what we want to do-we want to get this honed in now. And it has to be sustainable. You list three things. The one that's really struck me as I've taken over this committee has been we've started five different manned space vehicle programs in the last 10 years or so, spent about $5 billion and we don't have a ship to show for it.
MR. ALDRIDGE: We didn't have a vision. We didn't know where we were going. We heard testimony that NASA was a spinning compass because it didn't have a-in fact a lot of the complaints, the Gehman Report complained about it. And in fact Congress has been complaining about it for years. Where are we going?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes. And the annual fight up here has then been about budget and sustaining just what we were doing even though people were saying isn't it time we moved off of this. And then this last shuttle episode I think really created the zone of people saying look, it is time we moved past this technology. It's good technology, it's served us well but it really is time to move forward with a different vision and a new way of doing things.
And so you're very helpful to us as we start to hone in on now okay, that was that chapter, we're ready to move forward on a new chapter and get it designed properly. It has to be sustainable within a broad political system dollar wise, vision wise, that this is something that the American people agree with it, we need to do, we need to move forward, and are willing to fund on a consistent basis so that we can get this done. I have no doubt either that with more resources we can move forward more rapidly and get things done.
That's to me part of tapping into the private sector, I want to tap into that capital formation, the capacity that it has to get more capital into this system so it can move forward on a more rapid basis, but also public resources that we would bring into it as well. You're very, very helpful. And I too, I fundamentally agree with this idea we've just got to sew the vision in our young people.
And, Dr. Zuber, as you brought forward this virtual university concept, you have to put that out there and once you do people will come along to it. When they look at it and they see this is real and it's something we can do. As a matter of fact, it's something I would really like to invest a significant portion of my life being a part of. And that has enormous benefit to us as a nation, and enormous harm if we don't do things like that because then without a vision, the people will perish. They don't go that direction and then we don't get grad students into MIT and we lose our way.
So it's excellent. I find your suggestion on the NASA centers interesting as well, an interesting way to go and to look at that because I think we're going to be then now in a struggle about how to you put together the resources that are available, resources that would be available to do something of this nature.
I want to thank you all for your service. Excellent presentation, I'm sure we'll be talking with you much more in the future.
MR. ALDRIDGE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Hearing is adjourned.
