Public Statements
Pledge of Allegiance Case
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 17, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE CASE
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I would like to applaud the decision by the Supreme Court yesterday dismissing the Pledge of Allegiance Case and affirming a student's right to say the pledge with the phrase "One Nation Under God." The majority decision concluded that the Court lacked jurisdiction over Mr. Newdow's claim of injury since Mr. Newdow is merely a noncustodial parent with no decision-making authority over his daughter's education.
The Court, of course, chose to sidestep the larger issue presented by the case. If you recall, Mr. President, the Ninth Circuit's stunning decision was deeply troubling to many Americans when it was first announced in 2000. The Ninth Circuit, unable to legally address the issue of relationship between the father and the daughter, simply decided that Mr. Newdow had a fundamental right to have his child shielded in public school from religious views that differ from his own.
Never mind that such a right has not been articulated before, and certainly not within the context of a noncustodial relationship, but more importantly, a right of such magnitude has breathtaking implications for the future relationship between the Federal judiciary and public education. For one thing, any disenchanted parent similarly offended by what their children are taught in public schools could run to the Federal courts and clog the system with litigation. Mr. Newdow's objection to the Pledge of Allegiance is that it supports the historical fact that this Nation was founded on a belief in monotheism; the Pledge of Allegiance simply reflects that singular and important fact about this Nation and about us. As a matter of law, injury of the kind alleged by Mr. Newdow must be direct and palpable. Having an unorthodox interpretation of historical fact certainly does not rise to a level which would confer article III standing.
But even if we assume that Mr. Newdow had standing, the merits of Newdow's case are nonexistent as Chief Justice Rhenquist, O'Connor, and Thomas argues in their minority opinion. Recitation of the Pledge of allegiance in public schools is fully consistent with and appropriate within the context of the establishment clause of the first amendment to the United States Constitution. The words of the pledge simply convey the conviction held by the Founders of this Nation that our freedoms come from God. Congress inserted the phrase "One Nation Under God" in the Pledge of Allegiance for the express purpose of reaffirming America's unique understanding of this truth, and to distinguish America from atheistic nations who recognize no higher authority than the State. The Ninth Circuit's decision was problematic on several fronts.
Let me point out a few specifics. First, the court ignored the distinction that the Supreme Court historically has drawn between religious exercises in public schools and patriotic exercises with religious references. The Court repeatedly has said that the latter are consistent with the establishment clause. The voluntary recitation of the Pledge of allegiance is not a coerced religious act, and the Ninth Circuit's conclusion to the contrary is insupportable.
Second, the Ninth Circuit ignored the numerous pronouncements by past and present members of the Court that the phrase "under God" in the Pledge of Allegiance poses no Establishment Clause problems. It is one thing to identify isolated dicta with no precedential weight; it is something quite different to ignore, as the Ninth Circuit did, consistent and numerous statements from the Court's opinions all pointing to a single conclusion. The Ninth Circuit's refusal to heed the Court's previous statements about the pledge is simply inexcusable and is a glaring and continuing example of judicial activism run amok.
A decision to affirm the Ninth Circuit could have had ramifications extending far beyond the recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance in public schools. There is no principled means of distinguishing between recitation of the pledge, and recitation of passages from other historical documents reflecting the same truth. The Declaration of Independence and the Gettysburg Address that every student in this Nation is familiar with contain the same recognition that the Nation was founded upon a belief in God.
Should we, in a recitation of those seminal speeches, similarly delete any references to God? In fact, had the Ninth Circuit's decision been allowed to stand, it could have cast doubt about whether a public school teacher could require students to memorize portions of either one.
Additionally, much in the world of choral music would become constitutionally suspect, if it is performed by public school students. If the optional recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance violates the establishment clause, what would be the basis by which music teachers can have students perform any classical choral pieces with a religious message? The phrase "under God" in the Pledge of Allegiance is descriptive only. In contrast, much in classical choral music is explicitly religious. They would, under the Ninth Circuit's decision have a greater chance of being rejected.
In ruling that Michael Newdow could not sue to ban the Pledge of Allegiance from his daughter's school and others because he did not have legal authority to speak for her, the Court avoided the larger question of whether or not recitation of the pledge in a public school is an unconstitutional violation of the First Amendment proscription against the establishment of religion.
However, restrictions on religious freedom in the guise of preventing the establishment of religion have been eroding our freedoms and adversely affecting our culture. This began in 1962 in the Engel v. Vitale case, when 39 million students were forbidden to do what they and students had been doing since the founding of our Nation, and only a year later in the School District of Abington Township v. Schempp, the Court held that Bible readings in public schools also violated the first amendment's establishment clause. Then 1992, Lee v. Weisman removed prayer from graduation exercises, and the 2000 ruling in Santa Fe Independent School District v. Doe, prohibited student-initiated, student-led prayer at high school football games.
No legislative body affirmatively adopted any of these restrictions. In fact, the people's representatives-at both the Federal and State level-did precisely the opposite. For example, when Congress added the phase "under God" in 1954 to the Pledge of Allegiance, it did so with the explicit intention of fostering patriotism and piety. It was done to reflect the values of the American people.
Those values, Mr. President, have not changed. And the Court's ruling yesterday simply confirms what the American people have always known: acknowledging God in the public square is patriotic, wise, and good. It is not in conflict with our founding principles, or with our Constitution.
