Public Statements
Fox The Big Story with John Gibson - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 15, 2004
Location: Unknown


Fox News Network
SHOW: THE BIG STORY WITH JOHN GIBSON (17:00)
HEADLINE: Interviews With Sam Brownback, Jon Corzine
GUESTS: Sam Brownback, Jon Corzine
BYLINE: John Gibson, Steve Harrigan
BODY:
HARRIGAN: In the meantime, terrorist attacks continue on Iraq's oil infrastructure. A pipeline in the south near the port city of Basra was exploded. This was one of the key pipelines out. It's cut Iraq's oil exports by more than one third. It's going it take 10 to 15 days to repair, and for each one of those days Iraq is expected to lose $60 million in revenue. We're getting reports now about a recent attack now in the north. That oil pipeline still on fire. It's not sure how that's going to cut exports even further. In the meantime, attacks on foreign contractors continue, and yesterday's car bombing blast here in Baghdad that killed 13. Five of those were foreign contractors. And today, another attack, this time on a group of cars as a convoy driving in from Iraq's airport. That road still dangerous. Government far from an overpass on that highway shot up the three cars, killed at least two more foreign contractors. John, back to you.
GIBSON: Steve Harrigan in Baghdad. As you can see, the Iraqis will have their hands full keeping things under control after the handover, so taking custody of Saddam Hussein can only add to their problems. In addition to making sure he doesn't escape, we would like to make sure he is not grabbed by an angry mob and strung up from the nearest light pole. Joining me now Republican Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas and Democratic Senator Jon Corzine of New Jersey. Both are members of the Foreign Relations Committee. Today's big question, we'll start with Senator Brownback, can we trust the Iraqis to do the right thing with Saddam Hussein?
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK ® KANSAS: Absolutely, we can trust them to do the right thing. And not only can we, we will, we must. He has hurt their country and their people more than any other. And I think if they can get under a speedy trial and start to try him in Iraq, it will remind and show the Iraqi people as well as the rest of the world the incredible atrocities that he visited on the Iraqi people, on the land itself all the things that he did. I really think it can help in that healing process and moving toward democracy and against those people who are still being supportive of Saddam and putting forward terrorist bombings in that country today
GIBSON: You know, Senator Corzine, the U.S. government has always said it was going to hand Saddam Hussein over to the Iraqis. It was up to them to put him on trial. Are you concerned maybe at this point the Iraqis seem a little too anxious to get their hands on them?
SEN. JON CORZINE (D), NEW JERSEY: Well, I generally agree with Senator Brownback on this issue. I think it confirms the passage of sovereignty. It will allow for the Iraqis to take responsibility for their future and to adjust-or address the-the criminality and the brutality of the past. On the other hand, I think it is absolutely essential that the United States and the international community make sure that this isn't a show trial, but it's something that actually looks like a serious judicial process that Saddam has a right to defend himself, but we have a right-or the Iraqis have a right to present their case on why he was such a villainous element to their society.
GIBSON: Senator Brownback, why is Saddam Hussein so emblematic of a sovereign and independent Iraq?
BROWNBACK: I think he represents what the country was, and for those people that are still in Iraq and trying to blow up the move towards democracy in an open society, it can show those people and anybody that might be supportive of them, this is what was, and we don't want any part of that any more. We want to move forward towards a future Iraq that is open, and free and democratic. I mean, I think he really is very emblematic and can help a lot with this terrorist movement and anybody that might support terrorism within country. We don't want to go back to the Ba'athists. We don't want to go back to Saddam Hussein.
GIBSON: Senator Corzine, we're looking at pictures from yesterday's bombing, that huge bombing in Baghdad which was meant and did kill some contractors who were on their way to try to get-these are GE contractors, General Electric contractors, who were trying to put together the power plant to restore more hours of power to Iraqis. Big hot summer is coming on. And yet, after the bombing an Iraqi crowd is screaming their hatred of America. What about-what was it about this bombing-what is it about American and other nationality contractors helping restore power that-that causes them to hate us for bombing the terrorists carried out?
CORZINE: First of all, I think that these tragedies are things that require serious efforts at bringing security on the ground. Now, we want to make sure that the Iraqis are the primary promoters of that security. The United States didn't plan well, hasn't followed through in the training to make sure that the Iraqi people are secure enough on this. And we're going to have to do some work after this transfer of sovereignty to make sure that that is real.
GIBSON: But Senator, the Iraqi police on the scene were saying-that have been trained-were saying we're not going to turn against our own people. We're mad. We kind of agree with them. We're not going to turn against them. If that's the police attitude, what were we supposed to do?
CORZINE: I think that there needed to be something other than just quantity of people who put on uniforms and said they were police and national defense forces. We need to do make sure this was a lot more professionalized than what it's come to. That's why it's going to take longer to get there.
GIBSON: Senator Brownback, General Petraeus is there in Iraq right now training Iraqis to be these police. We have been flying them out to Germany and other places. How have we fallen short?
BROWNBACK: I think really in the turning over of sovereignty is the key issue here. I've thought all along, we should have turned over sovereignty much, much earlier so that it's Iraqis running Iraq. And I think you're still wrestling with some of that. We should have done that after the first month or two. We didn't. We're going to June 30, and we have to press toward that time deadline. And I think that's going to help it be about Iraqis and not about Americans trying to impose the government. I've got to run vote. I'll leave you, but thanks for letting me be on about this topic.
GIBSON: All right, Senator Brownback, thanks very much. Senator Corzine, thanks very much. Appreciate it, both of you.
