Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations - Sudan, Peace But At What Price?
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 15, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE SENATE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
SUBJECT: SUDAN, PEACE BUT AT WHAT PRICE?
CHAIRED BY: SEN. LAMAR ALEXANDER (R-TN)
WITNESSES PANEL I:
CHARLES SNYDER, ACTING ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE, BUREAU FOR AFRICAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF STATE;
ROGER P. WINTER, ASSIST ADMINISTRATOR, DEMOCRACY, CONFLICT & HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE BUREAU, UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
LOCATION: 419 DIRKSEN SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
TIME: 2:30 P.M.
BODY:
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Yes, if you wouldn't mind. Great, thank you very much. I want to thank in absentia the chairman and the ranking member for holding this hearing on what I consider a grave situation and some have marked as the gravest humanitarian crisis that exists in the world today, which I think there's no doubt that that's the case. Let me ask, if I could, a couple of questions as a follow-up.
Mr. Snyder, you were saying there were 120 monitors from the African Union that are in and on the ground in the Darfur region or moving forward? I didn't quite catch that.
MR. SNYDER: There will be 120. They've actually identified the nations and the numbers that will come. So far there's far less than that. There's about, by my count, about 32 on the ground at this point, either in Al-Fashir or forward. They will get up to that 120 number as soon as these countries supply the manpower. They know what countries they're coming from. We've got indications by checking in the capitols that the country involved is serious and has identified the men and is moving them. We're trying to assist in that in various places.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Shouldn't this number be substantially higher and not just monitors, but actual peacekeepers if we're trying to stabilize this situation? It seems like that number is quite low to accomplish the task that's in front of us.
MR. SNYDER: Again, this goes to our experience in the Nuba Mountains. Our experience there leads us to believe that, given our relationship with the rebels and the time we spent with them and given what we know about the government's capability, if it wants to honor the ceasefire, as long as we have a reasonable number of monitors-and 120 is, based on our Nuba experience, reasonable enough for at least the start of this, a serious start of this-we can monitor this ceasefire and hold those that violate it responsible. It will also take other forms of assistance, as Senator Feingold alluded to, our intelligence. We will not spare providing that when we have to if we think things are being missed or to target or move people in the right direction to see what they need to see. But if our experience in the Nuba Mountains instructs this experience, it's possible to do this with 120 and 270, at least start it.
Clearly, Ambassador Djinnit and others that are running this have made it clear to us that they won't hesitate if they need more, to come back and ask more. Again, it's a teething process. I doubt the AU, at this point, could do much more than this and we need to experience how they do this peace in order to reinforce it.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let me ask Mr. Winter. And I thank you for traveling into this region, and that's something that I intend to do myself in working with others. We've got to get this aid in quickly. Are we going to need to pass additional supplemental resources near- term before we could get to an Omnibus package, say, by the end of this year, in order to be able to meet the pressing humanitarian needs that exist or can the administration find the resources to meet the humanitarian needs on the ground now in Darfur?
MR. WINTER: I would say quite candidly, I think we're very tight. We have made significant commitments. We're continuing to shift around our resources within our international disaster assistance account. We're looking at everything we can to make sure we continue to be liquid. But Darfur, at this level, was unexpected and so it is-there is some tightness in our situation right now. Do I wish that we were more liquid? Absolutely.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It seems to me that in the Iraqi supplemental that's being considered now-and everybody is trying to keep it clean and I would love to do that as well - but this is really the vehicle and the timeliness that we need to put some additional resources to meet this greatest humanitarian need that we have in the world today. And I'm not asking either of you to comment on that. I understand the administration position, but I also understand the needs and-if we do nothing-excuse me, if we do everything right, I believe Mr. Natsios has said that we're looking at 300,000 deaths, if everything goes right! If things go wrong, we could be looking at somewhere far exceeding that number. So this is a great, pressing situation.
I also think, as you alluded to, Kofi Annan should travel to Darfur to bring further international pressure and focus into this region so that the African countries and the rest of the world looks at this horrific humanitarian situation and addresses it-not just the United States. I've spoken with Sudanese officials to express my frustration, and they say, well, the United States is some of the leading edge of this, but it should be other countries as well. It should be the Europeans. It should be the other African countries. Kofi Annan would be singularly positioned to be able to draw that attention.
MR. WINTER: I think if he went into this, he would provide a level of legitimacy that would be very helpful right now. Given the battle that took place with respect to the U.N. Human Rights Commission and the fact that we were basically alone in asserting a firmer posture with respect to human rights in Sudan, the fact that we are so high-profile when it comes to trying to respond to the situation in Darfur and everything, it makes it sort of, in a way, take on a character that, really, it doesn't deserve. First of all, the population is dying right now is a Muslim population. Where is the Muslim world fussing about this?
It's an African population. Where is Africa, broadly?
Well, I think-what I am trying to suggest is Kofi Annan said the right things a few months ago. I think he could bring a legitimacy that would help depoliticize the way many people look at this kind of a situation. And that's what we need right now. We need the whole world to pull together to try to remedy this situation.
SEN. BROWNBACK: We do, and I would invite him now, and publicly, to go with me to that region-and that he really can bring authenticity to it that's desperately needed so that we don't see hundreds of thousands more die.
Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this hearing. I'm going to run over and vote.
