Public Statements
Tribute to Former President Ronald Reagan
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 8, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


TRIBUTE TO FORMER PRESIDENT RONALD REAGAN
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to pay tribute to Ronald Reagan, my political guiding light. I came to Congress on the second Reagan wave in the 1994 election, when Republicans took over the House of Representatives. Many of us were raised on Ronald Reagan. His was my first Presidential campaign in 1976, when I was still a student at Kansas State University. I was riding in a tractor in Kansas when I heard the Evil Empire speech. I started pounding on the dashboard, saying: That is right, that is right. Then all the pundits came on afterward and said how terrible it was. I was a bit confused but decided Reagan was right and the pundits were wrong. He went on to prove that.
He was a great contributor to our time and our legacy. I only had the pleasure of meeting Ronald Reagan once. I was a White House fellow in the Bush 1 White House. We met him in southern California. People had always given examples of his legendary humor. This meeting was no exception. We were having a meeting for a period of time, and then one of the people with whom I was traveling asked him a question: What one thing didn't you get done as President that you wish you had gotten done. I think he had heard this question before and he had given this line before, but he tilted his head back, and you could see the glint in his eye and the smile comes across the face, and he said: I wished I had brought back the cavalry. That was a line people enjoyed at the time, and it was the sort of humorous thing he was so known for in his policies. It was part of his greatness.
While he was a great President, he didn't consider greatness to be inherent to him. In other words, he was not full of himself.
He considered this country great. He considered the position of President to be great. But he wasn't full of the feeling of greatness for himself, and he always had self-deprecating humor. That was part of him.
Following on the previous speaker, Senator Kyl, I had a chance several years back to talk with Eduard Shevardnadze, Foreign Secretary under Mikhail Gorbachev, about when Reagan and Gorbachev were negotiating on missile reduction and nuclear weapons reduction. This was a meeting that took place within the last 3 or 4 years with Mr. Shevardnadze. I asked him to reflect on that time period when we were having a military defense buildup here under Ronald Reagan and what took place in the Soviet Union in that time period. I wanted to get a measure from him on that.
He said of Reagan: Reagan saw the central weakness of the Soviet Union. That was its inability to produce goods and services. They were spending somewhere between 60 to 80 percent of the GDP of the Soviet Union on the military. Along comes Reagan and says: I am moving more chips on the table. You will have to match me if you want to stay in this race.
The Soviet Union then was looking around saying, how do we stay in the race when we are putting virtually every chip we have right now into this military buildup for the cold war. And it was a long way from secure at that point in time that the Soviet Union was going to fall any time soon. This was a very well-established, militarily strong country. What it forced in the Soviet Union was for them to restructure their economy and move to openness to try to get more chips on the table to grow their economy.
They introduced the likes of glasnost and perestroika, openness and restructuring of the economy. But when you looked at the totalitarian Communist system, glasnost and perestroika were inherent inconsistencies and led to the demise of the Soviet Union, that along with Ronald Reagan's words. These words are from Eduard Shevardnadze. Many talked about star wars and how the Soviet Union, at that time when Reagan announced star wars-the Soviet Union's leadership sent its best scientists to come back and appraise it and tell the political leadership if the Americans could do this. The Soviet scientists came back after a few months of studying the American proposal-the Reagan proposal-for star wars and said we could not. They spent another few months looking at it and then returned to the Soviet leadership and said if the Americans are willing to stay on this path and put the money into doing it, they can do it.
It sent a shock wave through the leadership in the Soviet system that the United States could get this accomplished. Clearly, the deciding factor of opening that system led to the demise of the Soviet Union and the end of the cold war. There was this wave of freedom for people who had been in oppressed societies for their entire existence, and that was Ronald Reagan. He understood the source of our national greatness was not our wealth or our military power but, rather our belief in the dignity of the individual and in the God-given freedom of ordinary people to order their lives as they wished. That was the source of his view of the United States being a shining city on a hill and a model to people the world over, and an inspiring example of a political system that put power in the hands of the people, not bureaucrats or judges. That was Ronald Reagan.
We remember President Reagan for restoring our national confidence at a time when our country was on the heels of the Vietnam war and the impeachment of a President, uncertain about the way forward. We remember him for his staunch defense of innocent, unborn human life-an issue on which he never wavered-and for the extraordinary step he took in authoring a book as President, entitled "Abortion and the Conscience of a Nation," because he felt so strongly about the pro-life cause. We remember his brave challenge to a new Soviet leader to "tear down this wall," because it was an affront to human dignity. We remember his vital role in bringing the cold war to an end-an end hastened by both President Reagan's military buildup and his revitalization of the American economy.
In all of Ronald Reagan's political life was his passionate belief in two core principles: human freedom and human dignity, both inalienable because they were given by God. He believed in the unbounded inventiveness and ingenuity of the individual freed from the tyranny of government but firmly rooted in our recognition of a higher moral authority. He understood that, in his words, "The city of man cannot survive without the city of God, that the visible city will perish without the invisible city."
President Reagan recognized that the vitality of our society and culture has always been dependent on the religious faith and practice of the people. As he said, "Those who created our country . . . understood that there is a divine order which transcends the human order. They saw the state, in fact, as a form or moral order and felt that the bedrock of moral order is religion."
Ronald Reagan was never reticent in speaking about his own faith and the primary place it held in his life. In all of these things, President Reagan was, and continues to be, an inspiration to millions, and certainly to me. He transformed the world for the better, and we are thankful he graced this Nation with his life, his example, and his divine calling.
Our thoughts and prayers go out to him and to his family. And for all of us who mourn his passing, may we continue to be inspired and elevated by all he was, all he achieved, and all he sought for us to be.
God bless you, Ronald Reagan.
