Public Statements
Panel III of a Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee - The Greater Middle East Initiative: Sea Island and Beyond
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 2, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service
HEADLINE: PANEL III OF A HEARING OF THE SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE SUBJECT: "THE GREATER MIDDLE EAST INITIATIVE: SEA ISLAND AND BEYOND"
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR RICHARD LUGAR (R-IN)
WITNESSES: PATRICK CRONIN, CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES; ALAN RICHARDS, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SANTA CRUZ
LOCATION: 419 SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you for holding the hearing, and I thank you gentleman for being here. I appreciate your thoughts you're putting forward, particularly Professor Richards-I was looking at your conclusions about a half century ago we thought we could shape what was taking place in China-we failed. We thought we could shape things in Southeast Asia-we failed. We thought we could shape things in Russia-we failed. I would look at all that maybe and wonder, well, then maybe we shouldn't be trying here at all. But I'd also suggest to you maybe you're reading it a little harsher in the history that those countries, a number of them are moving much in the direction of open societies and democracy, and while our effort is perhaps not as successful as we would like and not moving as fast as we would like, in certainly places like China, and in others in that region, there has been a movement overall clearly towards an open society and democracy in those regions, even though our attempts may not have been as successful as we'd like. And so that reasonable efforts with reasonable goals should be our design, but most of all I think we have to stand on principles and do the best we can ourselves of being a good democracy, of being a solid country, of trying to walk wisely.
The other thing I would really question-and this is something that I've been troubled about since being on this committee. When I first went on it I chaired the Middle East Subcommittee, and held a number of hearings, I met with a number of Arab leaders, traveled the region. And every one of them blamed the Israeli-Palestinian conflict for anything that happened in the region. That was their summation of basically any problem that took place. Well, if you could resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict everything goes away. If you could resolve that, we would have better education, we would have open societies, we would have virtually everything. And I listened, and for a period of time I thought, Okay, I can see how that's an irritant and a difficult thing in the region, and we should be paying attention to it. But this was on the-we had by that point in time had invested a good 20 years in a kind of land-for-peace, or some different type of design of a little land for a little peace type of arrangements. We were on Oslo at the time.
We had preceded that with other types of discussions of trying to get some resolution within the region. All the while it seemed to be a very useful excuse for a number of the Arab leaders not to engage, democraticizing or opening their societies up, or providing for real economic opportunity, or involving women in the society. And so the more I looked at it and studied it I thought, You know, while this is a key issue-there is no question about it-for too long it has been used as an excuse not to engage and to open up a society, and to educate greater their own people to open up for more democracies and human rights and religious freedoms throughout the region.
So while I think we clearly need to be engaged in the Israeli- Palestinian conflict, and right now we have difficulty with that, of having an interlocutor on the Palestinian side that we can work well with, I just don't think we should allow that sort of blame game to be played on us by the Arab leadership in the region and saying we can-the rest of this doesn't move forward effectively without this moving forward effectively. I would hope that we would push both, but push them separately and independently, and not have the linkages be made, nor allow the linkages to be made. Now, people are going to draw their own conclusions, and believe what they want to believe themselves, and we certainly can't change that. We can try to be as wise and as humble in our own policies as possible, and not do things that exacerbate it maybe more than we need to. But these need to be pushed on separate tracks, and independent of each other, and pushed regardless of each other. Having open societies in the Arab world and human rights, religious freedoms, gender equality is good in that region-it's good for the people there. And it is a fundamental principle on which we stand. And we push these principles everywhere, and people can accuse us of heavy-handedness or whatever they'd like to. But these are things that we have stood for, and they have stood the test of time.
And we are at our best when we stand on principles, and at our worst I think when we forget them and try to say, Well, okay, we can't really do that here, because we're hunting for al Qaeda now, and we need to work with this dictator in this particular country or this monarch in that country, because he's helping us with al Qaeda. That's useful, but we did that model in the '70s in Central and South America, where a number of countries were headed by dictators, military dictators-but they were not communist, and we were against the communists. And so we worked with these dictators, but the people resented it, and it hurt us on a longer-term basis, because we didn't stand on our own principles. So I would hope we wouldn't just play into this, the blame game in the region, but would just stand on our principles that we have stood for, that we have stood for around the world, that we have been hesitant about standing on in the Middle East and the Islamic world for various reasons, but we have been hesitant about standing on principle there, and I think we would be far wiser to do that, and to do modest measures that while they may not be successful in the-they may not be as successful as we would like, continue to point the way towards open societies, free societies, and that people that are vested themselves in their own societies are the most motivated and produce the greatest abilities and the greatest opportunities for people of a country.
That's long to say that I can see some possibilities here in what Senator Lugar has, what you have as well, but my rationale at coming at it would be somewhat different from the support that you look at it. I do hope, Mr. Chairman, we can work on these sorts of issues in a modest framework where we are after big goals, but realize no limitations of what we can get down. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
