Public Statements
Panel II of a Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee - The Greater Middle East Initiative: Sea Island and Beyond
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 2, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service
HEADLINE: PANEL II OF A HEARING OF THE SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE SUBJECT: "THE GREATER MIDDLE EAST INITIATIVE: SEA ISLAND AND BEYOND"
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR RICHARD LUGAR (R-IN)
WITNESS: PRINCE EL HASSAN BIN TALAL OF JORDAN
LOCATION: 419 SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): If I could, Mr. Chairman, and I thank you for holding the hearing. I apologize for not getting her for your direct testimony.
But I wanted to catch, on a particular issue-I was actually encouraged by the recent meetings of the Arab League and the discussions that are taking place. These are difficult things to talk about and difficult topics to address.
I'm curious, in your country, if elections were held within the next year or so, what would be-what would be the results of those elections, would you speculate?
PRINCE HASSAN: Well, elections were held only last year, and we have a new parliament in session at the present time. But, I think again, if we are going to talk about issues, I mean, there was a phenomenon, and I don't want to sound critical of the mechanisms of Israel, which is always held up in democratic terms as being the only democracy in the region, but for a prime minister to come here, to commit himself to withdrawal, and then to poll his own party rather than polling the Israeli people came as quite a shock to people in our part of the world.
So, today, unfortunately, national elections are not going to be held on domestic issues alone. Today, as His Majesty King Abdullah said, I think before this committee, "We're caught between Iraq and a hard place." And, I think that people have legitimate concerns about, you know, Finlandize Jordan-we've always looked at the Helsinki process because Finland had troublesome neighbors. I once said to Shimon Peres, he said, "We have difficulty with our neighbors." I said, "You think you have a problem? We have difficulty with our friends." (Laughs.)
So, I'd just like to point out that we can hold elections, and parliamentary participation in public life is strong and vibrant. But the issue of regional questions that we're asking around this table has to be addressed by leadership convincing leadership, and this is why I would hope that in the coming period, we can move from politics to policies. This is why I am setting up a center for policy dialogue in Jordan, because I have no axe to grind, and I think that that objectivity of rediscovering the public realm is so important for all of us.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Do you anticipate within the next five to 10 years that elections for all positions throughout most Middle Eastern countries will begin to take place?
PRINCE HASSAN: I would sincerely hope so. The alternative would be the fragmentation of the region into untenable ethnic and sectarian groupings, Balkanization, if you will, and in that event you'll be talking about autonomous realities which are really unmanageable. And I think this is the last opportunity, this Greater Middle East Initiative, or whatever we call it at the end of the day. I hope that something comes from the region that is convincing, of course, but this is the last opportunity to stabilize a region which is fraught with dangers. I was just saying, weapons of mass destruction in Pakistan and India. I'm interested to see that Mr. Baradei of the IAEA is now visiting Israel, which at least is a step in the right direction. But the sooner these issues are put on the table and discussed in terms of securing the region, the less likely it will be that we will face a major catastrophe.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
