Public Statements
America's Farmers and Obesity
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 2, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


AMERICA'S FARMERS AND OBESITY
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, over the past 2 weeks, more than 2,000 farmers-including over 600 from Kansas, the most from any State-have signed a petition that will be sent to ABC News and TIME magazine today or tomorrow. The signers of this petition are to be commended.
Their request is simple. They want to ensure that their voices are heard in an upcoming summit on obesity sponsored by the two news outlets. At this summit, and in subsequent media coverage, "experts" will attempt to link Federal support for America's farmers to the country's obesity epidemic.
The individuals who signed the petition are frustrated, and rightfully so. This summit is a follow-up to the December news special, "How to Get Fat Without Really Trying," where ABC dedicated more than 15 minutes of airtime to bash Federal support for farmers.
Unfortunately, no one from the agricultural community was afforded the opportunity to defend farming families or the policies on which they depend. And don't expect too many farmers to be on hand to defend themselves at the upcoming summit either, not with a $2,000 registration fee.
The agriculture community is not alone in its frustration. I am frustrated, too. So are many of my colleagues, like Senators BURNS and LINCOLN, who have also been vocal in their opposition to those who would blame farmers for America's bulging waistlines.
In the December special, Peter Jennings claimed "not many people in the government have made the connection between subsidies to agriculture and obesity." At least ABC got one thing right. We haven't made that connection, because there is no connection to be made.
Consider this: federal farm support has been in place since the 1930s. Yet, obesity is only a recent problem. Other nations that don't have obesity problems provide subsidies to their farmers to produce many of the same commodities grown in the U.S. The European Union, for example, doles out six times the subsidies that we do, yet obesity is less of a problem in the EU than here in America. Federal support is not causing drastically higher levels of production, as some suggest. In fact, America produced more wheat 20 years ago than today. Corn harvested for human consumption has only seen moderate increases from 10 years earlier. And soybeans-another commodity unfairly linked to obesity-experienced supply issues over the past year. According to USDA consumption statistics, Americans consume much less wheat than consumers in other countries that don't suffer widespread obesity problems. Data from the Centers for Disease Control indicate that in the past 20 years, the calorie intake of American kids has risen only about 1 percent, an increase that's in keeping with their increased heights. The big change is that they now get 13 percent less exercise.
Bottom line: America needs farmers. And farmers need a strong Federal farm policy.
America's farmers deserve our praise. They deserve our thanks. What they don't deserve is to be blamed for America's obesity.
