Public Statements
National Public Radio Talk of the Nation - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 25, 2004
Location: Unknown


National Public Radio (NPR)
SHOW: Talk of the Nation (2:00 PM ET) - NPR
HEADLINE: US strategy for Iraq and the UN's role
ANCHORS: NEAL CONAN
BODY:
CONAN: Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, the senior Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee.
Joining us now is Senator Sam Brownback, a Republican from Kansas, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
And, Senator Brownback, nice to speak with you again.
Senator SAM BROWNBACK (Republican, Kansas): Neal, good to talk with you.
CONAN: Did the president, do you think, offer a credible vision of the way ahead last night, one that will reassure the flagging public support?
Sen. BROWNBACK: I think he offered a continuation of a vision of the way ahead. I don't know that there's anything that's particularly new in it, outside of-I agree with the caller that called in about the destruction of the prison. But that's also-to me, that's reassuring. We shouldn't be discovering new ways at this point in time. We ought to be implementing the plan that's in place, and the plan calls for the turning over to an Iraqi leadership that's selected primarily by the international community by June 30th. And we should be implementing this plan, moving it on forward, and that's what I saw-more of the speech last night was kind of detailing mileposts along the way of the implementation and where we are and how we're making progress.
CONAN: So steady on the course, let's not get too carried away. There will be difficult days ahead but we're on the right track.
Sen. BROWNBACK: Well, I think the best way to describe it is this is enormously difficult, what's taking place, and it's going to take a lot of time and effort and, unfortunately, it's taken a lot of lives in the process. But we're moving on forward and it will continue to be difficult.
One of the things I took encouragement out of, not so much from the president's speech last night but was-the meeting of the Arab League over the weekend where they for the first time in my recollection are really engaging the notions of democracy, women's rights, more open democratic societies. That's an amazing move on the part of the Arab League, who's never in my recollection used those sorts of words before. And I think that's all part of a result of us showing a clear commitment for these universal principles that we've stood for but we haven't really pressed in the Arab world previously and now we are.
CONAN: Reaction in much of the Arab media around the world today has been rather negative to the-what one newspaper, I think, in Qatar described as a sham sovereignty offer by the United States, that as long as US-led forces are in Iraq in such numbers, free to act on their own, as the president outlined last night, that's not sovereignty.
Sen. BROWNBACK: Well, I mean, really, what would you expect from the Arab press at this point in time? It's become very stylish to beat up on the United States. This is a difficult thing that we're trying to do. The passing over of sovereignty on June 30th will be a significant move forward. I personally thought we should have passed over sovereignty much earlier, similar to what we did in Afghanistan with Karzai, where after about two months, Afghanistan-after the Taliban had been kicked out, about two months later, you have an international community come together, select a leader that's not picked by the Afghan people but has some international credibility. And that's what you're looking for.
I think what will take place, similarly, on June 30th is this is a person selected by an international community, not by the Iraqi people, but will have some credibility that hopefully can move that nation on forward on its own sovereignty, on an open, democratic society path.
CONAN: Let's get a caller on the line. Steve's with us from Palo Alto, California.
STEVE (Caller): Hi. My comment is-I listened last night and I heard the president outline what needs to be done, but not how it's going to be done. And I have no faith that the planning from here on out is going to go any better than the enormously bad planning that's gone on so far.
CONAN: Senator Brownback?
Sen. BROWNBACK: It seems to me that the planning-there's been phases that have been very good and stages that have been bad. I look at the military phase of the operation going in until the fall of the statue of Saddam as being an absolutely phenomenal and well-planned and well-conducted enterprise. The hand-off phases, since then, it seems like to me, have been real fits and starts, and there have been real problems that have taken place along the way, but we've continued to move down this course of trying to help a society transition to an open one.
I think you're seeing that plan continue to unfurl, and it is difficult and it is difficult to plan in minute detail. There are planning stages. They've been implemented to date. They're under an interim constitution that the Iraqi Governing Council has put together. They're developing Iraqi troops and police force. That's taking place. Some have shown themselves well, many times they have not. And then now you're getting an internationally selected leadership that will be an interim government till you can have full elections.
This has been by fits and starts. I wouldn't disagree with you at all. But I don't think you can discount everything and say the whole thing has been bad. It's just this is very, very difficult in a tough region of the world.
CONAN: Steve, thanks for the call. And, Senator Brownback, thank you for your time today.
Sen. BROWNBACK: Thank you. Take care.
CONAN: Thank you. Sam Brownback, a Republican from Kansas. He spoke with us on the phone from Los Angeles.
