Public Statements
Massachusetts Court Same-Sex Marriage Decision
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 20, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


MASSACHUSETTS COURT SAME-SEX MARRIAGE DECISION
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I take a few minutes of the leader's time to speak in morning business on one of the issues this week that has drawn, obviously, the attention of everybody across the country. It has happened in Massachusetts where, 3 days ago, in keeping with the rulings of four Massachusetts Supreme Court justices last November, the State of Massachusetts started issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples, as thousands descended on the State.
This event has significant repercussions for all Americans. According to news reports, local officials across the State were giving licenses to all who requested them, without asking for proof of State residency. This is in open defiance of Massachusetts law, which bars out-of-State couples from marrying in the State if the union would be illegal in their home State.
Let there be no mistake about this. The stakes in this battle over the future of our culture are enormous. This attempt by an imperious judiciary to radically redefine marriage by a few people is both a grave threat to our central social institution and a serious affront to democratic rule in our Nation.
Our reaction to this threat hinges on not only the future of marriage, which is a foundational unit for building a strong society, but our future as a self-governing people as well-whether the people here rule or a few on the judiciary. The actions of the Massachusetts Supreme Court in Goodridge v. Department of Public Health, to mandate homosexual marriage, is simply the latest instance of arrogant judges riding roughshod over the democratic process and constitutional law alike, in a quest to impose a radical social agenda on America.
The decision in this case could not have been more radical. The court declared that our society's longstanding, historical understanding of marriage as between a man and a woman was irrational or completely lacking a foundation in reason. As such, according to the court, the only possible explanation for the State denying marriage licenses to homosexual couples is prejudice, which the court compared with racial prejudice of the past that opposed interracial marriages. This analogy, of course, is false. It is misleading. The vast majority of African Americans recognize that. The vast majority of all Americans recognize it. All America should have the right to marry whomever they choose, regardless of race. But while most Americans believe that homosexuals have a right to live as they choose, they do not believe that a small group of activists or a tiny judicial elite have a right to redefine marriage for the entire society and to impose this radical social experiment on the culture.
Almost every benefit that is being sought can be attained through contract or power of attorney. But let us be clear, this is not a battle over civil rights. It is a battle over whether marriage will be emptied of its meaning in contradiction to the will of the people and their duly elected representatives.
This is a key issue. I look for this body to take up the issue in a constitutional amendment defining marriage as between a man and a woman. This is going to be a very difficult discussion. I hope we can have a good, healthy discussion about the importance of marriage as a foundational building unit in this society, a marriage between a man and a woman bonded together for life. That, indeed, is the best place to raise children according to all of our sociological data. This institution has been in disrepair for 40 years-has had difficulty for a long period of time-but this is not the answer to curing it. This will harm it.
While this is going to be a difficult debate and discussion for us as a country, it is a valuable and important one for us to have. I look forward to this body, later this year, voting on a constitutional amendment defining marriage as between a man and a woman.
I yield the floor.
