Public Statements
Project Bioshield Act of 2003
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 19, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


PROJECT BIOSHIELD ACT OF 2003
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am here to address the Bioshield Act and particularly section 3 of that bill that directs the Secretary of Homeland Security on an ongoing basis to assess threats of use of chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear agents and determine which threats pose a material risk of use against the U.S. population.
I draw my colleagues' particular attention to what has recently been reported in the newspaper about one of the most recent uses of sarin gas that has occurred and its possibility of being used in the United States.
I commend my colleagues for bringing this bill to the Senate, for a chance to talk about it. It is a very important issue. I see in this particular section our need to assess this. The discovery and confirmation of sarin gas in artillery shells in Iraq highlights evidence that Saddam Hussein had a weapons of mass destruction program that was not only fully operational but ready for use against U.S. troops.
I raise this for two reasons. One, the argument that we have not been able to find WMD in Iraq is ongoing. I hope we will not dismiss the lack of any findings in the past and what we are finding now, the actual use of sarin gas against our troops. That should continue to be a focus that we hunt for, and we should be vigilant in looking for weapons of mass destruction, particularly chemicals such as sarin gas. But more importantly, Iraq had told the U.N. weapons inspection team they had produced tons of sarin gas and other chemical weapons. We should be concerned about where those are today and whether some of them may have found their way into Syria or other countries.
I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the RECORD a news story that appeared today from Fox News.
There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as follows:
[From Fox News, May 19, 2004]
TESTS CONFIRM SARIN IN IRAQI ARTILLERY SHELL
(By Liza Porteus)
NEW YORK.-Tests on an artillery shell that blew up in Iraq on Saturday confirm that it did contain an estimated three or four liters of the deadly nerve agent sarin (search), Defense Department officials told Fox News Tuesday.
The artillery shell was being used as an improvised roadside bomb, the U.S. military said Monday. The 155-mm shell exploded before it could be rendered inoperable, and two U.S. soldiers were treated for minor exposure to the nerve agent.
Three liters is about three-quarters of a gallon; four liters is a little more than a gallon.
"A little drop on your skin will kill you" in the binary form, said Ret. Air Force Col. Randall Larsen, founder of Homeland Security Associates. "So for those in immediate proximity, three liters is a lot," but he added that from a military standpoint, a barrage of shells with that much sarin in them would more likely be used as a weapon than one single shell.
The soldiers displayed "classic" symptoms of sarin exposure, most notably dilated pupils and nausea, officials said. The symptoms ran their course fairly quickly, however, and as of Tuesday the two had returned to duty.
The munition found was a binary chemical shell, meaning it featured two chambers, each containing separate chemical compounds. Upon impact with the ground after the shell is fired, the barrier between the chambers is broken, the chemicals mix and sarin is created and dispersed.
Intelligence officials stressed that the compounds did not mix effectively on Saturday. Due to the detonation, burn-off and resulting spillage, it was not clear exactly how much harmful material was inside the shell.
A 155-mm shell can hold two to five liters of sarin; three to four liters is likely the right number, intelligence officials said.
Another shell filled with mustard gas (search), possibly also part of an improvised explosive device (IED) was discovered on May 2, Defense Dept. officials said.
The second shell was found by passing soldiers in a median on a thoroughfare west of Baghdad. It probably was simply left there by someone, officials said, and it was unclear whether it was meant to be used as a bomb.
Testing done by the Iraqi Survey Group (search)-a U.S.-organized group of weapons inspectors who have been searching for weapons of mass destruction (search) since the ouster of Saddam Hussein-concluded that the mustard gas was "stored improperly" and was thus "ineffective."
"It's not out of the ordinary or unusual that you would find something [like these weapons] in a haphazard fashion" in Iraq, Edward Turzanski, a political and national security analyst, told Fox News on Tuesday.
But "you have to be very careful not to be entirely dismissive of it," he added. "It remains to be seen whether they have more shells like this."
IRAQ: A "BAZAAR OF WEAPONS"
New weapons caches are being found every day, experts said, including "hundreds of thousands" of rocket-propelled grenades and portable anti-aircraft weapons.
"Clearly, if we're gonna find one or two of these every so often-used as an IED or some other way-the threat is not all that high, but it does confirm suspicion that he [Saddam] did have this stuff," said Ret. U.S. Army Col. Robert Maginnis.
"It is a bazaar of weapons that are available on every marketplace throughout that country," Maginnis added. "We're doing everything we can to aggressively disarm these people, but there were so many things that were stored away by Saddam Hussein in that country . . . it's a huge job that we're tackling."
Some experts were concerned that enemy fighters with access to potential weapons of mass destruction in a country full of stockpiles could mean more risk to coalition forces and Iraqis.
"What we don't know is if there are other shells, which there certainly could be," said Dennis Ross, a former ambassador and special Middle East coordinator and a Fox News foreign affairs analyst. "We also don't know whether or not these kind of shells could be used as explosives, which could have a more devastating effect on our troops."
Other experts said the individual shells themselves don't pose a threat to the masses.
"I'm not as concerned they're going to use a lot of chemical munitions," Maginnis said. "They're not gonna use these as improvised explosive devices because they don't have a big blast associated with them, but they do combine those two compounds into the noxious sarin gas. But they can't do it all that well with a small explosive charge."
"The reality is, they'd have to have a whole bunch of these things," he added, "have to find some way of blowing them with a large charge to even create a cloud."
That doesn't mean insurgents couldn't find a better way to make the devices to create a more "terrorist-type of attack" against U.S. forces, Maginnis continued.
The task of military analysts in Baghdad will be determine how old the sarin shells is. A final determination will have a significant effect on how weapons researchers and inspectors proceed.
Some experts suggested that the two shells, which were unmarked, date back to the first Persian Gulf War. The mustard gas shell may have been one of 550 projectiles that Saddam failed to account for in his weapons declaration shortly before Operation Iraqi Freedom began. Iraq also failed to account for 450 aerial bombs containing mustard gas.
It's not clear if enemy fighters simply found an old stockpile of weapons, or if they even knew what was inside.
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld reacted cautiously to the news of the discoveries.
"What we have to then do is to try to track down and figure out how it might be there, what caused that to be there in this improvised explosive device, and what might it mean in terms of the risks to our forces," Rumsfeld said Monday.
KURDS: WE HAVE EVIDENCE OF WMD
An Iraqi Kurdish official had no doubt similar substances will be found as the weapons hunt continues.
"We don't know where they are, but we suspect they are hidden in many locations in Iraq," Howar Ziad, the Kurdish representatives to the United Nations, told Fox News on Tuesday. "It's quite possible that even the neighboring states who are against the reform of Iraq . . . are helping the Saddamites in hiding."
"As we know, the Baathist regime had a track record of using" these chemicals against people in Iraq, such as the Kurds, Ziad continued. "He's [Saddam] never kept any commitment he's ever made to the international committee nor to the people" to not use such deadly materials.
Saddam's regime used sarin in mass amounts during an air attack on the Kurdish town of Halabja (search) in 1988, toward the end of the Iran-Iraq War. More than 5,000 people are believed to have died in Halabja and surrounding villages, where more than 65,000 were injured.
Both Iraq and Iran used chemical weapons during the 1980-88 war.
Ziad said the United Nations, the World Health Organization and others had not "bothered" to travel to the Iraqi Kurdistan to see the firsthand effects sarin and other chemical weapons had on people and to get proof that Saddam did in fact possess such weapons.
"We have evidence-we have victims of the use of those agents, and we're still waiting for WHO and the U.N. to come investigate," Ziad said.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I will read portions of this news story, dated today, Fox News:
Tests on an artillery shell that blew up in Iraq on Saturday confirmed that it did contain an estimated three or four liters of the deadly nerve agent sarin.
This has been confirmed by Defense Department officials. This is obviously a danger to our troops. It is obviously of great concern to us if this were to find its way into the United States.
I will read from retired United States Army COL Robert Maginnis:
Clearly, if we're gonna find one or two of these every so often-used as an IED or some other way-the threat is not all that high, but it does confirm suspicion that he [Saddam] did have this stuff.
He goes on to say this:
It is a bazaar of weapons that are available on every market place through that country. We're doing everything we can to aggressively disarm these people but there are so many things that were stored away by Saddam Hussein in that country . . . it's a huge job that we're tackling.
This next quote is from Dennis Ross, the former Ambassador, special envoy to the Middle East, a well-known figure on Middle East peace negotiations that took place:
What we don't know is if there are other shells which there certainly could be.
He goes on to say:
We also don't know whether or not these kinds of shells could be used as explosives, which could have a more devastating effect on our troops.
A final quote for the RECORD from this story:
Saddam's regime used sarin gas in mass amounts during an air attack on the Kurdish town of Halabja in 1988, toward the end of the Iran-Iraq War. More than 5,000 people are believed to have died in Halabja and surrounding villages, with more than 65,000 injured.
This is deadly stuff. It exists. We are now finding it. We need to be aware of that as we move forward with this bioshield bill.
Earlier this week the Wall Street Journal reported that U.S. inspectors found within the last few months "warehouses full of commercial and agricultural chemicals" which, if mixed and packaged properly, "could quickly become chemical weapons." U.S. forces in Karbala have uncovered 55-gallon drums loaded with chemicals that were said to be "pesticides," some of which were stored in what military sources described as a camouflaged bunker complex. Why would anyone camouflage insecticide?
According to another article, the alleged agricultural site just happened to be located alongside a military ammunition dump. Why are we storing insecticide by a military ammunition dump?
According to the Journal, the Iraq Survey Group, headed by Charles Duelfer, recently told Congress that some of Saddam's WMD facilities were newly built and contained stockpiled raw materials that would have allowed them to "produce such weapons on a moment's notice."
If I recall, in early April, Jordanian authorities foiled an al-Qaida plot to kill 80,000 people in a chemical weapons attack in Amman.
According to one of the conspirators whose confession was broadcast on Jordanian TV, al-Qaida WMD specialist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, who was last seen in that chilling video beheading Nick Berg, trained and outfitted the WMD attackers in prewar Iraq. Like notorious terrorists Abu Nidal and Abu Abi Abbas, Zarqawi enjoyed sanctuary in Baghdad, courtesy of Saddam Hussein. Jordanian coverage of the plot included footage of 100-gallon jugs containing chemical weapons that had been intercepted 75 miles from the Syrian border where much of Saddam Hussein's prewar WMD stockpiles are believed to be hidden.
The Zarqawi revelation comes on the heels of the April 26 explosion at a suspected chemical weapons factory in Baghdad just as a U.S. weapons team arrived to inspect its contents. This was disguised as "a perfume factory," and the facility was boobytrapped to destroy evidence, investigators believe, of whatever was inside.
We should not be surprised if, within the coming weeks, more sarin-laden shells are uncovered in Iraq. In the meantime, we should focus on this and get coverage on what is taking place and what has been found of this deadly sarin gas.
I note that Secretary Ridge, Homeland Security Department, has been warning of an increased risk of attack in coming months. In light of what we found in Iraq, it would not be farfetched to say if al-Qaida wants to strike on U.S. soil, it would likely be with a chemical or biological weapon, something other than a conventional explosive.
In a recent interview with the Associated Press, retired LTG Patrick Hughes said that America has gotten better at predicting and safeguarding itself against attacks since September 11, but still Lieutenant General Hughes indicated that significant threats remain, especially now as high "background noise" from terrorists and heightened sensitivity during the election year has officials on guard for a possible attack whose nature they cannot quite pin down.
Based on captured material, interviews, and other sources of information, Lieutenant General Hughes believes that al-Qaida will likely strike with something other than a conventional explosive device. He is particularly worried about chemical and biological attacks, including a dirty bomb, and particularly points to the possibility of another anthrax biological attack following the one that wreaked havoc on the postal system, closed a Senate office building for 3 months, and killed five people in 2001.
We first heard about sarin gas in an attack at a Japanese subway where twelve people died. It is a potent weapon in which a little drop on your skin will kill you. Sarin gas was confirmed in the 155-mm shell and contained an estimated 3 or 4 liters. Fortunately, the two soldiers who may have been exposed are now safe and are returned to duty. They did show signs of being hit by chemical weapons, but it was a mild case and they are back on duty. This could have ended in tragedy had our soldiers not been more vigilant.
I hope we will continue to be focused on finding these weapons of mass destruction, particularly before they find their way to our shores so we can make sure our troops are safe and that such weapons do not find their way here to the United States. I believe my colleagues' bill will go a long way toward securing that goal. I urge its immediate passage.
I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.
