Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions - S. 2447
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 19, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. LIEBERMAN (for himself, Mr. BROWNBACK, Mrs. CLINTON, Mr. SANTORUM, and Ms. LANDRIEU):
S. 2447. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize funding for the establishment of a program on children and the media within the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development to study the role and impact of electronic media in the development of children; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am pleased to rise today to join my colleagues and support the Children and Media Research Advancement Act or CAMRA. The development of our Nation's children is vital and the way in which media impacts their ability to grow and develop is imperative. For many years, I have been concerned about the impact media has on our children.
The Kaiser Family Foundation recently released their report on electronic media in the lives of infants, toddlers, and preschoolers-ages 0 to 6 years old. Not surprisingly, the study found that children today are reared in a media saturated environment.
According to the study, 99 percent of all children live in a home with a TV set and 50 percent of these children live in a home with three or more TVs of which 36 percent have a TV in their bedroom.
Perhaps even more startling, 30 percent of children ages zero to three years and 43 percent of four to six year olds have a TV in their bedroom. Additionally, 27 percent of children have their own VCR or DVD player in their rooms and 10 percent have their own video game console in their room as well.
Further, 73 percent of children ages 0 to 6 have a computer at home, and 49 percent of these young people have a video game player.
Even more concerning is that the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that children under two do not watch any television. The Academy further states that all children over two should be limited to one or two hours of educational screen media a day.
However, despite this recommendation, the Kaiser study found that in a typical day, 68 percent of all children under two use screen media-59 percent watch TV, 42 percent watch a video or DVD, five percent use computers and three percent play video games. The study also found that 74 percent of all infants and toddlers have watched TV before the age of two.
Unfortunately, there is a lack of comprehensive research that provides detailed data on the relationship between media and brain development in children. That is why I am pleased to support the Children and Media Research Advancement Act. This will not only encourage much needed research in this area, but will also serve to coordinate such research.
Providing parents and guardians with the most accurate information regarding the impact media has on their children is essential-to do anything less would be reprehensible.
Already many studies-including ones that followed children from age 8 until mid-adulthood (age 30 plus years)-have demonstrated a link between early exposure to entertainment violence and aggressive attitudes, values and behaviors, including increased levels of violent crime against others.
There are three main effects on children of viewing entertainment violence: aggression more likely to think and behave aggressively, and hold attitudes and values favorable to the use of aggression to resolve conflicts; desensitization decreased sensitivity to violence and a greater willingness to tolerate increasing levels of violence in society; fear viewers may develop the "mean world syndrome" in which they overestimate their risk of becoming victims of violence.
Even in the Kaiser study I referenced earlier, among all parents whose zero to six year olds watched TV, 81 percent said that they saw their children imitate behaviors from television-36 percent of parents reported that their children mimicked aggressive behavior, 78 percent mimicked positive behavior. When focusing on the four to six year age group, mimicking aggressive behaviors increase to nearly half or 47 percent, with aggressive behavior being imitated more frequently with boys, 59 percent than with girls at 35 percent.
Clearly, we must continue to encourage and fund studies that will show the effects media has on the development of the adolescent brain. I am pleased that CAMRA will encourage this much-needed research in such a crucial area.
Protecting our nation's children and ensuring that parents have the most accurate and complete information on the effects of media on their children should remain our top priority. I look forward to working with Senators LIEBERMAN and CLINTON on an issue that is vital to our society.
