Public Statements
Fox The Big Story with John Gibson - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 18, 2004
Location: Unknown


Fox News Network
SHOW: THE BIG STORY WITH JOHN GIBSON (17:12)
HEADLINE: Interview With Sam Brownback
GUESTS: Sam Brownback:
BYLINE: John Gibson
BODY:
GIBSON: Assassinations and roadside bombs won't stop the march towards democracy in Iraq, but is the situation there stable enough to hand over power in just six short weeks? Our troops are cracking down, but were we counting on too much cooperation from the Iraqis themselves? Senator Sam Brownback is a member of the Foreign Relations Committee and he joins me from Capitol Hill. Senator, today's big question, can democracy get off the ground in Iraq?
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK: (R-KS) SEN. FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE: Yes, it can, but it's going to be difficult. That's the nature of where we are, and it's also the nation of democracy. We have been at it for over 200 years, and we still have different glitches and things that happen along the way. This is tough what we're doing. We're introducing open societies, democracy into a region of the world that by and large has not known it, so we've got a tall task, but it's important and we're going to get it done. And June 30 we're going to get a big step forward on that process.
GIBSON: Senator, it must depress you over the weekend we saw Colin Powell meeting with Arab leaders asking for their help in Iraq. A, no help until the Iraqis have their sovereignty back and probably not even then. B, you hear our friend, the King of Jordan, Abdullah, saying what Iraq needs is not democracy but a strongman. The Arabs actually want another dictator in there. What are you going to do when you go to all this trouble to get some kind of democratic movement in at least one Arab country in the world and the Arab leaders won't even support it?
BROWNBACK: That should be no surprise to us, and it's no surprise to me. And I've worked with a number of these leaders since I've been in the US Senate. They're dictators and monarchs. They do not stand in front of the people for the right to vote. And they're constantly talking to us about the Arab street is going to rise up. Well, the reason the Arab street is an issue is because these are not legitimate governments in the form of democracy. They are legitimate governments in the form of their people, but they do not derive their strength from a duly-voted electorate of the people. So they don't want to see this taking place.
GIBSON: So you have Jordan that doesn't want to see it happen. That's a friend of ours. You have Egypt not wanting it to happen. That's a friend of ours. You have Saudi Arabia that doesn't want to see it happen. All of these are dictatorships or monarchies. Don't want to see it happen, and those are friends of ours. With friends like these, how can we get this done, Senator?
BROWNBACK: The same way we did in Central and South America, and that's by standing on our principles and not moving off of them. We're the on the right side of history. We're on the ride side of the people of these countries, and its going to be difficult, but we have to keep pushing forward. We saw the same feature in Central and South America in the 1970's. We had a lot of dictators there. They were our friends against the communists, and when we started pushing more aggressively on democracy, they faded away and democracies took route.
GIBSON: Senator, a lot of us are really curious about what is going on in Najaf. Our Steve Harrigan was with the troops down there in Karbala and Najaf, and they are going after this Muqtada Sadr and they are killing his army day-by-day. And they appear to have the permission of the Shiites in the southern part of Iraq. Has a light bulb suddenly gone on in the Shiite leadership that said, oh, these Americans are here to help us, go ahead and kill this guy?
BROWNBACK: Well, their light bulb has been on for some period of time. It's just, by and large, the coverage has all been negative and interviewing the person that is opposed to what the US is doing. By and large, we've had strong support in most of the regions of that country, when you get outside of really the Sunni Triangle area that has been and was Saddam's headquarters for his leadership. As we get sovereignty turned over, and that is key, I think you'll see more and more engagement by the Iraqis on sovereignty and seeking the support and help of the United States.
GIBSON: How do we turnover sovereignty to somebody walking around with a bull's-eye on his back, a target of Iraqis or insurgents and they're trying to kill him every minute he's breathing?
BROWNBACK: I know. I look at that as an elected official here, and say that takes a lot of courage to stand up in Iraq and say I want to be a leader in this provisional government or I want to be a locally-elected leader. I want to work with the Americans. You put a target on you by a small minority of people. Yet, the Iraqis are doing that, and they are coming forward. I think we should applaud that courage of people to stand for leadership in a deadly environment.
GIBSON: So June 30, July 1, they're sovereign?
BROWNBACK: Yes.
GIBSON: All right. Senator Sam Brownback. Senator, always good to talk to you. Thanks for coming on.
BROWNBACK: Good to talk to you.
