Public Statements
CNN Judy Woodruff's Inside Politics - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 18, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


CNN
SHOW: JUDY WOODRUFF'S INSIDE POLITICS 15:30
HEADLINE: Rumsfeld's Frustration?; Interview With Senator Sam Brownback
GUESTS: Sam Brownback, Andrew Imparato, Tony Coelho, Sally Bedell Smith
BYLINE: Suzanne Malveaux, Candy Crowley, Judy Woodruff, Ed Henry, Bruce Morton, William Schneider
HIGHLIGHT:
Many members of Congress say they still do not have all the information they need regarding Iraq.; Interview with Senator Sam Brownback.; Pumped up prices fuel for the Democrats.; Interview with Andrew Imparato, Tony Coelho.; Hispanics discuss the race for the White House.
BODY:
WOODRUFF: The President told APEC that spirits are high among U.S. troops in Iraq. He downplayed the effect on morale from the prisoner abuse scandal.
Well, let's talk more about Iraq now, the mission and the politics, with Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, Republican member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
Senator Brownback, I want to ask you first about what our correspondent Ed Henry was just reporting, that not only Secretary Rumsfeld expressing frustration over the time, his time and the time of his generals being spent on this ongoing investigation into the prisoner abuse scandal, but also one of your colleagues, Senator Cornyn, over in the House, Duncan Hunter, frustrated, upset even with the fact that the Senate Foreign-Senate Armed Services Committee prolonging this investigation. Are you bothered by that?
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK ®, FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE: Well, I think one of the key issues we've got here is the confidence of the American public. And as long as the American public is with us, we can do and move things on forward. As long as we have those questions, we have to address them.
So I think it's important that we get them addressed. I know it is taking a lot of time, and that is problematic. But we've got to deal with the questions really that the public is asking, and that needs to be handled.
WOODRUFF: So you're not concerned that these generals by taking their time to appear before the committee are using up precious time they'd be spending on war-related decisions?
BROWNBACK: Well, it is precious time. But my point is that the weakest part of the American military is the American public opinion.
People in this country have to support what we're doing. And so if we have to have the generals and the secretary answer these sorts of things so the public feels like they've got a full picture, that is time well spent, even though it is precious time and it does take focus away from things they might be doing in Iraq. We've got have the American public with us in this war.
WOODRUFF: Senator Brownback, with the assassination yesterday of the leader of the Iraqi Governing Council, are you now confident that all is on track for the June 30 handover?
BROWNBACK: I am confident. And I'm not only confident, we have to do this.
We should have handed over leadership to Iraqis much earlier. And, indeed, now, even 10 of the 26 different governing councils or the ministries are in complete Iraqi control. But Iraq has to be run by the Iraqis, and that's a key for us in moving on forward, even though there's going to be security problems and security issues as we move forward, as there are now.
WOODRUFF: Well, I'm sure you know most of the polls that have been done in Iraq show most Iraqi people now want U.S. troops out of their country. Are you confident they're not going to ask for that to happen as soon as this-or soon after this handover takes place?
BROWNBACK: I doubt that that will occur. Where they have elected officials, people elected inside of Iraq, they've elected mostly moderate individuals there. So I thank there's one thing that they're saying, yes, we want the U.S. to leave, but we want more first-first we want sovereignty, and we want to be able to have a sovereign Iraq that can stand on its own.
Security-wise, that's just not going to be viable soon after June 30. It's going to take some time.
WOODRUFF: Well, when asked if this new authority, new governing body, whatever it is, has the authority to ask U.S. troops to leave after July the 1st, officials from the State Department are say saying, yes, they will have that authority, officials from the Pentagon are saying no. Which is it?
BROWNBACK: Well, I think they'll have the authority to ask and do almost anything they want to within the guidance of what they can do. Remember, this is an interim government. It is not elected. It will be selected basically by the international community.
It won't be until we have the first of next year you'll have national elections in January that you'll have a duly-elected and authorized government. This interim government was limited by its own constitution that the Iraqi Governing Council put in place. They'll be able to ask and do a number of things, but we won't have the legitimacy of the Iraqi people's election until the first part of next year.
WOODRUFF: All right. We'll have to leave it there for now. Senator Sam Brownback with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, thank you very much.
BROWNBACK: Thank you.
WOODRUFF: We appreciate it.
