Public Statements
50th Anniversary of Brown Versus Board of Education
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 13, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


50TH ANNIVERSARY OF BROWN VERSUS BOARD OF EDUCATION
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, it gives me great pleasure to join with my colleagues today and talk about something that happened 50 years ago, which has been a difficult and important journey that we have been on. On May 17, 1954, Dwight Eisenhower was President of the United States and the Supreme Court of the United States issued an opinion that changed the country. It was Brown v. the Board of Education. The Brown was the Reverend Oliver Brown of Topeka, KS, my hometown.
The case of Brown v. the Board of Education was the case that ended segregation in our schools and in our society. It was really the beginning legal case that moved that forward.
On Monday, we will dedicate in Topeka, KS, the school that was the basis for the complaint. It is the Monroe School. It will be dedicated as a national historical site, a national park. The President will be there. A number of different dignitaries will be there to celebrate and say where we have been over the last 50 years after we ended segregation in this country in 1954 and where we are going.
It is going to be a beautiful occasion. It is a momentous occasion. It is an important occasion. We have been on a journey during that period of time of the 50 years. It has been a rocky road since that time period. It was certainly difficult before that time period. It has not always been going in the right direction, but at the end of the day we have been going in the overall right direction.
We are on a journey. What is the destination? Well, I think the best place to look is to Martin Luther King's words. He said:
The end is reconciliation; the end is redemption; the end is the creation of the beloved community.
These are words of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King spoken on December 3, 1956, after the completion of the Montgomery bus boycott. These words symbolize the goal of this great Nation, a goal that is echoed throughout our history: The end is reconciliation; the end is redemption; the end is the creation of the beloved community.
In this quote, Dr. King, who was and remains a prophet to the Nation, is speaking of a time in which all people in the United States will be able to live together harmoniously, reconciled with one another and with God, as one people under God.
Today we look back on the history of our Nation and take note of how far we have come as a people. We are reminded that we owe a great debt to those who have fought valiantly for the freedoms we easily take for granted.
On the eve of the 50th anniversary of this case, it is fitting that today the Senate takes time to honor the Brown case, the Brown family, which is one of the greatest civil rights cases in our Nation's history and one that changed the way in which we view equality under the law in our society. More than any other case, Brown sets this Nation on a path of ensuring freedom and equality in America.
The United States is a nation that symbolizes the essence of freedom, equality, and democracy. These principles are embedded in the documents that established this country. Yet as a young nation, America had not yet bestowed these ideals upon African Americans who resided in this country. Though progress was made after the Civil War, America had yet to realize her true potential as a nation built on freedom and equality for all. It was not until the landmark Supreme Court decision of Brown was rendered that our country was ushered into a symbol of freedom and democracy of what Dr. King did so eloquently describe as the beloved community.
May 17, 2004, marks the 50th anniversary of the Brown decision which effectively ended school segregation in America. However, the history of desegregation of our public school system started before Brown in such cases as Murray v. Maryland and Sweatt v. Painter. It was the Brown case that caught fire and changed the course of American history in the way in which we view equality in the eyes of the law.
Before Brown, many States in this country held and enforced racially segregated laws which was an atrocious practice. Many individuals cited the 1896 Plessy v. Ferguson case, and I note that while the Court got it right in Brown, the Court has gotten it wrong in the last two. Courts are not infallible institutions. They are made of people such as we are. They make good decisions and they make bad situations. They made a bad decision in Plessy that was the law of the land for 50 years after it-a little more than 50 years. They made a bad decision in the Dred Scott decision-the Fugitive Slave Act that was applicable across the land until, really, the Civil War. They make good decisions and they make bad decisions.
The Plessy case, which was a bad decision, sanctioned the separate but equal doctrine as the grounds for keeping school segregation legal.
During that time, there were court cases that challenged this separate but equal doctrine because the schools for African American children were substandard facilities with out-of-date textbooks and often no basic school supplies. In fact, in Kansas, alone, there were 11 school integration cases dating from 1881 to 1949, prior to Brown.
By 1950, African-American parents began to renew their efforts to challenge State laws that only permitted their children to attend certain schools, and as a result, they organized through the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People the NAACP, an organization founded in 1909 to address the issue of the unequal and discriminatory treatment experienced by African Americans throughout the country.
It was at this time that Rev. Oliver L. Brown, a citizen of Topeka, Kansas became part of the NAACP strategy to file suit against various school boards on behalf of African American parents and their children. This effort was led first by Charles Houston and later by Thurgood Marshall.
On February 28, 1951, Rev. Brown, along with 13 parents and 20 children, filed a lawsuit against the Topeka School Board on behalf of his 7-year-old daughter, Linda.
Like other young African Americans, Linda had to cross a set of railroad tracks and board a bus that took her to the "colored" school on the opposite side of the city from where she lived-even though a school for white children was located only a few blocks from her home.
The case was taken to the District Court of Kansas, but the ruling was not beneficial to Rev. Brown and the others. The court admitted that segregated schools gave African American children a feeling of inferiority, but felt that they must uphold the decisions of Plessy vs. Ferguson, which stated that separate but equal is still equal, and subsequently, ruled in favor of the Board of Education.
On October 1, 1951, Rev. Brown's team appealed the case to the Supreme Court, where the Brown case was combined with other NAACP cases from Delaware, South Carolina, Virginia, and Washington, DC, which was later, heard separately. These combined cases became known as Oliver L. Brown et al. v. the Board of Education of Topeka, et al.
There were many notable African Americans who helped to bring these cases to the United States Supreme Court; however, none so famous as Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall, who valiantly defended the rights of not only Linda Brown and the other defendants in the case, but of an entire race of individuals who were treated as second class citizens.
During the course of the trial, Thurgood Marshall used expert witnesses in child psychology and referenced the detrimental impact that segregation in our Nation's School System had on African American children.
He also referenced the cases of Sweatt v. Painter, and McLaurin v. Oklahoma, both of which made a lot of progress in the desegregation of colleges and universities when the court ruled that the restrictions of African Americans actually hinder their learning.
He argued that younger children were equally hindered by segregation, and therefore there was no logical argument that could justify ruling against segregation in higher learning, and uphold the Plessy v. Ferguson case when referring to elementary and secondary schools.
On May 17, 1954, the Supreme Court rendered its decision to rule racial segregation in schools unconstitutional. Further, the Supreme Court found the "separate but equal" doctrine to be in violation of the 14th amendment of the United States Constitution, which states, among other things, that:
No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States.
When the court ruled, in 1954, that school segregation laws were unconstitutional, the Supreme Court demolished the legal foundation on which racial segregation stood. The court's opinion, written and delivered by Chief Justice Earl Warren, also served as a stirring moral indictment of racial segregation, and an eloquent challenge to America to cast off its prejudices and extend its promises of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness to all citizens, regardless of race or color.
Today, I am proud to join with my colleagues in the U.S. Senate to honor this magnificent case in our Nation's history.
I am encouraged that with this case, this Nation was able to move one step closer to that "beloved community" Dr. King referenced, where redemption through reconciliation can occur. Therefore, the importance of this case does not solely reside in the law, but equally sheds light on our responsibility to humanity and upon our ability to reconcile our differences, with one another and through that process seek redemption, and achieve the creation of the "beloved community."
As we celebrate Brown today and next week, we are one step closer to that goal for our country and I invite our Nation to join with us in celebrating this magnificent case that stirred a Nation's consciousness and was the basis for shattering segregation in our society.
I yield the floor.
Celebrating a Landmark Decision in the Civil Rights Movement: the 50th Anniversary of the Brown v. Board of Education Decision
