Public Statements
MSNBC Deborah Norville Tonight - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 12, 2004
Location: Unknown


MSNBC
SHOW: DEBORAH NORVILLE TONIGHT 21:00
BYLINE: Deborah Norville; Steve Emerson
GUESTS: Bruce Hauser; Roger Cressey; Sam Brownback
HIGHLIGHT:
Following a brutal beheading, many look for answers to why an American was killed in Iraq. The slain man's father blames the U.S. for detaining him without his rights and delaying his departure.
BODY:
NORVILLE: Now to the abuse of Iraqi prisoners at the Abu Ghraib prison.
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld today told a Senate panel that the techniques used to interrogate the prisoners were approved by Pentagon lawyers. And he said that forcing detainees into stressful positions and depriving them of sleep is not a violation of international rules. During his testimony last week, Secretary Rumsfeld said there would be more pictures of abuse.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD RUMSFELD, SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: There are more photographs. There are videos. There are a series of investigations under way. There are criminal prosecutions. And just without any question, there's going to be more coming out. And there will be surprises.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
NORVILLE: Today, members of Congress were able to see the new photos and videotapes behind closed doors and many of them left the session saying those pictures are appalling.
Joining me is now is Senator Sam Brownback, who had an opportunity to view those pictures today as well.
Sir, thank you for being with us.
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK ®, KANSAS: Yes, happy to join you.
NORVILLE: Thank you.
Secretary Rumsfeld said some of these pictures would be worse than the first batch. Did you find that to be the case when you looked at them?
BROWNBACK: There are some that are that case. There's a lot of it that's basically you've seen, only in different types of settings or pictures. And there's just a whole lot of repeat pictures in it. It's why I really think that the pictures that involve Iraqis, that involve our soldiers, should be released.
Let the public see it, let the public decide what they think and get it out, because I think they're going to get out at some point in time and they should be put out and put out now.
NORVILLE: How do these pictures differ from the ones that we've already seen from the first batch that was released?
BROWNBACK: A lot of it is very similar to what you've already seen and a lot of it is repeat. We looked at-I looked at some, I don't know, 1,000 to 1,500 pictures today, and it looks like you've basically got about 50 pictures, but there were-somebody took 50 of them and then made a bunch of copies and gave to different people and the military confiscated it.
But there are some that are clearly rougher. It's all disgusting. And it's all appalling, and it's all something we're not pleased with in the least. It's just all pretty disgusting.
NORVILLE: I understand in addition to the photos similar to the ones that we've seen where men have been stacked up naked and placed in various-very embarrassing and humiliating positions, that there are also photographs of American service men and women presumably engaged in consensual sex, that there are also photographs of Iraqi women being asked to lift their tops and expose their breasts.
BROWNBACK: Well, there are a series of pictures of-it appears as if U.S. military personnel having sexual relations with each other. And it's again-it's appalling and it's disgusting.
(CROSSTALK)
NORVILLE: What's going on? What's going on in this prison? What's going on in military camps? If men and women in uniform are engaged in this kind of behavior and taking pictures, I guess, for fun of themselves or of their comrades in arms, how do you make sense of what you've spent many hours looking at today?
BROWNBACK: It's hard to make any sense of it at all.
And it's really disgusting. And I came back to my office and talked to my staff and I said, this shows a person themselves having a clear lack of any sort of internal moral compass and that I hope you yourselves and you raise your own children to be ladies and gentlemen, because clearly these are-these are wrong acts. It does appear to be a limited set of players that are involved in this, but it's wrong and it-it casts a shadow on the entire United States, on our military, on the brave men and women that are serving over there, that are risking their lives and losing their lives, a number of them Kansans, trying to create an open society, free society there and security here.
It really besmirches the whole country.
NORVILLE: Do you think it is a limited group of rogue individuals or can you, based on the photographs and the bit of video that you saw today, determine whether this is something that did go higher up the food chain or that higher up the food chain they should have been aware of, and how far would that be?
BROWNBACK: You can't determine those last two questions at all from what we've seen. The military to its credit basically, as this information started getting out, they said, OK, let's show it to the military Armed Services chairmen. And then they said, let's show it to the rest of the Senate.
And they have put everything out in raw data form. A lot of them are pictures that you can't really tell what this is. The videos are very small and grainy and you're just not sure that-they're going to need enhancement to really tell what's going on with this. But just overall it paints a very degrading, discouraging picture of what's going on.
But it appears to be at this time a fairly limited set of personnel that are involved.
Senator, you say that you think that these pictures should just be released to the public and everybody get a chance to see them, but the Senate and Senator Warner specifically has said he doesn't think that they should be released, that that should be a decision made by the Pentagon. Why wouldn't Congress, why wouldn't the Senate step up and say, we as a body believe American citizens and indeed the world should see this because we do have nothing to hide and we will make sure that our own house is kept clean?
BROWNBACK: Well, we may eventually, but this is in possession of the Department of Defense. There's an ongoing litigation, court-martials that are taking place. And so this is evidence and it's in possession of the Department of Defense.
And they really are the ones to be making the call. And to date, I want to say, they've been providing this information to Congress. They've been showing. It's just my point of view to the Department of Defense is that they should put those out that just involve the Iraqi personnel and U.S. soldiers. I think those that involve U.S. soldiers having sex with each other, that to me is another sidebar issue. It's disgusting and it's wrong, but I don't know that that one needs to be set out in the public.
But here, the Defense Department, I just think it would be best, because until that takes place, people are going to imagine horrific things.
NORVILLE: Yes.
BROWNBACK: And they need to see it.
And, secondly, these are going to get out anyway. There's a bunch of copies of these apparently. The military has confiscated some of them, and I think they're going to be out anyway and it would be better for them to just go ahead and put them out. We have nothing to hide. And light is good for us. As problematic and tough as this is, it is also a lesson for us to show the rest of the world, particularly the Islamic world, that when you have a problem-and we have a problem-the way to deal with it is light.
And the way to deal with that then is to follow a litigation procedure and people are held accountable for their actions. But light is important.
NORVILLE: I have to ask you one more question before I let you go. I know you're focusing in the Senate committee they're looking at the Abu Ghraib prison photos and the impact of that and the trail that it may or may not have, however long, within the United States military. Is there another question that needs to be asked about how the military is set up and how rules and regulations are enforced and codes of behavior, if we have got people in uniform, however small they may be, doing things like this?
BROWNBACK: I think there's grave questions that need to be asked. And that is the key question in my estimation. You've got a near-term issue here we have got to deal with, but longer term, you have got to stop problems like this from taking place.
And even more broadly-and I've been a culture critic for some period of time-you have got to question and look at the broad basis of what we glorify sometimes in this culture. And you've got to start asking some questions about that as well.
NORVILLE: Well, Senator, you're in a good position to ask some of those questions. We thank you for being with us tonight to articulate some of them.
Senator Brownback, thank you very much.
BROWNBACK: Thank you.
