Public Statements
50th Anniversary of Brown V. Board of Education
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 6, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


50TH ANNIVERSARY OF BROWN V. BOARD OF EDUCATION
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure to speak on behalf of the passage of S. Con. Res. 102, which honours the 50th anniversary of the landmark Supreme Court decision, Brown et al. v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas et al.
As you may know, the history of desegregating our public school system started before Brown with such cases as Murray v. Maryland and Sweatt v. Painter. But it was Brown v. Board of Education that caught fire and changed the course of Americas history and the way in which we view equality in the eyes of the law.
Before Brown, many States held and enforced racially segregated laws enforced, which was an atrocious practice. Many individuals cited the 1896 Plessy v. Ferguson case, which sanctioned the separate but equal doctrine, as the grounds for keeping school segregation legal.
Oliver Brown, a citizen of Topeka, KS, along with other individuals, filed a lawsuit against the Topeka School Board on behalf of his 7-year-old daughter, Linda. Like other young African Americans, Linda had to cross a set of railroad tracks and board a bus to take her to the "colored" school on the other side of the city from where she lived-even though a school for white children was located only a few blocks from her home.
There were many notable African Americans who helped to bring this case to the United States Supreme Court; however, none so famous as Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall, who valiantly defended the rights of not only Linda Brown and the other defendants in the case, but of an entire race of individuals who were treated as second class citizens.
On May 17, 1954, the Supreme Court rendered its decision to rule racial segregation in schools unconstitutional. Further, the Supreme Court found the "separate but equal" doctrine to be in violation of the 14th amendment of the United States Constitution, which states, among other things, that, "no State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States."
When the Court ruled, in 1954, that school segregation laws were unconstitutional, the Supreme Court demolished the legal foundation on which racial segregation stood. The Court's opinion, written and delivered by Chief Justice Earl Warren, also served as a stirring moral indictment of racial segregation, and an eloquent challenge to America to cast off its prejudices and extend its promises of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness to all citizens, regardless of race or color.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the many individuals who worked tirelessly to ensure that the 50th anniversary celebration of this case is recognized world wide. Most notably, I would like to thank Cheryl Brown Henderson, the Brown Foundation and the Brown v. Board of Education National Historic Site for their steadfast and unwavering commitment to the legacy established by the Brown decision. I would also like to thank and commend the work of the Brown v. Board of Education 50th Anniversary Commission. Finally I would like to recognize all of the cases that comprise the Brown decision.
BELTON V. GEBHART (BULAH V. GIBHART)-DELAWARE
First petitioned in 1951, the local cases, Belton v. Gebhart and Bulah v. Gibhart, challenged the inferior conditions of two African American schools. In the suburb of Claymont, DE, African American children were prohibited from attending the area's local high school. In the rural community of Hockessin, Delaware, African American students were forced to attend a dilapidated one-room schoolhouse and were not provided transportation to the school, while white children in the area were provided transportation and a better school facility. Both cases were represented by a local NAACP attorney. Though the State Supreme Court ruled in favor of the plaintiffs, the decision did not apply to all schools in Delaware.
BOLLING, ET. AL. V. C. MELVIN SHARPE, ET.AL.-DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Eleven African American Junior high School students were taken on a field trip to Washington, D.C.'s new John Phillip Sousa School for whites only. The African American students were denied admittance to the school and ordered to return to their inadequate school. in 1951, a suite was filed on behalf of the students. After review with the Brown case in 1954, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that segregation in the Nation's capital was unconstitutional.
BRIGGS V. R.W. ELLIOTT
In Claredon County, SC, the State NAACP first attempted, unsuccessfully and with a single plaintiff, to take legal action in 1974 against the inferior conditions African American students experienced under South Carolina's racially segregated school system. By 1951, community activists convinced the African American parents to join the NAACP efforts to file a class action suite in U.S. District Court. The court found that the schools designated for African Americans were grossly inadequate in terms of buildings, transportation and teacher's salaries when compared to the schools provided for whites. An order to equalize the facilities was virtually ignored by school officials and the schools were never made equal.
BROWN V. BOARD
In Kansas there were 11 school integration cases dating from 1881 to 1949, prior to Brown in 1854. In many instances the schools for African American children were substandard facilities with out-of-date textbooks and often no basic school supplies. In the fall of 1950, members of the Topeka, Kansas Chapter of the NAACP agreed to again challenge the "separate but equal" doctrine governing public education. On February 28, 1951, the NAACP filed their case as Oliver L. Brown et al. vs. The Board of Education of Topeka Kansas, which represented a group of 13 parents and 20 children. The District Court ruled in favor of the school board and the case was appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. At the Supreme Court level, their case was combined with other NAACP cases from Delaware, South Carolina, Virginia and Washington, D.C., which was later heard separately. The combined cases became known as Oliver L. Brown et. Al. vs. The Board of Education of Topeka, et al.
DAVIS, ET. AL. V. PRINCE EDWARD COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
One of the few public high schools available to African Americans in the State of Virginia was Robert Moton High School in Prince Edward County. Built in 1943, it was never large enough to accommodate its student population. The gross inadequacies of these classrooms sparked a student strike in 1951. The NAACP soon joined their struggles and challenged the inferior quality of their school facilities in court. Although the U.S. District Court ordered that the plaintiffs be provided with equal school facilities, they were denied access to the white schools in their area.
I am encouraged and hopeful that the Nation will join with me and celebrate this magnificent achievement in American History.
