Public Statements
Condemning the Government of the Republic of the Sudan
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 6, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


CONDEMNING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise with several of my colleagues today to bring to the attention of this body a severe situation in the western part of Sudan. The Darfur region is facing an acute humanitarian catastrophe, which has been cited by some individuals as the worst humanitarian crisis in the world today.
For over a year now, government-backed militias have been carrying out savage attacks on innocent civilians and have engaged in the use of rape as a weapon, abducted children, destroyed food and irrigation systems and burned villages. We are gravely concerned about the violence that persists, despite the April 8 cease-fire agreement. Recent estimates report that 3 million people are beyond the reach of aid agencies trying to provide assistance in Sudan, and mortality rates in the Darfur region are catastrophic.
The Darfur disaster has forced staggering numbers of people to flee their homes. More than 800,000 people have been displaced, with more than 100,000 of them crossing the border into neighboring Chad. Less than half of these refugees are living in UNHCR camps. Refugees International reported yesterday that 540 refugees in Chad are near death due to lack of food. To make matters worse, the rainy season is expected soon, at which time roads will be impassable and the delivery of aid extremely difficult.
Human Rights investigators have finally been allowed into the region and we anticipate their findings later this week. However, initial reports indicate that their movements were severely restricted, despite numerous requests for full access to the region. The international community must continue to call on the Government of Sudan to grant visas to the humanitarian organizations who are ready and waiting to provide much-needed assistance in Darfur.
Civil war has left carnage during the two decades of fighting in Sudan. The largely Arab-Islamic North had been fighting the predominantly African-Christian and animist South over issues of religion and Sharia law. Negotiations have included tough compromises over issues of power- and wealth-sharing. I believe that continued pressure on Sudan to end the suffering in Darfur can lead to a negotiated settlement between the North and the South, which we hope to see in the coming days. But we cannot wait for this agreement to address the current situation; the humanitarian crisis in Darfur warrants immediate attention by the international community.
Today the Senate passed S. Con. Res. 99, condemning the Government of Sudan for their complicity in attacks against innocent civilians and calling on them to immediately end such brutality. It calls on Sudan to grant immediate and unconditional access to Darfur for humanitarian and human rights organizations and for a cease-fire monitoring team. In addition, it calls on the USAID Administrator to develop a plan for the delivery of humanitarian assistance, by air if necessary. Furthermore, the resolution urges the Secretary of State to develop a plan for further bilateral and multilateral action in the event that the Government of Sudan fails to immediately allow access, including a plan to seek a Security Council resolution addressing the Darfur situation. Finally, S. Con. Res. 99 urges the President to direct the U.S. Representative to the United Nations to seek an official investigation to determine if crimes against humanity have been committed by the Government of Sudan in Darfur and work with the international community to ensure that the individuals responsible for such crimes are accountable for their actions.
I thank my colleagues for their support of this important resolution. The 10th anniversary of the Rwandan genocide was an important reminder of the devastating effects that international blindness can have on a population. Just this week, Sudan was voted back onto the U.N. Human Rights Commission, despite protests by the United States. How can a nation who allows for nearly 1 million displaced persons, catastrophic deaths, and the threat of continuing death and disease, remain on the very body of the United Nations which is responsible for preventing such atrocities?
We have a moral responsibility to the people of Darfur, let us not wait until another life is lost.
