Public Statements
Hearing of the Science, Technology, and Space Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 5, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND SPACE SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE SENATE COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION SUBJECT: THE SPACE SHUTTLE AND THE FUTURE OF SPACE LAUNCH VEHICLES
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS)
WITNESSES PANEL I: WILLIAM READDY, ASSOCIATE ADMINISTRATOR FOR SPACE FLIGHT, NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION; REAR ADM. CRAIG E. STEIDLE, USN (RET.), ASSOCIATE ADMINISTRATOR FOR EXPLORATION SYSTEMS, NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION;
PANEL II:
MIKE KAHN, VICE PRESIDENT OF SPACE OPERATIONS, ATK THIOKOL PROPULSIONS; DR. JOHN C. KARAS, VICE PRESIDENT, SPACE EXPLORATIONS, LOCKHEED MARTIN SPACE SYSTEMS COMPANY;
ROBERT A. HICKMAN, DIRECTOR OF THE ADVANCED SPACELIFT AND FORCE APPLICATIONS DIRECTORATE, THE AEROSPACE CORPORATION; ELON MUSK, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER, SPACE EXPLORATION TECHNOLOGIES GROUP
LOCATION: 253 RUSSELL SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Good afternoon, thank you all for joining me. The reason for my delay is I thought we had a vote at 2:30, they did have it scheduled for 2:30, they moved it to 2:45. So I thought what we'd do is try to get the hearing underway and see how far we can proceed, because these things have a way of sliding on us. We're not the only ones that have trouble keeping schedule, sometimes they have to slide on forward a little bit. But we'll want to move on through the hearing.
Today we're going to consider something that is difficult, it is rocket science. Some years ago a major cruise ship company coined a phrase that getting there is half the fun. Nowhere is that truer than for space travel. Rocket scientists tell us that once a spacecraft is in Low Earth Orbit just a few hundred miles above us, we're halfway to anywhere in the solar system, including the moon and Mars.
This first step, lifting off the Earth and entering Low Earth Orbit, is expensive and dangerous. It's part of space travel. Astronauts or robotic spacecraft spend the first few minutes of their journey into space sitting atop a rocket that releases as much energy as that contained in a small atomic bomb. The cost and risk of getting into space has not changed in the almost half century since we began space travel.
Today our primary means of getting people and equipment into space for NASA is the space shuttle. It's a magnificent piece of technology. Twice in the past 20 years it has failed, taking the lives of 14 astronauts with it. It's expensive as well, costing the American taxpayer effectively $1 billion per flight. Today it's grounded and we are relying on foreign hardware to get our people into space and maintain the International Space Station.
A few months ago the president announced a new vision: focused robotic and human exploration of the solar system, beginning with the moon and Mars. I support the president's vision, yet I, like many of my colleagues in the Congress, need some more information from NASA and the space community on key issues. None is more critical then access to space and that's why we're here today.
I see three related questions. First, we need to understand the true status of the space shuttle and its return to flight. Implicit in this issue is whether we might be better off phasing out the space shuttle sooner than the president's 2010 date and use the resources to move the schedule for expansion into the solar system up. Our second question is how best to meet our international commitments with respect to the International Space Station, with less or perhaps no use of the space shuttle at all. This is a key question, and one which we cannot address in full detail today, but I hope to get started on that discussion. Thus I intend to hold further hearings on this. I'll be doing a field hearing, I hope, in California later this month.
Finally, the experts tell us that to accomplish the president's bold goals in exploration beyond Low Earth Orbit requires much larger payloads than we can launch today. The shuttle and our military big rockets, the EELV, can put about 20 tons into Low Earth Orbit. We may need five times that per launch. This is feasible. We had such giant rockets during the Apollo program with our Saturn V. The Soviet Union built a huge booster to launch similar payloads during the moon race, and again in the 1980s to launch enormous space weapons. These programs are all gone. So I must ask our space community how they might reconstitute the capability and how much it will cost.
Let me now turn to the space shuttle. Since I assumed the chairmanship of this subcommittee over a year ago, I've asked repeatedly whether we might be better off phasing the space shuttle out soon. I know my questions are disturbing to many, some of my colleagues in the Senate have rallied to the defense of the space shuttle and I expect more heard on that today.
This is as it should be. We should have a vigorous discussion and debate about that. Those who see something to lose will be vigorous opponents of the new direction, conversely those with something to gain in the future are only lukewarm supporters at times. Despite this opposition, I intend to continue to press these questions and to ask the serious questions about the future of the space shuttle program.
I've asked NASA to tell us today what they are doing and how well it's going to return the shuttle-how it's going on returning the shuttle to flight. I will also ask NASA what they're doing to find alternatives to the space shuttle for completing the International Space Station. The Commercial Space Act of 1998 calls for maximum use of commercially provided services in support of the International Space Station. I've been approached by a number of commercial providers of such services. Some believe they can provide most if not all support services needed to complete and maintain the space station and meet our international commitments.
In 2002 the United States Alliance, who operates the space shuttle for NASA, recommended that roughly a third of the shuttle flights be offloaded to other vehicles. For our hearing at the end of May I'll ask that NASA describe their approach to making fuller use of this private sector capability. We want to and we need to examine these ideas as we move forward in the future.
A week ago we held a hearing to consider what other nations are doing in space exploration.
We heard that many nations have aspirations of human exploration and expansion to the moon and Mars. Experts agree that nations such as China will expand into space regardless of what we do. I, for one, believe we must not ever be in a position of explaining to our children why others are walking on the moon and Mars as well as reaping the benefits of space while we're not.
Fortunately, we have an advantage that others do not. We have a private sector that can do anything if only given a legitimate chance. And we also have a great deal of ingenuity in ourselves that we can move forward on these programs.
The American people can have a space program that leads the world. We have one now. We need it into the future. It can be a space program firmly embedded in opportunity for all, and that's what I want to examine today.
I believe President Bush has set us on the right path to an unlimited space future. I strongly support this exploration vision and program and urge my colleagues in the Congress to do the same. To give you a bit of an idea of where I hope we can go, I want to hold this hearing today. We'll move on a field hearing, I hope, in southern California to look at other prospects for being able to take care of space shuttle and also on the moon, Mars missions some different ideas that people there might have.
And then from that point forward I hope we're going to be able to put forward legislative language, authorizing language in looking how we might move on forward. I see where the commission the president's appointed has had its last field hearing yesterday in New York on moon and Mars. I'm looking forward to their report and what they have coming out. And then I hope we can put all of that together in what's the architecture for our space program and manned space mission into the future.
I'm delighted to have our panelists here today with us to testify and we'll start off with the first panel, Mr. William Readdy, associate administrator for Space Flight of NASA and Read Admiral Craig Steidle, associate administrator for Exploration Systems out of NASA as well. Gentlemen, I thank you for joining us, we're going to continue this as long as we can and then I may have to put us in recess for a brief period of time, but I look forward to your presentations.
Mr. Readdy?
MR. WILLIAM F. READDY: Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I appreciate you holding the field hearing, particularly there at Clear Lake to address the exploration vision. I also thank you for the opportunity to testify before you today, and Craig Steidle, associate administrator for Exploration Systems is with me and he'll be available to take your questions.
Earlier today, I had the opportunity to meet with NASA's newest astronaut candidate group. The class will be announced tomorrow at the Udvar-Hazy facility out at Dulles. This is a very impressive group of individuals and I hope you'll have a chance to meet them soon. They're the ones that will lead us in the next steps to NASA's new exploration vision.
Let me begin for the vision for space exploration. It is to advance U.S. scientific, security and economic interests through a robust space exploration program. The vision is bold, it is forward thinking yet practical and responsible. Fundamentally it is not about a particular launch vehicle or other hardware, but the relevance in value that space exploration brings to our lives daily.
The Space Shuttle and International Space Station programs provide transition paths into this next era of space exploration. They're a bridge between what we've learned from this extraordinary first generation reusable launch system and the long duration space flight experience that we have on the International Space Station and our future. The focus of the space shuttle is to complete assembly of International Space Station, including U.S. components that support our exploration goals and those provided for our foreign partners so that we can conduct the research necessary to prepare us for our journey beyond Low Earth Orbit. And as you said, Robert Heinlein's quote is, "Earth orbit is half way to anywhere in the solar system." And indeed it's true in terms of energy.
No other vehicle in the world can do the shuttle's job today. The shuttle is in a class by itself in terms of performance and volume. It's a unique mix of cargo, crew, robotic capability, rendezvous and docking capability and the ability to return payloads to Earth.
There's a lot of launch capacity out there today. New vehicles are currently under development or being conceived in the private sector, but the other launch vehicles that are available, even the ones at the heavy lift end of the spectrum, Titan IV and Delta IV Heavy have no existing rendezvous, docking or robotics capability. They do not carry crew. They cannot currently support ISS assembly and they cannot return payloads to Earth.
The ISS was designed to be carried into space and assembled using the space shuttle. The elements have already been built, tested and most of them are integrated and awaiting launch at the Kennedy Space Center. Switching to an expendable launch vehicle at this point would result in what we estimate to be a minimum of four to five years delay in resuming ISS assembly and require significant investments to add new capabilities as well as redesign and retesting of those space station elements. Therefore, NASA believes the most responsible way forward is to use the unique capabilities of the shuttle for assembly, return of payloads to Earth and crew transport.
The best role, however, for commercial launch services, is to provide future ISS re-supply. And NASA seeks to release a request for proposal in mid-2005 to acquire capability for meeting re-supply requirements after ISS assembly is completed. As we look to the future, all options to meet launch requirements are on the table. NASA's wide-ranging missions require a variety of launch services. To meet these customer needs, NASA already uses a mixed fleet strategy to purchase commercial launch services from a range of providers as well as launches provided by our international partners.
NASA has historically supported emerging launch companies. Through a biannual onramp of the NASA launch services contract, we invite companies with new launch capability to submit their proposals for NASA consideration. That occurs every February and August. And next week, NASA will hold a pre-proposal conference at the Kennedy Space Center regarding small launch capability. NASA also partners with the Department of Defense, Defense Advance Research Projects Agency and the Air Force, all of whom have interest and requirements requiring small launch vehicles.
With regard to heavy lift capability in order to support the vision for space exploration, my office is working very closely with Craig Steidle and his staff to understand the requirements for space exploration and conduct the trade studies necessary to meet those requirements. Those trade studies include evolving an existing fleet of expendable launch vehicles, the potential for using space shuttle components and the potential for clean sheet new vehicle designs. We're also reviewing previous lessons learned as a way to springboard future studies to support the unique requirements of the crew exploration vehicle. These activities will position us for future acquisition of heavy lift capability.
With this vision, we are embarking on a journey, not a race. We begin this journey of exploration and discovery knowing that many years of hard work and sustained effort will be required. Yet we look forward to achieving these concrete results in the near term. The vision makes needed decisions to secure long term U.S. space leadership. The vision provides an exciting set of major milestones with human and robotic missions like there's currently ongoing on Mars, and onboard the International Space Station with expedition nine, and invites new ideas and innovation in the private sector. Accomplishing this bold new vision will provide the opportunity for new generations of Americans to explore, innovate, discover and enrich our nation in ways unimaginable today.
Thank you, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Mr. Readdy.
Admiral Steidle, would you care to make a statement or just want to respond to questions?
ADM. CRAIG E. STEIDLE: I just want to respond to your questions, sir, thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: All right, thank you very much.
Mr. Readdy, you mentioned that if we move off of the shuttle, it would delay by four to five years the finishing of ISS, is what I believe you put in your testimony, is that correct?
MR. READDY: Yes, sir, that's correct.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What-NASA has studied this option about decommissioning the shuttle and going another way to finish ISS. Is that correct?
MR. READDY: Yes, sir, we have and the study that I referred to here and the procurement that we're talking about in 2005 is contained in our budget request for $140 million. And we intend to replicate the up and down mass of the shuttle. Thus far our discussions with the industry reps estimate that there's between $700 (million) and $1 billion of non-recurring cost and then recurring cost for a flight rate of eight to 12 per year to meet our requirements. And the development time as I said is somewhere between three and five years.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So the-let me back up on that then. If we just said, okay, we're going to take the shuttle and we're not going to fly the shuttle any more. How would you then finish ISS? What would be the systems that would be used to finish ISS in the study that NASA has done?
MR. READDY: Well, right now it would require a complete redesign of the hardware that we already have tested, built, integrated at the Kennedy Space Center, so that's one piece of it, which is the existing hardware would have to be de-integrated. It would likely have to be redesigned and certainly reanalyzed and then repackaged to launch on expendable launch vehicles. The other things that would be required are to develop the autonomous rendezvous, docking and robotic capability as well as new payload fairings and interfaces for whatever vehicle might be chosen in order to lift something that heavy to the International Space Station orbit.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What kind of-how would it be lifted up? Is there-you're saying you'd have to develop new capacity or is there private sector groups that have put forward proposals to you to lift this --
MR. READDY: At this point, sir, the heavy lift end of the inventory and there are two remaining Titan IVs. That's the only equivalent to the shuttle cargo bay in terms of capacity. The Titan IV doesn't have robotic capability, it doesn't have rendezvous capability or docking capability. There are only two of those launch vehicles left in the inventory and they are committed to national security purposes. I think they launch in 2005.
The nearest term heavy lift vehicle would be Delta IV. The first test flight of that is supposed to be in the fall of this year, in order to try and replicate a similar 20 ton to orbit capacity. But that'll be the very first test flight and, once again, it has no rendezvous docking proximity ops or robotics capability to accommodate the unique hardware of the International Space Station.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What about anything that the Russians or other countries have that could do the lift capacity of the final pieces of ISS?
MR. READDY: That's a good question, sir, and in 1993 in the space station redesign we conducted in Crystal City we looked at a variety of alternatives. We looked at launching the International Space Station basically in three major elements, and then we also looked at it as a Russian derivative and then the one that we chose was a hybrid. The Russians have launched hardware to the International Space Station.
They launched the FGB which is the propulsion module that's up there right now. They launched the service module. They've also launched other very small pieces with their Soyuz boosters. And they do have a Proton capability, but that does not suffice to boost the large elements that we have, nor does it have robotic capability.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You mentioned though about taking the large elements we have and reconfiguring them, I'm taking that but you're saying breaking those down into smaller parts to be able to lift?
MR. READDY: Sir, I'm not even sure that that's feasible. At this point, we haven't even looked at how complex it would be to do that.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But in NASA's analysis of the future use of the space shuttle, you didn't analyze that potential possibility of being able to do that, of breaking some of these parts down further and then shipping them up on a Russian vehicle?
MR. READDY: We don't think that that's feasible right this minute and our near term objective spelled out in the vision for space exploration is to return the shuttle to safe flight in accordance with the Columbia Accident Investigation Board's findings and recommendations. We're on track to do that, we were reviewed last week by the Stafford-Covey Task Group, we have the space shuttle return to flight and beyond implementation plan that was just issued last week and we're making progress, steady progress towards returning to flight in March of April of next year.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Now, have you contacted the Russians about the possibility of-well, if we don't return the shuttle to flight of them taking up more of the parts to finish ISS and whether they could do that, or whether they could reconfigure some of their work or we could the parts to be able to get them up?
MR. READDY: I have to commend all our partners for how well during the shuttle down period we have operated together. The Europeans have been particularly supportive, as have the Russians. Certainly they have launched all the crew members to International Space Station here in the interim, most recently expedition nine. They have also launched the progress vehicles for propellant, food and water and some limited spare parts. Our current operation though, is constrained by logistics.
Just like an expedition to Antarctica, just like a deployed carrier battle group, logistics drives exploration. It did in Shackleton's time, in his voyages. And right now, we have reduced the crew on board to two crew members, in order to be sustainable given the progress re-supply vehicles that we have available to us today. The Russians and we both learned during the shuttle-Mir ear that progresses alone were not sufficient.
In terms of the partnership though we have the ATV which is the autonomous transfer vehicle being designed and built by the European space agency right now, it's over in Bremen, it's being integrated and it should be ready for flight next year, aboard an Arian V launch vehicle that will provide additional logistics redundancy in a much larger capacity similar to what the multipurpose logistics model can launch.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let me sharpen this question, because I'm going to have to put us in recess right after this. Have you contacted the Russians about them being able to finish ISS and said, would you look at this and do you have capacities and over what time frame and over what cost would it take for you to finish this?
MR. READDY: We have a heads of agency meeting planned for the end of July over in Nordvik, Holland, where the heads of all the agencies, Canadian, Russian, European and Japanese space agencies will meet with the NASA administrator and we're going to discuss the way ahead and what we view to be the trades involved in final configuration of International Space Station.
At this point the Russians were in fact relying on shuttle for logistics up front, the Russians were relying on shuttle to launch their power platform and so, we're going to have to engage in this dialogue with our partners to establish what the way ahead may look like.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is it the reason-I'm asking the question that a lot of members are asking right now. The shuttle's been great, it's done great work, it's very expensive to operate, we need to-do we need to continue this or is there another way to finish ISS without the shuttle? And I realize there's a very clear answer here of say, no, we just need to get the shuttle back and flying and that's the way it's all configured and that's the way it's designed to operate and I understand that answer and that's a legitimate answer. I just want to make sure that we have looked at all these other possible options on this, if we're going to move onto another set of missions. Is there another way or have we examined all of these other options?
MR. READDY: Yes, sir. And what we are doing is we are critically reviewing the manifest and the way ahead to make sure that each and every one of those flights buys its way in. That each and every one of those, not only in sequences required, each and every one of those capacities is required to support exploration. Because that's what this is about, going to the vision, is to inform us on counter measures to support humans for long duration in Earth orbit, so that we can go beyond Low Earth Orbit.
And that requires a larger capacity than we have onboard International Space Station right now, a larger number of crew members, potentially scores of crew members as opposed to right now where we can fly four crew members per year in the current configuration. So clearly that's something that we are looking at within the International Space Station program in terms of not only assembly but how to get way up on the glide slope in terms of logistics. So it will be sustainable for the long term using other modalities as opposed to shuttle.
The line replicable units for International Space Station, those major assemblies like the controlled momentum gyros were designed from the very beginning to be maintained on the ground, refurbished on the ground, troubleshot on the ground and then launched again. So we're going to have to look completely on the logistics tail for International Space Station, see what other modalities we might use when we no longer have the shuttle available for down mass and up mass for large assemblies.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Readdy and Admiral, if you can stay around for a few minutes I need to go over and vote, we're at the back end of this vote, I'll vote and then be back. We'll probably be in recess about 15 minutes. Thank you.
(Recess.)
SEN. BROWNBACK: We'll call the hearing back to order. Sorry for the extended recess.
Mr. Readdy, I want to ask some-follow up on the line of questioning we were on before I left. And let me say at the outset I appreciate the great work you folks do at NASA and I apologize sometimes-or apologize for the pointed questioning at times, but we're looking at where we're going to invest in the next set of technologies and the decisions made now will have impact for decades to come and so I want to make sure that we're making the right sort of decisions and we have all the information in front of us when we make these decisions. So that's why I'm asking about particularly our inquiries to the Russians for the private sector on finishing ISS, which seems to be the major reason for continuing to have the space shuttle at this point in time, is to finish ISS. Would that be correct?
MR. READDY: Yes, sir. And if I could clarify my previous answer? I think with respect to Russian capability, European capability, private sector capability, I think the Space Station processing facility-a trip down there to actually see the hardware would be extremely instructive. Like, a picture is worth a thousand words. When you go down there and you see that building and see it full of the hardware that has already been tested, checked out, integrated and ready for launch, you'll see-some people have an impression of Space Station, because it is modular, that it's an erector set or it's a Lego set that can be taken apart and put back together again.
And when you get down there and you see each one of those launch packages, you realize just how complex a truss element is. It has electronics that goes into it. And because it goes around the Earth once every hour-and-a-half it sees extremes in temperature from being in the sunlight and being in darkness, and the entire Space Station has to play together as an integrated element: Russian elements, Japanese elements, European elements and our own.
And to repackage any of those, irrespective of what kind of launch vehicle-to change the loads from what-the shuttle experiences, which are relatively benign during ascent, only 3 Gs where we throttle the main engines back for about the last minute or so before main engine cutoff, as Senator Nelson is familiar, that provides a very benign set of loads. So the Space Station hardware has a very minimal set of design requirements for launch. If we were to repackage it, put it on any other kind of launch vehicle, it would require extensive analysis, possibly redesign, and de- integration/reintegration, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And you I think have mentioned it previously to me, or the administrator has, both, about you would have to do that. My question really is, have we searched through thoroughly all the options and --
MR. READDY: Yes, sir, we think we have and --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, let me ask specifically, though, because you were very troubling to me earlier when I asked you had you had officially contacted the Russians about them finishing ISS. And I take it from your answer we have not?
MR. READDY: Sir, we are in constant communications with the Russians in this partnership. The administrator met with Mr. Perminov just last week while we were over there for the Expedition 8 landing and we discussed a number of issues all having to do with the final configuration of International Space Station. A number of those are intended to be readdressed when we have the heads of agency meeting with the other partners, and that is planned for the end of July over at Nordvik.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But we have not officially asked the Russians, "Could you finish ISS? Could you come up"-"do you have the capacity? Could you finish ISS and what would be the price of doing that?"
MR. READDY: Just to be clear, the Russians have asked us to launch some of their elements. And we know what the Russians' launch capacity is with their Proton launch vehicle and right now the same repackaging would be required for their elements. They do not have robotic capability. The unique things that the shuttle provides have to do with the crew interface and the robotic interface. The ability for the crewmen to actually pick up those modules and install them on the International Space Station. That is something that does not happen-it is not available in Russia, it is not available anywhere else in the world at this point.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And we have not --
MR. READDY: It would have to be developed at tremendous expense, and it would also take time. So we think that the nearest term quickest way to complete assembly of the International Space Station so that we can get on with the exploration agenda and learn those lessons that we need to, is to get the shuttle back to flying again in compliance with the Columbia Accident Investigation Board's report.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I don't doubt what you're saying the quickest way to doing this is. I'm curious about the-as well, the safest and the least expensive to us, and I want to make sure we're inquiring about these other options. And maybe it does extend the timeline out to completing ISS, but is there-the shuttle is a very expensive program. We're committing annually excess-somewhere between $4 to $5 billion to the shuttle program. We want to go to the moon and Mars --
MR. READDY: We do.
SEN. BROWNBACK: -- on human space flight. This is a huge stream of funds.
And I want to make sure we've inquired of the Russians and the private sector, the European space community, others, about "Could you finish this? What would you do? How would you bid this proposal to do this?," so that we can see as we're making these decisions now that are going to determine the investment of $50 billion over the next 10 years, or whatever the case might be, that this is-that we're going the right route to finish this up. And I'm --
MR. READDY: Yes, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I'm not convinced that NASA has done that.
MR. READDY: Well, sir, we will assess all the other capabilities. We will invite other people to make offerings with the alternative access to space. In 2005 that we have planned we have a budget line item that's $140 million. We will be looking for other opportunities to offload the space shuttle so the things that are not uniquely done that require crew, that require robotic capability-and we will do that, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And I just was-does the United States have the option in the next few years for heavy lift from other areas? Lockheed have a heavy lift capacity coming online that they're going to be testing in a year. Is that correct? And it's Atlas 5?
MR. READDY: Atlas 5 is flying. I think it's flown three times successfully thus far in a medium lift capability. I think the Lockheed company will testify in the second panel as to what their plans are for the way ahead. The only heavy lift vehicle right now besides the Titan 4 that exists and is in service of the national defense right now for two remaining launches is the Delta IV, which is planned for this fall.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But Lockheed will have this online in a year or so? Additional heavy lift?
MR. READDY: Really, I'd like Lockheed to take the question, sir. I'm not familiar --
SEN. BROWNBACK: And what's the weight of the largest station element left to launch? Do you know that?
MR. READDY: I'll take that as a question, but the shuttle's capacity to a Space Station orbit was 36,000 pounds. So that pretty much capped what each and every one of the launch packages had to be. But we'll get you the details of each and every one of the launch packages so that you know what the number is, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I want to make sure that we're looking at this on an apples to apples basis. That if we've got so much weight that we need to get up to the station, are there other alternatives that are coming on stream. It may not be owned by NASA, it may be by some place else. Can we do that and at what cost --
MR. READDY: Absolutely. Yes, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: -- are we getting that there? And that's why I'm trying to determine what's the weight and the capacity, what's the ability of others to be able to do? And I wasn't being informed-didn't we take large payloads off the shuttle in the '80s and start launching those on expendables? Didn't we, when we were down with the shuttle --
MR. READDY: NASA has always used a mixed fleet approach for our scientific payloads. We've launched a number of scientific payloads and observatories and Department of Defense satellites on the space shuttle. We've also, of course, launched those on expendable launch vehicles, which we acquire. NASA has had a policy of acquiring those services from commercial sources, and continues to this day. The Spirit and Opportunity that were just launched were commercially acquired. The Aura launch that is going to occur from Vandenberg next month is commercially acquired. That is a consistent pattern. And we use a broad spectrum of launch vehicles from Pegasus at the low end all the way up to right now what will be the Delta IV and the Atlas 5 launch class vehicles.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You will be then inquiring specifically of the Russians and --
MR. READDY: Yes, sir. We'll inquire --
SEN. BROWNBACK: -- others about --
MR. READDY: -- from the Russians, the Europeans and all our partners, as well as the private sector.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Because before we move forward in the appropriation process this year, I would want that question answered-asked and answered about what these other options are and at what price tag. And I realize these are big questions that take time to process, particularly when you're going to other groups, whether it's the Russians, the European Space Agency, private sector, that these are places that are going to need time to process the question that you've put in front of them. But if we're investing this scale of money, if we're going back to the shuttle-that I continue to have questions about. This has been a great vehicle, it's done a lot of good. How much are we going-how much is it going to cost us to be able to get it back flying? And I don't know if you have a figure yet available on that?
MR. READDY: No, sir, we don't.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Of what it's going to cost to get the shuttle back in space, back flying? Do we know that figure yet?
MR. READDY: We can give you our 2005 budget submission, sir, and we're living within that. We think that currently March to April next year is achievable. We're making steady progress towards that.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That you will get it back into flight March or April next year?
MR. READDY: Yes, sir. But we're being driven by the technical milestones along the way. This is not a scheduled driven exercise. You know, although there are launch windows that are driven by having to have a daylight launch, having to have the tank lit when we turn it loose, when we get on orbit. Having to do inspection and those kinds of things drive some very narrow windows for us to be able to launch. We'll move from one window to the next window as we solve the technical problems. But right now the technical problems we have in front of us we think are solvable and we're on track for a March to April window for next year.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And do you know the price tag? Do you think you're going to be able to stay within budget that you've budgeted for getting the shuttle back in flight by March or April of next year?
MR. READDY: Yes, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And you don't see any glitches? None have presented themselves yet to being able to do that within your current appropriation?
MR. READDY: Within our current appropriation, no, sir, we don't see any issue at this point. But as time goes on, we're going to identify whatever technical issues arise because in addition to the findings and recommendations of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board, we have also raised the bar on ourselves and a number of the things that we have found, like the rudder speed break actuator corrosion, were things that NASA found. So we have raised the bar in terms of our standard. We've looked at this with a new lens, the space exploration vision lens, such that we limit the space shuttle's life not to 2020 but to just those missions that are essential for completing the International Space Station. Those missions that require the human, robotic, rendezvous docking, those kinds of things here in the near term to complete the International Space Station. So with that in mind, the recertification that's going on right now for return to flight has got a window that extends through International Space Station assembly complete.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Good. And I agree with you on doing this by-not by a timeline but on milestones. That you hit your milestones rather than by a certain date. We don't want the shuttle flying again if there are any safety questions that remain about it at all.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Senator Nelson. I appreciate your thought and I always appreciate your contributions here. Of course, we're dependent on the Russians right now so I mean those things are-those things do happen and are going to continue to happen.
SEN. NELSON: And may I respond to that? Fortunately, we have the backup system. But that's with the Soyuz, and all Soyuz can do is carry three people and not hardly any additional cargo. And then when Soyuz come-or when the Progress comes up with cargo, it's carrying a very limited amount because of the size of that particular vehicle. To assemble the Space Station, you've got these huge components that are already built that are on the ground that have got to be launched. And so, for example, if you went just with the Russians, we can't put any more people up there on Space Station than three because we've got to have the capability in case of an emergency of getting the crew down. To utilize everything that we have built-not that we've completely assembled but that we have built and hope to assemble, we need a lot more than three people on that space --
SEN. BROWNBACK: And that's what we're trying to assess, whether or not we have options in other places and what price those would be.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: The reason the committee had asked Mr. Musk to testify was on heavy lift capacity. I mean, what we're trying to examine at the first at the hearing was shuttle options and the second portion of it here saw this as heavy lift capacity.
Maybe, Mr. Musk, if we could confine your comments to the issue of heavy lift capacity and not to the issue that's under review would be an appropriate thing to do. And it's certainly not the committee's desire to favor one group or another on anything. It's to try to get to some of the bottom of the factual settings that are taking place. So if that would be --
SEN. BREAUX: Well, with that, I would just want to say how much I appreciate the chairman's position on it. I don't mind a complete discussion on the issue. That's an appropriate thing for the committee to do, as long as we have all of the interested parties making a presentation. And I think your suggestion is very, very fair.
SEN. BROWNBACK: If we could confine your oral presentation, Mr. Musk, to the issue that we're discussing here today, which is heavy lift capacity and options to finish the ISS, I would appreciate that.
MR. ELON MUSK: Certainly. Look, it's worth correcting. I think the-Mr. Readdy misspoke when he said it was competitive. It was in fact not competitive and that is the nature of the protest.
SEN. BROWNBACK: (Off mike.)
MR. MUSK: So I just wanted to correct that reply.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let's stay to heavy lift capacity issues and finishing ISS, please.
MR. MUSK: Mr. Chairman, members of the committee, thank you for inviting me to testify here today. The past few decades have been a dark age for development of new human space transportation systems. One multi-billion dollar government program after another has failed. In fact, they have failed even to reach the launch pad, let alone get to space.
Those in the space industry, including some of my panel members, have felt the pain firsthand. The public, whose hard earned money has gone to fund these developments, has felt it indirectly. The reaction of the public has been to care less and less about space, an apathy not intrinsic to a nation of explorers but born of poor progress, of being disappointed time and again.
When America landed on the moon, I believe we made a promise and gave people a dream. It seemed then that given the normal course of technological evolution, someone who is not a billionaire, not an astronaut made of the right stuff but just a normal person might one day see Earth from space. That dream is nothing but broken disappointment today. If we do not now take actions different from the past, it will remain that way.
So what strategies are critical to the future of space launch vehicle development? And here my testimony I think will be a little different. First and foremost, I think we should increase and extend the use of prizes. This is a point whose importance cannot be overstated.
If I can emphasize, underscore and highlight one strategy for Congress, it is to offer prizes of meaningful scale and scope. This is a proposition where the American taxpayer cannot lose. Unlike standard contracting where failure is often perversely rewarded with more money, failure to win a prize costs us nothing. Offering substantial prizes for achievement in space could pay enormous dividends.
We're beginning to see how powerful this can be by observing the X Prize, a prize for sub-orbital human transportation which is on the verge of being won. It is a very effective use of money as vastly more than the $10 million of prize money is being spent by dozens of teams that hope to win. At least as important, however, is the spirit and vigor it has injected into the space industry and the public at large. It is currently the sole ember of hope that one day they too may travel to space.
Beyond space, as the committee is no doubt aware, history is replete with examples of prizes spurring great achievements, such as the Orteig Prize for crossing the Atlantic nonstop by plane and the Longitude Prize for ocean navigation. Few things stoke the fires of creativity and ingenuity more than competing for a prize in fair and open competition. The result is an efficient Darwinian exercise with the subjectivity and error of proposal evaluation removed. The best means of solving the problem will be found and that solution may be in a way and from a company that no one ever expected.
One interesting option, although radical, might be to parallel every major NASA contract with a prize valued at one-tenth of the contract amount.
If another company achieves all of the contract goals first, they receive the prize and the main contract is cancelled with the objective achieved. At minimum, it will serve as a spur for whoever does win the main contract. Some people believe that no serious company would pursue a prize. This is simply beside the point. If a prize is not won, it costs us nothing. Put prizes out there, make them of a meaningful size and many companies will vie to win, particularly if there are a series of prizes of successively greater difficulty and value. I recommend strongly supporting and actually substantially expanding upon the proposed Centennial Prizes put forward in the recent NASA budget. No dollar spent on space research will yield greater value for the American people than those prizes.
Secondly, I think we should rigorously examine how any proposed new vehicle will improve the cost of access to space, rigorously. The obvious barrier to human exploration beyond Low Earth Orbit is the cost of access to space. This problem of affordability dwarfs all others. I do not think there are multiple problems in space, I think there is one and that is the cost of access to space.
If we do not set ourselves on the track to solving it with a constantly improving price per pound to orbit, in effect a Moore's law of space, neither the average American nor their great great grandchildren will ever see another planet. We will be forever confined to Earth and may never come to understand the true nature and wonder of the universe. So it is critical that we thoroughly examine the probable cost of alternatives to replacing the shuttle before embarking upon a new development.
The shuttle today costs about a factor of 10 more per flight than originally projected. We don't want to be in a similar situation with its replacement. In fact, it was precisely to improve the cost and reliability of access to space, initially for satellites and later for humans, that I established SpaceX, although some of my friends still think the real goal was to turn a large fortune into a small one. Our first offering, called Falcon I, will be the world's only semi- reusable orbital rocket apart from the space shuttle. In fact, we employ a reusable first stage and an expendable upper stage as Aerospace Corporation recommends as the smart approach to improving costs.
Although Falcon I is a light class launch vehicle, we have already announced and sold the first flight of Falcon V, our medium class rocket. Long term plans call for development of a heavy lift product and even a super heavy, if there is customer demand. We expect that each size increase would result in a meaningful decrease in cost per pound to orbit. For example, dollar cost per pound to orbit dropped from $4,000 to $1,300 between Falcon I and Falcon V. Ultimately, I believe $500 per pound or less is very achievable.
Item three was ensuring fairness in contracting, but I will stop there.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thanks very much. Gentlemen, thank you very much for your testimony. The first three gentlemen, you all three identify significant options for heavy lift capacity that are currently available. Mr. Kahn, you're saying let's use the shuttle engine portions of this. We can reconfigure, use that, that that's a proven system and that you can get-what would you say-what were you saying the lift capacity you could get up to in using that, 100,000?
MR. KAHN: A hundred and fifty thousand.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What's that?
MR. KAHN: Hundred and fifty thousand.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Hundred and fifty thousand.
And, Dr. Karas, you were saying you could get up to 200,000 pounds in a lift capacity?
MR. KARAS: You could, but I think apples to apples it's about 150,000 pounds as well in the near term.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What do you mean by near term?
MR. KARAS: Within the technology and infrastructure we have today, three to five years.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Kahn, what's your timeframe to be able to do what you're talking about of lift capacity using shuttle?
MR. KAHN: Well, the propulsion part of the lift capacity, which is the boosters and the tank and the engines are already flying today, so they exist. So it's just how long does it take to build a cargo carrier and bolt it onto the tank instead of bolting it on the orbiter.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Any idea on that of a cargo carrier, what it would take to do?
MR. KAHN: It's probably in this order of three to five years as well.
SEN. BROWNBACK: To get that pulled together.
Mr. Hickman, in your approach you're talking about 160,000 pounds lift capacity. Is that correct?
MR. HICKMAN: That's correct.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay. And what's the timeframe of your development to do something like that, along the lines of what you've described?
MR. HICKMAN: We propose more of an evolutionary approach to get there --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Just get that microphone up a little closer, will you?
MR. HICKMAN: We've proposed more of an evolutionary approach to get there, starting off with smaller payloads and lift vehicles and growing to the larger one. I think one of the things that's important to emphasize, that we weren't just trying to achieve a specific lift capacity but the transformational capabilities in most of the sectors need-also depend on responsiveness and significantly lower cost, and so we looked at hybrid and reusable vehicles to do that. We think they're really not limited by technology currently but by available funding. With a well funded program, I think the timeframe to get to heavy lift could be in the eight to 10 year timeframe.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Eight to 10 years to get there? Gentlemen, why is it so costly for us? We've been at this now five decades to get into space. We're costing-shuttle is a $4 billion plus annual program, whether it flies or not. You know, $1 billion a shot. I mean, this is difficult, but it's extraordinarily expensive. Can you tell me why this has remained so expensive and over the lines of what we thought it would be at this point in time?
MR. HICKMAN: I'll try to address that question if I may? Currently in our ORSAOA study, which we did for the military to look at their --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Put that microphone up closer, would you please?
MR. HICKMAN: In the AOA, the analysis of alternatives that we performed for the military, we looked at a large number of costs for aerospace systems across the board: aircraft, missiles, cruise missiles, ballistic missiles. They all seem to have a floor of about $750 a pound, is what it basically costs to make fairly sophisticated hardware. We did not see that it would get significantly below that floor unless you moved toward reusable system.
And so we think that one of the key things though is to design those systems to be operable from the outset. The shuttle was not designed with the factors necessary to make it operable. We believe with a highly focused program, focused on operability and the proper use of reusability and we think that's in a hybrid, the first stage that you can get down to a factor of three reduction in cost over what we're seeing today.
MR. KARAS: Mr. Chairman, I'd like to respond? I think the shuttle is a wonderful machine and has a lot of capabilities that expendables don't, like cargo down, so I think those are other factors that drive cost. I think in the case of ELV or if we take Atlas specifically, as I mentioned we've phased in many vehicles, every time we had a different vehicle phase in we improved reliability and improved performance.
In a competitive environment, it's kind of hard in an open environment to go quote costs, but I think in my paper I realize-I stated that you can buy vehicles for significantly cheaper than the $6,000 per pound today. It's probably two or three times less that off the shelf and I think we can get to-you know, dollars per pound that are in the $2,000 to 1.5 -- $1,500 a pound relatively easily, using the scales of economy that we've talked about. So I think that, you know, you can probably draw a line through-at least through Atlas for the last 10 years of constant progression of dollar per pound coming down. So I think there are areas that we have done that. We have a further way to go, you bet, but I think it's significantly less than in the shuttle because of different drive and requirements.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Would that auger for that we need to move away from the shuttle as fast as possible, to other type of lift capacity to finish ISS?
MR. KARAS: I think Bill Readdy put it best where it's all about the requirements, and I think there are heavy lift requirements that can have the payload capacity both volumetrically and weight wise to put cargo to station. But it's all the other things that expendables don't have today, like rendezvous and dock, human interfaces, robotics, to be able to service the station. So there's different requirements and that we are-we're working with NASA in paid studies to go evaluate those things for them. But I think in the near term, it would be hard to go do that because of the capacity that the expendables don't have.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And of the other areas that they don't have.
Mr. Musk, what's a meaningful prize? What's the size of a meaningful prize to get people to do some of the things that we would like to see private sector engage in, in space?
MR. MUSK: I think it's-you can get very meaningful outcomes for dollar figures in the tens of millions. And certainly I think for something like $100 million for repeating the John Glenn flight has been suggested by-I've heard that suggestion before, that is imminently doable. I think-in fact, I would say here's a good way to approach something. If you get an estimate, whatever the NASA estimate is to get something done, erase a zero and make that a price. And I think you will find that it is done for that amount of money.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Gentlemen, I have another hearing I need to go to. I appreciate very much you coming in, providing your expertise and thoughts on this, the written testimony as well. Thank you so much. The hearing is adjourned.
