Public Statements
Brownback Speaks at North Korea Freedom Day
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 28, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Speaks at North Korea Freedom Day
WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today delivered the keynote address at the North Korea Freedom Day rally and will meet with the largest group of North Korean defectors ever assembled.
"Last week, there was a terrible explosion in North Korea where hundreds died and thousands were injured, including scores of children," stated Brownback. "Our prayers go to those people, especially the children. But as tragic as that was, this is what North Korea did immediately after the explosion: they cut off international phone lines so that word about the explosion would not reach the outside world; they prohibited South Korean relief goods from crossing into North Korea by land; they did not allow South Korean medical doctors to go to the disaster area; South Korean mobile wards and medical ships were barred from the area; western journalists were not allowed to cover the incident in the disaster area and in the hospitals.
"The truth will eventually prevail and the truth about North Korea will eventually liberate the people of North Korea. North Korea denies its citizens almost every right pledged under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It crushes freedom of thought, conscience and religion by subjecting its citizens to systematic political and ideological indoctrination in which six-year-olds are taught to sing praises of their leader Kim Jong-Il as the 'sun of the nation.' The existence of concentration camps estimated to hold more than 200,000 political prisoners prove that freedom of association and assembly doesn't exist. We have evidence that the North Korean regime carries out chemical experiments on political prisoners in gas chambers. Over the years, many lives have been lost along the Tumen River at the border with China because people wanted to be free by escaping the regime. Even those who make it across face appalling human rights abuses because the Chinese government continues to arrest and repatriate them to North Korea where they face severe punishment. This very day, North Korean refugees in China are living lives of fear, lives of shadows and whispers."
Brownback has introduced the North Korea Freedom Act, which would provide humanitarian assistance to North Koreans inside the country and humanitarian or legal assistance to refugees, orphans, and trafficking victims outside the country.
Brownback continued, "There is now a real danger that North Korea could export fissile material or weapons to other rogue states or to terrorists. Your support of this bill is critical if we are to get a resolution. Just continuing to talk in these endless rounds of multilateral discussions will not get us anywhere. We need to continue to apply the pressure not only on North Korea but also on China.
"Imagine for a moment what a free North Korea will mean. In a free North Korea, the children suffering silently in the hospital wards would get immediate access to medicines and other assistance. In a free North Korea, a mother would not have to commit suicide by taking rat poison to avoid watching her children die from hunger. In a free North Korea, every man, woman and child would have the right to pursue their dreams instead of being forced to listen to dictatorial propaganda. In a free North Korea, people would have a chance to reclaim their conscience and put their faith in a God of their own choosing, not one dictated by the State. A free North Korea will also mean that those of you who are Korean Americans and may have a brother or a sister or even a long lost friend in North Korea will one day be free to visit with them.
"We have learned about the great human rights tragedies of the 20th century - the Holocaust, the killing fields of Cambodia, the genocide in Rwanda, just to name a few. We criticize the contemporaries of those tragedies, asking, why didn't you do more? Why did you not act? Our future generations will look at us and ask us the same questions. This is our time to act."
