Public Statements
Brownback Chairs Hearing on International Space Competition and Other Space Programs
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 27, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback chairs hearing on international space competition and other space programs
WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today chaired a hearing on international space exploration programs in the Science, Technology and Space Subcommittee. The purpose of the hearing was to investigate and discuss the current space programs and objectives of several countries and how their plans may affect the implementation of President Bush's vision for space.
"America has always led the way to new frontiers - frontiers of science, frontiers of freedom and opportunity, and frontiers in space," Brownback said. "Other nations are mounting impressive new ventures in space - some of them very low-cost but significant nonetheless. I, for one, don't think we should need to explain to our children years from now why others are walking on other worlds and reaping the benefits of space exploration when we are not."
In recent years, several countries have significantly increased their efforts and expenditures in space exploration. China recently launched the first manned mission to space, the British endeavored to reach Mars first with robotic explorers, the EU has shortened its timeline to reach the moon and beyond, and India and Japan are increasing satellite launches and both have plans to reach the moon within a decade. Space was once the purview of one to two nations or a consortium of countries, but space is now within reach of many countries and a worldwide reinvigoration of space exploration is at hand.
Brownback continued, "We are in a global competition for the future. Space is a key element in this competition. But competition does not exclude cooperation. As we know well from our nation's private sector, a free range of opportunity to compete and cooperate at individual discretion benefits all. We need this same spirit globally to reap the benefits of an unlimited space future. I have heard from entrepreneurs throughout America that they want a new approach to space. They want the U.S. government to use the private sector to full advantage as we explore and occupy the moon and Mars."
