Public Statements
Fox The Big Story with John Gibson - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 23, 2004
Location: Unknown


Fox News Network
SHOW: THE BIG STORY WITH JOHN GIBSON (17:11)
HEADLINE: Interview with Senator Sam Brownback
GUESTS: Sam Brownback
BYLINE: John Gibson
BODY:
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We will not step back from our pledge. On June 30, Iraqi sovereignty will be placed in Iraqi hands.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GIBSON: President Bush says the Iraqi people will take the wheel on June 30, but it will probably be like one of those driver's ed cars, excuse me, with an American riding shotgun and one foot on the brake. For example, the White House says Iraqis won't be allowed to pass any new laws at first.
Let's talk about the handover with Kansas Senator Sam Brownback on the Foreign Relations Committee. Senator, today's big question. Will Iraqis really be in charge after June 30?
SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK ® KANSAS: Oh, I think so, and I think really what you are seeing take place now will be the start of a negotiation between the U.N., and the United States and the Iraqis that are in the governing council now and some that will be coming into the governance system.
What that degree of control will be, it will be run by Iraq come June 30. It has to be run by Iraqis. We will be bringing back more Iraqi commanders into the system. Ultimately, the country has to be run by Iraqis, and June 30 is the starting deadline. And that power and control will continually and increasingly will be handed over to them.
GIBSON: Senator, what power will they have?
BROWNBACK: I think you'll see at the outset it will not be the security apparatus at the outset of it because the Iraqi security apparatus really isn't in place yet for it to be able to be run, but I think you will see a number of other civil society sort of things-electricity, water, schools, health systems, all those things that provide for the people's daily needs, but not initially the security apparatus.
GIBSON: What about the authority of the Iraqi government to tell the American administrator in Iraq, now, we want to do things one way even if you want us to do it the other?
BROWNBACK: You know, I was there at Mark Grossman's testimony yesterday, although not when that particular line of questioning came out, and I think really what you'll see taking place is on those civil society sort of things, there will be pretty broad basis of control given to the Iraqis if not complete control given to the Iraqis.
You know, running the schools. Now, what if they move one into a madrasa type of public school education? I think we're going to push back pretty hard, but overall they'll be running the schools-electricity, water, yes.
GIBSON: Let's go over one of those big items, big-ticket items, the constitution and how a democracy works. In our democracy, the precepts (ph) of the minority are protected. They don't seem to have gotten a firm grip on that concept in Iraq, so what if a constitution comes out where you look up and say, guess what, Muqtada al-Sadr is going to be the president of Iraq next week. Then what?
BROWNBACK: Well, you know, the basic document-the governing interim document has been passed by the Iraqi Governing Council and established, and that doesn't look like it will be in play for any sort of discussion on the basic document until next year when there's a fully elected new Iraqi government, so that issue has already been resolved until at least the first of next year.
GIBSON: Well, all right, but there's a point. I mean, this new government that's being chose-whatever you want to call it, interim authority, that's been chosen by Mr. Brahimi of the U.N. essentially is replacing that authority that adopted that constitution, so, all right, let's back it up one step. The new guys named by Mr. Brahimi say we don't like the document the old guys passed.
BROWNBACK: Well, but if that's the issue right there is can you change the basic governance until you have a fully elected government? I don't think that should be in play. Now, what about filling it out, like we have a constitution here, but we're constantly changing the laws underneath that constitution. They should have the authority and ability to be able to adjust and to change those.
That's why those basic issues, like Sharia Law and its impact on family law, has been set in this basic interim operating document, and that should remain. That shouldn't be changed during this interim until you get a fully elected Iraqi authority.
GIBSON: Who is it that on June 30 the president is going to hand the-whatever sovereignty looks like, going to send something to somebody and say, OK, you're sovereign?
BROWNBACK: Who are the people going to be?
GIBSON: Yes.
BROWNBACK: Yes, that's-you know, that's the problem where we are right now is Brahimi of the U.N. is working on that selection, but it strikes me that everybody is kind of playing the clock right now. You've got this June 30 deadline that's been set months earlier, and you've got the U.N. really being pretty slow about this. And I wonder if they aren't playing to the end to try to get some change in the system that they would like more and away from what the U.S. might like.
Remember, after June 30 we still have over 137,000 troops on the ground, and we don't want to have people running the place that are going to be turning Iraqi officers that would be turning Iraqi military against our folks or using the security apparatus in a place that would be harmful to our people. That's something that we're going to be watching carefully for.
GIBSON: Kansas Senator ...
BROWNBACK: I think we have to get these people selected soon.
GIBSON: Kansas Senator Sam Brownback, Senator, thanks very much. Appreciate you coming on.
