Public Statements
CNN Paula Zahn Now - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 22, 2004
Location: Unknown


CNN
SHOW: PAULA ZAHN NOW 20:00
HEADLINE: John Kerry and Vietnam; Uproar Over Princess Diana Photos
GUESTS: Bryan Michael Stoller, Pam Hayes, Mickey Sherman, Sam Brownback, Joseph Biden, Howard Kurtz, Douglas Brinkley,
BYLINE: Guy Raz, Candy Crowley, Ed Lavandera, Jeanne Meserve, Jane Arraf, Paula Zahn
HIGHLIGHT:
Thirty-three years later, how does presidential candidate John Kerry feel about the Vietnam War and his anti-war activism? An uproar has been created over CBS' decision to air pictures of Princess Diana as she lay dying. Michael Jackson's fans and friends choose sides in the wake of his indictment.
BODY:
ZAHN: We now turn to Republican Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, who's also on the Foreign Relations Committee.
Good to see you.
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK ®, KANSAS: Good to see you, Paula.
ZAHN: Senator Brownback, Senator Biden was just on. And he pretty much said, if this administration doesn't start reaching out in a serious way to the international community, it's time for them to level with the American public that the American public is going to bear 90 percent of the cost of this operation in Iraq, suffer 90 percent of the casualties, and have 90 percent of the problems. What is it you think the American public should be prepared for in Iraq?
BROWNBACK: I think we need to be prepared for a long stay. That's what it seems like to me that we're seeing now taking place.
I think we also need to be prepared to work closely with the Iraqis, most-foremostly in the international community and getting this taken place and done. We've reached out to the international community. We continue to do that. We need to do more. And the Brahimi organizing for as far as the governance after June 30 is key in the international community.
I think the key issue here really is the Iraqis. Soon, soon, we've got to get Iraq turned over to the Iraqis, and I think that's going to be the real key to what the cost and the casualty level is going to be to us.
ZAHN: Senator Biden also said, in spite of the fact that he supports the idea of living up to the June 30 deadline, although he's not sure how you get there, he feels that that date was simply picked because of the election cycle. Do you share that view?
BROWNBACK: No, I completely disagree with that.
If it were up to me, we would have passed control to Iraqis months earlier, like we did in Afghanistan, where we had an Afghan face running that country within a couple of months. It wasn't a person that was popularly elected. But you've got an Afghan running Afghanistan. And we should have done that in Iraq.
I think the administration, out of frustration, and things just kept rolling down the road, rolling down the road, said, we've got to set a firm date, stand by it. And that's where the June 30 date came from, not from political considerations here.
ZAHN: Even once sovereignty is handed over, how many years do expect American forces to have to be on the ground in Iraq to provide security? And what kind of numbers do you think we're looking at?
BROWNBACK: I think it's going to be a long time. I think the numbers can drop down substantially, but still be there as a stabilizing force in that country for some years to come.
ZAHN: Do you think the American public has been told the truth about what the cost of this operation will continue to cost?
BROWNBACK: I think they've been told the truth as far as it is known. I think a lot of this is highly unpredictable at this point in time. I don't know that these numbers are knowable yet.
ZAHN: How do you think the White House views your criticism of some of its policies now?
BROWNBACK: I think they probably look at these as fair, but balanced. I've been supportive. I am supportive of our effort. I voted to go in. I am concerned that we hit these timetables.
I think by and large they're doing the right thing. But this is tough. I applaud their effort of what they're moving forward with. I do think we've got to come forward and work together more on some of these answers. And we do have to hit that June 30 date. But there, really, the fault lies more with the U.N. and Brahimi not coming up organizationally with how we move forward, rather than with our government.
ZAHN: Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, thanks for your time tonight.
BROWNBACK: Thank you, Paula.
