Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions - S.J. Res. 33
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 21, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself, Mr. TALENT, and Mr. ALLEN):
S.J. Res. 33. A joint resolution expressing support for freedom in Hong Kong; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, today I introduce, along with my colleagues Senator TALENT and Senator ALLEN, an important resolution regarding recent developments in Hong Kong. Hong Kong has been a great friend of the United States, a key ally in the war on terrorism and an invaluable trading partner. In recent weeks, however, it has become increasingly clear that Beijing will stand in the way of Hong Kong's development into a full democracy. Such actions compel support from the members of this body.
The Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 sets forth the guidelines for the U.S. relationship with Hong Kong. It provides for a very special and distinct relationship with the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, even as we recognize the Hong Kong is a part of China. This special relationship rests on the notion that Hong Kong will be governed differently than the rest of China.
Unfortunately, Beijing continues to suggest that it has no intention of realizing Hong Kong's democratic potential. Recent decisions by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress push direct election of Hong Kong's Chief Executive into the future. Hong Kong's Legislative Counsel faces a similar fate. Some observers even suggest Beijing will wait another 30 or 40 years to allow universal suffrage in the selection of executive and legislative office holders to become a reality. By then, the 50 year special arrangement will be near expiration, threatening everything the people of Hong Kong have achieved.
I traveled to Hong Kong in January. My Subcommittee on East Asia and Pacific Affairs held a hearing last month where we heard testimony from Hong Kong's leading democracy advocates. A clear message emerges from everyone with whom I have spoken on this issue: Hong Kong is ready for full democracy. The people have demonstrated the ability to create a vibrant society and they deserve universal suffrage and the ability to participate fully in the functions of government.
The resolution I submit today is simple. It recognizes the recent report from the State Department dealing with the U.S.-Hong Kong relationship. It highlights Hong Kong's autonomy as envisioned by the Hong Kong Policy Act, and it highlights the unfortunate steps taken in Beijing to frustrate Hong Kong's democratic development. As the resolution says, Congress ought to declare "that the people of Hong Kong should be free to determine the pace and scope of constitutional developments" and that anything less violates the vision of democracy set forth in the 1984 Joint Declaration signed by Great Britain and the People's Republic of China.
When Martin Lee came to testify about the importance of democratic development in March, Beijing referred to him as a dreamer. They meant it as an insult, but Mr. Lee embraces the label as he looks to a future of freedom in Hong Kong. This body can make a powerful statement of support for Martin Lee's democratic dreams by passing this resolution, and I hope they will move quickly to do so.
