Public Statements
Brownback Decries Easter Violence in Vietnam
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 21, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Decries Easter Violence in Vietnam
WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback yesterday sent a letter to Secretary of State Colin Powell urging him to declare Vietnam a "Country of Particular Concern" and investigate reports of egregious violence against native Montagnard peoples over Easter weekend.
"I am deeply saddened by the deplorable events in the Central Highlands of Vietnam during Easter weekend," wrote Brownback. "I am continuing to receive reports of a sweeping crackdown by the government of Vietnam against ethnic Montagnards, including deaths and injuries. I remain deeply concerned about the humanitarian situation and access to adequate water, food and medical attention. I am also concerned about increasing reports of actions taken by the government against bystanders of the protest."
Several human rights organizations, including Human Rights Watch and Montagnard Human Rights Organization, reported that planned peaceful protests were to take place Easter weekend and that the Vietnamese government sent security forces to the area prior to the protests. Further details are forthcoming, but eyewitnesses reported unknown numbers of deaths, violent beatings, and missing persons. The area has been closed off by Vietnamese officials, and despite requests by U.S. diplomats, no one has been given access to the region. Some reports indicate that Montagnards fleeing to Cambodia are routinely deported back to Vietnam.
Brownback continued, "Vietnam must be held accountable for their violation of international agreements and conventions pertaining to human rights, religious freedom and refugees and they should immediately open the region to international humanitarian organizations and observers, as well as international officials and diplomats. I urge you to immediately designate Vietnam as a Country of Particular Concern, as recommended this year by the U.S. Commission in International Religious Freedom. In addition, I encourage an investigation of restrictions on the freedom of movement before the June 1 renewal of a waiver on the Jackson-Vanik amendment. I hope that you will also urge the Cambodian government to cooperate with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to provide protection to any Montagnards fleeing persecution in Vietnam."
