Public Statements
Panel II of a Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relatons Committee - Iraq Transiton: Civil War or Civil Society?
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 20, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service
HEADLINE: PANEL II OF A HEARING OF THE SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE
SUBJECT: IRAQ TRANSITION: CIVIL WAR OR CIVIL SOCIETY?
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR RICHARD LUGAR (R-IN)
WITNESSES: RICHARD PERLE, AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE; TOBY DODGE, INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES, LONDON, ENGLAND; AND DR. JUAN COLE, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
LOCATION: 216 HART SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, very much.
And thank you for being here, gentlemen. I wanted to catch Mr. Perle just a question here. We've had a number of people, and I'm sorry I missed some of the testimony earlier, so if this has already been hit, forgive me for not having heard it. We've got a number of people that are pushing that we need to further internationalize the effort in Iraq, and clearly we want international support. There's no question about it, but if that means that we bring in a lot of more international troops and police, what are we currently getting out of internationalizing it, beyond us and the Brits, what would we get if we further internationalized it on the security force area?
MR. PERLE: I think, Senator, that the political support that comes from other countries contributing to the effort is very valuable. The practical effect of small numbers of forces who may operate under rules of engagement that severely restrict their ability to take on the tough tasks to deal with a Fallujah type situation, for example, I think the contribution that comes through that means is pretty minimal. And, there's sometimes the sense that we are carrying this great burden, and we are. And if we could only get others to share it, it would significantly diminish the burden we have to carry. I think as a practical matter, that's highly unlikely.
SEN. BROWNBACK: How do we get more of the international political support that we do seek to where we wouldn't have the French, and others, constantly belittling or berating what we're doing, which to me-and I want to preface this by saying, I met last week with soldiers at Fort Riley that have been over in the region for a year, and had kind of a closed town hall meeting with about 300 of them, and they're probably going back in less than a year. To a person, they were strongly supportive, and believed that they had done and were doing, and thought this a great noble cause, and were deeply concerned that the weakest part or what they're concerned about is moving U.S. public opinion, that it would somehow pull out, pull us out of the region, and then the sacrifices, the huge sacrifices we've already made would be seen as for naught. They are very honored to have done what they have done.
How can we get to some of that international political support in ways that are not currently being done?
MR. PERLE: I think that is, of course, a task for our diplomats, and that they work at it. It's difficult. Take Spain, for example, we had the strong support of President Aznar, he's now been replaced by someone who doesn't support us who is pulling his forces out precipitously.
The French, for their own reasons, never liked our policy in Iraq, they don't like it today. The Germans are similarly disposed, although not as vehement. The Italians are there with us. The Poles are there with us. In fact, many more countries are with us than have actively opposed us. What I think really matters is less what someone in the Elysees Palace or the Quai d'Orsay thinks about the situation than what Iraqis themselves this, which is why I believe it's urgent to empower the Iraqis.
Up to this moment, we have not given the Iraqis any significant scope for taking their own destiny in their own hands. The governing council has had such a restricted mandate that it's not surprising that there's no confidence reposed in the people who have been appointed to the governing council. I think we will see a dramatic and significant change in the engagement of Iraqis when the Iraqis are represented by people they respect and admire, and choose.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And when they have real political authority.
MR. PERLE: When they can make decisions. Nobody is going to pay a lot of attention to somebody who is appointed to an organization, but has no authority, no ability to make decisions to affect their lives. Where, at the local level, some of these councils have been-you see people getting drawn into a political process, and it's working in some places remarkably well. So I think we've done ourselves a disservice by regarding the Iraqis themselves as incapable of managing their own affairs in any significant way. Apr 20, 2004 15:08 ET .EOF
SEN. BROWNBACK: Really, the key to the future of Iraq is Iraqis, it's not internationalizing the event.
MR. PERLE: I think internationalizing it could actually be inconsistent with rapid devolution to the Iraqis themselves. The U.N., for example, let's face it, it is a large international bureaucracy, it has all the problems of a national bureaucracy, compounded by the fact that nations get to nominate personnel, and they do that for all kinds of reasons, including sometimes professional competence. So you have a big bureaucracy, which tends to stay for very long periods of time. They develop their own interest in remaining where they are, and that can encourage a culture of dependency, and a lack of self-reliance, and make it very difficult for people to assume responsibility for themselves. So I certainly hope we don't see a large-scale internationalization of this. I think that will retard the essential, which is rapid movement toward the empowerment of Iraqis.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is that the difference in the model between Afghanistan and Iraq, that we've seen, that we've seen? Is where in Afghanistan we brought in Afghanis to run things, were brought in to have real political authority much quicker than what we've seen taking place in Iraq?
MR. PERLE: There are certainly lots of problems in Afghanistan, but I think the fact that Karzai came in rather quickly, and there is now a political process, there's now a legislative body, I think all of that has contributed to the significant progress that's been made in Afghanistan. The principle problem in Afghanistan is resources, they simply don't have the money to develop the country as rapidly as it needs to be developed.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You just don't hear kind of the international harping on Afghanistan like you do on Iraq. Maybe the Iraqi legacy is there anyway, but it strikes me a good part of it is, in Afghanistan you had an Afghan face and leadership rather quickly there, where a year later in Iraq we still don't have an Iraqi leadership in Iraq.
MR. PERLE: I believe Iraq has become the poster child for a lot of resentment at the emergence of the United States as the super power. It's not insignificant that President Chirac decries the existence of a unipolar world. And there is bound to be a certain amount of resentment at the position we occupy, and distancing ourselves from our activity in Iraq is part of that. It's caught up in the global politics of that. So I think that exaggerates the problem. It's one of the reasons why I think it's unrealistic to expect significant contributions from other countries, beyond those who are already in Iraq. And it's a reason why I don't think we should be deeply troubled by that.
We need to get on with the business in Iraq. The right answer in Iraq is success in Iraq. And the quickest route to success is by empowering the Iraqis. We don't want to be an occupying power. We don't want to deprive the Iraqis of a real political process. Legitimacy for their leaders is very much in our interest, and the world's interest, and we've just got to get on with it.
SEN. BROWNBACK: If I could, Mr. Chairman, it strikes me from what you're saying, actually we could delay the process of bringing Iraqis in control, I think as you said earlier, if we further tried to really spend our energies on internationalizing this effort?
MR. PERLE: Indeed. I mean, I'm a little concerned about the idea that the CPA, which I think has 3,000 people now in Baghdad, who are not communicating, I think the point that was made is quite right. The isolation in the CPA is a serious problem, and there are reasons for that. Physical security is one, language another, skills is another. But, I hope that after the Iraqis begin to assume responsibility for themselves we wind up with an embassy in Baghdad that is a normal embassy, and that we don't simply change the nameplate by the door, from Coalition Provisional Authority to United States Embassy.
