Public Statements
CNN Suday Morning - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 18, 2004
Location: Unknown


CNN
SHOW: CNN SUNDAY MORNING 07:00
HEADLINE: Palestinians Bury Rantisi; John Paul II Appeals for Release of Hostages in Iraq
GUESTS: Bill Nelson, Sam Brownback, Terence McKenna
BYLINE: Catherine Callaway, Renay San Miguel, Chris Lawrence, Rob Marciano
HIGHLIGHT:
Thousands of Palestinians march in the funereal procession of Abdul Aziz Rantisi, the second Hamas leader to be killed by Israel in a month. Then, Pope John Paul II appeals for the release of hostages in Iraq, asking the hostage-takers to show their humanity.
BODY:
SAN MIGUEL: Well, the Bush administration is still holding to a June 30 deadline for sovereignty Iraq. But how will it happen? That's what the Senate Foreign Relations Committee wants to know as it holds hearings on that matter this week.
Joining us now, two members of the committee, Florida Democratic Senator Bill Nelson and Kansas Republican Senator Sam Brownback. Gentlemen, thank you for joining us.
SEN. BILL NELSON (D), FLORIDA: Good morning.
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK ®, KANSAS: Good morning.
SAN MIGUEL: Senator Nelson, let me go ahead and begin with you. Are you giving the bush administration any kind of credit here for coming out and saying that they like Lakhdar Brahimi's proposal for this caretaker government in Iraq?
NELSON: Well, finally the Bush administration is realizing the reality that we can't continue to have an American face as an occupier in Iraq, and they are now going on bended knee to the United Nations, which if that had been done a long time ago, we would have had a lot of less anguish that we've been going through. Now the question is, when is the United Nations going to actually take over? Mr. Brahimi and Kofi Annan are suggesting that it will be next January, after the so-called elections are to take place. So there's still a big question mark.
SAN MIGUEL: Still a lot of questions and I'm sure that's what a lot of-both of you gentlemen will be asking during the hearings this week. Senator Brownback, can it be argued the president really didn't have a whole lot of choice in this matter considering that the Iraqi governing council as it is and the idea of regional caucuses weren't generating a lot of enthusiasm with the parties involved there?
BROWNBACK: I wouldn't put that's way at all. The Bush administration has welcomed this report, has welcomed the U.N. in, has asked for them to produce this product and has had people there all along with Mr. Brahimi. I think this is a good move forward. We need to get the control of Iraq back over to the Iraqis. We need the U.N. more engaged and more involved. I think these are all very positive steps that you're seeing taking place now, and I'm hopeful it's going to continue to move that very troubled region into some sense of stability, even though this is going to be a very long-term process to get this done. I think these are positive steps.
SAN MIGUEL: Senator Nelson, doesn't the U.N. need the U.S. just as badly as the U.S. needs the U.N. at this particular situation, especially when it comes to the area of security?
NELSON: In a word, yes. That's the short answer. The longer answer is that the U.N. is not coming in unless they can have their security absolutely assured, and in a situation like Iraq, that's a pretty dicey kind of question. But, the flip side of that is, obviously now people are coming to realize that the U.S. needs the U.N., because you need the representation of the world community of nations to help rebuild Iraq and to stop this kind of insurgency that's going on, lashing out at us, the U.S., for being occupiers.
SAN MIGUEL: Senator Brownback, the governing council there can still balk at all this. They're scheduled to be dissolved by this new plan from Mr. Brahimi. And Al Sistani, the Shiite leader, the very influential Shiite leader there can still throw a monkey wrench in the works. How to keep all of that from happening?
BROWNBACK: I don't know, necessarily, how you keep all of that from happening. I think you're going to see, as we move closer and closer to that June 30 date, you're going to see people stepping up, trying to stop the transfer of power over to an interim Iraqi government. And you may see the Iraqi governing council, Sistani, Sadr, others really trying to stop this from taking place because this is a key critical juncture. Iraq needs to be controlled by Iraqis. We are moving-we are going to do that. The security arrangements are still going to be provided for by dominantly the U.S., although we have some 30 countries in a coalition. It's still going to be strongly U.S. operation and the U.N. and the U.S. is going to be working increasingly together. I think we're moving in the right direction, even though this has been a bad couple of weeks.
SAN MIGUEL: Senator Brownback, let me stay with you for a second. Tony Blair wants a new U.N. resolution on this matter, and the U.S. has maintained that it already has what it needs from the U.N. to stay in Iraq as long as necessary. Given all that, you know, Tony Blair has done for the U.S. in sticking with President Bush through Iraq and the war on terror, wouldn't it be a good idea to give Tony Blair what he wants in front of the U.N.?
BROWNBACK: If he can get it. I think that's the real question, is what sort of balking will there be at the security council at this, and if he can get a security council resolution, if he can get something through the U.N. in an orderly, timely fashion, fine, but if it's going to delay that transfer of power over to the Iraqis past June 30 I think that would be unwise. We need to get Iraq being governed by Iraqis.
SAN MIGUEL: Senator Nelson, let me end things with you, here. Your party's candidate for president said that the failure to internationalize this conflict is the reason why the Bush administration is having all the trouble. But as you just heard Senator Brownback say, there are 30 countries involved with this coalition and it can be argued France, Germany and Russia were given the opportunity at the very outset to get involved in this. Your thoughts?
NELSON: That's why we need to go back to the United Nations. We need a diplomatic effort that is unparalleled to reach out to Europe, to reach out to other Arab nations in the region, to show them, which they know deep down, that clearly a stabilized Iraq is in their own interests.
Remember, France has 9 percent of its population is Muslim, so a international diplomacy effort then producing a new United Nations resolution will give us a fresh start. And I agree with Sam, I think we are on a step in the right direction, but we got a long way to go on this journey.
SAN MIGUEL: We're going to have to leave it there. Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat from Florida, Senator Sam Brownback, Kansas Republican, thank you both for joining us this morning. We appreciate your time.
BROWNBACK: Thank you.
NELSON: Thank you.
