Public Statements
Hearing of the Science, Technology, and Space Subcommittee of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee - Near Earth Objects
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 7, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND SPACE SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE SENATE COMMERCE, SCIENCE AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE
SUBJECT: NEAR EARTH OBJECTS
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS)
WITNESSES: PANEL I: WAYNE VAN CITTERS, NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION; LINDLEY JOHNSON, NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION
PANEL II: GRANT STOKES, MIT LINCOLN LABORATORY; MICHAEL GRIFFIN, JOHN HOPKINS UNIVERSITY APPLIED PHYSICS LAB; RUSTY SCHWEICKART, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, B612 FOUNDATION; ED LU, PRESIDENT, B612 FOUNDATION
LOCATION: 253 RUSSELL SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
SEN. BROWNBACK: (Sounds gavel.) Call the hearing to order.
Thank you all very much for coming today. My apologies for being nearly a half-hour late. We had two votes scheduled back to back and I had to go over and vote, and I apologize for that to our witnesses and to others. Appreciate people being able to come, particularly on this Holy Week of Passover and Easter. It's quite a week, and I appreciate our witnesses willing to come into town for this particular important hearing that we're having.
Most people have watched Hollywood movies about asteroids, or more correctly, near-Earth objects-NEOs for short-striking the Earth, yet few know what's real and what's not. Fewer still know what your government is doing about this threat, or not doing, for that matter. Asteroid 2004 FH, approximately 100 feet wide, passed within about 25,000 miles of the Earth on March 18th, 2004. This is equivalent to riding in an airliner and seeing a small plane suddenly pass a few hundred feet off the wing. It's a pretty scary occurrence. Had this asteroid hit the Earth, as a somewhat bigger one did in 1908, it would have released over a megaton of energy. This is the explosive yield of a large nuclear weapon. Here we had only a few days warning of Asteroid 2004 FH. Other similar objects just missed us in the past few years and we didn't even see them until they were past.
Scientists tell us that a big asteroid, 10 miles in diameter, destroyed the dinosaurs 65 million years ago. Asteroids are the small bits left over from the formation of the solar system billions of years ago. If we look up to the moon, we can see the results of billions of years of bombardment in its shattered face. The Earth suffered similar hits, but most have healed due to the Earth's weather and geological processes. Small asteroids hit the Earth every year. About 30 struck the upper atmosphere last year. They each release as much energy as a small atomic bomb. Fortunately, the atmosphere protects us from these little asteroids, but one such as the March 18th object could devastate a large city. Experts tell us that we run about the same risk of dying in an airline crash as we do dying from an asteroid strike. This is serious and warrants serious attention by our government.
The president's new space exploration vision mandates that we focus our attention on the opportunities inherent in moving human presence into the solar system, but it also raises the question as to potential threats out there. Panels of experts have met over the past few years. All tell us that the threat of NEO impact is real. At the smallest scale, those that strike us several times a month could be confused, in a crisis, as a nuclear attack. Asteroids the size of the one a few weeks ago hit Earth several times a century. The experts also tell us we could have the ability to detect these objects before they hit and do something about it.
Today we're meeting to consider whether Congress should pass legislation to do something about this threat from space. We will hear from program managers within NASA and the National Science Foundation on what is being done now and what is planned. We will hear from the experts in our scientific community on what they recommend we do to find the threatening objects before they hit. We will hear from space development experts on how we could build spacecraft quickly and cheaply to meet threatening objects deep in space, to find out about them and divert them as necessary. And finally, we'll hear from former and current astronauts how these objects might fit into the president's exciting new space exploration vision, both as targets for scientific exploration and commercial use as well as how to divert the threatening ones.
For the first time in this planet's long history, the life that lives here can take control of its own long-term destiny in this regard. The clockwork of the solar system eliminated dinosaurs. Humans were one result of that event. The question before us is to whether and how humans will deal with this aspect of our collective future.
I want to enter into the record then, as well, a statement from Congressman Dana Rohrabacher, who could not be here with us today. They are on break on the House side. And he has proposed a bill to deal with near-Earth objects. And that will be put into the record.
I'm delighted you all could join us today. I look forward to this informative hearing giving the Senate some idea of what all is being done and what needs to be done.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: (In progress following audio break) -- of Earth being hit by a substantial near-Earth target. I put forward that the chance is the same as being involved in an airliner crash. Is that an accurate assessment, do you think that's inaccurate, or where would you place it?
MR. JOHNSON: From the studies that we've had, yeah, that is about the probability that is equivalent to it, about a million to one, a million, or one in 500,000, somewhere in that range.
SEN. BROWNBACK: We were talking about a substantial-size object. What would you categorize as a substantial-size object to hit us in that chance range?
MR. JOHNSON: Anything that's large enough to make it through the atmosphere. Anything larger than 80 meters or 200 feet in size.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I was looking at your chart, and you're saying that we're catching-we're at about 700 that we've got categorized, and you're placing the estimated total at around 1,100, is that correct?
MR. JOHNSON: Yes. That's based upon the distribution that we've seen to date. We've actually lowered that estimate through the course of the program by about 40 percent. We were thinking the overall population was about 2,000, but what we've seen so far, we think that population is somewhat less than the original estimates and it's about 1,100 plus or minus 100 or so. It's the large 1-kilometer size.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay, these are the large 1-kilometer size. All right. And I thought you said there was a 100:1 ratio of the large to the small.
MR. JOHNSON: Yes. We believe-it's kind of a power law of the numbers, as you get smaller, you know, 100:1, ratio of sizes.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You're not worried about their impact on the Earth should they hit, the smaller ones. Is that correct?
MR. JOHNSON: No, we are worried about it. Until you get down to a size that Earth's atmosphere will dissipate, and that's down to about 50 meters, you have to worry about damage all the way to the surface of the Earth of anything that's larger than about 50 meters.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay. So what I hear you saying, you've made substantial progress on the 1-kilometer or larger ones.
MR. JOHNSON: Yes.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But you think there's 1,100 -- you think there's 400 or so out there that we have not found yet.
MR. JOHNSON: Of the large ones, the ones that would do worldwide devastation if they were to hit.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay, But you're at 100-to-one times of others, then, that could do substantial damage, depending upon their size.
MR. JOHNSON: Yes.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And we don't have any idea where they are.
MR. JOHNSON: Right. Yeah. The original charter of the NEO observation program was to find the large ones that would have worldwide global consequences. But there's kind of a big elephant out there; we're taking it a bite at a time.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay. So if you've got one that's half a kilometer in size, let's say, what kind of damage could that do? Do you have any estimates of what that would be?
MR. JOHNSON: Well, devastation on the order of a continent if it were to hit on land; pretty much the continent that it hits would be affected. However, if it were to hit in the ocean, the ocean wave that would be caused, the tsunami would probably impact on both coasts. If it were to hit in the middle Atlantic, both the eastern seaboard of the United States and the European seaboard would be affected by a large tsunami of several meters, if not 100 meters, in height.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And we're not even tracking those yet.
MR. JOHNSON: We're not tracking those yet. We are finding them when they come close to Earth, come close enough to Earth for our sensors to see it. But we know that there's a lot more out there.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So when you say we're finding them when they come close enough to Earth, how close; and how much time do we have between when we're finding them now and when they would impact Earth?
MR. JOHNSON: Well, as I said, so far those that we've found, none of them are on impact trajectories. It all depends on what the orbit is. It could be as rapidly as a day or two if it's on a direct impact, or it could be decades or centuries into the future until the orbits intersect.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You say we're finding virtually all of them now that are coming in close to the Earth. Did I understand, or did I ask that correct?
MR. JOHNSON: We're finding virtually all the large ones that come close enough.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Kilometer or larger.
MR. JOHNSON: Yes.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What about those that are half a kilometer?k
MR. JOHNSON: But the smaller ones, I would give you no guarantee on what the coverage is for those.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Of what we're finding at all.
MR. JOHNSON: Right. Our systems are just not designed to-that we're currently using are not designed to find the small ones.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Are you comfortable with what we're doing to date on this topic?
MR. JOHNSON: As I said, it's a pretty big elephant and you've got to take it a chunk at a time. I'm comfortable that we are finding the large ones, but there is a hazard out there still of the small ones.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It sounds like to me it's a large hazard.
MR. JOHNSON: Yes, it is.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And that we're not going through that set at all. I mean, I understand that there's costs associated with this and there's use of resources that you've got to do. I'm trying to assess what's the nature of the damage potential.
MR. JOHNSON: I think that's an accurate assessment. We are finding the ones that would have global consequence if they were to impact, but it's only serendipitously that we find the smaller ones that could still do significant damage if they were to impact.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What's the likelihood, the odds of us being hit by a smaller object, say that's a half a kilometer in size? Do we have any projections on the odds of being hit by one of those in the next 100 years?
MR. JOHNSON: In the next 100 years, it would be very, very small. Our estimates are that one 500 meters in size or so would impact maybe once in 100,000 years, something like that. But we also believe that small ones, those on the order of 100 meters or so, impact once every few hundred to a thousand years.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What kind of damage could those cause?
MR. JOHNSON: The energy release from a 100-meter object that's of average density would be about 50 megatons at the surface or slightly above the surface of the Earth. That's larger than any nuclear weapon that we have.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So you're talking about a catastrophic event wherever it occurs.
MR. JOHNSON: The region that it impacts in, yes.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And what are the odds of that taking place?
MR. JOHNSON: Well, if on the average it happens once in 1,000 years, that's your probability, maybe once in 1,000 years.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Do we know when the last time one of these hit the Earth was?
MR. JOHNSON: Well, close to that size was the Tunguska event in 1908. That one was probably slightly smaller, somewhere in the 70- meter range, something like that.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And what was the impact of that event?
MR. JOHNSON: Well, it actually exploded above the Earth's surface, probably at 5 to 7 kilometers. But it still devastated several hundred square kilometers of forest in Siberia. The overpressure just blew the forest down. And so if it were to hit in a populated area, it would be like a nuclear device going off.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And this is an item of 100 meters in size, is that correct?
MR. JOHNSON: That's correct.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And we don't have any idea of the quantity of those that are out there that might be on some orbital pattern towards the U.S.-towards the Earth.
MR. JOHNSON: We believe they're in the hundreds of thousands.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Hundreds to thousands?
MR. JOHNSON: Hundreds of thousands of these objects.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Hundreds of thousands?
MR. JOHNSON: Yes.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And that those hit the Earth, you say, once every how often?
MR. JOHNSON: Once every 1,000 years.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Are we doing enough, Dr. Citters?
MR. VAN CITTERS: I think we could do a lot more. I think that the study that NASA commissioned identified a very reasonable set of parameters for future searches to carry on from the 1 kilometer on down. I think we're now at the level of technology-we have a little more technology development to do in terms of large-area detectors and so on, but the ideas that our community has presented to us and to Lindley's program and so on on how you might continue from here, I think, are very credible. I think there's a lot-a fair amount of trade study that we need to do to look at how one might best carry out an extended search, whether it's in one instrument or a series of instruments or assigning parts of the search to different instruments and so on, but I think we could do a better job. As I indicated, things like the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope will quite naturally, in the way they operate, catalogue tens of thousands of these objects and provide the kind of completeness that the expert committee has put in front of us.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And these would be objects much smaller in size than the 1 kilometer?
MR. VAN CITTERS: Yes. Our sense-the estimates, and these are, of course, just estimates-would be that the surveys would be complete within-and it depends a little bit on how you do them, but in somewhere between seven years and 20 years of operation the surveys would be 90 percent complete down to 140 meters, which is, of course, a substantial increase in our knowledge of the objects.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let me ask on the other side of this, just the knowledge we could learn from these near-Earth objects. I've got a Scientific American article I think we'll have some people testifying about about using these as tug boats for information, of hooking probes on them, what we could gain from asteroids.
Have either of you dealt with that side of this equation or thought?
MR. JOHNSON: Not too much. We do have studies going on, what we call characterization studies, to find out what these things are made of, and that would help us to determine what kind of resources are present on these. And so theoretically, if there are resources there that are of benefit to either us on Earth or in the exploration of the solar system, one could think of mining operations going on on near- Earth asteroids.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, what about using-just that we put probes on to carry the probe out further into the galaxy?
MR. JOHNSON: The ones that are on the right kinds of orbits, that do go out into the solar system, potentially that's an idea.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Dr. Van Citters?
MR. VAN CITTERS: There's certainly a lot of interest in our community and indeed in the research that we're funding, because these objects are, as you indicated in your opening remarks, left over from the formation of the solar system, so as we catalogue more of them, look at their orbits, where they lie in the solar system, get more spectroscopy to characterize what they're made of, whether they're binary in nature and so on, we have a very good probe of the very early days of our own solar system and add to our knowledge of basic research in that area.
I should say too that I think there are-we concentrate on the astronomical aspects of this problem. There are other areas that I think are very valid areas of research that would be supported by other areas of the foundation. And as we were talking this afternoon, it ran through my mind that we have a very active area, for instance, in mathematical sciences looking at the propagation of uncertainty in very complex models. And as we go through a study like the one that NASA commissioned, the uncertainties in prediction of what the population of the asteroids is, what they're made of, uncertainties in observation, and so on, propagation of those into an analysis of the risk at the end, which we must then use as a parameter to (size ?) systems and so on is a very active area of mathematical research and something that would apply there.
Two, there's also the evaluation, the public perception of risk. You characterized the risk-or tried to draw the parallel between the risk of being struck by a large asteroid and riding in an airplane. There are certainly different perceptions among the populace of the risk of riding in airplane versus the risk of riding in a car in certain cases. I think the social scientists are extremely interested in how that sort of risk analysis and risk perception plays out, particularly in something like this, which is not something within our-perhaps should be, but not something in everyone's everyday thought process.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, it's very interesting, gentlemen, and I appreciate your work.
How do you sleep at night, Dr. Johnson, with this knowledge? (Laughter.)
MR. JOHNSON: I sleep very well at night. (Chuckles.) But it's not something I worry about on a daily basis, but over time, it's something we need to be concerned with.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That's what it looks like to me. It's one of those things that we need to know the information for safety purposes first. I mean, protection is the reason the initial federal government was created was to provide for the security of the people. And so you're always out there searching, what's the security issue. And you could say well, the odds are this or that. But if something happens, it's significant, so you really want to do everything you can.
And then on the flip side it seems like there's some real exploration and research that could be done if we knew more of just what all was out there. So that there's both a-there's a security issue here which is of a paramount concern, and then there's a curiosity, research issue that seems like a significant benefit if we knew a lot more what all was out there.
MR. JOHNSON: These objects are the building blocks of the planets. They're the building blocks of Earth. So the more we learn about these objects, the more that we will learn about the Earth.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Good. Gentlemen, thank you very much. I appreciate your coming in, and hope everybody listening in sleeps well tonight. SEN. BROWNBACK: We have second panel: Dr. Grant Stokes, associate head of Aerospace Division at MIT in Massachusetts; Dr. Michael Griffin, head of the Space Department at Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Lab; Mr. Rusty Schweickart, chairman of the board, B612 Foundation; and Dr. Ed Lu, president, and a NASA Astronaut of B612 Foundation.
Gentlemen, appreciate very much your coming and joining the panel and the discussion today on near-Earth objects. All of your written statements will be placed into the record.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Dr. Stokes, now go through that. You're saying 300 deaths per year?
MR. STOKES: That's the average rate. Okay, now remember, that's composed of events that happen over long intervals, but some of them can be quite destructive. Okay, that average risk is composed of devastating events that may occur only once over periods very long compared to the life of a individual.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay. So if there's another like 1908 event that occurs in 2030, you're calculating that --
MR. STOKES: There's a big number-right.
I mean the average --
SEN. BROWNBACK: I mean there would be a large number of casualties at that event --
MR. STOKES: Right.
SEN. BROWNBACK: -- but you're calculating it over a period of time.
MR. STOKES: Correct.
SEN. BROWNBACK: All right.
MR. STOKES: In any particular year, the most likely number of casualties due to an asteroid impact is zero. Now in fact, over periods of millions of years there have been extinction events, like the dinosaur 65 million years ago, which would essentially cause the loss of civilization, and that is some part of the average rate. The 300 casualties per year that I mention is the leftover, after we execute the current surveys. The actual yearly rate, much of which has already been taken care of by the surveys, would have been about 1,200 per year. But we started with no information.
Okay, in addition, the team concluded that current search technology offers asteroid detection and cataloging capabilities several orders of magnitude better than the presently operating systems. It's resources, rather than technology, that is the current limitation on NEO search performance. The team identified a variety of search system examples which, when operated over periods ranging from seven to 20 years, would generate a catalog; that catalog would contain hundreds of thousands of asteroids and would be 90 percent complete for near-Earth objects larger than 140 meters. Construction and operation of these systems to achieve the level of completeness is estimated by us to cost somewhere between $296 million and $397 million, that's in FY '03 dollars. All of those systems --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is that a total figure, or is that over --
MR. STOKES: That's a total figure including building the system and operating it to that level of completeness.
SEN. BROWNBACK: All right --
MR. STOKES: Which could take seven to 20 years, depending on how aggressive. If one is in a hurry, one should look at space-based systems. If one wants to take longer, it could be done from the ground.
All of those systems that I mentioned have a favorable cost- benefit payback when measured in the unknown risk eliminated by the dollars invested in the asteroid search system.
Based on those findings, the team recommended three things for NASA.
First, we recommended that future goals related to search for potential Earth-impacting objects should be stated explicitly in terms of the statistical risk eliminated or characterized, and should be firmly based in a cost-benefit analysis.
Secondly, we recommended that NASA develop and operate an NEO search program with the goal of discovering and cataloging the potentially hazardous population sufficient to eliminate 90 percent of the risk due to these sub-kilometer objects. That would employ 90 percent completeness in the catalog to the 140-meter level.
Three, to get things rolling, we suggested that NASA release an announcement of opportunity, or an AO, to allow system implementers to recommend a specific approach to satisfy the goals stated in recommendation two, which we are sure is technically possible.
With that, I thank you for the opportunity to appear this afternoon and would be happy to respond to questions.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much.
Dr. Griffin?
MR. GRIFFIN: Thank you, Senator Brownback. I'm here this afternoon representing the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory, which is, so far, the only laboratory which has carried out the mission of visiting a near-Earth object with a robotic spacecraft.
Thank you for providing me with this opportunity to comment on the greatest natural threat to long-term survivability of mankind, which is an asteroid impact with the Earth. Throughout its history, Earth has been continuously bombarded by objects ranging in size from dust particles to asteroids or comets greater than 10 kilometers in diameter. You've heard that although the probability of the Earth being hit by a large object in this century is low, the effects of such an impact are so catastrophic that it is essential to prepare a defense against such an occurrence.
The first step in that defense is a system to identify and catalog all potential impactors above the threshold of significant damage, approximately 100 meters in diameter. Later, the remainder of a comprehensive Earth-protection system could be assembled so that it would be ready to deflect a potential impactor shortly after it is identified.
NEOs also represent a tremendous opportunity in the context of the president's exploration initiative. They are potential suppliers of resources for future manned space exploration. But in order to use these resources, a much more detailed knowledge of their composition and physical characteristics will be required before the technologies to produce fuels or construction materials from near-Earth objects can be developed.
In 1988, NASA embraced the goal, as you've heard, of finding and cataloging within 10 years 90 percent of all the near-Earth objects with diameters greater than 1 kilometer. It's estimated that on the order of a thousand such objects exist. Population counts show, however, that there could likely be 150,000 near-Earth objects larger than 100 meters, the threshold of significant damage on Earth.
For reference, the Tunguska event in Siberia in 1908 destroyed an area 50 kilometers in diameter and is believed to have been caused by an impactor of order 50 meters in diameter.
Again, you have already heard that at average speed of these objects, the energy released by the impact of a 100-meter near-Earth object is about equivalent to that of a 50 megaton bomb.
The frequency of impacts over the last century can be estimated by noting the Tunguska event in 1908, the Sikhote-Alin event in Siberia about 270 miles northeast of Vladivostok in February 1947, and the several recently identified objects that have had very near misses with Earth. All this evidence confirm that impacts with the ability to wipe out a large metropolitan area can be expected within the next 100 years. It is also worth noting that within living-or at least recent memory, there is a 12-mile wide crater under the sea floor near the island of New Zealand, the impact of which lives on Maori legends in the area. The impact is estimated to have occurred in the 1700s. These are not terribly infrequent events on human time scales.
It is estimated that a 30-year advance warning would be required to have a reasonable assurance of deflecting a near-Earth object from a collision with the Earth. If a future impactor were identified today, the time to explore the characteristics of the object, to develop a deflection system, deliver it to the NEO, and apply the deflection early enough to prevent an impact requires about a three- decade lead time from the initial discovery.
An overall Earth protection system must have three components. First, a search system is needed to identify any potential impactors; a series of detailed investigation missions are needed to understand the structure, composition, rotational state, and other physical properties of potential impactor; and finally, deflection technologies are needed to change the speed of the object so that it will not impact Earth.
At the current rate of discovery, the group of observatories that are finding and cataloging near-Earth objects will come close to achieving their goal of identifying 90 percent of the greater than 1- kilometer diameter objects by 2008. More than 50 percent of the population has already been discovered.
The very large number of undiscovered small-to-modest size objects-the greater than 100 meters that I spoke of-represents the greatest remaining threat to regional safety not currently being addressed.
A NASA Near-Earth Object Science Definition Team recently examined the requirements for extending this search to smaller diameters and showed that a system to accomplish the discovery and cataloging of 90 percent of these objects within 10 years could be accomplished with a single Discovery-class spacecraft in a heliocentric orbit about 0.7 AU out from the sun, or about at the orbit of Venus relative to the sun. This modestly priced system could be constructed and launched in four to five years.
My time is running out, and so I will conclude that in summary, the threat to life on Earth from near-Earth objects is real, even though the likelihood of a severe impact during the next few years is low. The space exploitation opportunities of these objects are equally real. The most important thing needed at this time is an improved search system for smaller objects. Recent studies have shown that a search spacecraft can catalog 90 percent of the remaining objects within 10 years and can be launched within the next 4 or 5 years.
Thank you very much. I'm ready to take any questions you may have.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Dr. Griffin, just a couple real quick. That's the best way, it's felt within the scientific community, to do this, is to put a space-based observatory of sorts in an orbit out and around to be able to categorize?
MR. GRIFFIN: That is one way. I wouldn't want to go so far as to say that the scientific community would regard it as the best way. The task can equally well be accomplished with a series or a set of ground-based telescopes spread as widely as possible on the Earth. And indeed, I believe NASA is open to both possibilities through the Announcement of Opportunity to which the previous witness alluded. So either ground-based-either several ground-based observatories or a single space-based observatory could probably accomplish the same job.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And what about the exploration opportunity and the research opportunity. What do you see as the biggest things we can learn from NEOs?
MR. GRIFFIN: Well, I am an engineer by profession and not a scientist, so my primary interest in near-Earth objects would be for the exploration, exploitation and development of a space-faring infrastructure. Many near-Earth objects will be found to be of this class of so-called Carbonaceous chondrites from which volatile materials, to include water, can likely be extracted. A small fraction of them, 1 or 2 percent, a few percent, will have heavy useful metals. Others will be merely rock and stone. But all of those together can provide construction materials, possibly fuel supplies. And those materials do not have to be lifted out of the gravity well of this planet or any other.
This is a pursuit which should occupy us in the coming decades of space exploration. It will not be the first thing that we do, but it should not be allowed to be the last thing we think of.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Schweickart. Good to have you here.
MR. SCHWEICKART: Thank you. With your permission, I'd like to defer to Mr. Lu first. Our sequences would be better that way.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That would be just fine.
Dr. Lu.
MR. LU: Okay. Thank you for the opportunity to discuss a bold new proposal to demonstrate, actually demonstrate altering the orbit of an asteroid. I wanted to talk today about sort of a different aspect than what you've been hearing about, which is searching for asteroids, and that's a necessary first step. But once you find asteroids, particularly if you find one on a collision course, the question is what do you, or what can we do.
I represent the B612 Foundation and we're a group of astronomers, engineers and astronauts concerned about the issue of asteroid impacts. Recent developments have now given us the potential to defend the Earth against these natural disasters, and I'll talk about that. To develop this capability we have proposed a spacecraft mission to significantly alter the orbit of an asteroid in a controlled manner by 2015. And we think it's important that there be an actual demonstration, and I'll talk about why that is later.
First off, why would you want to move an asteroid? I think we've been hearing a little bit about that. And I want to put some of these odds that you've been hearing about in a different way. They're equivalent numbers. You've been asking about what is the odds of getting hit by an asteroid. Well, rather than saying once per thousand years or so-another way to say that is that during your lifetime, during my lifetime, everyone in this room, there's a 10 percent chance that there will be a 60-meter asteroid that impacts the Earth with an energy 10 megatons, and that's about 700 simultaneous Hiroshima-sized bombs going off. So 10 percent. It's kind of like a bad lottery, but-in that most days are-nothing's going to happen, but occasionally you get a bad day. And there's a 1 in 50,000 chance your death, my death, and everyone in this room, along with most of humanity and human civilization, is going to end all on the same day with the impact of a greater than kilometer-sized asteroid. You know, 1 in 50,000 is pretty small, but that would be the end of it.
We think that we now have the potential to change these odds.
And what we propose is, again, actually trying a demonstration mission to deflect an asteroid, because there's a lot of unknowns surrounding this-we've been hearing about that. But the surest way to actually attack any of these unknowns is to try something. The first time that you attempt to deflect an asteroid shouldn't be on the real day because there's going to be many surprises in store. The first few missions may not work at all. You want to learn those ahead of time before you actually have to use such a system.
So, why do we suggest by 2015? Well again, the time to test, learn, and experiment is now because we have just recently developed or are developing new advances in space nuclear power and high efficiency propulsion that we think makes it possible. 2015 is challenging, but we think doable. And having a clear goal, a clear date will, we think, serve to focus the development efforts.
So, how big of an asteroid are we proposing to move? The demonstration asteroid that you try this test mission on ought to be large enough to represent a real risk. And also, what you test should be applicable to larger-sized asteroids because-you want to start out fairly small, but you want what you learn to be useful for larger asteroids. So we're suggesting an asteroid of about 200 meters. And a 200-meter asteroid, if it impacts, would be about a 600-megaton explosion. And as we heard, if that lands in an ocean, that will likely destroy most coastal cities in that ocean. So that's large enough to be a threat.
Asteroids of about 150 meters across, or larger, are thought to be not single pieces, but rather conglomerations or loosely held together groups called rubble piles. And so if you pick something that's a rubble pile, what you learn will be applicable to a larger- sized asteroid. So again, we're picking something that's of moderate risk-of major risk, but is doable, we think, large enough to be doable.
So what do we mean by "significantly alter" it? It turns out that you don't really need to give an asteroid very much of a push to prevent a collision. If you have several decades of warning, which we expect if these proposed searches are carried out, then all you really need to do is, if you have several decades of notice, is to give an asteroid a small (impulse/impact ?), maybe about a centimeter a second; that's about one-fiftieth of a mile an hour. Even though the typical asteroid moves around the sun at about 70,000 miles per hour, making it 70,000.002 is enough to prevent a collision if you've got a decade or so of warning. But even though that's a small change in velocity, that's still pretty hard because even a 200-meter asteroid weighs about 10 million tons.
So, why do you need to move it in a "controlled manner"? Well, if you don't make it a highly controlled thing, you risk making the problem worse. You've seen "Armageddon" or movies like that where they talk about blowing up an asteroid with a nuclear weapon. Well, you stand as much of a chance of making your problem worse as making it better. You can split the asteroid up, and what you've done then is turn this rifle bullet heading at you into a shotgun blast, and now your life has just gotten worse.
Furthermore, you don't really quite know where you're going to end up pushing the asteroid, and that's not a good situation if you're trying to avert a catastrophe. So we're suggesting doing this in a controlled, slow manner, which also has the advantage that you can use the same technology for commercial reasons, commercial and exploration reasons, which has also been brought up.
So how can you do this? Well, first off, conventional rockets like we use today, like I've launched on the Space Shuttle and Rusty has flown on, the Saturn V, those us chemical propellants. Well, chemical propellants basically don't have the umph to move objects of this size. So what we are proposing to use is a nuclear-powered spacecraft using high energy propulsion, such as an ion or a plasma engine. Those are currently in development at NASA today as part of the Prometheus Project. In fact, the thrust and power requirements that we've discussed for moving a 200-meter asteroid are about the same as the Jupiter Icy Moons Orbiter, and that's a spacecraft that's currently planned for launch in around 2012. So we're suggesting that you could use similar hardware to do this demonstration mission.
So this spacecraft would fly to an asteroid, rendezvous, and land on and attach to this small asteroid and push on it. And by continuously thrusting for some period of months, you could slowly, slowly, slowly alter the velocity by a fraction of a centimeter per second. And we could measure that from the Earth so we could verify that it's worked.
And then you say, well, what can we learn from this? Well, remember that this not really a planetary protection system, but it's a first attempt to learn more about the mechanics of asteroid deflection. There's, like I said, a lot of technical complications and unknowns about asteroids themselves-their structure, what they're made of. But the way to make progress, I think, is to build, fly and test. You need to go there to find out the questions that you don't even know yet.
And besides the benefit of actually being able to demonstrate that you can do this, there's a lot of interesting scientific questions you can answer at the same time. Again, the best way to learn about asteroids is to go there.
So how does this fit into NASA's new Exploration Initiative? Well, in the near term, we think this mission would be an ideal way to flight test the nuclear propulsion systems already under development as part of Project Prometheus. It could also serve as a precursor to a crewed mission-meaning with people on board-to go visit an asteroid. These missions have been proposed as an intermediate step to test your spacecraft systems for eventual longer-term missions to Mars. I would personally love to go on one of those missions.
In the longer term, the ability to land on and manipulate asteroids is an enabling technology for extending human and robotic presence throughout the solar system. If we are to truly open up the solar system, this mission, we feel, is a good way to start. It's likely that some day we're going to use asteroids for fuel, building materials, or simply as space habitats-mining; people are going to earn money off this. And the B612 mission would mark a fundamental change in spacecraft in that it would actually alter in a measurable way an astronomical object, rather than simply observing it. We can become active participants in the cosmos versus just being interested observers. Human beings need to eventually take charge of our own destiny in this manner, or we will someday go the way of the dinosaurs when the next great asteroid impact occurs.
Thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Dr. Lu.
Mr. Schweickart.
MR. SCHWEICKART: Thank you, sir --
SEN. BROWNBACK: I'm envious of both of you having traveled to space. That's a-thank you for being here.
MR. SCHWEICKART: Thank you for holding the hearing, sir. I'll deal a bit more with some of the policy issues implied in what's been said today in previous testimony. I think it is extremely important, and reflected to a certain extent by the questions you've been asking yourself, for people to get a picture of what it is we're talking about. And so in addition to repeating, you know, that near-Earth asteroids in the hundreds of thousands pose an occasional but substantial threat to life, let me give a couple of specific examples.
As Ed said a moment ago, you know, we're all talking about the same elephant and giving you a different snapshot of it. It's all basically the same statistical data, but we're trying to give a realistic picture. So let me try it this way.
Last night, something on the order of hundreds of thousands to a million bits and pieces of asteroids and comets hit the Earth. The people that looked up and saw them called them "shooting stars." That's what you and I would call them if we happened to be looking up on a clear night as well. They don't do any damage, as you know, because the atmosphere protects us.
But getting a little bit bigger and, of course, a little fewer of them, a little less frequent with the impacts, if we took a near-Earth asteroid the size of this room, one of those is going to hit us about once every two to three years, and that would, in fact, also not do much damage, but that would, in fact, result in something on the order of a 10 to 15 kiloton, about a Hiroshima-size explosion in the upper atmosphere. That is something the size of this room every two to three years.
Now, getting a bit bigger and where it starts getting dangerous, step outside and picture something the size of the U.S. Capitol Building. Now have that come flying at the Earth at about 20 times the speed of a rifle bullet, if you will. That's going to happen on the order of every few hundred years to a thousand years. And in that case, we're going to have an explosion the size of the largest nuclear weapon in the U.S. arsenal, something on the order of 10 to 15 megatons of energy. That, again, compares with the Tunguska event of 1908 that we heard about earlier, or a little bit larger. If something like that happened-if the U.S Capitol flew at the U.S. Capitol, it would destroy the Washington metropolitan area totally. It wouldn't hit the surface, it would actually explode something 10,000 to 20,000 feet above the Capitol, but it would decimate everything underneath it for the whole metropolitan area.
Now, that particular size that I just related is the smallest thing that we have all been talking about detecting ahead of time, that is something down in the vicinity of 100 meters in diameter. So that gives you an idea, that's the smallest thing that we're all up here proposing that the Congress direct that NASA, NSF, whoever, take under their wing to get early warning and intelligence on this threat to public safety.
Protection of the public-so I'll go on from those examples. Protection of the public from this hazard-and as I say, there's something around 200,000 of these things to be discovered yet that circle around the sun right now. And the protection from this hazard depends entirely on increasing the capability of our current asteroid detection and tracking program. This is a known hazard for which public safety is critically dependent on timely information-gathering, as is the case in all intelligence about threats to public safety. The hazard posed by near-Earth asteroids will become widely known by the general public as the detection and tracking programs shift their focus to the far more numerous but very dangerous smaller NEOs-and when I say "smaller NEOs," I'm talking about the size of the U.S. Capitol Building.
Close calls with NEOs in the future will trigger a growing public concern and commensurate expectation that the government is doing something about this, the government is doing something to protect them. At the moment, that is not the case at all. The government is doing nothing to actually protect people from any NEOs which are coming our way to hit us. We are detecting them, but we are not yet providing actual or active protection.
Unlike other natural disasters, this hazard that we're talking about here is both predictable and preventable using technologies that are being developed by NASA today in its Prometheus Program. What is missing today is the goal to explore these near-Earth asteroids to gather the critical understanding necessary to ultimately protect the public from this threat.
Near-Earth asteroids-well, let me just say, happily, near- Earth asteroids are not only a threat, near-Earth asteroids are also a rich exploration target for both scientific and economic benefit.
Asteroids are easily accessible gold mines of information about the origins of the solar system. They also, and perhaps more importantly, contain a wealth of resources for utilization in space which are far more accessible than resources on the moon. In fact, as in the case with the moon, the near-Earth asteroids can serve as stepping stones to Mars.
It is not, and probably should not be NASA's job to protect the Earth from asteroid impacts. But it is NASA's job to develop space technologies and capability to serve humanity. Since near-Earth asteroids represent both an opportunity for and a threat to humanity, and NASA is currently seeking mission opportunities for its Prometheus Program, it is entirely appropriate that a portion of its efforts be directed to this end.
Therefore, the B612 Foundation of which both Ed and I are representing here, call today on the Congress to task NASA first with increasing the capability of the current Spaceguard Survey consistent with the recommendations of the recent NASA NEO Science Definition Team report, which you've heard reported on. In other words, we need, absolutely need better intelligence to protect the public.
Secondly, we call on Congress to direct NASA to incorporate the B612 mission goal to demonstrate the capability to land on, explore, and deflect an asteroid as part of its Prometheus Program.
And third, we call on Congress to request that OSTP initiate a high-level study to develop a U.S. government policy for both national and international response to deflection of near-Earth asteroids. This is not, as you're well aware, a domestic problem only, this is a global problem and we need to be coordinating around this planet with means to protect life in the future.
I'd like to emphasize in closing something that Ed alluded to, and that is for the first time in the history of humanity, we have developed the technology which will enable us, provided we focus on it, to protect the future of life on this planet. Up until this time, we've been lucky in this shooting gallery. The dinosaurs were not lucky. We now have a chance. What we've got to do is focus on it and take responsibility for the future of life on this planet, and today we have that possibility.
Thank you very much, sir. And we'd be happy to answer any questions.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much, Mr. Schweickart. Thank you the whole panel; very good and very interesting.
Mr. Griffin-Dr. Griffin, how many times has the Earth been struck by a substantial-sized asteroid-by this I mean something 100 meters or greater-that we know about or that we have a pretty good idea took place? You've cited a couple, but how many times? Do we know?
MR. GRIFFIN: I would have to defer to someone with greater expertise on that than myself. But in fact, I don't think the answer is known. We have cataloged around the globe several dozen, many dozen known impact events by the scars that they leave behind.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Known impact events that had a substantial impact on the Earth in that particular area?
MR. GRIFFIN: Correct. Like the meteor crater in Arizona or larger. Okay? Many dozen of those are known; some of them ancient, some of them relatively new in geological terms. But the Earth heals itself quite rapidly. The Earth is not a good witness plate for such events. A look at the moon probably offers a better estimate of what really happens to a celestial body over the course of time.
SEN. BROWNBACK: (Inaudible) -- and it's actually even a smaller target to hit than the Earth, so --
MR. GRIFFIN: That's correct.
MR. SCHWEICKART: Senator, just by chance, I happened to have been asked to provide a lecture somewhat along those very lines. So I can tell you that the answer is greater than hundreds of thousands of times, the Earth being hit in its history by objects 100 meters and greater in size. Now, we don't have much evidence of that in the form of scars. We do see scars from only about 200 impacts that we're aware of at this time. But again, looking at the moon, you can take each crater there and multiple it by about 20 to 30 and know that that's hit the Earth, that we've been hit-the Earth-that many times in our history.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is that where you come up with that number, is you look at the moon and then multiple out the number of craters?
MR. SCHWEICKART: What I would refer you to as the most authoritative thing, sir, would be, in fact, the report sitting in front of Grant Stokes here, that he co-chaired, in terms of the development. And there is within that report a graph which gives you the best knowledge that we have, statistical knowledge of the frequency of asteroids in near-Earth space. And you can simply utilize that graph at any size asteroid you want and get the number of-and the size and power of any of these asteroids. So I refer to that excellent report.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Dr. Stokes, do you know the answer to that question?
MR. STOKES: What we've done to come up with the best estimate of impact actually looks at a number of things. One looks at lunar cratering rate to get an estimate. One can also get an independent estimate looking at the performance of the search systems that have been ongoing, which have been making a lot of progress recently. And in fact, you can take all the search volume that they have done and all the detections and all the redetections, use that to estimate an impact rate, and in fact, it's getting to the point where all of those numbers are beginning to come together and be consistent. So we're very happy with the about 1,100 larger than a kilometer size; we believe that's a good estimate.
Once you have that estimate and then work some extrapolations from there, which can be tied down at various sizes from the moon and also the experience of very small events, things hitting (L-DELF ?) for instance, micrograins, you can put those all into a continuum and the story sticks together very well. On that basis, we can then estimate the rate of impacts as a function of size, which is where we came up with the numbers that I previously had quoted.
SEN. BROWNBACK: How many times this last century has the Earth been struck by a substantial asteroid that caused at least significant localized damage?
MR. STOKES: I think we know of two specific instances; one in Siberia in 1908, one again in Russia in 1947, both of which caused substantial damage on the ground. We know of a number of other events that range down to an asteroid hitting a car in the Eastern seaboard a few years ago, and other --
SEN. BROWNBACK: (Chuckles.) That would be a real unlucky day, wouldn't it? You're just sitting here in your car and --
MR. STOKES: Actually, it hit a car in a garage, and I think it vastly increased the price of that car that day.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That's not so unlucky!
MR. STOKES: There certainly have been other-many other events where things get down to the ground, many of which land in the water, many of which land in unpopulated areas and are not seen.
Another way to get data is to look at the military satellites that look down for events in the atmosphere. They routinely detect, you know, modest-size objects, but-you know, kiloton and larger events in the upper atmosphere. So there's statistics coming from those, as well.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What's the chance of getting international cooperation at the operational or funding level to get at least the catalogue of these objects?
MR. STOKES: Let's see. I think to some extent, there is a loosely coordinated international effort ongoing now. Most of the large surveys are operated in the United States based largely on NASA funding. And I think there is a view in at least Europe and the rest of the world that if NASA's doing that, maybe we should just let them do that and contribute where we can.
Another place that work has to be done is in following up objects.
The large surveys, where we go out and find a large number of these objects, initially finding them is only part of the process. We also need a continuing stream of observations to develop a good orbit and keep track of them. Many of those are provided by international sources. Many of them are provided by amateurs that are very interested in doing this, many of them Japanese. Eastern Europe, in fact, has some very active professionals that do this.
And all of that data is sent to a place called the Minor Planet Center in the-it's Harvard Smithsonian in Cambridge, Massachusetts, where all of that data comes together and is used to maintain a catalogue of all of the objects. So that is chartered by the International Astronomical Union, an international body that gives discovery credit and monitors naming rights and things like that. So there is a very international flavor on these after discovery, and that works actually very well.
MR. SCHWEICKART: Just a minor additional comment. There is an excellent report that was chartered by the Parliament of the United Kingdom several years ago, and I also recommend that task force report to you. It made excellent recommendations in terms of the U.K. jumping in to provide resources for this very vital task. Unfortunately, there has been no action taken on the excellent recommendations of that report. As recently as a couple of months ago in Parliament, specific recommendations were considered, and the bottom line is that nothing, in fact, happened.
Another action has been taken by the OECD. OECD has begun to hold several discussions on the issue of mitigation of asteroid and comet impacts and what might be done in terms of disaster preparedness. There was a meeting a year ago January in Frascati, Italy, but again there was no expenditure of funds. What was done there, which I would strongly urge, Senator Brownback, is that all nations participating in the OECD hearing were recommended that they identify a particular governmental institutional person to monitor this issue of asteroid impacts and their consequences.
Ironically, while NASA is today tasked with conducting certain surveys, there is no identification within the U.S. government of direct responsibility for monitoring this as a public safety issue. And that is, in fact, a recommendation by a number of organizations, and I would encourage that that be looked at by this committee.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think that's one of the proposals in the Rohrabacher bill from the House side that we're looking at here from this side.
MR. SCHWEICKART: Yes, it is.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I understand-and maybe some of you already have commented on this and I haven't picked it up, but that the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics held a conference on protection recently. And were any of the recommendations that you put forward recommended by that conference, or does anybody --
MR. SCHWEICKART: Yes, sir, I can address that. In fact, I talked yesterday by phone with the general chairman of the AIAA conference on protecting the Earth from asteroid and cometary impacts. There is a final report from the conference itself. And I can, or better yet, AIAA, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, can make that conference report available to you. It has also been compressed and presented-or is being presented to the AIAA per se as a policy document. They will shortly vote on that, and there will be an official AIAA recommendation. But that has not yet been issued.
I can read you one final paragraph to give you a flavor of the AIAA position. They say: "Future impacts by comets and asteroids are a certainty. Such impacts could have severe consequences, even ending civilization and humanity's existence. Life on Earth has evolved to the point where we can mount a defense against these threats. It is time to take deliberate steps to assure a successful defensive effort should the need arise."
So the AIAA, I believe, will take a fairly strong position on this proposal.
MR. GRIFFIN: I would echo that. I'm the president-elect of AIAA for the coming year and a member of the board of directors. And I have followed this and feel quite certain that the organization-or the directors will vote affirmatively, as Rusty has suggested.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is this a high priority for that organization?
MR. GRIFFIN: Yes, it is, in support of-again, in support of the overall conclusions of the study that has been referenced here several times and of the president's exploration initiative, because we believe that it is all tied together.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That this should be a key part of the president's overall exploration initiative?
MR. GRIFFIN: I believe that's correct.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It seems to me that it ties in with it as well, and that there's an additional, I guess, huge safety factor and issue here for the area that might get hit, or all of civilization, even, in the most catastrophic.
MR. GRIFFIN: That's correct. The safety issue is a little difficult for many people to get their arms around because, if you take other threats, for example, you can calculate quite well the odds that any individual has of being struck by lightning, and we know that, but most individuals will not ever be struck by lighting. However, we know that in any given year, the odds are quite small that the Earth will be struck by a major asteroid, but we know that sooner or later that will occur and, when it occurs, everyone will die. Unlike most other catastrophic hazards to life and property, which affect only a small subset of the human race, it is inevitable that an asteroid will strike the Earth and that it will have the capability to essentially take out the whole planet. And that's what's different about this particular hazard.
MR. SCHWEICKART: Senator Brownback, if I could try a slightly different perspective to the question that we're discussing right now. If you think about the asteroids as a mixed bag-that is, there's good news and bad news-the bad news we've been focusing on here today, but there's good news there in terms of resources as well as scientific knowledge. But if I just deal with resources, let me say that the whole president's-the new initiative in space to enable routine operations of humankind beyond low Earth orbit will ultimately depend upon accessing resources that are already in space and utilizing them.
Asteroids are the ideal source of that because you don't have to lift them off the moon, number one, because it has such low gravity. They're right there with no gravity around them, and they're actually richer than the lunar soils. So in terms of commercial private enterprise activity in space, I think there's no question but that private investment, once there is a buyer of the products and services, private investment will find it profitable to mine and produce-to mine minerals or whatever, oxygen, water, you name it, and provide services associated with the near-Earth asteroids.
Now when that commercial operation gets going, the once every 300 or 400 years you will need to deflect an asteroid because we find one heading our way will be a simple matter of contracting with the "Ace Mining and Moving Company" to push that one a bit, you know, in what they're doing and get it out of the way. So I think that you're looking at routine operations developing around asteroids, and almost as a natural by-product of that, the capability to protect the Earth will emerge. So I think there is a great deal of correlation between the overall capability that we're looking for and the long-term development of the space environment beyond low Earth orbit as in the president's initiative.
MR. ERELI: Well, gentlemen, thank you very much for joining me today. We'll keep the record open for the requisite amount of time, if you would care to add to your comments that were put forward here today. I did submit a series of questions, and I don't-I think some of them were to you gentlemen from Mr. Nelson, and so those will be submitted to you. And if you could respond to those, I know Senator Nelson would certainly appreciate that as well.
Very interesting. Very illuminating. And as usual, a resource issue, and resource is always about a competing set of interests in it. And hopefully, we can get more resources to this for both the protection and for the opportunity that they represent.
Godspeed to you. It's a very interesting field that each of you are involved in, and quite important for the future of society, future of humanity.
Thank you for coming. The hearing's adjourned.
