Public Statements
Brownback Comments on Presidential Bioethics Council Report
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 1, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Comments on Presidential Bioethics Council Report
WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback commented on the report released today by President Bush's Council on Bioethics.
"I am concerned with the Council's decision to seek restrictions on embryo research after a certain point; a policy decision which ultimately leaves the young human vulnerable to attack during the first days of life," Brownback stated. "Tragically, some council members have already announced they supported this time limit not out of respect for early human life, but in order to reverse current federal funding policies that respect the human embryo from the beginning. I am also disappointed the council chose to define the 'conception of a child' in a way that does not reflect the biological reality of the one-celled human embryo as a person."
The Council on Bioethics was created by Executive Order in November of 2001. President Bush appointed Dr. Leon Kass as chairman along with 17 other doctors and ethicists to review and report on issues concerning ethical issues regarding embryo and stem cell research, assisted reproduction, cloning, uses of knowledge and techniques derived from human genetics or the neurosciences, and end of life issues. The Council also studies broader ethical and social issues not tied to a specific technology, such as questions regarding the protection of human subjects in research, the appropriate uses of biomedical technologies, the moral implications of biomedical technologies, and the consequences of limiting scientific research.
"Although I am disappointed the council endorsed recommendations that threaten human dignity at its beginnings, I commend the council for its hard work and deliberation in addressing some of the more frightening developments in the emerging field of biotechnology. I fully support the council's decision to support Congress' recent action to ban the patenting of human embryos. I also commend them for their decision to seek a ban on the creation of human/animal hybrid embryos, the commoditization of human embryos, and the implantation of human embryos in the wombs of animals or humans for anything other than a live birth. Congress should take this report seriously, but must make its own decision on which recommendations most deserve enactment into law."
