Public Statements
Hearing - National Aeronautics and Space Administration Fiscal Year 2005 Budget Request
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 1, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


Federal News Service
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND SPACE SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMMERCE, SCIENCE AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE SUBJECT: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION FISCAL YEAR 2005 BUDGET REQUEST
CHAIRED BY: SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS) WITNESS: SEAN O'KEEFE, ADMINISTRATOR, NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION
LOCATION: 253 RUSSELL SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): [Prepared statement] The committee will come to order. I am pleased to welcome my friend Sean O'Keefe to testify before us today on the proposed NASA program. This is a momentous year for NASA and for our nation. On January 14 of this year President Bush announced a new space vision, not just for NASA but for our nation. It is a vision of an unlimited future for new generations of Americans, a vision of economic opportunity and human promise. Most of all it is a vision of continued American leadership and destiny.
As I travel around my state of Kansas and as I speak to my colleagues in the Senate they all ask why space and why now? I think the answer is simple. We cannot and will not leave our children a world where people of other nations are walking, building and living on the moon, Mars and elsewhere in the solar system and Americans are not. We cannot and will not cede the frontier to others. To do so would be the end of a vision begun over two hundred years ago with the birth of our nation. It is our destiny to lead the world in new frontiers, frontiers of freedom, opportunity and exploration.
It is a real danger that we will lose the space frontier to others. A number of nations are planning or have already begun journeys deep into space. China recently moved up its launch date for its first lunar resource exploration and exploitation mission to 2006. India moved its robotic lunar program forward to 2007.
As an American, and as KU Jayhawk, I welcome competition. But make no mistake about it, these other nations are mounting ambitious missions to the moon and beyond for the very reasons that they promise opportunity and commercial success. Can we afford to ignore this aspect? I think not and plan a specific hearing on April 27 to consider what other nations are doing in space exploration.
We will hear today of NASA's impressive plans to move out with scientific, robotic, and human exploration and utilization of the solar system. These are impressive plans and ones I believe are not only affordable within current budget limitations, but that we cannot afford not to do.
Now Mr. O'Keefe I'd like to issue you a challenge. I'd like to see the United States mount robotic missions to the Moon as early as possible, before others. I'd like to see us back to the moon with robotic missions within two years. Moreover, I'd like to see NASA try a new approach on this goal. Why not challenge the private sector to do this for us, not as a traditional contracted effort managed by the government, but as a service we purchase upon success?
I am also concerned over the future of the Space Shuttle. The president's vision will require new, affordable access to space. The Space Shuttle is absorbing a huge amount of NASA's resources and will not fly for at least a year. I wonder if we shouldn't focus our energies on new, affordable access to space. I plan a hearing May 5 on these issues and would like you to consider if it might be time for a national access to space commission to recommend a way ahead for all U.S. space access needs.
I look forward to your testimony and your answers.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you very much, Mr. O'Keefe.
I'll just run the clock at five minutes here, and so we'll let people go through quickly on items.
Sean, I want to look at-and pose a question that I think may take some time to think through, and so I'm not expecting a hipshot today on this from you. One, a number of people are supporting Hubble servicing, you know, that was an issue of some concern earlier on. I wonder if there is a way that we can do this without the shuttle. I know NASA's been looking at, okay, we need to do it with the shuttle or we've got to have other missions with the shuttle. Is there a way to do it without the shuttle? And I'd like a thought on this.
The bigger point I would make to you is that the mission of what the president has outlined, it's great, I support it fully, it takes too long. We've got China, India going back to the moon, China's moving theirs up to 2006 with the initial wave going forward into 2007. And maybe those dates slip on their part and they don't hit it. But if we're talking about 2014 and no later than 2020 back to the moon, it looks like to me we're going to be about fourth or fifth in line while somebody else is already there.
Now, then that comes back to an issue of money, and that's what the hearing's about, is the budget. You've got about $4 billion to $5 billion annually going into the space shuttle program, you've heard a range of thoughts up here about space shuttle.
If we could get more of those funds moved into exploration and missions earlier and do the International Space Station off of contracting with either private sector or with other countries, with what we're doing with Russia on a quicker basis, could we transition the money from shuttle to exploration missions and step up the dates by which we could get back to the moon, Mars and beyond so that we're not conceding that frontier to others?
You've created a great electricity on the Mars mission, the website hits that you've talked about, front page of the paper, it's kind of like the day of exploration is back. And we've been stuck in the mud here for some period of time, and now know we can do this. To follow that on with, it's going to be 2020 before we're back on the moon with a human and on, 16 years, that seems like quite a long frame of time, and I've got to think most of it's tied budgetarily.
So I wondered if you could look at or think about it, and maybe this is one that takes some time, doing that on a shuttle. I mentioned previously about a NASA BRAC process, so that we could take some of the resources like we're doing in the military and try to consolidate them in more areas so that you-can we take some of the funding going to various areas within NASA, and let's concentrate that into exploration. I've mentioned at hearings before sponsorships out of the private sector, so that we can get more private dollars into and dedicated to space exploration missions.
I ask you to think about those, those you're willing to respond to today, delighted to hear from you about, if you want to kick them around some internally, I'd be happy to visit with you about those later. I'd be delighted to do that. But all this is in an effort to try to get more money in to exploration and missions faster without busting through an overall budget cap that we have in a tight budget.
So I would put those forward to you and appreciate any response you'd care to give today, or we can continue the conversation later.
MR. O'KEEFE: Yes, sir, thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'll take you up on the opportunity on both counts. I'd definitely like to pursue it further in discussion, because we really have lent a lot of consideration to the latter question you posed. But to the first point, to the issue of the Hubble servicing mission, very quickly. Let me include in the record at this point, if you'd permit, a more extensive discussion of all the factors that go into the question of the servicing mission, relative to compliance with the Columbia Accident Investigation Board recommendations.
We're about two objectives. The first one is to try to extend the service life of Hubble by whatever means possible. There's a lot of different ways to do that. And we're examining a series of robotic, autonomous methods that would extend the battery power on the Hubble for a longer period of time. And we'll see what various proposals that have been made, and we'll see what it's going to take to work that out.
In addition to that, we also want to be sure we comply with every single recommendation of the Accident Investigation Board's findings and move forward to return the shuttle to flight at the lowest risk that we can possibly attain. I think that's the dual objective, and I'll submit that for the record if you would, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes.
MR. O'KEEFE: But I think we'll be seeing some real movement on that front if a very, very short period of time here in terms of looking at another alternatives, along with the National Academy of Science's examination, the GAO's review that's been commissioned by the Appropriations Committee to consider that as well, all that will be converging here I think in the next couple of months.
To the second part of your question, which is a really intriguing issue, and it's one that we've frankly wrestled with endlessly within the administration during the course of the interagency process to come up with the options for the president's consideration. At the beginning and at the end and at every step in between, his consistent reminder to us all was, it is about the act of exploration, folks. That's what this focus really needs to be. It is the curiosity and the understanding on the part of human desire to want to know and understand, ought to be the central guiding feature.
And then there a whole range of different options you can pursue in the process of getting there. How quickly you achieve that is a limit you-as you correctly pointed out, of not only resource but also of the technology and how it can be employed in ways that develop that systems integration approach necessary to yield that result. And what we've developed I think is an approach that attempts to accomplish each of those imperatives in turn.
The first one is to complete the International Space Station, because we're going to need to understand what the effects are for long enduring space flight necessary and through expeditionary missions to understand precisely what the effect is on human physiology. We're just beginning to scratch the surface of that, now that we're in our third continuous year of permanent presence in space.
All of the components and modules are stacked up at the Kennedy Space Center, arriving there, being tested, integrated, worked at to make sure that they're ready for flight. All of them were designed to go into the shuttle payload, and so as a consequence that is the most efficient way to do that as expeditiously as we can. And the long pole of the tent is return to flight and getting the shuttle back up to the point where we can complete that effort, and then accomplish the retirement of shuttle at the conclusion of the construction of the International Space Station.
And that's precisely what the chat attempts to demonstrate, is it will take us through to the end of the decade to complete that task in compliance with our international agreements and to harvest the research, that I think you very accurately referred to as an imperative necessary in order to understand precisely what the long term effects are in human physiology. This is the most efficient, most thorough way to do it, it takes the least amount of time to accomplish that task.
The other --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Director, I might interrupt you just a minute here, I've got to leave to the White House, there's a signing ceremony on the unborn victims of violence, so I'm going to slip out to that and I'll continue this dialogue with you. Senator Stevens will chair the hearing. I'm apologetic for doing that, but I'm just on that timeframe, and I apologize.
MR. O'KEEFE: Not at all, sir.
