Public Statements
Jumpstart Our Business Strength (Jobs) Act
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 24, 2004
Location: Washington, DC


JUMPSTART OUR BUSINESS STRENGTH (JOBS) ACT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Iowa for the bill he has put forward, the JOBS bill. I want to take a few minutes to talk to my colleagues about the impact of this bill, if we can get it through. I am very disappointed we were not successful on the cloture motion.
In relation to the impact on jobs, particularly in rural areas, such as in some of the areas of my State of Kansas, the chairman has done a masterful job of crafting a jobs bill that is a true jobs bill. It is going to create jobs.
Let me give you a couple examples that will have a direct impact in a State such as mine in the manufacturing sector. That is the area in which we are trying to create jobs. One of them is in the aircraft industry. He extends the service rules on bonus depreciation for 1 year. That is to say, if the product is put in service a year later, we are going to still be able to use the bonus depreciation.
You may say: Well, big deal that you can do that. In the business of aircraft manufacturing you need some time. It takes some time to build the aircraft. It takes time to order up all the subparts. My aircraft industry people-which fan out from Wichita to several surrounding States-say by putting in a bonus depreciation last year, they tripled the level of sales they had prior to that. And by extending the bonus depreciation time period of putting the airplane actually into service, we are going to extend that life expectancy for us to get increasing aircraft sales. They say this is a must thing for them to increase and to continue the trajectory back into job creation in aircraft manufacturing.
The chairman put this in. There is a zero cost associated with it in the bill. Absolutely, without this we lose manufacturing jobs in Wichita and the surrounding communities that reach out to several surrounding States. It is in the bill. We have to have this or we lose jobs.
The other thing the chairman did that was magnificent that affects about 12 States in particular-this is going to be a key job creator in an area of the country where it has been tough to create jobs-has to do with counties that have been losing population. While the overall country has grown in population, and while my State of Kansas has grown in population, half of the counties in my State have lost population over the last 20 years.
As we have mechanized in agriculture, as agriculture has concentrated in larger farms, larger agribusiness enterprises, we have lost job opportunity, we have lost people in agriculture-the field I came up in, the field my parents and one of my brothers still farm in. But we have lost jobs in half of the counties, lost population in half of the counties in Kansas.
The chairman included in this JOBS amendment for the first time in recent history, if not the first time ever, some opportunities to be able to create jobs and economic incentives for counties that have been losing population. Key States that benefit are North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas, Colorado, Iowa, Missouri, Minnesota, Montana, States that sweep throughout the Middle West. The Great Plains area has many counties that have lost population.
What did the chairman do? He kindly put in a provision we have started and put forward. We have a bipartisan bill called the New Homestead Act, creating economic incentives for people to move into areas that have been depopulated, and saying that a county, if it qualifies, gets this economic incentive.
To qualify, you had to have lost 10 percent of your population over the last 20 years. The New Homestead Act is a bipartisan bill we have been pushing for some period of time.
The chairman included the initial provision of a rural investment tax credit in the managers' amendment, as well as a qualified rural small business investment credit.
What would this do? These sections provide a credit with a present value of 70 percent of qualified expenditures on newly constructed rural investment buildings, and a 30-percent tax credit for expenditures on starting or expanding a business. These are in counties that have lost 10 percent of their population over the last 20 years.
I can tell you, as I have traveled across Kansas, as I have gone into those counties that have seen, year after year, population decline; that have seen, year after year, declines in their K through 12 public education schools; that have seen, year after year, younger people moving out saying: I would love to live here but there are no jobs; that have seen, year after year, people saying: Well, I guess that is the trend we are in-when they look at these economic opportunities to locate in a place that has been depopulating, they are saying now that is something that will work, that is something that is going to create some opportunity, some hope, jobs, and, yes, people moving back into these counties that have lost so much population throughout the High Plains.
This is a first step. It is not everything I wanted, but the chairman put it in the managers' amendment. This will create jobs and opportunities in some of the toughest areas in the country to create those jobs and opportunities-places that have been losing population, in highly rural areas, far away from urban areas, in places where we have not been able to put forward a decent set of proposals of something that is going to work.
We have for years put in place employees to try to create rural opportunities, to encourage people to move back to rural areas. We have tried to do a lot of different things. When I was secretary of agriculture in Kansas, I even worked with a group just to document and to list all of the rural development programs that are available to people in Kansas. We had a book that was a half inch thick of State and Federal programs that are targeted at rural development and creating rural jobs. As we created all of those programs, we have still continued to see the population decline and the job opportunities decline and communities decline. People say: What are we going to do?
What we put forward was a bipartisan bill to create economic incentives such as we used in urban areas. When we were seeing the urban cores of our country losing population, losing economic vitality, we said, let's create economic opportunity. We did it in Washington, DC. We put forward a list: OK, we will have an enterprise zone, a tax credit situation in Washington, DC. We put in a $5,000 tax credit for first-time home buyers to get people to move back into the area. We put together a series of economic incentives, and these have worked.
So for all those years we created these rural development programs, the thing we were not listening to was: How did people locate in the High Plains in the first place? The Homestead Act. Why did they go there? Economic opportunity. If I go out to this region, and I settle on 160 acres, and I stay there for 5 years, it is mine. We had millions of people move out to do that.
The New Homestead Act is trying to model that same issue saying, what is the answer? It is not a Government recruitment program. It is creating a series of economic incentives. And that has worked in our urban cores. It has worked in the rural areas before. It will work here again.
The chairman has it in his mark. Unfortunately, we are not getting this bill to the floor. We are not being able to vote on the JOBS bill. This has the starting edge of the opportunity to create jobs and economic vitality in a region of the country where we have had the most difficulty doing this.
I applaud the chairman for putting this in the bill in the managers' amendment. It is a start. We want more economic incentives in this area. It will create jobs and opportunities. We have to get this up to vote on it, to create these opportunities.
I am most disappointed we were not able to get cloture through so we could get a chance to propel this issue forward. I say
to my colleagues who voted against cloture, at some point in time we are going to have to deal with this issue, with this tax bill. We are being hit by a trade case-everybody knows about this-from Europe that we have lost. We have to make these changes. At some point in time either the tariff against our goods is going to rise, rise, rise, and we are going to lose market, market, market in the process, or we are going to pass this bill.
So we are going to have to pass this bill. Why not do it now when we can create the incentives, we can create the jobs and the opportunities, do things such as a portion of the New Homestead Act that helps create these opportunities in some of the most difficult areas to create jobs and economic vitality and do it now and early when we can get some advantage out of moving this forward? I don't understand why we would want to hurt that.
I want to back up to an earlier point I made. I want to press this further. Going into 9/11, the aircraft production industry, the construction industry, the people who make aircraft-Cessna, Bombardier, Learjet, Raytheon, Boeing, the large commercial airliners-they were going into a soft marketplace because the recession was starting in the country prior to 9/11. Their orders were tailing down at that point. They are frequently a leading economic indicator of what is happening. As corporate profits were going down, a lot of their orders were going down. As the airline industry was not making money, the aircraft purchases, the orders that were coming to Boeing were going down. Then we had 9/11, and it was a brick wall. It fell. Business in aircraft plummeted at that point in time.
What we saw in the aircraft manufacturing industry was a precipitous fall off of employment of 30 percent across the board. Not quite everybody, but virtually across the board had big layoffs. I was meeting with the industry and asking what can we do. And they were saying: We have to get the economy moving forward again. We need to make sure these jobs don't move overseas because when we have a difficult situation, there are always people around the world trying to get aircraft manufacturing jobs. They are the highest wage, highest skilled manufacturing jobs in the country. A lot of places want them.
They were saying: We need to work to make sure we have enough research dollars getting out the next wave of products so when the industry turns back up, we will be there with the new products that are better, that fit the needs of our customers more. So we put more money in research. And we did that this past year. It was an important thing to do so we don't get somebody else technologically jumping ahead of us and taking the industry over.
This last year they said to me that an absolute thing we just have to have now to get the industry to take off is bonus depreciation. With that, we will be able to make airplanes sales. Without it, we will not. We were able to get bonus depreciation on business equipment, which included aircraft used in business and business purposes. True to their point-they have shown me the sales numbers-their sales numbers tripled from the point in time when we put in a bonus depreciation. As people looked at the bottom line of the cost of the aircraft and they figured in that bonus depreciation and it dropped the total expenditure they were going to have to pay, sales soared. It kept them from laying off more people, and it gave some spunk to the industry. That is a great manufacturing industry. That was working and working well.
But then they started running into a problem that they were getting the sales, but they had to put the aircraft into service by the end of this year. By the time you place an order and are able to make the aircraft and deliver it, they were hitting timelines they could not make. This is a very complicated piece of machinery. It has to be done exactly right. It takes time. They would get the order, but their production schedule was such that they were not going to be able to get this into service by the end of this year, December 31, 2004. They were pleading with me and Members of this body saying: You have to extend that date of service in a year so we can continue to get these orders in and then be able to manufacture them in time to be able to get them placed and used.
They were saying: This is a killer. If you stop this, if you don't extend this bonus depreciation a year for putting the aircraft into service, we are done. We can't take any more orders at this point in time. We cannot get the craft made by the time it has to be in service to qualify for the bonus depreciation. We have to have it or else you are going to kill the recovery taking place in the aircraft manufacturing industry.
I talked with the chairman a number of times. We got it in the managers' amendment. As I noted to my colleagues, it was scored at a zero for its fiscal impact on tax receipts, which is a great score. It doesn't have an impact on our budgetary situation or on our budget deficit. It only has a positive impact on employment. This is critical for manufacturing jobs in America.
Let me give you one example of this creation of jobs. Consider the example of Cessna, a great aircraft manufacturing company. It employs a significant number of Kansans in Wichita and the surrounding region. For each plane that Cessna builds, they create 21 manufacturing jobs. Using the Department of Labor aerospace workforce multiplier of three, each aerospace job creates three indirect supplier support jobs. That means for every aircraft that Cessna sells and builds, 63 jobs outside of Cessna are created on top of the 21 inside. This is all associated directly with bonus depreciation that is extended in this bill.
You have a series of direct high-wage, high-skilled manufacturing jobs you are going to lose if we don't pass this bill. Extending this placed-in-service date for bonus depreciation, which is what the substitute amendment does, means that equipment that has a longer placed-in-service period will continue to thrive and help provide and maintain jobs. We are just at springtime. We are just at the phase where this is starting to take off. And if you don't extend that period of time when it can be placed into service, you kill it before it can really do the good it needs to.
Everybody in this body and in this country is concerned about jobs, outsourcing or, rather, overseas migration of jobs. Here is a classic manufacturing job that overseas countries are seeking to take from us. And we have the direct opportunity to create and keep those jobs here, but we have to pass this bill. We have to get it through. It will have a direct impact on this. We have the numbers of what it has done. If we don't pass the bill, it doesn't happen. We don't get these sales of aircraft. We don't create these manufacturing jobs. They end up moving, if other places get established in this aircraft manufacturing business and they seek to do that, to Japan, Taiwan, China, Brazil. Other competitors seek to get these high-wage, high-skilled manufacturing jobs out of America and into their countries.
We have the bill at hand to help us stop that at zero cost. We have to do this. It is ridiculous for us not to do it. And the sooner, the better, so that more of those sales can be made.
If you put this bill off 3 months, and we still have to operate-this aircraft has to be placed into service by the end of this year, anybody trying to sell a business aircraft has to go out to people and say: You can order it and we will sell it to you now, and we hope bonus depreciation will apply to you. But we can't guarantee that today because the Senate has not acted. If the Senate acts, yes, we can get the aircraft manufactured. And you will have it in time with bonus depreciation. But unless the Senate acts, we can't sell this based upon bonus depreciation because we can't get the craft made.
If you do this now and make this change in this tax provision, they can start selling aircraft again. If you don't do it now, they have to go out to people and say: We think we will get this done. We hope we will get it done. But you can't bank on it. This aircraft, if you have bonus depreciation, it is at X price, but if you don't, it is much higher. What is it going to do to sales? You are going to freeze a lot of sales. If you freeze sales, you freeze jobs. You have to make the sale to be able to manufacture this aircraft.
Bonus depreciation will allow companies to depreciate an additional 50 percent of their new equipment in the first year of ownership. That was a key economic jobs growth component of the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of last year. However, to qualify for bonus depreciation, the equipment must be purchased and placed in service before the end of this year. This is problematic for expensive equipment that takes a long time to manufacture, such as general aviation aircraft.
We have to get this done. This is a direct jobs issue in my State, in this region. Here is a classic example of what it does. I urge my colleagues who voted against cloture, for whatever reason, to reconsider it based on what is happening in their States and also based on these specific manufacturing jobs in the aircraft industry, or if they are one of the 19 States that have a substantial area of their State that has lost population in the rural areas over the last 20 years.
My State has lost 50 percent. Some States in the country have lost up to 80 to 90 percent of their counties. If you are a State in that area, you would look at the provision that is the starting edge of this new Homestead Act-initial tax benefits-and try to attract capital, rural investment tax credit, into these declining population areas and say: I am going to have to pass this bill anyway because of the tariff issue with the European Union. Here is a provision that helps my region-and the sooner the better-on both the tariff issue dealing with Europe and the rural development issue.
Let's do it now, get it passed. I know we are in a political season and people jockey politically. But we should not mess with this bill. It meets the need everybody has been citing-the need for jobs and job creation. We should not mess around with this bill. There are plenty of other bills that one could hold up, for whatever political issue, and there are legitimate differences between the parties. This is not one that we can afford to do it on. It has a penalty dealing with Europeans, and it has a bonus dealing with us. We need to get this through now.
Mr. President, with that, I appreciate the opportunity to address these items as it affects my State.
I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.
