Public Statements
CNN American Morning - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 16, 2004
Location: Unknown

CNN
SHOW: AMERICAN MORNING 07:00
HEADLINE: Ohio Police Name Suspect in Interstate Shootings; Spain Arrests More Moroccans in Connection to Train Bombings
GUESTS: Sam Brownback, Al Sharpton
BYLINE: Soledad O'Brien, Bill Hemmer, Jack Cafferty, Eric Phillips, Barbara Starr
HIGHLIGHT:
Ohio Police Name Suspect in Interstate Shootings; Spain Arrests More Moroccans in Connection to Train Bombings
BODY:
HEMMER: Republican Senator Sam Brownback in Kansas-a member of the Foreign Relations Committee-is our guest this hour. He S live in Farmington Hills, Michigan.
Good to have you, Senator. Good morning to you.
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK ®, KANSAS: Good to be with you on a snowy day.
HEMMER: All right, well, listen it's a good thing you're inside.
Let's talk about this document that turned up last December that essentially said al Qaeda if they deliver two or three more blows this government perhaps they weaken if not overthrow that government and perhaps they get those troops out of Iraq.
Already you have the prime minister saying that that's his wish. Did the terrorists get their wish now as a result of last Thursday, Senator?
BROWNBACK: Well I think if you're one of the terrorist-or in the terrorists organizations you have to view this as a successful operation.
And that's sad to say and it's terrible that that's the case, but I think from their viewpoint what they would look at and would claim was that they influenced the democracy to shift and that that's what they've been trying and what they've been focusing on for some time in the United States and in other countries is to get democratic countries to move out, to move back and I think they would view that as they had a successful push in the Spanish...
HEMMER: So if that is the case then how do you reverse that trend?
BROWNBACK: I think democracies have to stand up against terrorism. That they can't be seen as folding to terrorist threats or to terrorist actions, that we have to redouble our efforts and to focus in, and I think it would be only compounding this problem if the Spanish pulled out of Iraq sooner some time this year that that would just tell the terrorists yes you can do this.
But we've got to redouble our efforts against terrorism at this point in time.
HEMMER: There was a suggestion in "The Washington Post" this week that many had felt if there was another terrorist hit in Europe it would actually bring the European allies closer to the U.S. position, but apparently at least in the early days any way it's driving a wedge between the two.
Do you see it the same way?
BROWNBACK: Well, you know I thought the same thing. I thought you know a terrorist attack here generally pulls us more together and resolves us even that much more that we're going to fight against the terrorism and I thought it would do the same thing in Europe.
I'm not so sure in the mid term that it won't, that you'll see more unity taking place in Europe, more focus on terrorism taking place where many there may have thought that we're not the primary target and so we can be a little more lax about it, that they'll say no we are a major target and we're going to unite and fight more and I would hope in the mid-term that that's going to be the effect that will resolve them to fight that much more against terrorism.
HEMMER: I want you to look at this Gallup poll that came out. We'll put it on the screen for our viewers to see. One of the questions-a lot of these questions really went to the economic condition of the United States economy now.
But in this question whether or not you're satisfied or not with things here in the U.S. -- 60 percent say they are dissatisfied. What does that tell you, senator?
BROWNBACK: Well, I think you just look at things that have recently taken place for as far as the bombings in Spain, you look at the continuing difficulty in Iraq; you look at our struggle, economically even though we're growing economically, the growth of jobs has been slower than we'd like to see taking place.
And I think a lot of people would say you know I-we're moving somewhat in the right direction but boy this is tough slugging through it. And it is, we're in difficult situation. We've been in a difficult economic situation; we've been in a difficult terrorism-war situation.
We're coming through it but the slugging is tough and I think that's reflected in the polls.
HEMMER: Sam Brownback...
BROWNBACK: The answer is-is not to shift at this point in time, though and say let's get going a different direction, it's really to put more energy behind the direction we're going now.
HEMMER: Thank you Senator, good to talk to you.
BROWNBACK: Thank you.
