Public Statements
Panel I of a Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee - Democracy in Hong Kong
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 4, 2004
Location: Washington, DC

Federal News Service
HEADLINE: PANEL I OF A HEARING OF THE SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE

SUBJECT: DEMOCRACY IN HONG KONG

CHAIRED BY: SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS)

LOCATION: 419 DIRKSEN SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
WITNESSES: RANDY SCHRIVER, DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE BUREAU OF EAST ASIA & PACIFIC AFFAIRS

BODY:
SEN. BROWNBACK: The hearing will come to order.
Today's hearing on Hong Kong is the first since 1999 and only the second hearing since the transfer of sovereignty in 1997. This hearing will review how Hong Kong functions as a special administrative region of China and will examine U.S. policy with respect to the evolving situation in Hong Kong.
The future of Hong Kong is of personal interest to me. I enjoyed my trip to Hong Kong earlier this year, where I had a chance to meet with some of our witnesses today. The future of Hong Kong is also of great interest to this committee, as well as other members of the Senate as a whole.
The source of U.S. policy on Hong King is the 1992 Hong Kong Policy Act. That act allowed the United States to treat Hong Kong as a distinct entity, even as we recognize that it is legally a part of China. Hong Kong is a part of China, but its system of government is understood to be distinct from the system that governs the rest of the nation. Our strong relationship with Hong Kong is based on this distinction.
Hong Kong is a key trading partner because of its commitment to free markets. Hong Kong's open society is a valuable example to other Asian peoples experimenting with democratic reforms. Hong Kong is also a valuable ally in the war on terrorism. These characteristics illustrate why the United States supports a government in Hong Kong that is based on democracy.
In recent days we have seen Beijing use official media sources to reject moves toward universal suffrage. Beijing also has begun to question the patriotism of those favoring democratic reforms. The reasons for these statements are unclear to me, but whatever the reasons for Beijing's concerns, they are unfounded. Patriotism and democracy go hand in hand, and Beijing has nothing to fear from the development of democracy in Hong Kong. After all, the people of Hong Kong are not demanding independence and neither is the United States. In fact, last July's demonstrations in Hong Kong, as well as those in January, clearly indicate that people can air their grievances without undermining stability.
Today's hearing is first and foremost a discussion of U.S. policy. We will discuss how Hong Kong can build its democracy and what role the United States should play in that development. Hong Kong's residents continue to demonstrate the power of the people, and that power should be affirmed to democratic processes that make all government officials accountable to a voting public. An essential part of this discussion is the Basic Law, the document that governs the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. There is much confusion about the Basic Law and I hope we can have a meaningful discussion of it today. Whether the Basic Law can help us reach the goal of real democracy in Hong Kong remains an open question, but one thing should be clear: our goal of democratic reform should be met sooner rather than later.
In the end, Beijing must not obscure the meaning of two systems in its one country, two systems formula. The U.S. relationship with Hong Kong is based on the understanding that it will have a separate system of government, and our Hong Kong Policy Act declares democratization to be a fundamental principle for U.S.-Hong Kong policy. If there is one thing everyone can take from today's hearing, I hope it would be this. If Hong Kong is forced away from autonomy and democratization, U.S. policy will be forced to change as well.
We have three panels that will be presenting today on this topic and on this discussion. We will have questions back and forth.
The first panel features Mr. Randy Schriver. He's deputy assistant secretary of State for East Asian Affairs at the State Department. I look forward to his testimony.
Mr. Schriver, welcome to the committee. We're delighted you're here. Your full written testimony will be put in the record. You're free to summarize if you choose to do so. Welcome to the committee.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much, Mr. Schriver. And thank you for the strong position the administration has taken-what the secretary said two days ago; the meetings that National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice had yesterday with Mr. Lee, Martin Lee, the lead democracy advocates. The administration's been very clear and very forthright, and I appreciate your strong position and statement on this.
I wanted to ask you a couple of questions on it. Considering the ambiguity of many of the provisions in the Basic Law, are you satisfied that the Basic Law provides Hong Kong with the means to meet the democratic aspirations of its people? In other words, is the basis there in the Basic Law to move towards universal suffrage for the people of Hong Kong for their leadership in Hong Kong, the Legislative Council, the leadership just within Hong Kong?
MR. SCHRIVER: I think if the Basic Law is faithfully implemented, the foundation is there. I think the key is-because of the ambiguity, the key is, what are the aspirations and the expectations of the people of Hong Kong, and what is it that is being delivered to them? If there's a gap there and a significant gap, then we have to call into question if this is a foundation that's strong enough to get the kind of political progress that Hong Kong needs and deserves.
So because of ambiguity, I think that is the key measure. What are the expectations and what is actually being delivered to them? And clearly there's some signs that are troubling and some statements that are troubling.
But the very basic point-yes, if faithfully implemented, I believe the foundation exists.
SEN. BROWNBACK: The administration's view is that they can move towards universal suffrage, and indeed the Basic Law provides for a movement to universal suffrage for the people of Hong Kong.
MR. SCHRIVER: Yes, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: The-a number of people are watching, obviously, what takes place in Hong Kong. How is the rest of Asia viewing the events in Hong Kong and its public demonstrations for democracy? Do you get a feel from your position, as deputy assistant secretary in East Asia and Pacific Affairs, of how this is being viewed throughout Asia?
MR. SCHRIVER: I think it's-I have some sense of it, Mr. Chairman. I think it's watched very carefully not only by those who have developing democratic institution themselves, but those that have developing relationships with China. And they want to make judgments about how China will behave, how China will be responsive to democracies. And I think, throughout Asia, the key point that has impressed people is that the economic freedoms have been sustained and Hong Kong, as a trading partner for the respective Asian countries, has essentially been unimpeded since reversion.
But again, I think the kinds of concerns that we have about democratization is shared by other democracies in Asia, and I think virtually every country is watching China, how it responds, if it will respond in sophisticated matter, perhaps if-worst case-a heavy- handed manner. People will make judgments about how China might behave in their own bilateral relationships, even though this is an internal manner, from a Chinese perspective.
SEN. BROWNBACK: When I was in Hong Kong in January, a number of statements were put forward by the Beijing government and accusations. And they put linkages between the development of the Hong Kong policy and their view and ties toward Taiwan. Can you articulate the view of the administration of any parallels or any connections between U.S. views towards Hong Kong and relationship with Taiwan, with the move toward democratization in Hong Kong?
MR. SCHRIVER: Well, our support for democracy is universal, whether it be in Hong Kong, Taiwan or anywhere else. And we've been very supportive of democratization in Hong Kong; we admire-pardon me, in Taiwan-we've been supportive of that development. There's an election coming up there that is of great interest to us. But we're proud and we admire what they've done there.
I think China has a certain view about the relationship between the development in Hong Kong and events in Taiwan because, of course, they would tell you that the model of one country, two systems was developed with Taiwan in mind, prior to the Hong Kong experience. So they have some incentive to want that to succeed, to do well so that it will be an attractive model to Taiwan.
I think they are two very different cases and how we manage the policy is very different, the similarity being we have guidance from the Congress and we have policies that are embedded in U.S. law, but the Hong Kong Policy Act and the kind of relationship we're able to develop with Hong Kong, I think, is very different than the kind of relationship we develop with Taiwan. Taiwan's democratization has essentially been rapid and been successful, and though Beijing has certainly been uncomfortable with it, and has adopted a posture that is at times threatening and coercive, for the most part Taiwan's democratization has been unimpeded from Beijing's intimidation. And again, there's been remarkable progress in less than a decade. Their first presidential election was less than 10 years ago, so this has been a rapid development and essentially, I think, unimpeded from events in Beijing.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It's been my assertion on this issue that it's good for Beijing, it's good for Hong Kong and it's good for the world if Hong Kong is allowed to develop on democratization. It sends the right signals to Taiwan, not the wrong signals. It will move toward more stability and attract probably more investment and more support for Hong Kong. And yet the Beijing government continues to fight this even though there's a clear march of history toward democracy as well. I don't understand the reticence on the part of the Beijing government. Can you give that to me in light of your discussions with them on this issue?
MR. SCHRIVER: It's always difficult to speak with great clarity and specificity when you're trying to give the Chinese perspective on something. I think they do have an interest in Hong Kong succeeding and in this model succeeding, but they also value the political control and keeping firm rudder control on developments.
I think one of the ironic things is there really is so much that we could agree on with China, on matters related to Hong Kong. We want it to succeed, we think Hong Kong's success would best be insured through implementation of the Basic Law, which China would say the same. And we do want stability and continued prosperity in Hong Kong. Our very strong view is that stability is best ensured through democratization.
I think Beijing-maybe that's where the divergence is, that they are-they have a different comfort level with democratization, the pace and the scope and how that could affect stability.
I would posit that you're more likely to get people out on the streets again if people continue to feel frustrated that their voice isn't heard, that they don't have a government that's responsive to them, and that there's not progress on implementation of these articles related to universal suffrage. If stability is the ultimate goal, which is not our only goal, but if it's part of what you're seeking, we're very clearly of the mind that democratization is key to that.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, thank you very much for your position and your view, and thank you very much for the administration's strong statement. And I hope this continues to be a very high priority item within the administration, to press universal suffrage for the people of Hong Kong.
MR. SCHRIVER: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
