Public Statements
World Youth Alliance
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 18, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WORLD YOUTH ALLIANCE
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, at a time when the global community's attention is focused on rebuilding Iraq and the relations that states have to one another, I would like to commend the World Youth Alliance, which offers itself as a way forward to address some of the critical questions with which we are faced.
Working with over 1 million young people from over 100 countries around the world, these young people have had a constant presence at the United Nations and other international institutions for the last 4 years. Their membership consists of young people of diverse faiths-Christian, Jewish, Muslim, and other-and young people of no faith. Their binding commitment is to work for the promotion of the dignity of the person at the international level and in each of their countries and communities around the world.
The World Youth Alliance understands that building sustainable, free and just societies can only be accomplished when the human person is recognized and placed at the center of all policy, programs, and culture. In doing this, they are reaching out to each other and to the world to impact the policy and culture that is being created around them.
The dignity of the person, according to the World Youth Alliance, is intrinsic and inviolable. The dignity of the person is the basis for all human rights. In this, they place themselves directly in the heart of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the great human rights history that has particularly grown after the tragedy of World War II.
The World Youth Alliance recognizes that each individual, no matter how vulnerable, must be protected by the state. Otherwise, the state finds itself in the terrifying position of deciding the worth of a human being and objectifying the human person. At such a point, the freedom and justice of the state are called into question. The World Youth Alliance then reminds the global community that the person can never be seen as the problem, but must be recognized at all times with having the dignity and rights which the person possesses by simple right of being. This global coalition understands that to protect each human person and to build sustainable and free societies, this dignity must be extended to each member of the human family, unconditionally, from the moment of conception until natural death.
In the last 4 years, this coalition of young people has had extraordinary success. Their membership continues to grow. They have participated at major United Nations conferences. They have spoken to the General Assembly and to individual states, and they have helped to determine the outcomes of documents and resolutions.
This group of young people has trained over 10,000 young people on the importance of the international institutions and the relationship that these institutions have on their lives. They have initiated projects together: projects to build community centers in Nigeria for young people who are struggling to build up their communities and combat HIV/AIDS; projects to educate and rebuild schools in Tanzania, South Africa and Mexico; projects with street children in Latin America; projects with art and beauty to reawaken the transcendent among all of their generation and ours.
Most recently the World Youth Alliance has worked with a coalition of states at the United Nations, including the United States, on the draft discussions to prepare for an international treaty on human cloning. At the first discussion on cloning, the United States quoted from the World Youth Alliance in their statement to the General Assembly. Recognizing a shared commitment to protecting the dignity of each and every person, the statement read: "[this resolution] also responds to a call by over one million youth from all continents. They are members of the World Youth Alliance, who believe that only a total, comprehensive ban on human cloning would protect and respect the dignity of all human beings. They respectfully asked the Ad Hoc Committee to work towards a complete ban. To the youth, the future world leaders, we hope that the Sixth Committee will be able to say-we heard you!"
As the World Youth Alliance continues to grow and expand their work in Latin America, Africa, Asia and Europe, let us wish them the same kind of continued growth and success. Their work to train young people to engage at the international level, connecting a generation together in the promotion of the dignity of the person and human rights, is precisely what the world needs. I look forward to seeing many of them as the future world leaders, a role in which they have already found themselves, demonstrating remarkable integrity, vision and capability. Our work will be well served when it inspires this kind of response and commitment from the world's youth.
