Public Statements
Executive Session
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 12, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Mr. BROWNBACK. Thank you, Madam President. I am being joined by my colleague from Kansas, Senator Roberts, my colleague from Illinois, Senator Fitzgerald, and Senator Nickles will join us in our time period to talk about the judicial crisis we have in this country and the difficulties that have been created now by an unprecedented act of the filibustering of circuit court judges. I will take a narrow look at this as an issue that has been building for the last 40 years, and what has happened during that 40-year time period that the crisis in the court has developed.
We stand on the shoulders of greatness. It was with courage and honor and convictions and convictions in religious beliefs that our forefathers formed this union of States we now call the United States of America. Indeed, the foundation of our country was formed with an understanding that there is a recognition of a higher moral authority. It is over our mantle, the one right here that I look at which says, "In God We Trust."
Yet if we are to continue down the precedent set in 1962-and I will go into that-it will be likely that in the near future we will have to take these words down and remove them as being illegal. This body itself committed a criminal act under a determination made by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals when we opened up and said the Pledge of Allegiance; a criminal activity because in 1954 President Eisenhower, the great Kansan, with a legislative body inserted, the unbelievable words, "one Nation, under God."
The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, to which two of the nominees would go, has declared that unconstitutional. It would be one thing if we said this is just an unusual aberration, but what we have to say and see is that this is a continuation of a 40-year march that the court has been on to purge any recognition or acknowledgment of God in the public square.
We are on 40 years of judicial activism in this regard. I will go through that. The Ninth Circuit is applying the endorsement test, first articulated in the 1985 school prayer case of Wallace v. Jaffree. Let's be honest about the logic behind the test. It is an absolute demand that religious ideas and language be thoroughly eliminated and cleansed from government activities. If consistently applied, the endorsement test basically drives God out of public school and out of our public life.
For too long we in this body have been silent and stood by while the courts have slowly chipped away at our responsibility to this Nation. And today we see the effects of our apathy.
At this critical time in our Nation's history, the Senate stands locked in a controversy surrounding the confirmation of judges. But this stalemate also underscores the large issues at stake and the serious choices we face as a nation. If we look at the judicial trends for the past 40 years, the courts have increasingly veered off course. As far as religion is concerned, the courts have been on a relentless drive to remove God from the public square. It started in 1962 in Engel v. Vitale when 39 million students were forbidden to do what they and their predecessors have been doing since the founding of our Nation, publicly calling upon the name of the Lord at the beginning of each school day as we do in this body.
The following year in the School District of Abington Township v. Schempp, the Court held that Bible readings in public schools also violate the first amendment. In 1992, in Lee v. Wiseman, prayer was removed from graduation exercises. And in 2000, in the Santa Fe Independent School District v. Doe, prayer was removed from being said at football games.
None of these restrictions were affirmatively adopted by any legislative body. The legislative bodies, either at the Federal or State level did the opposite. The Congress added the phrase "under God" in 1954 to the Pledge of Allegiance, and did so with the explicit intention of fostering reverential patriotism-nothing more, nothing less. It was done to reflect the values of the American people that were as valid in 1954 as they are today. Yet this year, the Court will continue to decide these issues, irrespective of what the American people believe in and want.
Along the way during this 40-year time period, the Court also discovered the constitutional right to abortion and more recently struck down State anti-sodomy laws.
As the Court has sought to remove God from the public square, we should examine the impact it has had on our culture, that amorphous atmosphere that helps form our souls and our identities. The culture, the following charts demonstrate, has clearly deteriorated. More and more Americans are slipping into depression, alcoholism, and suicide. Our Nation's schools are plagued with students who not only fall behind in educational standards but who are suffering from societal problems that we have allowed to take place in this country.
Prior to the two major cases outlawing prayer in 1962 and 1963, our students enjoyed more stability. Since then, there has been more violence, sexual activities in schools, which have had corrosive effects on our culture.
For example, look at this chart showing suicides increased dramatically for teenagers between 1960 and today, nearly tripling the age bracket of suicide for children in our schools. Similarly, drug use has gone up significantly since the 1960s. Alcohol use also went up among those between the ages of 12 and 17, as this chart shows.
Here are examples of societal consequences since the 1960s. Since the passage of Roe v. Wade, legalizing abortions, abortions have increased dramatically. By the 1990s, abortions, private sources show, have more than doubled during that period of time. We are at 1.5 million a year. Bill Clinton called for abortion to be safe, legal, and rare. It is none of the three.
We see a dramatic increase in divorces that have taken place in this country since 1960.
This chart goes back to 1940, but from 1960 forward we are at a point in the 1990s where one in every two marriages end in divorce in America. Is that a healthy culture? We have seen same trends in violent crimes taking place. From 1960 to where we are today, we have seen more than a doubling, tripling of violent crimes taking place.
I ask the simple questions of my colleagues: Is there a direct correlation? Did the removal of prayer in the classroom or prohibitions on other public displays of religious convictions lead to the kind of moral decay reflected in the charts? Did the removal of honor and recognition of a higher moral authority impact our children? Or is it mere coincidence that our culture has declined as the courts deliberately and quietly shifted this country away from our motto, "In God we trust."
However one may interpret the empirical data and whatever conclusions one may draw of the cause and effect, we cannot ignore the key principles in the Constitution and under the establishment clause. While it may seem like inherent contradiction, Americans believe it both appropriate and necessary for government to limit abuses of religious liberty while at the same time making the effort to support sound religious convictions.
I am joined by several of my colleagues in the Senate who want to go further in making points about the judges who are being appointed. One thing is consistent with the judges, and that is they are people who have, in many cases, strong convictions, strong religious convictions, and they are being tested and tested out because of their faith. Is that where we are going with this removal of God from the public square? This is a dangerous precedent and dangerous way we are going.
I yield the floor to my colleague from Kansas, Senator Roberts.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Thank you very much.
I thank my colleague from Kansas and my colleague from Illinois for the comments they have made in this debate in which we have been engaged for some period of time and I think make both cogent and important points to put forward.
I want to double back around and finish on the comments I started on about this being a 40-year debate. For some of us who might have been up for a while, it may seem like 40 years already since last night.
But this has been a 40-year debate, and we have engaged and embarked on a great debate about which these judges are front and center, and it is potentially a collision course, some may say, between those who believe in God and that He has a role to play in the cultural and moral fabric of this Nation and those who prefer to sanitize our public institutions of any reference to God.
We should at least allow the vast majority of Americans who believe in God to honor Him in public, as our Founders did, and not be forced to conceal Him from the public square.
The four nominees currently being filibustered all believe in God, as do 90 percent of the American public. Should they be excluded from the appellate courts because of their faith? Their deeply held convictions just happen to mirror those of George Washington, most of the Founding Fathers, as well as some of the greatest Americans in our history-Abraham Lincoln, Susan B. Anthony, Dwight Eisenhower, and Martin Luther King, Jr. Would any of them be able to get on this court today through this litmus test? I doubt it.
If the issue here is this body has not had sufficient opportunity to debate the merits of the candidates, then let's go ahead and debate and move to a final vote.
Those who wrote the Constitution, which is the oldest working constitution in the world, remain the best guide to its clear meaning. America's Founding Fathers, by and large, did not believe government must be neutral toward religion. George Washington, in his Farewell Address, often quoted, gave the clear view, "Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports."
The Founders supported the public recognition of religion because religion and morality are, in Washington's words, the "firmest props of the duties of men and citizens." When Washington addressed the new Nation for the first time as President, he led the country in public prayer, something we have never failed to do since, and yet removed 40 years ago from our public classrooms.
Therefore, I submit to you today that we should not stand idly on issues of judicial nominations. The Framers of the Constitution feared tyranny from the judiciary more than from the other two branches. They placed deliberate limitations on the judiciary in order to ensure the integrity of the judicial system. As a result, the Federalist Papers reported that under their plan, "the Judiciary is beyond comparison the weakest of the three departments of power. . . . [and] the general liberty of the people can never be endangered from that quarter."
Would that be an agreed-to statement today? I think not.
It is our duty to ensure the legislative integrity of our culture. Indeed, it is written in the Constitution that to do anything less is to walk away from our responsibility to this Nation, a responsibility that was recognized and affirmed by our Founding Fathers.
Madam President, as we conclude on this side of the aisle for this 30-minute section, I would just note to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle that this is going to continue to be an issue. We will get these judges through at some point in time, whether it is this session or we have to go back to the public and have another vote in the 2004 election cycle.
This will be a front and center issue. As the courts and the culture are becoming increasingly tied together with the difficulties we have had in this society, this will be taken to the public. I do not doubt that this will be, if not the top issue, one of the top three issues. They are going to be out in the public. I think this is a bad idea policy-wise, what is taking place in the blockage of these judges. I think it is bad politics.
But this is going to take place and this fight will continue. If we do not get it done now, we will continue to press forward, and it will be taken into the election cycle, and we will let the American public look and see: Do they think this is the way judges should be handled by the Senate? As these calamities of judicial blockage keep mounting up, it will become clearer and clearer to the public what is taking place here.
This is a very important fight. It is one about which a lot of people care deeply. It is one that a lot of my-when people come up to me in Kansas and talk about issues, these are front and center issues they talk about. They are concerned about these issues and have been for some period of time. And they are wondering: What are you doing? What about this activist court? Why are you not getting these judges on through?
This is something that does touch the public. We can do it the way it should be done; we can get a clear vote up or down or we can take it back out to the public in the next election cycle. One way or the other, this is going to occur. And I would suggest that the best way for this society, the best way for this Government, the best way for this culture is for these to come forward here, be vigorously debated, and then voted on up or down. I think the public is now coming to a very strong point on this.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator's time has expired.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Thank you very much. I yield the floor.
