Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions - S.J. Res. 24
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 12, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Smith, and Mr. Santorum):
S.J. Res. 24. A joint resolution providing for the recognition of Jerusalem as the undivided capital of Israel before the United States recognizes a Palestinian state, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to introduce a joint resolution regarding the status of Jerusalem, and its potential in catapulting the Middle East Peace process forward.
Just prior to returning from the summer recess, I traveled to Israel for five days on one of the most important official trips I have made since coming to the Congress in 1994. I have been to Israel before, but this trip had a special meaning for me both in terms of who and what I saw.
I arrived in the aftermath of the bus bombing in Jerusalem that killed Yeshiva students going to the Wailing Wall. The same week I was there, Palestinian Prime Minister Abu Mazen lost a no confidence vote and conceded to a shake up of the Palestinian cabinet. A wave of Palestinian terrorism ensued and it appeared that no Palestinian leader, at that time, had the will or the desire to contain terrorism much less stamp it out so that President Bush's Roadmap for Peace could proceed.
On my way from the airport in Tel Aviv to the hotel in Jerusalem, I made a brief visit to a town called B'nei Berek, a small Orthodox suburb of Tel Aviv. B'nei Berek was established shortly after the founding of Israel. In the intervening 50 year period, this town has turned into a thriving city of over 200,000 people-a very special place for the Orthodox community in Israel.
While I was there I met with one of the most respected and senior Rabbis in Israel. This man lived in a very modest apartment on an average street, and you would never know that he was one of the most important theological scholars in Israel. His home was lined with volume after volume of theological text, but he spoke plainly and deliberately about the importance of his faith and the role of faith in the lives of the Jewish people. The history of the Jewish people seemed to be etched onto his face and into his eyes.
On this same trip I met with the Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom, Finance Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Former Israeli Defense Force General Ephraim Eitam and Ambassador John Wolf, who is charged with monitoring the implementation of commitments in the peace process.
One evening, I went on a tour of the Western Wall and the tunnels that run underneath the current level of buildings around the old city wall. The tour took over an hour and explored some of the most exciting history about Israel, Jerusalem and the Temple.
There is a point in the tunnels that leads to an old entrance into the old city that, if opened, would lead to a special place below where the Temple once stood. This place, I'm sure my colleagues as children in Sunday school learned, is called the Holy of Holies.
The Temple was built around this place, and it could not be entered except by the High Priest on Yom Kippur. It is the place, described in the Book of Genesis, where Abraham was to sacrifice his son Isaac. It is also the place where the Ark of the Covenant was kept. This was a unique experience.
Jerusalem is a special place. It is extremely important to the peace process. In my hand is the "Jerusalem Resolution," a proposition which I hope will propel the peace process forward by moving two big issues forward.
This resolution seeks to make it U.S. policy that prior to the recognition by the U.S. of a Palestinian State, the U.S. Embassy must be moved to Jerusalem and that Jerusalem be declared as the undivided capital of Israel. This resolution would establish an important, tangible asset on both sides for advancing the peace process.
For the past decade, we have attempted to forge a peace agreement between the Palestinians and Israelis on a design of land for peace. This model has failed. We should attempt a new way. If we address two major issues at the outset of vital interest to the ultimate desire for peace, we can help to create a powerful momentum for peace. This bill pushes for the resolution of the status of Jerusalem in conjunction with the recognition of a Palestinian state.
Jerusalem has been the capital of the Jewish people for three thousand years, and is the center of Jewish faith and culture. Jerusalem is the seat of Israel's Government, and is the only capital city designated by the host country in which the U.S. does not maintain an embassy nor recognize it as the capital.
In this resolution, three months prior to the recognition of a Palestinian state, the United States must move its embassy to Jerusalem and the status of Jerusalem must be resolved by the international recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital.
I hope that my colleagues will join me in my effort. The peace process is in need of a major paradigm shift. We can't continue to bog ourselves down in the mechanics of the process. We must think grand about this problem and move beyond the status quo.
This resolution is a challenge to this body to change its perspective on this issue. I hope in the coming months we can engage in serious debate over peace and the way toward it in the Middle East.
