Public Statements
Executive Session
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 12, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Mr. BROWNBACK. I want to follow up on a question by my colleague from Minnesota. I think this is the point. He points out that you have a couple of filibusters on major issues to change the country. The issues that were filibustered ultimately got through, and I believe these judges will ultimately get through when the public gets the RECORD and has a chance to read it. These issues were things that were changing the country-when you talk about the law, civil rights laws, things that were being brought forth. Isn't that what is really being addressed here today? We are not talking about 4 judges or 29 who are being blocked on circuit courts. This is really about a group trying to block a certain set of individuals who may, as some say, have deeply held beliefs being on the Federal bench and trying to purge that set of philosophies or thoughts from the Federal bench. Isn't this a much bigger issue than the appointees? Those law changes were bigger than filibustering one law. This is about the impact on all of society, on a whole culture.
Mr. HATCH. That is right. Frankly, yes. It is as important as these four and tomorrow's six. Next week, who knows how many nominees are being filibustered. It is demeaning to the Senate. It is detrimental to the country. It is detrimental to the judiciary. It is unfair to the President. It is unfair to these qualified nominees who have been rated so highly by the ABA-their gold standard, by the way, during the Clinton years. If you got a qualified rating from the ABA, that is all you needed, you should be confirmed. We did confirm 377 of them, the second highest total number of confirmations in the history of this country-Bill Clinton's judges. We did it because we were fair. We didn't filibuster those judges. Every one of them got a vote. It was 377 to 0. We didn't filibuster them.
For all I have heard from the other side-I heard some of the emotional remarks-I was the one, along with Senator Lott, who made sure we didn't filibuster their nominees. I don't think they are in a position to criticize me.
By the way, in the past, there were 11 Presidents' judicial nominees confirmed versus those who were filibustered, the past 11 is when the filibuster rule came into being in the current filibuster rule. We can go all the way back to the beginning of this country 214 years ago. We have never had a filibuster before these folks on the other side have been doing it this year, 2,372 judges have been confirmed to zero filibustered.
The history of the successful Senate filibuster, from July 4, 1789, to March 6, 2003, there is no question about the successful or unsuccessful because there were not any until March 6, 2003. March 2, to the present, we have had four so far as successful filibusters. We are apparently going to have two more tomorrow even though all six of these folks would win an up-or-down vote in the Senate.
One of the Senators said we are going to vote on these judges tomorrow. No, we are not going to vote on the judges. We will be voting granting the right to vote on these judges. Since only 41 Senators are necessary on this side to stop us from granting that right for these judges to have an up-or-down vote, there will be six of them tomorrow. I suppose when we go down the line there will be as many at 17.
Let me make a couple of other points that I think are important. Look at three of the President's nominees who have been accused by the Democrats of being out of the mainstream. They don't look to me like outside the mainstream. They have received overwhelming support in each of their home States. Apparently, these are not only a majority of the Members of the Senate outside the mainstream who support them but a vast majority of the citizens of California, Texas, and Alabama are all outside the mainstream, too, I guess.
Democrats seem very fond of their 268-to-4 chart and believe this number 168 of President Bush's judges who have been confirmed since he took office will distract people from the important fact that the Democrats have filibustered four appellate nominees, Miguel Estrada, Priscilla Owen, William Pryor, Charles Pickering, and now Janice Rogers Brown and Carolyn Kuhl for the first time in American history.
The point is that no raw number of confirmations means anything in and of itself while these unprecedented filibusters continue. While the number of filibusters as of today stands at four, Senate Democrats are virtually certain to add others to the list, including Janice Rogers Brown nominated to the District of Columbia Circuit and Judge Carolyn Kuhl nominated to the Ninth Circuit. That makes a total of six.
There are other filibuster targets on the horizon, a Fourth Circuit nominee Claude Allen and Terrence Boyle, North Carolina District Court nominee, James Dever and Bob Conrad. They are also potential for filibuster. These are just some of them who we have already been told will be filibustered.
That figure is extremely misleading, all the while more vacancies in our Federal courts continue to be classified as judicial emergencies.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I appreciate my colleague from South Carolina carrying the comments and the load for several hours in the early morning as we approach 4:15 in the morning. We are talking about something of great importance. He has real wisdom in his words, too, about the point that the process on which we are embarked has no upside to it. When you have good people, qualified people blocked from the Federal bench not by majority vote but by filibuster, you are headed down a bad path. This bad path doesn't have a good ending.
We will continue to have division in this body. I don't doubt we can be blocked on these for some time, but that is certainly going to carry over into the next election cycle, and this doesn't have an upside to it. Plus, we have good people waiting. We have people who are qualified and are not going to be serving on the Federal bench.
We have a lot of hurt feelings. We have a lot of accusations made without truth. We have harsh words, harsh comments, and that all leads to a downward cycle. There isn't an up cycle here.
I wish to take a few minutes to describe why I think we got to this point. We didn't used to be here. We have approved people of strong judicial opinions in recent times. They have generally been from the left, and those have been approved during the Clinton years.
Lord knows we are talking about circuit court nominees now. What if we got a Supreme Court nominee? Does the body get tied up for 2 years? We have actually had one Supreme Court Justice who has been filibustered in the past.
Why did we get to this point? It used to be if people had a litmus test on candidates, that was seen as a terrible thing and they were castigated. I don't know if the Presiding Officer or others remember when Ronald Reagan was accused of having a litmus test. That was just a horrible thing. His administration denied it. They didn't put forward people under a litmus test, and we were moving forward.
Now people are being subject to a litmus test. They are being blocked. They are qualified, and they are being stopped. How did we get to this point? I want to take a shot at that and develop it from the standpoint of a case that is currently before the Supreme Court. It is the case of Michael A. Newdow v. The U.S. Congress, United States of America, George W. Bush, President of the United States, State of California, Elk Grove Unified School District. That would be the operative group in the Newdow case, the flag suit case. It is the case most people are familiar with where the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals determined it was unconstitutional for our children in school to say the Pledge of Allegiance. The reason it is unconstitutional is because of something Dwight Eisenhower signed into law when he was President of the United States in 1954, and that is where the Congress of the United States added the phrase: "One Nation under God."
That phrase was so offensive to Mr. Newdow or his child who was in the school that he said: I can't stand this any longer. He was joined by some other people and took this case to the Court.
The Ninth Circuit said you are right. You should not have to. This is not right for our children to say one nation under God. That evoked quite a comment across the country. It evoked quite a comment by this body. I believe this body voted 99 to 0 to say that the flag salute is right; we should say this; it should be allowed by our children.
There were a lot of protestations and the people commented that it was terrible that the Ninth Circuit would be so out of whack, so lacking of mainstream thought, so out of context and touch with the American public that they would rule against something that 98 percent of the American public is for, the flag salute.
The problem with the public outpouring on Newdow and the problem facing the Supreme Court now on this Newdow case is that they were following precedence being developed over a period of 40 years, that the Supreme Court, circuit courts, and others had been working for a period of 40 years to remove the recognition of a higher moral authority from the public square. They were saying this is something we do not want in the public square.
It started in 1962 that these series of cases is built upon. In 1962, Engel v. Vitale was the case that really started this whole string going. That was when our children were allowed to say a prayer at the beginning of the schoolday, and Engel v. Vitale said that was unconstitutional. It was followed by School District of Abington Township v. Schempp. There the Court held that the Bible readings in public school also violated the first amendment. It was followed, in 1992, by Lee v. Weisman, a case about prayer that was being held at a graduation exercise. The Court held that was unconstitutional. It was followed, in 2000, by Santa Fe Independent School District v. Doe where prayer was being removed from being said at a football game. That is followed by the Newdow case now before the Court. I predict it will be followed by a case that will call for this body to remove "In God we trust" off the mantle that is here. I predict it will be followed by a case that will call on us to remove off of our money any reference to a higher moral authority, "In God we trust" being taken off of the back of the one dollar bill. It will follow, follow, follow.
Well, people do not agree with that. Massive amounts of people in this country do not agree with that. People have mounted up now. Actually, some people do agree. Some people say, yes, we should remove the recognition of some higher moral authority, of God, from the public square. So we are engaged in this great ideological fight.
I contend that this battle, this fight, of blocking these justices started about 40 years ago. Some of us participating in this form of debate feel as if the last couple of days have been along that 40-year line. What we are seeing is the courts injecting itself here into a societal issue that many people feel deeply about and immersing itself in this. Then both sides get fired up and we get good people such as Charles Pickering and Priscilla Owen and others-particularly a guy like Charles Pickering. He is probably the most instructive of the cases here.
We have gone through ad nauseam his qualifications, but I want to make this point of him: First in his law school class, highest rating by Martindale Hubbell, unanimously approved by the Senate for a district court judge in 1990, affirmed on appeals 99.5 percent of the time, reversed only 26 times out of approximately 5,300 cases, received the ABA, the American Bar Association, highest rating, well qualified.
So what is the problem with this picture? Mr. Pickering was president of the Southern Baptist Convention for Mississippi, so he is a man of faith. As such, when we have these 40 years of cases coming up that say we have to remove God from the public square and run into a guy such as Charles Pickering who says, I will uphold the law-and he has upheld the law because, if he had not, he would have been overturned many more times-he says I will uphold the law but I really think this line of cases and some of these discovered rights the court has done in just these last 40 years, I think they are wrong personally. I disagree with these. I will uphold the cases. But they run into people who are saying we are trying to remove God from the public square and we are going to try to remove people who believe in God from serving in the public square.
You run into this clash, and you get this great clash in the civilization and you get this great clash in the culture. Now you have the courts injecting themselves in a great culture conflict that we are involved in in this country today. One of the key division issues in our country today is issues of culture. People ask what is that?
Culture, it is difficult to say what that is, but people are concerned about it. There is not a company in this country that is not deeply concerned about its corporate culture. There is not a family in this country who is not concerned about its family's culture. There is now in the country itself concern about what its culture is going to be.
The central issue is, are you going to recognize a higher moral authority or not? Is the motto "in God we trust" true or not? You get a guy qualified such as this who would say, yes, that motto is true. I believe it to be true. I will uphold the laws as ruled to date, but I do believe this motto is true. And it runs right smack into this series of cases and we are going to see it front and center again in Newdow. We will see it again and again.
That is the problem actually with this, because it divides us on something that should not. It divides us on something that should unite us. It divides us in a way that I do not think is healthy for the country. I do not think this is good at all. I think it divides us on something that as a policy matter is not good and that is why I think it is also bad politics when this happens. I think bad policy is bad politics. That is why we have this level of fighting today. That is why I am speaking on the floor of the Senate at about 4:30 in the morning.
We are going to continue to have this fight. Regardless of the vote that we take later this morning, how it takes place, probably really regardless of the dispensation of these four and future ones coming on, this is the cultural clash that we have. It is not healthy but it is going to continue.
Mr. SANTORUM. Would the Senator from Kansas yield for a question?
Mr. BROWNBACK. I would be happy to yield for a question.
Mr. SANTORUM. Mr. President, the Senator from Kansas points out that Judge Pickering, who is a sitting Federal court judge right now, was affirmed in 99.5 percent of his cases. What I have heard from the other side is that we do not want these judges out of the mainstream being nominated.
Now, would the Senator from Kansas say that someone who has been affirmed or not appealed in 99.5 percent of the cases since he has been on the Federal court is someone out of the mainstream?
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, the number speaks for itself. Absolutely, this is a mainstream judge. When you get approved on that percentage of your cases that you have ruled on-remember, this is at the district court level, so he is both finding fact and applying law. You have to be a really good judge, if you are going to be upheld by people reviewing you 99.5 percent of the time on both facts, that means there is wisdom there, and law, which means he is applying it correctly.
Mr. SANTORUM. I would ask the Senator from Kansas if he would look at maybe what the Senator from New York, Mr. Schumer, said yesterday he considers a mainstream judge. He referenced the Ninth Circuit and some of the judges that President Clinton nominated and were unanimously supported by Members on the other side of the aisle, a judge such as Richard Paez who was involved in the case the Senator just spoke of, the "under God" case in the pledge, who went in and tried to hold up the California election, ruled unconstitutional the California three strikes and you are out. This is a man that has been overturned-in fact the Ninth Circuit, with a majority of Democrat nominees, has been overturned more than any other circuit.
Is that group of judges mainstream in the Senator's opinion?
Mr. BROWNBACK. It is not mainstream.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I have been listening, and I think the Senator from Pennsylvania puts forward a brilliant and eloquent argument, and it gets to the nub of what we are talking about instead of the areas. It is in this last 4-year time period that a constitutional right to privacy has been discovered and which has spawned a series of cases. This is done by the Court. The Court has discovered this, and the Court has done this.
Let me ask a simple question: Has the U.S. Supreme Court ever been wrong?
Mr. SANTORUM. You would think from the debate here that this right to privacy, that has now been established as this incredibly well thought out and documented thing, is wholly supported within this document. I have folks on my side of the aisle-I always think of the former Senator from Washington, Slade Gorton, who is for abortion rights who thought Roe v. Wade was one of the worst legal decisions he had ever seen. So many people who are for abortion rights, who would have voted as a legislator to allow the legalization of abortion, saw this judicial construction or deconstruction of the Constitution as an abomination to our legal system.
Has that ever happened before? Obviously, the Senator from Kansas is referring to some of the cases such as Plessy v. Ferguson where the Court looked at this Constitution and said: You know, equality really doesn't mean equality. The words here aren't exactly what we think they are, and you can be separate and equal. Or we can go back to Dred Scott. They looked at this Constitution and said: You know, equal doesn't mean equal. This rash of cases we have seen where the courts have just decided to take these hallowed words and twist them into the culture of the day, this is not a new thing in America; unfortunately, it is a very old thing in America.
The Court in Dred Scott said: Yes, people have rights and people should be treated equally, but-I think of "Animal Farm"-some people are more equal than others. Some people have more rights than others. In the case of the slave, they really don't have much in the way of rights at all.
We look back at those cases now with disgust, but judges found in this incredible document the right to do incredible harm to this country-incredible harm-and, in many cases, with complicity from the Senate, for it is we who are the guardians of this document because we put these judges in these places. So it is an important responsibility.
That is why this debate is so important. That is why we shouldn't be watching "The Bachelor." We should be watching out for the future of this country.
In my next block of time in the next hour, the Senator from Kansas and I are going to talk about this right to privacy, this line of cases that has tried to erase God from the public memory and consciousness, all instigated by judges who would find wide praise and admiration on the other side of the aisle, who would be called mainstream judges-mainstream judges who are striking at the heart of this document.
What is a mainstream judge? Let's understand it. A mainstream judge says God has no place in the public square. That is a mainstream judge.
A mainstream judge says you have the right as an individual to have dominion over somebody else and terminate their life if you want to. That is a mainstream judge.
A mainstream judge says we are going to take the institution of marriage and corrupt it, deconstruct it, tear it apart, put it back together to mean nothing. It means any two people for any reason who want to get together should be recognized as married, irrespective of who they are. It has nothing to do with fathers and mothers and having children. What does that have to do with marriage? That is a mainstream judge.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. It is what I am saying. And it is bad that we are seeing this route taking place. This is going to lead us down a bad road. We are already started down the road.
Now we appoint legislators for life with superpowers, and we are unable to pull them out other than maybe for moral turpitude. You have people who become-in essence, they can almost be dictatorial or tyrannical, and they are appointed for life. That is why so many people are so passionate about what takes place on the bench today, because now you have a superlegislator who does not answer to the public. It starts to get irritating to a lot of people.
This is not the way we should be going. We should be backing up and saying these are three coequal branches of government with different jobs-not legislators each, but a legislative and executive and a judicial branch. This is the problem.
If we keep going down this trail, and you have to examine political philosophy because judges can write laws or you can discover rights, including rights of privacy in the Constitution, and what other rights can you discover in the Constitution, and it will be important to know the political philosophy. Say we get one or two Supreme Court nominees to come up. Now we have somebody such that we are looking at a superlegislator for life in the highest court of the land who can, with a couple of other people, rewrite this document-not just legislate but rewrite the constitutional document. That is why we have the huge fights on this floor.
We used to say in the past-thanks to the question my colleague raised, we say, I disagree with the philosophy of Ruth Bader Ginsburg, I disagree with the philosophy of someone else, but they said they would uphold the law. They are confined, as I am as a legislator, with a set of power and authority. I do not agree philosophically, but they are qualified and will do a good job and I don't have a good reason to vote against them.
Mr. SANTORUM. This gets to the heart of this 168-to-4 number. The vast majority of the 168 are at the district court level, trial court level.
What the Senator from Kansas is saying-and I want to make it clear-the district court judges, by and large, do not make law. They are trying cases. Appellate court judges, we have seen now in recent years, have begun to take on the mantle of legislator in making law, and therefore all of the nominees who are being blocked on that side are these quasi-legislative-type judges.
The Senator is suggesting the superlegislator is the Supreme Court. So if we are in for filibusters for appellate courts, can anyone imagine what a Supreme Court nominee fight will look like in the Senate now versus 20 or 30 years ago?
Mr. BROWNBACK. Absolutely. That is the point. We will be in such a mammoth fight and engaging the entire country with this, how will you ever get that person through?
It does go to this constitutional case that is being considered by the Supreme Court now on the flag salute, "One Nation under God." Here was a continuation of the discovered set of laws that somehow discovered that our kids cannot say our flag salute, "One Nation Under God." Ninety percent plus of the public is for the flag salute. I am confident that percentage is ahead of that. In this body, there is outrage. And the Ninth Circuit, in a consistent opinion with 40 years of discovery law, says: No, you cannot do that.
So now you put somebody in a legislative role-circuit court, lifetime appointment, cannot remove them-and the Ninth Circuit, which gets overturned all the time-as a group of legislators they get overturned all the time by the Supreme Court. Now, say you get a Supreme Court position that opens. They are not going to get overturned by anyone. And you get people fearful of the tyranny of the judiciary which the Founding Fathers were fearful of themselves. They wanted the judiciary to be the most limited because they have the lifetime appointments. They have a pretty big set of powers. They feared tyranny could become an issue because it was a lifetime appointment and was not subject to the checks and balances of the people.
People check and balance everyone in this body. But do they check and balance the judiciary? Where is the populace's ability to check and balance? That is why this is an important debate and why so many are concerned.
What we should be doing is backing up and saying, no, this is about the strict construction of the documents that pass through the legislative bodies that are in the Constitution that go through an extraordinary process. Where, as the Senator from Pennsylvania pointed out, the Supreme Court discovers a new right in this Constitution, if we had written that in there, it would have taken a vote of two-thirds of this body, three-fourths of the States, to become law. This is a big, lengthy process and, as such, we have a limited number of constitutional amendments, as it should be. It is a strong document, standing over two centuries, and yet a court can discover this.
We should back up and stand on the issue of, this should be about strict construction of what is taking place. This is a very important key fight to have.
With that, I yield the floor. There are several other Members who seek to speak.
