Public Statements
Tribute to Dr. S. King Sanders
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 7, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

TRIBUTE TO DR. S. KING SANDERS
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to honor Dr. S. King Sanders, who passed away October 30, 2003. I hope my colleagues will join me in expressing condolences to his family in this great loss.
King Sanders left a worthy and memorable legacy for his wife, Rose; his children, Courtney and Michael, and other family members and friends to remember him by. He was a vocational Christian minister for 30 years, working as a director of missions and then a pastor in New Mexico for 20 of those years. During the last 14 years of his life, King also worked in the public policy arena. He served as liaison to the New Mexico legislature on behalf of that State's Baptist convention for eight years. Beginning in 1997, he worked here in Washington for the Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention.
His behind-the-scenes work in our Nation's Capital supported the efforts of the ERLC and others to make this country all it should be. He used his abilities and position in the effort to protect all human life, from conception to natural death. King worked to help expand religious freedom to all people in this country and around the world. He was concerned about marriages and families, and sought to strengthen them and protect them from the ravages of harmful forces in our culture. He also worked earnestly to motivate citizens to become more involved in the political process.
For King, relationships were foremost. He loved people and served them in many ways. He constantly expressed concern for others, even in the midst of the health problems that plagued him near the end of his life. His love for others and his concern for their welfare were based on his relationship with God by faith in Jesus Christ.
King Sanders was the best of what this country is all about. He wanted America to be a great force for good in the world, and he wanted the lives of Americans to be blessed. All who knew him will miss him, and we pay tribute to his influential life and legacy.
I yield the floor.
