Public Statements
Hearing Subcommittee on Science, Technology and Space of the House Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 6, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Federal News Service
HEADLINE: HEARING SUBCOMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND SPACE OF THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE AND TRANSPORTATION

SUBJECT: LUNAR EXPLORATION

CHAIRED BY: SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS)

LOCATION: 253 RUSSELL HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
WITNESSES:

HARRISON H. SCHMITT, CHAIRMAN, INTERLUNE-INTERMARS INITIATIVE, INC.;

J. ROGER P. ANGEL, PH.D., CENTER FOR ASTRONOMICAL ADAPTIVE OPTICS, UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA, STEWARD OBSERVATORY;

DAVID R. CRISWELL, PH.D., DIRECTOR, INSTITUTE FOR SPACE SYSTEMS OPERATIONS, UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON;

PAUL D. SPUDIS, PH.D., VISITING SCIENTIST, LUNAR AND PLANETARY INSTITUTE, HOUSTON, TX

BODY:
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): The committee will come to order. I appreciate everybody being here today. There are kind of the building blocks that we need to move Congress forward on what's our vision and how we are going to move forward in space exploration. We've been holding a series of hearings on this topic. We held one a week or two ago about the International Space Station. We're holding this one on lunar space exploration. We will hold continued hearings in the future about where the United States should be going in space. We are a space-faring nation. We will be in the future. We need to do it in both manned and unmanned missions. But right now, we're a bit lost in space and not sure of the vision, where we're going and we need to reestablish what that vision is and what it's going to be.
Through these hearings, I hope to educate myself, educate some people and Congress as well, what are the options, what are the costs, what are the risks and where should we go. I think it's of vital importance that we do this for our future generations and for ourselves. There are young men and women in Pittsburg, Kansas that are in a dream. Unless we put a grand vision in front of them, I fear for their destinies and what they're going to seek in their own lives to be able to move forward. And I think it's very, very important for us that we have a vision, we move forward aggressively and we help the young people in our country and help us all but move us forward with a vision that's exciting, that's mobilizing and that stirs the soul. And I think we are on that task to see where and how we can get that done.
The country is at a critical juncture. We must decide as a nation what the vision for space exploration should be, which is why we've called this hearing today. We want to examine the options before us, missions to the moon, missions to Mars, International Space Station and the space shuttle. All these are options presently before us. What we need to do now is evaluate our options and embrace a vision. I made it known over the past several months that I want this subcommittee to explore new visions for our space agency.
To that end, we're here today to hear testimony from our distinguished panel on lunar exploration and what value it may serve our nation to venture back for military, commercial and discovery purposes. I hope our witnesses will share with us their ideas for a national vision. I don't know for sure what our national vision should be but the best way I've heard it stated so far is that we must dominate the Earth-moon-Mars orbit for commercial, exploration and military purposes. I hope that today's hearing will help bring focus to that idea.
In the 1960s, we had a goal of getting a man on the moon and returning him safely to Earth and that served as an inspiration to so many across the nation. Today I'm afraid that America is lacking a similar vision. I'd like to see the U.S. embrace the idea of dominating the Earth, moon and Mars orbit. I think this is a goal that Americans can grasp onto. It gives industry a destination on which to focus. It gives government a goal to attain and it gives you the hope of someday reaching Mars and beyond.
I'm honored to have such a distinguished panel of experts here today and I look forward to their testimony and hear their thoughts and visions for lunar exploration. I'd like to welcome back former Senator Jack Schmitt. Not only has Senator Schmitt served this nation in Congress, he has also served our nation as one of the last astronauts to walk on the moon during Apollo 17. He is chairman of the InterLune-InterMars Initiative Incorporated.
Joining him at the table is Dr. David Criswell, director of the Institute for Space System Operations in Houston, Texas along with Dr. Roger Angel, director of the Center for Astronomical Adaptive Optics at the University of Arizona and Dr. Paul Spudis, visiting scientist with the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston, Texas. All these gentlemen are distinguished in their accomplishments in the space field and I look forward to hearing their testimony this afternoon.
And with that, Dr. Schmitt, Senator Schmitt, we'll start with your testimony.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: By the way, I was on Fox News Sunday with Tony Snow, and I laid out this theory, and he was quite intrigued with it. Senator Schmitt, you might want to follow up with that. Thank you very much, Astronaut Nelson, along with the senator, brings a lot of expertise to this that's deeply appreciated. Let me first, there's testimony I have from the TransOrbital, they weren't able to have a witness here today, but asked unanimous consent that it be place in the record, and there's no objection to doing that.
Tutor me, gentlemen. I've got some questions and I want to understand some items. I want to start with Dr. Spudis if I could. You say we can go back to the moon with current technology, using even the space shuttle or its technology, to get back. And you can do it within a period of five to seven years, is that right?
MR. SPUDIS: That's my belief, yes, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Now, what do you base that on?
MR. SPUDIS: Well, fundamentally, there's no magic involved here. We know what's involved in going back to the moon. It involves building vehicles that can transfer between orbits, from low-Earth orbit to lunar transfer orbit and then down the lunar surface. It involves rocket technology that's fairly much off the shelf. It's merely a matter of getting the mass and the engines and the propellant in the right place at the right time. The reason I emphasize using existing facilities is because they're adequate. We have a lot of money invested in shuttle and shuttle infrastructure, and there's no reason why that infrastructure cannot be used to build the launch systems that we want to --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let me get on to this third point. Can we use the space shuttle craft to go back to the moon?
MR. SPUDIS: In part, yes, sir. You can use the shuttle to launch components, but also, you can use the existing Expendable Launch Vehicles to do it. But in more than that, you can take shuttle parts and build an unmanned heavy lift vehicle with them. There was a concept NASA had a few years ago called Shuttle C, which basically took used Shuttle Main Engines and the external tank and the solid rocket stack and basically attached it to a big cargo carrier. And that can put between 16, 17 metric tons in the low-Earth orbit. So in fact, we have a heavy lift vehicle right now.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Can you use the shuttle space craft itself to take humans back to the moon?
MR. SPUDIS: You couldn't take the whole-it wouldn't be cost effective or smart to fly the whole shuttle to the moon, because a lot of the mass, the airframe of the shuttle, is specifically related to the reentry, the wings and the thermal protection system. What you would do, is you would use the shuttle to ferry the crews back and forth to low-Earth orbit just as they do now with the space station. You would build a separate vehicle based on shuttle and station derived hardware to go to the moon.
SEN. BROWNBACK: From low-Earth orbit?
MR. SPUDIS: From low-Earth orbit.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Do you think that's a better route to go than to just go back to the Apollo type of design where you're launching from the Earth and heading to the moon?
MR. SPUDIS: I do because the power design was a magnificent machine, but it was specifically designed as one off. Each mission was a set of equipment that was designed to transport one crew to the surface and back and then that equipment was thrown away. If you look in the Air and Space Museum down the street, there's the Apollo 11 command module. That's the only thing that came back from the 360 foot high Apollo 5 stack, Saturn V stack. What's more, Saturn V lifted 100 metric tons to low-Earth orbit, the problem was, it's a very expensive vehicle on a recurring basis, because parts of it were literally hand made. And what we need to do is use equipment that we can reuse. That's where we're really going to make space flight more routine and more common, is to reuse equipment and not throw it away after one use.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But a shuttle is enormously expensive.
MR. SPUDIS: It is. And we're spending that money whether the shuttle is flying or not. The shuttle is expensive right now, even though it's sitting on the ground down at the Cape. And what I'm trying to look at is a way to use the existing infrastructure in which there is a very large capital investment, down at Cape Kennedy, to basically build rockets and a transport system that will allow us to do this. Now there are other ways to approach this. You can imagine an architecture in the attachment you have, Dr. Stone's Shackleton Expedition. He looks at using commercial launch vehicles, and concludes that you can do this all with expendable launch vehicles. So the reason you use heavy lift, is to get big chunks in orbit at once. There's no reason why you can't assemble it in smaller pieces brought up by existing smaller launch vehicles.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You mention about a Lois and Clark type of mission. And several of you mentioned this about getting the private sector involved and I know some people in the audience that have talked about getting the private sector much more involved. How do we do that? Should we be contracting with people in the private sector, saying we want you to do the moon trip, what do you bid it at? And doing this on a private sector bidding it out basis? And run by the private sector?
MR. SPUDIS: Well, there is a lot of possibilities. I've always thought that the purpose of federal involvement in space exploration is to do the high risk developmental things that private industry won't invest in. But once that's done, once the technology is demonstrated, you should turn it over to private sector activity. To give you an example, the commercial launch industry in this country puts into geo-synchronous orbit a mass equivalent to an Apollo launch every year. Now that industry did not exist 40 years ago, and largely it was created on the technology base that came from Apollo. So in that sense, you always have the private sector following governmental activity. But there are other more innovative ways you can look at it.
One thing you might consider is to establish a joint program office that would have direct authority from the executives to implement a specific plan to return to the moon. That would involve various federal agencies such as NASA, the Defense Department, the Department of Energy and then that could also partner with private sector entities as well, so there are a lot of innovative ways to look at managing this more than just making this a NASA program.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yeah. That's an interesting point. Dr. Criswell, you mentioned that Europe, India, Japan and China all have robotic missions to the moon in some stage right now?
MR. CRISWELL: That's correct. Right now, the Europeans are actually en route to the moon with a mission called SMART-1 that was launched about a month ago, and it's using solar electric propulsion so it's going to take about 18 months to get to the moon. It uses a very low-thrust, high-ISP engine that loops around the Earth multiple times and gradually reaches the moon. Japan has two lunar missions in the works that I am aware of.
One is actually a set of two penetraters that will hard land into the moon and search for seismic evidence for a lunar core. The other one is a large spacecraft, a two ton spacecraft that will do remote sensing from orbit. The Indians have announced that they are planning to send a lunar orbiter in 2008 and I read reports that the Chinese are not only planning to send orbiters and landers but they are also looking at architectures designed to send people to the moon as well.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And what timeframe on the Chinese?
MR. CRISWELL: I'm-it's very vague, but my understanding, they talk about robotic missions within the next few years and they certainly talk about human missions within a decade.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Dr. Angel. You're on-the telescopes on the moon that you talked about.
Where does this rank in the astronomy community for as far as their depth of support and interest in putting telescopes on the moon? Is this their top-would this be a top priority item? Is this one of those, well, if you've got the money it would be nice to do? Where does this rank in their interest for exploration and research purposes?
DR. ANGEL: I think there's a lot of enthusiasm for building telescopes and looking beyond what we're now engaged in, which is the James Webb telescope. I would say that the idea of going to the moon is a new on and I think the thinking up to now has been more to go to the same remote places that we put telescopes that don't need servicing. So I think the astronomy community-I'm a bit ahead of them in looking out at what would do --
SEN. BROWNBACK: You mean they haven't been looking at it because they just didn't see this as a feasible thing that we would even consider doing?
DR. ANGEL: I think there's always a second guessing about what you think NASA is going to be interested in supporting and it's certainly true for the last decade that NASA has not encouraged thinking about the moon as a site for astronomy or that kind of development.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But very kindly.
DR. ANGEL: But I've tried to take the problem ab initio and say well, what's it really like there? And I think that the hurdle has been that telescopes on the moon do have to work in the presence of gravity. And if you're fighting that, it makes it harder. So other being equal, if you can figure out how to get the manned support for a big telescope somewhere else, maybe you would prefer that. But if there are-if there's a strong interest in a base on the moon, and I subscribe to a lot of the views here-then if that were there, and it were at the South Pole, then I think astronomical potential there is very high.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And the support from the community would be very high at that point in time if this is seen as a real possibility?
DR. ANGEL: I think the nervousness in the community is to be the tail on a very big dog. So if you put all your eggs into putting your big telescope on the moon, you've joined something of enormous-an enormous enterprise over which you have very little influence. So again, it's back to this issue of is there a commitment to sustain this kind of effort, because there are less ambitious ways that you could get at least some of your astronomy done and feel that it was more in your control. So I think if one felt that this was really going to happen, there was really going to be a base, then I think there would be enormous enthusiasm to do things there. But if you feel you're going to go down a few years down this road and then it's abandoned and you've basically set back your effort that you might have gone in another direction.
SEN. BROWNBACK: By what sort of factor over the Hubble Space Telescope could we learn and see things from telescopes on the moon. Is this is the sort of thing that, okay, we're going to be able to get 20 percent better reach, we're going to be able to get 30 percent better definition, or are we talking of multiples here, if you have telescopes properly placed on the moon?
DR. ANGEL: Well, the number that I'd looked at, I'd looked at the sensitivity of the James Webb telescope, which is a 6 meter telescope that we're now engaged in. If we put a 20 meter telescope on the south pole of the moon, and there are two things that let you see deeper and further and fainter. One is a bigger aperture, and that makes a sharper image, collects more light, and the other is just to wait for an enormously long time, which is what the Hubble, in looking at its very deep views of the universe, collected light for a couple of weeks on the same patch of sky.
If you're at the south pole of the moon, you can look 24 hours a day for years at the same patch, and if you do that you can see even 100 times fainter than the Webb telescope. So it's a very specialized job, right? We're just drilling into the universe in one patch, go as deep as you can. That's what it would take to see these first stars. So this is not just a small increment on what all the plans at the moment, which go as far as the web telescope-we could go a lot deeper if we made this observatory and used it for a long time.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Whoever wants to take this question, I would appreciate you jumping in or maybe a couple of you would. There's a lot of discussion about going to Mars. Dr. Spudis, you addressed a portion of that in your testimony. And I think there's some thinking that you go to the moon to get to Mars. Address this issue for me. Are these exclusive matters? Given likely budgetary constraints, that you pick either the moon or Mars? Or is the moon essential to making it to Mars, and learning what's-give me your thoughts about how this ties in with a Mars mission.
MR. SPUDIS: Well, the way I see is that what you want to do on the moon is to learn how to use off-planet resources. And if you can do that, you've not only opened up the way to Mars, you've opened up the way to anywhere else you want to go. Effectively, by making propellant on the moon, making commodities you need to support human life, you've basically created the ability to move throughout the Earth-moon system, throughout the system of lunar space. And if you can do that, certainly that propellant can be used to send future missions to Mars, so it's not really a diversion, it's more-I consider it more of an enabling technology.
Right now, to go to Mars would require an amazing amount of money, probably an amount of investment that this country is not willing to put up. But more than that, I think that you need to gather more experience and space. You need to gather experience in planetary service operations, in using resources, and in actually building an infrastructure, so that's the value of going to the moon relative to a Mars mission. If you go to the moon and do this, you will automatically make it easier to go to Mars in the future.
MR. SCHMITT: Mr. Chairman.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Senator?
MR. SCHMITT: It's not an accident that our umbrella little corporate entity is called InterLune-InterMars, because we think that the cheapest and probably the fastest way to get human beings to Mars and begin the exploration and settlement of that planet is by way of the moon through commercial development of the technology base that's necessary to go to the moon and to extract its resources. And the reason I say that is that if you can get investors to bear the capital burden of that development, then the price to the government or other entity that decides that it wants to fund a mission to Mars is significantly less. In addition, the development of this particular type of fusion technology has a very, very clear application to interplanetary propulsion systems through which you can accelerate and decelerate continuously and change the dynamics of actually performing Mars exploration.
But in contrast to what Dr. Spudis has said, we feel if you're going to depend primarily on a commercial endeavor, then you're going to have to have a rocket system that, through mass production, through long-term production contracts, better put, reaches a cost, payload cost to lunar injection of about $2,000 a kilogram or less. And we've done some business modeling studies at the University of Wisconsin, the business school there, and right now it looks like we've got to get down into that range. We don't think shuttle derived hardware can do that, we don't think the government can do that. It's going to take, I think, the initiative and the constraints of a commercial enterprise to drive those costs to that level. We would look at an upgraded Saturn V, call it a Saturn VI, as sort of a baseline system to evaluate and then to compare other systems to, because it was a very successful technology and it's a technology that would benefit from long-term production contracts, as well as from modernized manufacturing and design systems.
With respect to the role a government could play in all of this to facilitate it and to make investors more comfortable, we have more recently been looking at encouraging the government, NASA maybe in particular, to take on in this field an NACA-like responsibility. That's the National Advisory Committee on Aeronautics, that was the precursor to NASA, and during the last century had so much to do with enabling the development of the technologies that ultimately became the foundations of the commercial aircraft industry.
That model is a very good model for certain things, and we think it could be utilized as a way to attack and accelerate technologies development that would be necessary for commercial enterprises in space across the board, not just those enterprises going to the moon. But as a partnership with government, we think that would be a very, very difficult managerial nut to crack, frankly. And either you need NASA or a new agency to take this on or you need to be primarily looking at investors to take it on. I don't think there's a good middle ground.
We've looked at that, evaluated it, and it looks like a very, very tough role to hold.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, Dr. Spudis suggested that one of the routes might be an interagency operation. I think if I get your testimony correct, it's that it might be done by a group because you have military objectives, exploration objectives, research, commercial objectives. And you'd be going across a number of different agencies to do this project.
MR. SCHMITT: I think there's a lot of history, Mr. Chairman, to say that those kinds of endeavors don't work very well. They're very, very hard to manage, and it's probably better to see that there's a central focus, either within the private sector or within the government, for the development of the capability. And then that capability is utilized independently by other entities. As a matter of fact, if we go back in history President Eisenhower debated with himself whether or not there would be a NASA or whether missile development would be spread-concentrated missile development within one agency or it would be spread out between several agencies.
And he decided on the latter, and I think it has been to the benefit, although not without its problems, been to the gross benefit-the general benefit of the rocket technologies, with the Air Force, the Navy and the Army, were left with separate responsibilities in the development of rocket systems, and would-because they had very special applications of those rocket systems. If it had all been concentrated in one agency in the Department of Defense then I think there probably never would have been a NASA, for one thing.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Dr. Criswell, did you have anything else that you wanted to add to any of your testimony or any of these questions?
MR. CRISWELL: Yes, the statement's often made in the literature that we have major sources of fossil fuel that can last for centuries. And that is true, but what you usually don't hear is the flip side of that statement, that the majority of people in the world will stay dirt poor. Right now, a billion people are rich with energy, the other five or not. In 2050, a billion people will be rich with energy, probably not as many in this country as there are now or in the OECD, but nine billion people will be poor.
I've looked at, identified 33 options that could bring the world up to the minimum level of energy use, about 2 kilowatts electric per person, by 2050, that can get the cost low enough that the five to nine billion people could afford it, that would be clean, that would be independent of the biosphere, that used technologies that you can understand now. And I've only identified one, and that's this lunar option. It was an unusual career path that I took out of Rice, where I did my Ph.D., back when Apollo was just starting.
And for the first seven years at the Lunar Science Institute I managed the first 3,500 proposals submitted to NASA for lunar science. That was a full peer review activity, and a lot of scientists there depended on the data and the samples brought back by Dr. Schmitt. We don't usually realize that the U.S. and the world has invested over $1 billion already in understanding what we did on the moon, the samples and the environment since then.
We, as a nation, have expended almost $650 billion on our civilian space program. World technology relevant to the lunar solar power system is basically electronics, and that's been the major source of wealth for this nation, if not for the world, for the past 30 years. We have all the pieces to do this, we could get through the R&D phase for about 0.8 percent per year for the next six years of our gross product. We could get through the full implementation phase in 35 years for 0.25 percent of our present gross national product.
That could lead to a factor of 10 increase in gross world product, it could remove from Earth the need to fight wars over scarce energy resources and to have independent control of those energy sources so that they do not pollute the biosphere. Essentially by establishing the production of new wealth on the moon through the commodities. Making up commodities to do the things I'm talking about, you change the future of the human race.
SEN. BROWNBACK: A powerful statement, and very interesting.
Gentlemen, thank you very much for joining me here today and for building this record up about returning to the moon. I think we're at an exciting time, where we're at a key moment where things like this are being reviewed for real possibility and sustainability. I'm very aware of the stop and start nature that we've been going over the past two decades in space programs, and we can't afford to do that one again. And this has to be a vision that's sustainable, that's real, that has buy-in from the American public, that is sufficient to lift the soul, and so that's why we're spending this time, to let us chew through this a step of a time, and what's really something that can work.
I appreciate very much your expertise and your sharing of it. The hearing's adjourned.
