Public Statements
Declaring Emporia, Kansas, to be the Founding City of the Veterans Day Holiday
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 31, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

DECLARING EMPORIA, KANSAS, TO BE THE FOUNDING CITY OF THE VETERANS DAY HOLIDAY
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I wish to recognize the city of Emporia, KS, for its significant role in the establishment of Veterans Day. The people of Emporia take great pride in their city's contribution to the founding of this national holiday, and, while they may be modest, I would like to trumpet the work of my fellow Kansans.
As all of us in this Chamber are aware, Veterans Day was once Armistice Day, a day set apart by this Congress to commemorate the end of World War I, which our Nation once hoped would be "the war to end all wars." Just a few years after Armistice Day was made a legal holiday, our Nation was engulfed in the Second World War. Shortly thereafter our soldiers were fighting bravely to repel the communist advance on the Koran Peninsula. These two conflicts added millions to the number of war veterans in the United States. Certainly, it seemed appropriate that these new veterans, like the veterans of World War I, should be honored for their service to our country.
The man who initiated the effort to honor all of these veterans was a Kansan. Congressman Ed Rees, a native of Emporia, acted on the call of his constituents, particularly that of his fellow Emporian, Alvin J. King, to introduce legislation to officially change Armistice Day to Veterans Day. In 1954, another Kansan, President Dwight D. Eisenhower, signed this legislation into law.
Since 1954, Veterans Day has been a day set apart to honor the valor and sacrifice of all America's veterans. At all times our Nation relies on the courage and selflessness of the members of our Armed Forces, so I am thankful that Congressman Ed Rees, at the behest of his fellow Emporians, worked so diligently to establish one special day when all our veterans are recognized for their faithful service to the United States. I thank the people of Emporia, and I thank the millions of war veterans who inspired them.
