Public Statements
Brownback Stresses Importance of Universal Service
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 30, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today participated in a Senate Commerce Committee hearing to discuss Universal Service reform. A portion of his statement follows.
"Ensuring that all of my constituents have access to affordable, reliable telephone service is a top priority. Ensuring that my constituents have access to new services and capabilities, such as Broadband, just like their urban counterparts, is a top priority. Ensuring that the private sector can innovate, compete, and make the investments needed to make these services available and help to grow our economy is a top priority. All of these issues are coming to a head in the context of Universal Service reform.
"Kansas contains an amazing mix of service providers that are affected by how we may change Universal Service. Sprint and SBC together serve the majority of rural communities in Kansas. In addition, Kansas is fortunate to have some of the most enterprising and aggressive small and independent local exchange carriers serving rural communities. It is my hope that this mix of interests can serve as a platform for cooperation as we seek to revise Universal Service.
"I look forward to working with my colleagues in earnest on discovering and implementing comprehensive Universal Service reform, including contribution and distribution methodologies, as well as ensuring competition and Universal Service are no longer at odds with each other.
"There is some sentiment that Universal Service reform should be incremental, so it can be modified as we continue the migration to digital technologies and services. I have at times pursued some of that incrementalism: I have cosponsored Senator Burns' cap legislation, as well as legislation introduced by Senator Smith to reform the non-rural portion of Universal Service. These are important issues, but there are many important issues existing within the subject of Universal Service reform. The all deserve comprehensive treatment, as well as some specific direction from Congress to the FCC on how to achieve successful, lasting reform."
