Public Statements
Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2004-Resumed
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 30, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

FOREIGN OPERATIONS, EXPORT FINANCING, AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2004-RESUMED
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I would like to speak in opposition to the Feinstein amendment. I have deep respect for Senator Feinstein. I have worked with her on a number of issues. I respect her thinking process, her compassion, and her view. However, on this issue, I have to differ with her, and I wanted to articulate several reasons why.
No. 1, we have voted on this issue already. This issue came up earlier when we had the debate on the major initiative put forward by the administration on HIV/AIDS. This was a major issue of debate at that point in time when we were trying to get the authorizing piece of this bill through. This is the appropriations piece. But when we were trying to get the authorizing piece of the bill through, we had a major debate about this.
We had a number of people here at that time talking with us about the role of abstinence. The leading country that has been successful in the major area where we are targeting our efforts in the HIV/AIDS pandemic has been Uganda. The Ugandan model is ABC, and it leads with abstinence. The day of the vote on this, we had the First Lady of Uganda here speaking with a number of us, talking about the central role of abstinence and the historic drop in the level of HIV/AIDS that had taken place in their country.
These are very impressive numbers, best of any country around the world that has had the high infection rates. Their infection rate dropped from 21 percent to 7 percent in just 9 years. She was saying specifically it was the abstinence portion. It was the abstinence focus.
If you want to stop the spread of AIDS, the best way to do it is abstinence. She was here and speaking to us with great clarity about that issue.
We had the debate, and we voted at that point in time with a majority saying we want a certain amount of money to go for the abstinence program.
I have great respect for the Senator from California. The Feinstein amendment would take money away from the abstinence focus in this program. In effect, she would open it up to more areas and dilute the abstinence base funding so that it will be reduced. In effect, we will be changing the course we set in the authorizing language: that we want a certain amount of money, about a third of this pool, to go to abstinence, and we would be changing course and reducing that level from the authorizing language.
The administration and the Ambassador for Global AIDS Coordination, Ambassador Tobias, has written to the Senate Foreign Operations chairman, Senator McConnell, in strong opposition to this amendment. He says in his final paragraph:
Finally, the effect of this amendment would be to decrease the amount that could be spent on abstinence-until-marriage programs as a prevention model, and I believe that would not be in the interest of best public health practice.
This is the person implementing this legislation, the amount of funding we are putting forward. He thinks the money targeted by the authorizing committee is appropriate and best suited for us to meet the objectives.
Mr. President, my objective is to reduce AIDS infections around the world, and the best model is Uganda. It has gone from 21 percent to 7 percent and the lead program they did it with was abstinence. We have a proven model. We voted on this previously. I urge my colleagues, with all due respect to the Senator from the State of California, not to change minds on this issue but, rather, to stay with what we already discussed and decided on and stay with the funding levels we currently have.
I reserve the remainder of my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, responding to the good Senator from California, I note the abstinence funding is only 33 percent of the bill. The remaining two-thirds of the money can be used in other models other than the abstinence model. There are other funds in the bill that can't be used for other types of treatment, but we set aside a certain portion for the abstinence model because it has proven to be so effective.
The other point the Senator from California mentions is flexibility. Ambassador Tobias, who runs the global AIDS program, is opposed to this amendment because it restricts his flexibility. I quote from the letter he sent to the appropriations chairman:
Given the various cultures, traditions, and religions that are reflected in the global HIV/AIDS epidemic, it is essential that we be enabled to work with multiple prevention approaches and partners to affect behavior change. Restricting such flexibility, as this Amendment intends, would undermine our ability. . . .
I urge a vote against the Feinstein amendment.
