Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 29, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Federal News Service
HEADLINE: HEARING OF THE SENATE COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE

SUBJECT: THE FUTURE OF NASA

CHAIRED BY: SENATOR JOHN MCCAIN (R-AZ)

WITNESSES PANEL I:

SEAN O'KEEFE, ADMINISTRATOR, NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION;

ADMIRAL HAROLD GEHMAN, USN (RET.), CHAIRMAN, COLUMBIA ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION BOARD;

PANEL II:

DR. WESLEY HUNTRESS, DIRECTOR, GEOPHYSICAL LABORATORY, CARNEGIE INSTITUTION OF WASHINGTON;

DR. ROBERT ZUBRIN, PRESIDENT, MARS SOCIETY;

DR. DAVID WOODS, PROFESSOR, INSTITUTE FOR ERGONOMICS, THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY;

RICHARD TUMLINSON, CO-FOUNDER, SPACE FRONTIER FOUNDATION

LOCATION: 253 RUSSELL SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
BODY:
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): I will. Thank you for the hearing. I just want to make one note on it. I've had a number of meetings with Mr. O'Keefe and I appreciate it, I think you're doing a good job. I think the whole issue now cries out for a national vision and us to step back. The questions about the Orbital Space Plane I think really we should be stepping back and questioning and holding it up until we establish a national vision of where we want to go in manned space flight and how we're going to do it. And that's what I'm going to be pressing for in a commission or other means.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and Administrator, Admiral, thank you for being here. I've got a chart that I want to put up and make a point with it and ask first to Admiral, you, about this, because I think you alluded to it in some of your comments. We've had five starts and stops within the last number of years costing what I total up about $5 billion in starts and stops on various types of replacements for space shuttle of trying to get things to move forward.
It's part of my concern right now with going forward with the Orbital Space Plane, when we're not exactly sure what all this is going to be about, that we would have a similar sort of thing. We would start, we'd spend a couple of billion dollars and not have the vision or zest to move this on forward. I would ask you, and then I want to ask Mr. O'Keefe if I could as well, how can we go about establishing this national vision that will have sufficient buy in by the public and zest that would keep us from doing a sixth one of these and spending a few billion dollars to do that?
ADM. GEHMAN: Well, Senator, I know that Senator Hollings has proposed a national space commission probably to get at some of these issues. I would offer, I would offer-and this is in response also to a comment that Senator McCain made earlier, and your comment about the zest. My board studied Columbia and the space shuttle program all the way back to the Nixon years in which they designed the shuttle, in order to understand how we got to where we are today.
And in the course of that study we became convinced how difficult it is to get in to and out of low Earth orbit. It is extraordinarily dangerous, and very difficult to do. And unfortunately I think that one of the missions and goals of however we achieve this national consensus is going to have to be to convince the American taxpayers and the Congress of the United States that whereas it's not very jazzy and not very exciting just to get in to and out of low Earth orbit, we have to do it.
And we have to do it more safely than, you know, 49 out of 50 times. That's not good enough. Ten years from now I anticipate us going in to and out of low Earth orbit every month or every week. So we have to have some way of doing it reliably and safely and inexpensively. No matter what your vision is for human space flight, whether it's Mars or the L2 or the moon or whatever it is, it starts in low Earth orbit. It doesn't start on the surface of the Earth. We don't have enough-we have no possible way to harness enough energy to put big things all the way to Mars from the surface of the Earth. It'll start from low Earth orbit.
So we really do need to perfect getting in to and out of low Earth orbit reliably. And in our report we went and looked at these things, and they essentially failed for two reasons. One was, as Mr. O'Keefe has said several times, they depended upon some kind of a giant technological leap to happen during the course of the program. Those giant technological leaps don't happen like that. They are developed by robust research and development programs or the Congress of the United States got disenchanted when they started to go overrun, they cost more, they were behind schedule and they were costing billions, and finally OMB-either the White House, OMB or the Congress said, cease and desist.
Well, unfortunately that's the nature of what we're doing here. So my answer is based on our study of how we got to where we are today in the shuttle program, and of those three things is we need some leadership to say just getting into and out low-Earth orbit is a goal worthy of itself, without killing a lot of people. And that's hard to argue because it isn't very jazzy.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Excuse me, Mr. O'Keefe, because I have sensed your frustration for some period of time on this discussion of vision and said, yeah, it's great but how do we get there? We've got to get Project Prometheus that you're working on of greater power generation, you've got to get into low-Earth space orbit. As a policymaker, I look at issues that I try to take to the public and I say, you've got to have the vision. And you're saying you've got to have the technology to do the vision. How can we marry those up so that we don't get these unsustainable types of projects? And we've seen also visions articulated that we haven't fulfilled.
A prior press has said, let's go to Mars, and it sounded great and we didn't do it. I mean, there's got to be a thread and some learning that we can take from all of these things, because I don't think-I think without a vision you don't get there. Without a vision, the people do perish on the way. We also have to have a tie to that technology and a national buy-in that sustains it. Your thoughts on how we can tie the vision and the technological ability.
MR. O'KEEFE: I think you put your finger right to it, Senator. This is the source of the frustration. And it really has to be done in tandem. The call for a national debate or a national commission or whatever in and of itself is laudable, no question. But it has to have some focus, some agenda, some specific approach to it that says, let's look at how you develop a consensus for not only the vision but the means to get there.
Because you're right, during the course of our history, of recent history, last couple of decades, we've done all kinds of effort to look at establishing very, very lofty goals and never attaining it because the technology wasn't developed to achieve it. Or, we have focused extensively on a number of those failed programs, which all required an invention to happen. They were dependent upon some suspension of the law of physics or something in order to make it possible.
So the approach that we're right on the verge of, and I think we're really converging nicely, is not only an approach that we've advocated of develop a technology based on what you know you can achieve, and with a lot of push you have to stretch the edge of in order to make it really perform to its maximum extent, and to develop the means to articulate a vision, which again, I think several members have all discussed here as requiring of national focus, and then asking potentially, as both you and Senator Hollings have proposed, the notion of a commission to look at that specific agenda, look at that specific focus, and validate it, modify it, amend it, do whatever's appropriate in order to achieve that goal. That could be substantial progress that has defied us for the last three decades, and that would be an incredible achievement if we could do that. I think we're very much on the verge of doing just that.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: If we could have the panelists retake their seats I would appreciate that, so we could have a discussion and move forward. Sorry about the vote that took place in the middle of the discussion. Thank you all for being willing to stay here. I thought during your presentations and quick questioning with the chairman this was just too rich of a panel to let pass, and so I appreciate your willingness to let us go vote so we could come back and have a discussion.
Dr. Zubrin, I was very taken by your comments and the way you put this forward in a fairly straightforward technological manner that we could go to Mars now. You've put this forward I'm sure previously, what have the people, either the contractors or the people at NASA, said in response to your pretty direct, straightforward way of how we could get to Mars?
MR. ZUBRIN: Well, what happened was this. The plan that I was describing to you is known as the Mars Direct Plan. And it was developed at the Martin company by a team of engineers led by me, I was at the Martin company in the early '90s, in response to the excessively complex and costly Space Exploration Initiative 90-day report that was causing Congress to reject the Space Exploration Initiative of 1989-90 timeframe.
SEN. BROWNBACK: The Mars mission then?
MR. ZUBRIN: The previous president George Bush called for humans to --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Right.
MR. ZUBRIN: Okay. And NASA came up with this incredible 30-year plan to build giant orbiting space stations, to build giant orbiting space ships to get to Mars in 30 years, and the cost estimate ran into several hundred billion dollars and Congress said, we're out of here, okay? So at the Martin company a number of us engineers convinced management that an alternative plan had to be developed that was more practical if there was to be any program. And they gave us a green light and we did, and then we went and presented it at various NASA centers.
Now, the plan --
SEN. BROWNBACK: What was the cost of your plan that you came up with?
MR. ZUBRIN: The cost estimates at that time ranged in the neighborhood of $30 billion for development to then recurring mission costs on the order of $2 to $3 billion after you the hardware set. Now, we presented it to NASA originally in '90 at various NASA centers. It became immediately controversial. A lot of people in NASA supported it, some opposed it, especially people associated with the space station program who felt we were de-justifying their program because we didn't make use of the space station.
However, it got around and eventually I was invited to brief Michael Griffin, who was the associate administrator for exploration that came in around '91 or so. And he became a supporter of the plan. He briefed Goldin, who became supportive in vaguer terms. They had me go back to JSC with-and they telling everybody to listen so they listened, and then they came up with their own version of the plan which was somewhat modified, it was expanded.
They went --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Who came up with this?
MR. ZUBRIN: Johnson Space Center. The human exploration team there, which at that time was led by people like Mike Duke, Dave Weaver, John Connolly. Anyway, I could give you some more names, Hum Mandell. Anyway, these folks, they said, look, we like your principles, okay? No on-orbit assembly, direct launch to Mars, use of Martian resources starting on the very first mission, long duration stays on Mars starting the very first mission, which helps the plan, it actually lowers propulsion requirements to do it that way. Okay, but we've got to design it ourselves to see that the numbers work.
Now, they went and they designed and expanded of the plan. It had a larger crew, they had a crew of six, I had recommended a crew of four. They had bigger vehicles, they had more equipment, but it was basically-and they needed three heavy-lift launchers per mission instead of my two. So I called their plan the semi-direct plan. But be that as it may, they then went and did a cost estimate, okay? And this was the same group that had costed out the 90-day report at $400 billion. They costed out their expanded version of Mars Direct at $55 billion.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is that publicly available, that proposal?
MR. ZUBRIN: You could probably get it. Some of these guys are gone, but for instance John Connolly, Johnson Space Center is still there, and they did write up this report, they called it a design reference mission. Hum Mandell is no longer at JSC, but I think he's at the governor's office or something in Texas. I'm sure these people can dig up these reports.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But, I mean did they file a report that would be publicly such that I could access that report?
MR. ZUBRIN: I believe there was a report written by the Government Printing Office. Now, the fact is that by the time they came out with this there was a new administration which was not favorable to human Mars exploration and it was kind of like, you know, put it on the back shelf and don't make a big deal about this, because we're not doing this. But the report's available, I believe the Government Printing Office did do a printing of what they call their design reference mission. And I think you can get it.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Why not go to the moon again, in testing your model and design of what you're talking about? I mean, on a much closer in scale? Or does that model not work?
MR. ZUBRIN: Okay. If you do Mars in the way that I've recommended, you can use a subset of the hardware to also do the moon. And in that context it is rational as a milestone exercise within the mission plan to do a mission to the moon, perhaps six years into the program on your way to Mars, just as in Apollo before we actually landed the astronauts on the moon we flew the Apollo hardware in Earth orbit and then in lunar orbit before we committed it to a lunar landing.
But you don't want to design a separate lunar program. You don't want to go to the moon with the idea of, we're going to the moon and trust us, this hardware will probably be handy when you want to go to Mars. Because then you get into a thing like the space station. So you design for Mars, okay, and you design the hardware set in a modular way that a subset of it can also do the moon, and then in that context you can do the moon and the moon can be done as an ancillary part of the Mars program and even give you an early milestone within the program.
So I think that's a good way to proceed, but you don't want to just make a moon program as a thing in itself.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Dr. Huntress, there's a lot of vision capacity in going back to the moon. There's a great vision capacity going to Mars. I think a number of people technologically feel like we're too-it's to difficult to go to Mars today, or too expensive, given the earlier attempt. Or that this is a vision that a president previously had tried and it didn't sustain itself. The vision of going to the moon sustained itself amongst the American public and so woe be to a member of Congress that would vote against monies to go to the moon when the public was really sold on this concept. Could we present that and sell that to the public, to go back to the moon?
MR. HUNTRESS: I think it would be more difficult to sell going back to the moon to the public than going to Mars. There's going to be a been there, done that sort of a thing, and what are we going to do that's new?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, let me answer your own question then. What would we learn going back to the moon that's new, that's useful scientifically?
MR. HUNTRESS: There are some scientifically useful things that we could learn from the moon. We can sort through the layers of the moon to learn about the history of asteroid fluxes on the Earth. The moon is a witness plate that preserves its record of asteroid impact. So we could understand the impact flux on our planet much better by doing that. We could also do something very similar looking at implanted solar wind that would tell us about the history of the sun and how the sun has helped or not to create a habitable planet for us.
We can learn about the Earth moon history, how this twin planet system developed. Those are geological kinds of explorations. We could use the back side of the moon for radio telescopes, because it's in radio silence on the other side of the Earth. So there are good scientific reasons to go back to the moon. But science is not why we send human beings into the solar system. Science benefits, we can do scientific exploration, but the reason we send humans instead of robots is because of sociological reasons.
It's because that's what we want to do. Because we want humans to explore, and society regards our robotic program as a prelude, in fact, to sending human beings.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Tumlinson, I've met with a number of individuals that have talked along the lines of what you have, that we need to get more of the commercial sector involved of this. And they've talked for various reasons, but they've talked about the engine that that is in this country and always has been, of a great engine. But one of them was saying in particular that our vision that we could and should step towards now would be the dominance of Earth moon orbit. The dominance of this region that the Earth and the moon inhabit.
And dominate it for exploration and research and sociological, but also for commercial, strategic and military purposes. What do you think of that as a national vision? The dominance of Earth moon orbit for those various component reasons?
MR. TUMLINSON: Well, again, I go back to my near frontier, far frontier model there. And I frankly believe that the dominant forces between the Earth the moon, especially as we get closer to Leo, should now become more and more the private sector domination of that area. We're seeing lots of uses that are occurring, we're seeing the development of these transportation systems, these sub-orbital, what some people call space tourism vehicles, those types of things into that area. think when we start looking at the expansion of our society, literally the expansion up into the air and beyond, what we have to do is again look at our terrestrial model and the role that our government plays here on Earth.
What I would like to see up there is-the government's role would be the tax incentives. You'll have a military role because I frankly don't see the United States military letting a lot of people do a lot of activities in space unless they can bring them down whenever they want to frankly. I think that we would see a coastguard function provided by the government out there and those types of activities. But I also see this in partnership with that high goal of, shall we say, going to Mars.
The going to Mars is like the fancy Chrysler sports car that draws you into the dealership and there you end up buying the smaller vehicle for yourself. In other words, people --
SEN. BROWNBACK: You get it thrown in for the-this is part of the project of going to Mars is to get the moon.
MR. TUMLINSON: It's a duality and I think the cost of going to Mars can be lowered by bringing in the private sector to handle that Earth to LEO function. You know, in the old days, up until now, NASA astronauts began their missions on the Earth and that's where they began. I believe now that NASA begins its mission in LEO and then from LEO down, we can begin handing that off to the private sector.
You know, rather than driving their cars to the space ports, they can take private sector transportation to LEO.
SEN. BROWNBACK: How many companies, credible companies-"credible" keyword-could jump in if we said today, we want a contract with a credible company to take this exploration device to the moon and set it there?
MR. TUMLINSON: Depends on how big a device you're talking about and depends on the price to put it there. I was the founder of a company called LunaCorp. We were looking at lunar rovers that we're going to try and put on the moon. Commercially, the moon is at the edge of what I call the giggle factor. That's when you start getting laughed out of the room when you're talking to investors. But it's right on the edge and companies like RadioShack and others actually seriously looked at lunar activities. I think lunar orbiting activities could be contracted out to-there are a lot of-several small companies that could take a shot at that and those types of --
SEN. BROWNBACK: What short of price range would we be talking about? We want a contract to have you put something in orbit around the moon.
MR. TUMLINSON: I would hesitate to guess on that one. I think that it's much lower than a NASA-owned and operated system and you could competitively bid that or you could also combine that with prizes, sets of prizes for showing that you could land something on the moon.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Like the Lindbergh.
MR. TUMLINSON: Lindbergh Prize, exactly. There are models out there now of prizes inspiring people and starting a lot of people up. But I do want to point out that there are at least a half-dozen companies right now looking at carrying paying passengers to Low Earth Orbit and they are funded, real companies.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I had a hearing of private commercial companies doing this, a couple of the entrepreneurs here testifying. So yes they are and they've got real dollars and they're looking at the old barnstorming model, as you somewhat point out. We started commercial aviation barnstorming, just a guy going up and coming into town and saying I'll give you a ride in the airplane for five bucks and that's kind of started the commercial industry. And it was-they're saying we think that space can go some of the same way.
MR. TUMLINSON: Now I can tell you too, sir, that in their hearts, their end results, their end goal is very much like Bob's and I, which is human settlement. These are people who grew up in the '60s and '70s watching Apollo, Star Trek and Star Wars. They made their money in the dot.com, survived the meltdown and now they're out there wanting to do something big and give back to civilization. And this is the entry level sort of market that they can see as a way of participating. But again, it's a dual thing. The big goal and then the operational activities.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Dr. Zubrin, in your testimony, you were very passionate but you also were mad. You're mad we haven't done this or that this vision has been stolen from a generation.
MR. ZUBRIN: I guess you could say that. You know, I was 17 when we landed on the moon and if you had told me then that, you know, 34 years later humans would not be doing anything beyond lower Earth orbit, that we wouldn't even be established on the moon, that we wouldn't have already gone to Mars. You know, NASA's plans in 1969 were for humans to Mars by 1981.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is that right?
MR. ZUBRIN: Yes. Take a look at the report of the Space Task Group that was done for the Nixon administration in 1969. It's humans to Mars by 1981 and they could have if they had been allowed to continue. We had a --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Why weren't they allowed to continue then?
MR. ZUBRIN: The Nixon administration turned their back on the whole Apollo vision. It was not invented here. It's like Columbus coming back from the New World and Ferdinand and Isabella saying, "Ah so what, forget it. Burn the ships." Okay. That's what has happened in this country and we should have been on Mars by 1981. We should have had a Mars base by the early 1990s. First children born on Mars should be entering school right about now.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You have no questions that technologically, we've got the capacity. We had the capacity then and we clearly have it now to do this.
MR. ZUBRIN: Yes. Okay. There's various pieces of hardware that need to be developed and it can be developed. I mean, we're not talking here about Los Alamos 1943 where we're doing a scientific adventure into unknown realms of physics and we have no idea what we're about to encounter. We understand how to do space engineering. This is a question of brass tacks engineering. We've got to do it right. It's a lot of hard work. Okay. But we can do it.
And, you know that also I might say that I believe this is doable within roughly the existing NASA budget. You're going to have to reprioritize that budget, okay, within the context of an overall plan that guides expenditures to be spent on the hardware elements to implement your plan. Okay? But that's what you can do. You spent what? Four billion, five billion a year on the shuttle flights back and forth to Earth orbit up and down. You could get a lot of hardware for that and indeed, within 10 years, you could build the hardware required to be flying humans to the moon and Mars and the near Earth asteroids with a common set of hardware.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Are we learning much in the International Space Station?
MR. ZUBRIN: We're learning some things but in a lot of cases, we're solving the wrong problems. And once again, this is a product of the constituency-driven mode of operation that we have. The right way to go to Mars is with artificial gravity.
Artificial gravity will get rid of all these loss of bone and musculature and all these problems that you have with zero gravity because human organisms evolved in gravity and we're not adapted to this. However, because the NASA space medicine research community is heavily dominated by zero gravity health researchers, that's what gets funded. NASA has not even funded in its entire history a single artificial gravity mini-satellite with mice in it or something, which would be an easy thing to do and would cost $30 million, I don't know, nothing.
Okay? So we're doing extended research on the effects of zero gravity which is not the right way to go to Mars. Certainly, you know, any space mission and certainly space station missions included, you get some experience. Use the learning process, you're learning how to do things. You get some lessons but if somebody was to say, Okay, look, here's $40 billion. Do humans to Mars. Within the context of that program, I would not be taking this amount of money and spending it on a space station and space station operations for several decades. I might do something like take-have a module, launch it into lower Earth orbit, shake it down there, you know, test it out and get some experience with it in lower Earth orbit as part of my program.
But the idea of making Earth orbital operations the centerpiece of the American, virtually the world space program at this point for several decades, I think is wrong. You know, in Apollo, we knew where we were going. We went to the moon. There were some things to be done in Earth orbit. So we built the Skylab and as an afterthought, we decided to launch the space station in the afternoon and we did that as long as it was interesting to us which was three missions, okay, about over a little year, a little more. I think it would have been worth saving Skylab and there's things you can learn in lower Earth orbit.
But I think it is-I mean, imagine if Prince Henry the Navigator, the guy who initiated the European age of explorations. We're going to do maritime exploration. Instead of sending ships down the coast of Africa, you know, further and further and further, he devoted his program to sending ships 100 miles to sea and have them sit there and watch the health effects on the sailors. That is the space program that we have now, watching the health effects on the sailors. The purpose of space ships is to actually travel across space and go to new worlds, not to hang out in space and observe the health effects from doing so. And that's what we're doing wrong.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, and it struck me when you said-you described a period of Apollo and then the period afterwards.
That's exactly the case, that we're without a vision. And instead of us driving it as policy makers in setting vision, we're kind of well, okay, what do you want, and looking at it, let me think about, okay, well, we'll give you $10 billion instead of $12 billion, and that's been the extent of the-not completely, and that's very oversimplified, but that's been somewhat the discussion for the last decade or so.
And it does rob a society of vision, and I've looked and studied. Some in past societies, when you take that vision that really pushes them out there sociologically, mentally, their soul, pushes it out there. When you take that away and you pull it back in, it has a detrimental effect on the society, on the whole of society. It has a detrimental effect on the culture.
Conversely, you put an aggressive mission out there that you think is really going-this is going to stretch us, and this is going to challenge us, and the people that are doing this, that are going to go on this Mars mission are virtuous heroes. That stretches a society. I think that's why China went into space, to stretch the society, as much if not more than anything else, and we've got to constantly stretch. But I don't feel like we've got a vision right now that stretches as much.
MR. ZUBRIN: It has a tremendously positive effect on levels of society. Most notable among the youth. During the '60s, the number science graduates in this country doubled at every level. High school, college, Ph.D. And if people ask what's the payback, what do we get paid back from Apollo? Teflon? Who cares. What we got paid back for were millions of scientists, engineers, doctors, medical researches, inventors. Who are the people who created the economic boom of the 1990s, these 40 year old techno billionaires who built Silicon Valley.
These are the 12 year olds of the 1960s paying back huge, big time, to the economy. To national defense, to all this stuff. Advancing the human condition. Medical cures. The intellectual capital is the wealth of the nation, and the way you get that is by inspiring people with a vision, something that they can do with their lives by developing their minds, and this would be tremendously valuable to the country if we were to do this.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I've learnt in my time in public life that a big part of my job is inspiring. Probably the biggest part of it. And you can speak to the body or you can speak to the soul, and the body generally likes safer confines and the soul likes to be yearned forward and pushed, and it's a far more powerful thing, the soul, than the body. Thank you, you've been very instructional and educational. I appreciate it greatly. The hearing is adjourned.
