Public Statements
Panel I of a Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 28, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Federal News Service
HEADLINE: PANEL I OF A HEARING OF THE SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE

SUBJECT: IRAN, SECURITY THREATS & U.S. POLICY

CHAIR: SENATOR RICHARD LUGAR (R-IN)

LOCATION: 216 HART SENATE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.
WITNESSES: RICHARD ARMITAGE, DEPUTY SECRETARY OF STATE
BODY:
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you, Mr. Armitage, really for your wisdom and your insightfulness, and your great knowledge, and your years of service. It's quite instructive. Your answers really give us a lot of history and a lot of knowledge.
I also want to congratulate you. The president had a great trip into Asia last week on the issues dealing with North Korea and building that broad coalition on issues of proliferation (surrounding ?) North Korea. Hats off. I mean, that's a-that's a tough issue to pull together, and you guys really seem like you're getting it moving in a nice fashion.
I would say, maybe contrary to some others, on Israel, it looks to me like you're doing what you can in a very difficult situation where you have heightened terrorist attacks taking place on the people of Israel that seek to live in peace in the region, and that's-that's just a very difficult situation. I'm not sure if this model of land for peace that we've been on for now 10, 15 years, I'm not sure that that's the right model to move us towards peace, but that's a discussion for another day.
And I also want to congratulate you on the Sudan, what's taking place there, where you're very close, it appears, to be-to getting a peace on a war that's taken a couple of million lives and that's been going on for more than 10 years. And where you've got religious factions in each area, where you're pretty close to getting that done, which would be a remarkable thing in the region and in the world. So, you've got a number of things taking place.
On Iran, I've tracked the Iranian activity and terrorist activity for at least the period of time I've been in the Senate, traveled throughout Central Asia mid-'90s, late-'90s, and the Iranians were very active in spreading terrorist cells up in that region at that time and continue to be. I would go into a number of countries coming out from the former Soviet Union that had an Islamic, significant Islamic population, if not majority, and they were citing-they were citing to the Iranians and the Saudis as planting community centers, mosques there, which were fine by them, but then out of that would come a radical element that would be organized, and they've been at this for some period of time and continue to be.
There are a number of Iranian democracy advocates in this country and around the world-I've worked with a good portion of them. They would note very clearly, Teheran is not a democracy. You've got a ruling guardian council that has to-all the candidates have to go through. You have a-in essence, a religious ruler over the country. They support a referendum on Iranian governance and what's taking place within the Iranian society, and you're hearing more and more calls for that within Iranian society.
I would hope that we could support as well that call for a referendum within the Iranian society and note clearly Iran is not a democracy. We believe in democracy and human rights, and I would-I would hope you could speak to that on support for a referendum internally, by the Iranian people, on the future of Iranian-Iranian governance.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
SEN. BROWNBACK: We do know that Iran is a lead sponsor of terrorism --
MR. ARMITAGE: The leading --
SEN. BROWNBACK: -- the leading sponsor of terrorism, and you know, which I found interesting, that that's an aberration from historic Iranian, Persian society. So, that's really with the mullahs that they have decided to go this route, and that's something we stand abhorrent-we find abhorrent and just stand completely against.
MR. ARMITAGE: Yes sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I would also note there's a number of outside Iranians broadcasting inside and into Iran that are having their signals jammed at times, that the regime-I hope the State Department and our governmental apparatus are working with them to try to stop the places where that signal is getting jammed and help them, because it strikes me that one of the key things we can and should provide is information. And that information helps provide an organizational flow internally in Iran, where they can't communicate. I've seen and heard of some of these operations where they're getting calls from inside Tehran to a radio station in the U.S. or another place, of here's where we can organize to talk about right now and then broadcasting it back into Iran because they can't internally organize with disruption, violation of human rights, or risking, really, life and limb themselves. I would hope we could help more with that broadcasting and communication ability inside Iran.
MR. ARMITAGE: My understanding is that-I won't go through the complete laundry list of what we as a government broadcast, but it's VOA-I saw some of the correspondents here. They've got the next chapter, roundtable with youth, all these kinds of things, that we send in Radio Farda, which is 24/7, a mixture of news, music, pop, you know, to kind of keep people interested. The question of private groups broadcasting in, I think our preference on that is on a case- by-case basis we will support, under the MEPI, getting that information in. I'm not expert in these matters, but I know at one time years ago with VOA, we had to be very careful about who was broadcasting in to whatever country, and who might be broadcasting for diaspora in our country. And there were at least regulations, and I believe rules, about that. So, I got the message, and I'll look into it for you and respond.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I appreciate it, because to me Iran is a critical country in that region, where we're, you know, on a stated policy of trying to drain this swamp and to provide open and free societies that can grow and prosper, and you've got one here that has an economy that's less than it was during the period of the Shah, over what -- 25 -- nearly 25 years ago, and, you know, clearly I think Iran will make a vibrant, open, democratic society with quite a contribution to the world once it throws off the tyranny that sits on top of it. And, I hope we can be as supportive as possible in that process.
Mr. Chairman, thank you.
