Public Statements
Designating October 27, 2003, as "International Religious Freedom Day"
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 23, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

DESIGNATING OCTOBER 27, 2003, AS "INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS FREEDOM DAY"
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to urge my colleagues and the American people to seriously consider the state of religious freedom around the globe.
Exactly 5 years ago we passed groundbreaking legislation aimed at combating international religious persecution. The International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 only established the U.S. Commission on Religious Freedom and the International Religious Freedom Office at the Department of State, but it brought the issue of the religious persecution to the forefront of foreign policy initiatives. Religious persecution remains one of the leading violations of human rights in our world today. It is particularly important that on the 5 year anniversary of the passage of this bill, we remind the world of our commitment to promote religious liberty for all people.
This Nation, founded by those seeking to adopt, believe, worship, observe, teach, and practice their religion, has declared in the first amendment that, "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof . . ." And over time, the United States was joined by other countries in signing numerous declaration and international agreements specifically acknowledging the universal human right to freedom of religion.
Despite the great achievements we have made concerning religious liberty, we can not close the book on the millions that still suffer persecution. I remind my colleagues that persecution often includes imprisonment, torture, forced conversion, rape and even death. In Vietnam, Christians are forced to drink the blood of animals and denounce their faith. In Uzbekistan, Muslims who do not conform to the government-prescribed ideas are imprisoned and often tortured. Thousands of religious minorities in India have been killed by extremist majority groups because of their faith. We continue to hear stories from China, North Korea, Sudan, Indonesia, Laos, Pakistan, Turkmenistan, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Burma, Tibet, and the list goes on.
The people of Afghanistan and Iraq are currently faced with the challenge of incorporating religious freedom into the drafting of their new constitutions. As I have said before, religious freedom is the bedrock upon which democracy, hope and progress rest. Additionally, religious freedom is more than just the ability to practice one's faith, but it is central to other rights and freedoms, including a free press, public assembly, freedom of speech or the right to petition the government. All of these freedoms will be circumscribed if religious freedom is not part of the new constitutions being drafted in Afghanistan and Iraq. The time is ripe to unite and continue our work on behalf of the millions that have endured their own plight from religious persecution.
As we remember our victory 5 years ago, let us not forget the crucial work on religious liberty that remains at the forefront of foreign policy today. I hope that this resolution calling for the designation of "International Religious Freedom Day" on October 27, 2003 can be quickly considered and approved by my colleagues.
