Public Statements
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Iraq and Afghanistan Security and Reconstruction Act, 2004
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 17, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN SECURITY AND RECONSTRUCTION ACT, 2004
AMENDMENT NO. 1885, AS MODIFIED
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I call up amendment No. 1885, as modified, and ask for its immediate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report.
The assistant legislative clerk read as follows:
The Senator from Kansas [Mr. Brownback] proposes an amendment numbered 1885, as modified.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I ask unanimous consent the reading of the amendment be dispensed with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To reduce the amount appropriated for reconstruction in Iraq by $600,000,000 and to increase the amount available to the Iraqi Civil Defense Corps by $50,000,000, the amount available for Afghanistan by $400,000,000, and the amount available for Liberia)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, this is a very simple, straightforward amendment. It does some of what the House has done. I will explain this briefly because I think most of the people are knowledgeable of these particular issues.
What we do with this particular amendment is rescind $600 million from nonsecurity accounts혰none of the security money, all nonsecurity grant funding혰that is not immediately necessary for reconstruction. It prohibits projects such as memorials, athletic committees, solid waste removal, catchup business training, telephone/postal company, housing. It would limit some of the petroleum product imports. That is where we take the funds from.
The resulting savings would be reallocated to a couple of areas혰enhancing security efforts in Iraq, where we would put $50 million above the President's request for the Iraq civil defense corps. It would, too, bolster funding for reconstruction of Afghanistan. There we put $400 million into Afghanistan. We take the funds there and reallocate them into Afghanistan, into a series of areas that are high priority.
I think it is important to remember we invaded and fought to remove terrorists in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is somewhat the forgotten child. We have not put nearly the resources forward that resource-poor country needs. This is in line with some of the thinking and the actions the House took.
We also put a portion of resources into the United States Emergency Fund For Complex Foreign Crises, increasing this account to $250 million혰80 percent of which, or $200 million, will go to Liberia, earmarked for humanitarian relief and reconstruction in Liberia. I think colleagues are well familiar with what is taking place in that country.
So we have taken $600 million from nonsecurity accounts, key areas a lot of people identified as areas that may be useful to fund but not high priorities, not things into which we need to put these emergency funds, and shifted them into Afghanistan, Liberia, and $50 million to increase the civil defense in Iraq. This is what is going to help us bring our troops home faster, the faster we stand up an Iraqi military and paramilitary force.
It is pretty straightforward. This is a Brownback-Leahy amendment. It is a bipartisan amendment a number of my colleagues are supporting. I ask for favorable consideration.
I do ask for the yeas and nays.
