Public Statements
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Iraq and Afghanistan Security and Reconstruction, 2004
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 2, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN SECURITY AND RECONSTRUCTION, 2004
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to address the Biden amendment and make comments regarding it. I rise in opposition to that amendment and I wanted to indicate why.
First, I want to indicate how we got to the point we are today. There were a number of people who came forward to say this is a huge bill—and it is. This is too much. I think we should examine that issue. I hope nobody says we should not be paying, because we have started down this road sometime back and it was the Congress that started down this road, not the administration. It was the Congress that started down this road. I think we now need to see this on through or we could leave the situation that we in the Congress started in a worse position than it was when we got into this in the first place.
This is what I want to point out. Congress passed the Iraq Liberation Act in 1998. This was the vote in the House of Representatives: 360 to 38. The Senate, by unanimous consent, passed this bill, the Iraq Liberation Act.
What did it call for? It called for regime change in Iraq. This was signed into law by President Clinton. We allocated, authorized, and appropriated $100 million to spend on this effort of regime change in Iraq. That was to get Saddam Hussein out of Iraq.
He was supporting terrorists, he had used weapons of mass destruction, he wreaked terrorism upon his own people, and he was costing us billions of dollars a year in containment because we had soldiers and airmen stationed in Saudi Arabia, and we were doing regular bombings into Iraq. We were conducting no-fly zones in the north and in the south. We built airbases in Saudi Arabia to be able to move this on forward.
This was an untenable situation. It was bad for the Iraqi people, bad for us, and bad for the region. All the countries in the region had some difficulty or problem, either being attacked, as Kuwait was, launched into, as Saudi Arabia was, threatened, as Jordan had been, at war as Iran. These are the countries, other than Turkey and Syria, that surround Iraq. Most of the countries in the region were saying something needed to be done, but they weren't willing to step forward unless the United States was serious. This was part of our statement that we were serious.
President Bush took this forward after 9/11 when the whole world changed for the United States. We decided after 9/11 that we would no longer wait for the terrorists to gather up steam and build up forces against us and then launch. We were going to go to the terrorists and disrupt them first, rather than wait until they came to our soil so tragically. Thus ensued the war on terrorism in Afghanistan and Iraq.
In Iraq, we had a country that had in the past used chemical weapons against its own people and against the Iranians. That is the fact and that is what we knew and this is where it started, and it started with the Congress.
Now to the issue today of the supplemental and how do we pay for it. I think it would be a terrible mistake for us at this time to raise taxes on the American people, just at the time when we are starting to get the economy recovered and moving again.
Finally, this last quarter we had our best quarter in 2 years, with 3-percent GDP growth. The Gross Domestic Product grew by 3 percent this last quarter. We are finally getting some growth and that growth has to occur and has to build up for us to create jobs. There is a lag between that growth and creating jobs. If we go right now and say to the American people that we are going to raise taxes on you at this point in time, you are going to threaten the very early stages of growth and the creation of jobs which is starting to take place. That is the wrong message to send.
The thing we need to do is keep the growth occurring in this country. You do that by low interest rates and by lowering taxes. Those are the two tools that are being displayed and used now, and they are working to start the economic recovery.
If you grow taxes at this point in time, you send the wrong message.
We do have a growing Federal deficit. What should we be doing to address that? I think we should address that issue of the Federal deficit. It is important. It is an issue. It is something that needs to be addressed.
I want to put forward an idea that we have 28 cosponsors on now. I want to put it forward in the context of how we balanced the budget in the past. We were able to balance the budget for several years in a row. It is the Congress that appropriates the money and allocates the spending. It is the Congress that gets the budget either in surplus or deficit, and it was the Congress that balanced the budget previously.
How did we do it? There were two things. There was a strong growth in the overall economy producing receipts coming into the Federal Government and there was a slowing of the growth in Federal spending. We restrained the growth of
Federal spending so the growth in the economy and the receipts it produced were more than the growth in the spending of the Federal Government, and we were able to get our way to a position where we had a balanced budget for several years in a row, indeed pushing forward strong surpluses.
That is the way we will balance the budget again. Getting the economy growing and restraining the growth in Federal spending.
How do we restrain the growth in Federal spending? The Commission on Accounting and Review of Federal
Agencies—CARFA, for short. The model for it is the BRAC procedure. With the BRAC procedure, we looked at the totality of the military bases we had. We said we had too many military bases; we should cut back those military bases, consolidate them, and use whatever we can save if we can save among the bases we keep. It is called the BRAC process.
How does that work? We had a commission. The commission met, they discussed it, and said we should eliminate these 50 bases. Then a bill was introduced in the Congress with no amendments, and you gave each House one vote up or down, whether they agree or disagree. By that means we were able to eliminate and consolidate bases.
I say let's do the same thing with domestic discretionary programs. By that I am saying not for the military; we already have a procedure there. Not for entitlement programs. Let's move forward that way, and that is a way we can address this issue. That is how we will actually get back to a balanced budget, not by raising taxes.
As to Iraqi spending, I want to discuss that. I think we should review and reduce some of the spending in this area that has been proposed. I have gone through in some detail, not the full proposal yet but most of it. I think there are areas we should not be paying for. Memorials to human rights abuses—clearly those are things that would be good to do. But should we, the American people, the American taxpayer, be paying for that? Is that central to redeveloping Iraq? I don't think it is, particularly at this time.
Should we be paying $50,000 per garbage truck? I don't think so, not in a part of the world that maybe it would be good to have, but there is probably garbage being collected in old pickup trucks. That is the way we used to do it in my hometown many years ago. There is nothing wrong with that, maybe, at the current stage of development. Maybe later you would use something better. But I think we should take some of these areas and say, let's pull those down and pull those out and let's reallocate some into more policing, which is critically important in Iraq, for us to get our troops garrisoned and less subject to exposure. Put it in the Iraq development bank, where we can see the Iraqi people growing their own money and we will be saving some of the money for our deficit purposes here, working to reduce that. I will be working with a group of people to put such a proposal together and put it in front of my colleagues.
I think that is an important part the job of this body, to review what the President has put forward and see where we agree and let's pass that and other areas where we would change it.
I do not think it is an option for us not to pass the supplemental. We need the supplemental for the troops. We need the supplemental to develop Iraq. It is not an option for us to fail in Iraq. We must succeed. Indeed, Iraq and its success is central to us bringing forward a reduction in the swamp area where terrorism has bred and where it has stewed and where it has grown, in an area we have seen terrorism coming forth and attacking us. This is an area we have to go out and change.
We change it by bringing forth our ideas and our models of democracy, of an open society, and of a free economy. This Iraq is going to be an area where we will have to concentrate and focus, deliver that, and hopefully that will affect much of the rest of the region. There is some indication that is already happening.
So you drain the swamp away, and drain it away with our set of ideas.
Failure in Iraq is not an option. We must succeed in Iraq by moving forward with our model on the war on terrorism, which is we take the war there rather than letting them gather steam and come at us and kill our people here.
I think there are legitimate ways to address this issue. I think we ought to look at the issues of loans versus total grants.
This is a large-scale, oil-based country that wants those production wells going again. I think there is going to be oil produced and a substantial amount of income.
I think we ought to look at the overall proposal. There are places where we should adjust. But overall, we are going to need to pass this supplemental. For us to raise taxes at a time when we are just getting the economy going would be the wrong way for us to go as a government, as a society, and for this country.
We have to allow this growth to continue taking place. The key here would be instead of reducing our overall spending to look for places we can save within this overall spending bill.
We are going to have a spirited debate. As we go out for a week and do townhall meetings across the country—and I will be doing that in my State—I look forward to gathering a lot of input from individuals. I think that will be helpful for us as we move forward.
But I don't want us to send an improper signal. Failure in Iraq is not an option. We cannot fail. We need to do this supplemental, but I think we can make some changes.
I yield the floor.
