Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions - S. 1694
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 1, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. BROWNBACK:
S. 1694. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code to authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide veterans who participated in certain Department of Defense chemical and biological warfare testing to be provided health care for illness without requirement for proof of service-connection; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Health Care for Veterans of Project 112/Project SHAD Act of 2003. This bill will authorize health care assistance for veterans who participated in specific Department of Defense chemical and biological warfare testing without any requirements related to proof of service-connection for their illness.
Project 112 consisted of a series of cold war chemical, nuclear, and biological tests conducted both at sea and over land from 1962 to 1973. This project was one of 150 military initiatives designed to identify U.S. military personnel and warship vulnerabilities to chemical, nuclear, and biological attacks. Some of the tests that were part of Project 112/Operation Shipboard Hazard and Defense (SHAD) involved the use of dangerous agents such as sarin, VX, tularemia, and anthrax. The Defense Department has recognized that it does not have adequate documentation to prove that test participants were informed of the potential risks, or that personnel received adequate protective gear during testing.
After an extensive search for records to identify all tests conducted and link the dates of specific tests to the personnel on-board at the time, the DOD produced a comprehensive list of all tests conducted and each veteran involved in this project.
In response to a VA request, DOD reviewed and declassified information concerning the exact agents used and other details of the Project 112 tests. This information was subsequently turned over to the Department of Veterans Affairs, and the VA began the process of contacting the veterans identified as participants.
A total of 5,842 persons were identified as having been present in one or more of the tests. All veterans who believe they were involved in tests and have medical concerns have been encouraged to contact VA to receive medical evaluations.
Although Project 112 veterans suffer from a broad range of ailments from cancer to hypertension, a causal link between the tests and their current ailments has not been established. Due to the amount of time that has passed and the relatively small number of people involved in any specific test, it is highly unlikely that we will ever be able to fully determine the health effects from the tests.
It would be unconscionable to require Project 112 veterans to prove a connection between their involvement in these tests and their current health problems. If we cannot disprove a service connection, then we should assume responsibility for their health care. This Health Care for Veterans of Project 112/Project SHAD Act of 2003 would provide priority access to
VA hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care for veterans identified as participants in these tests, and not require medical evidence that any illnesses are attributable to such testing. This is an important step in bringing some finality to this issue and living up to our commitment to this group of veterans.
I ask unanimous consent that the text of this legislation be printed in the RECORD.
