Public Statements
Brownback Applauds UN North Korean Refugee Decision
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 29, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today made the following statement after the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees made an announcement regarding North Korean refugees in China.
"I strongly commend the High Commissioner's pronouncement today recognizing North Korean refugees in China as people of concern under the UNHCR mandate," Brownback said. "North Korean refugees have suffered tremendously due to the neglect of the international community. I hope the Commissioner's words will be followed by strong and swift action on behalf of this persecuted and neglected people.
"UNHCR's mandate to give protection to such groups is critically important to the thousands of North Koreans hiding in China. For too long, the Chinese have denied the UNHCR access to displaced North Koreans on the grounds that none of them could claim to be refugees. In light of the UNHCR's declaration, I urge the Chinese to provide the UNHCR immediate and unimpeded access to these persons - especially those who are in immediate danger of being repatriated back to North Korea where they face certain persecution. This protection should also extend to those who have been arrested for coming to the aid of these refugees.
"I also encourage the Commissioner to consider the option of the binding arbitration should the Chinese government not cooperate with UNHCR in gaining access to North Korean refugees. If China refuses to cooperate with or in any way prevents UNHCR from fulfilling its mandate to identify and protect refugees, UNHCR should use the arbitration provisions contained in its bilateral agreements with the Chinese government to ensure it can complete its mission.
"The United Nations Human Rights Commission condemned human rights abuses in North Korea this past April. Given the Commission's concerns that the DPRK persecute those who are forcibly repatriated, it is urgent that UNHCR be permitted to ensure the fundamental principles of asylum that the Chinese government has thus far denied to displaced North Koreans within its borders," Brownback said.
