Public Statements
Brownback Statement on Federal Marriage Amendment
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 17, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today made the following statement at a news conference in support of the Federal Marriage Amendment.
"I am proud to stand here today with a coalition that represents the diversity and breadth of America, yet is united under a common cause, a just cause: the defense of marriage in this country. The strength of our nation is linked to the strength of our families. The family is an institution that must be defended vigorously.
"The coalition that has united under this very noble cause recognizes and respects that the union between a male and female is the most universal social institution in the world, and is not linked to one particular segment of our population.
"Represented here are a group of individuals as diverse as our nation. However, they all recognize the importance of preserving marriage in this country.
"As many of you know, this coalition has formed because marriage is under assault. There are those who are trying to destroy the legal status of marriage in this country by invoking the Constitution to force their will on the American people.
"It takes an organization such as this alliance to say with a resounding voice that the assault on marriage is unacceptable, and that there is a diverse and large constituency in America that opposes such action. Indeed, a recent Wirthlin poll shows that an overwhelming majority of Americans believe that preserving the sanctity of marriage is of paramount importance. I am proud to be here with the Alliance for Marriage in support of your efforts to protect our nation's families.
"In response to those who are trying to destroy the legal status of marriage, a constitutional response is necessary. In other words, a constitutional challenge to our marriage laws requires a constitutional fix. We must all work to protect marriage and the family, which comprises the fabric of our society," Brownback said.
