Public Statements
Authorizing Representation by Senate Legal Counsel
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 16, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

AUTHORIZING REPRESENTATION BY SENATE LEGAL COUNSEL
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 226, which was submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the resolution by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 226) to authorize representation by the Senate Legal Counsel in the case of Josue Orta Rivera v. Congress of the United States of America, et al.
There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table; and that any statements relating to this matter be printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 226) was agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
The resolution, with its preamble, reads as follows:
S. RES. 226
Whereas, in the case of Josue Orta Rivera v. Congress of the United States of America, et al., Civil No. 03-1684 (SEC), pending in the United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico, the plaintiff has named as defendants all
Members of the Senate, as well as the Vice President, the President Pro Tem, the Secretary of the Senate, the Sergeant at Arms, and the Congress;
Whereas, pursuant to sections 703(a) and 704(a)(1) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 2 U.S.C. §§ 288b(a) and 288c(a)(1), the Senate may direct its counsel to defend Members and Officers of the Senate in civil actions relating to their official responsibilities;
Whereas, pursuant to section 708(c) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 2 U.S.C. § 288g(c), the Senate may direct its counsel to perform other duties: Now therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate Legal Counsel is authorized to represent all Members of the Senate, the Vice President, the
President Pro Tem, the Secretary of the Senate, the Sergeant at Arms, and the Congress, in the case of Josue Orta Rivera v. Congress of the United States of America, et al.
