Public Statements
CNBC News - Transcript
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 19, 2003
Location: Unknown

CNBC News
SHOW: The News with Brian Williams (7:00 PM ET) - CNBC
HEADLINE: Senator Sam Brownback, from Foreign Relations Committee discusses Iraqi violence
ANCHORS: FORREST SAWYER
BODY:
FORREST SAWYER, anchor:
Kansas Republican Sam Brownback is a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and he's been kind enough to join us from Los Angeles.
Good to talk to you, Senator. How are you?
Senator SAM BROWNBACK (Republican, Foreign Relations Committee): I'm doing very well, other than this is a pretty tough day today.
SAWYER: Yes, sir. It is. Let us start with Iraq, if I may. You're--you likely heard me talking with General Monty Meigs who--earlier today. And clearly the opposition is targeting soft targets, is targeting infrastructure, now is targeting even the UN. And--and the US is having a pretty tough time dealing with this. It's hard to hit an enemy when you don't know where they are. What do you recommend?
Sen. BROWNBACK: Well, I think the general had--had the right point. And this is something that we have been building towards, but we're going to have to be much faster about it and more aggressive. And that is having the Iraqis control and run and police Iraq. And it is a big country, and you have a huge number of soft targets, and you've got a lot of leftover Baathists and incoming foreign infiltrators. But you're going to have to have, at--at the end of the day--and that day needs to come soon--really, the Iraqis policing and having the military force themselves in that country.
SAWYER: Well, Andrea Mitchell pointed out that there are some people who are saying already, look, maybe the US underestimated how things were going to be. They shouldn't have purged the generals, they should have allowed them to stay and just swallowed the fact that they were Baathist. They shouldn't have gotten rid of the--the troops that they did, they shouldn't have got rid of the police that they did, and so they've left themselves exposed.
Sen. BROWNBACK: Well, I mean, I think that--that's a case where you could go back and say, 'Well, maybe this might have worked.' But there was a number of other people very opposed to the leadership in those organizations because they were all placed there by Saddam. I--I thought we should have gone to Iraqi National Congress and been constituting a police force and a military force much earlier than we did. But we're in neither spot. So really what we have to do now is just really double that effort, get behind that interim Iraqi council and say, 'We've got to get this police force, we've got to move it forward faster, we've got to get an armed force here that's under Iraqi leadership, that has been vetted with the community that's in control now,' and that's just got to move forward much more aggressively.
SAWYER: You know, Senator, there are a lot of people who are in the military right now who say, 'That's nice talk, but the fact of the matter is,' as they put it, 'you need more boots on the ground. You just do. You can't get to that point without solving some problems right in this period, so just--just swallow hard and get more forces in there.'
Sen. BROWNBACK: Well, I--I don't necessarily agree that's the answer. Because once the United States moves off of offense--I mean, after the statue comes down, we're--we're moving aggressively through this country early on, we're liberating the society, people are cheering for us. But once that offensive action stops, we end up becoming targets. The United States forces do. I was just at Fort Riley, Kansas, where people are retraining there soon to ship out for Iraq. And this is a dangerous time for us. And that's why I say we've to get the Iraqi forces really geared up, not--not bringing more US forces in at this time.
SAWYER: Senator, I have time for one more question on--on Israel, if I may. There has been something that they call a cease fire, but it hasn't really been much of a cease fire during this period. And now we have this bus,and there's going to be retaliation by the Israelis. Do--do you adhere to the idea that the peace process is at least, inextremis, if not finished?
Sen. BROWNBACK: Well, I think you keep hope alive and you keep moving forward. But the idea of stopping building the fence at this point in time, the handing back over of communities that was supposed to take place later this week, you've got to get this stabilized. And the Palestinians really have to step up and police and really start taking down that terrorist infrastructure, not just saying--sit on the side lines, but taking that terrorist infrastructure on down before you can really probably move this process much further along.
SAWYER: Sounds like we've a ways to go. Senator Brown...
Sen. BROWNBACK: I think so.
SAWYER: ...Sam Brownback with the Foreign Relations Committee, of course. Thank you for talking to us, sir.
Sen. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Forrest.
SAWYER: When we come back, it wasn't just Iraq and Israel. There were terror attacks today in Afghanistan as well, and there have been for awhile. Was it the Taliban? Was it al-Qaeda, or both? We'll have the latest from NBC's Mike Taibbi.
And we will talk live with two specialists on global terrorism: Juliette Kayyem and CNBC's Chris Whitcomb. Is the world becoming an even more dangerous place?
