Public Statements
Centennial Anniversary of Pittsburg State University
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 1, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

CENTENNIAL ANNIVERSARY OF PITTSBURG STATE UNIVERSITY
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, today I recognize the centennial of Pittsburg State University in Pittsburg, KS. The institution that is today Pittsburg State University opened its doors on September 8, 1903, in a borrowed building in downtown Pittsburg with 54 students and five faculty. From these humble beginnings, Pittsburg State University has grown into a comprehensive state university of regional, national and international stature.
In 1903, the fledgling school offered only elementary courses in manual training, domestic science, domestic art, and a few basic academic subjects. Yet by 1912 the school's enrollment had increased to 1,183 students and it was described as a "College for Teachers." In the coming years, dedicated administrators and faculty worked to raise the standards of the institution to the point that it merited and received recognition as a liberal arts college.
Following World War II, the campus grew rapidly. Soldiers returning from the war came in droves, thanks to the G.I. Bill, and new buildings emerged all over campus. The college's mission and enrollment continued to expand as well. In 1977, the college achieved university status and assumed its current name, Pittsburg State University.
The decade of the 1990s was a time of unprecedented growth of PSU. Enrollment passed the 6,000 mark for the first time in 1991. Major additions ranged from a renovation and expansion of the football stadium to the addition of a 100,000-watt public radio station and the installation of a world-class mechanical organ in McCray Hall. In 1997, the university completed its largest single capital project with the construction of the Kansas Technology Center, a $28-million facility to house the university's nationally recognized technology programs. The Kansas Technology Center continues to play a vita role in the university's growth and development and is a significant economic development tool for the four-state region.
As it celebrates its centennial, Pittsburg State University now has an enrollment of more than 6,700 students. The university offers a wide variety of highly regarded programs in its Colleges of Business, Arts and Sciences, Education and Technology. Known as a comprehensive regional university serving Kansas and the four-state region that includes Oklahoma, Missouri and Arkansas, Pittsburg State attracts students from more than 25 states and 40 countries. Among its 55,000 alumni, PSU counts Pulitzer Prize winners, scientists, CEOs of some of the world's largest corporations, and even a former Miss America. Moreover, PSU is also to be admired for the model relationship of kindness and mutual assistance it has maintained with the Kansans in its local community.
I welcome this opportunity to commemorate all that Pittsburg State University has done to enrich the lives of its students and its surrounding community. I sincerely commend and thank PSU for its 100 years of faithful service.
