Public Statements
Opening Statement of Senator San Brownback Before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee - Corruption in Economy of North Korea
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 31, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Opening Statement of Senator Sam Brownback
Before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
Corruption in Economy of North Korea
"As the world celebrated the end of the Cold War, North Korea's government began to worry. The end of Soviet support for the economy was a traumatic event for the leadership in Pyongyang, requiring new sources of revenue for this stubbornly Stalinist state. After a decade of famine and economic mismanagement, North Korea's economy is in dire straits, and many observers openly question whether the government can survive.
"And yet the Kim dynasty lives on to the horror of the North Korean people. Considering that North Korea's level of trade with the rest of the world is minimal at best, and that by all accounts, the state economy is terribly dysfunctional, how has the regime financially survived to this point? Today's hearing examines the ways in which the elite North Korean leadership sustains its existence.
"North Korea has become incredibly good at raising revenue through illegal and corrupt practices. Weapons proliferation, including the sale of missiles and perhaps nuclear technology, can bring vast resources into Pyongyang. Drug trafficking is another lucrative venture. Counterfeiting, sex trafficking, and even the sale of prohibited animal products—like rhinoceros horns—are a part of the leadership's drive to financially survive.
"Recent reports indicate that striking at these sources of revenue will not be easy. Earlier this month, The Wall Street Journal suggested that a special operation, known as Division 39, functions as 'the lifeblood of Kim Jong Il's dictatorship.' By combining legitimate businesses with illicit activities, Division 39 may have generated several billion dollars for Pyongyang—money that Kim Jong Il can use to bolster his nuclear weapons program, purchase political loyalty or underwrite the luxurious lifestyles of the privileged elite.
"There are those who believe that this Stalin-style government should be preserved in the interest of regional stability. Clearly, it is in everyone's interest—particularly North Korea's- -to avoid hostilities on the Korean peninsula. We cannot, however, escape the conclusion that North Korea will continue to go to great lengths to negate the tremendous pressure exerted upon it by the international community. Attempts to resolve the nuclear question and other issues will most assuredly fail if they perpetuate Kim's hold on power.
"Today's hearing is therefore very important because it is focused on the very things that underwrite Kim's threats against the United States and the rest of the world. Understanding how Kim's regime funds itself will give us a better assessment of its strength and viability, opening an important window into this very closed nation. Understanding what's most important to Pyongyang allows us to ensure that the regime feels the heat we seek to place upon it. Finally, understanding the scope of North Korea's illicit attempts to raise money can point us—along with the countries in the region—to practical ways in which the international community can present a united front against Pyongyang."
