Public Statements
Energy Policy Act of 2003 - Continued
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 30, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

ENERGY POLICY ACT OF 2003혰CONTINUED
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I thank my colleague from Wisconsin for offering this amendment. I join him on it.
The amendment my colleague from Wisconsin has described first came to my attention by a constituent and a friend of mine, D.L. Smith, Topeka, KS. D.L. is a great K-Stater, loves his country, has a medium size contracting business. He employs between 57 and 100 Kansans. Founded in 1972, the DL Smith companies provide commercial, institutional, and industrial electrical services and, in recent years, even a little bit of telecommunications. They have been expanding slightly.
D.L.'s service trucks can be seen as far west as Salina and as far south as Pittsburg, KS.
DL's is a successful medium size business by Kansas standards. It might grow and could become more successful. But it might not be able to grow and could falter. The success or failure of this business will in great part be dependent upon the dispensation of this amendment.
This is what he brought to my attention. D.L. said: Look, what is taking place is we are having to compete with these large utility companies that he asserts are using their regulated business to subsidize the unregulated business and drive the small contractors out of business. That is my 15-minute speech, what he said and the examples he gave.
What he does now is help in the contracting of electrical services into homes. He is having to compete now with very large utility companies that are looking at other areas they can expand into to be able to do contracting work and, in the process, are driving these small to mid-size businesses out of business.
Such diversification on the part of the utility companies has been the cause of significant and continuing harm to many small private sector firms. Utility-owned subsidies and affiliates now operate in almost every imaginable type of business, from auto salvaging to resort management to real estate brokerage to, more frequently, electric and mechanical contracting.
Utilities now routinely sell appliances, provide plumbing, heating and cooling, and service contracts, engage in insulation work, sell and install storm windows and doors, provide outdoor lighting and interior lighting fixtures.
Normally as a free market Republican, I wouldn't have much problem with that. This is a free country. People can compete the way they want to, the way they choose. The problem with this is, you have a regulated utility that has a clear income source that is dependent upon ratepayers that is set by the Government, and they have a flow of resources that is established by the public sector. And it is a rate of return based upon cost plus.
The challenge혰and what the D.L. Smiths of the world are feeling혰is the subsidization of that regulated business going into the unregulated field and driving small to mid-size contractors out of business. Too many companies are doing a very natural thing혰trying to grow, get a little more business here and there for their shareholders to try to be able to hold down the cost of electrical rates to their customers. That is understandable. The problem is, you are using that regulated utility where they don't have competition coming in there to compete against an unregulated field and, in many cases, driving out small to mid-size contractors like the D.L. Smiths of Topeka, KS, and others.
Private sector businesses both small and large welcome competition. Unfortunately, there have been numerous instances where utilities have engaged, in some cases, in unfair and abusive competitive behavior which undermines true competition in these impacted markets.
The primary obstacle to free, fair, and open competition in these markets is the ability of a utility to provide its affiliates and subsidiaries with artificially lower costs of operation through cross-subsidization and the failure to properly recover the true costs of equipment and services provided by the utility to such unregulated operations. These advantages arise neither from size, nor efficiency, but rather from the corporate relationship such operations have with its related utility.
The utility companies are doing, by and large, a great job in serving the public, providing utility rates at as low a cost as possible. That is a good thing. They work conscientiously to do that. We have a number of very good utility companies in the State of Kansas. When they use the cross-subsidization, which is what we are trying to prevent in this bill, to run out small and midsize businesses, that is when we have a problem, particularly when denying access to newly emerging markets, a key to future expansion, job growth, and profitability for this country.
For those reasons, I support this amendment. I also recognize my colleagues who wrote the bill, the Senators from New Mexico, particularly Senator Domenici. They are trying to address this issue. We put forward an amendment that we hope will strengthen the bill, help it out, one that doesn't negatively impact the electrical utility businesses, other than to say here is the area in which you can operate. Outside of that, this should be left to other businesses, particularly small and midsize ones, to allow them to grow.
The amendment we put forward has broad support from the contracting community, electrical contractors, plumbing, heating, and mechanical contractors because they are feeling this onslaught. Most of my colleagues, I guess, have been contacted by the contractors, most of which are small to midsize businesses operating in communities throughout the country, that want this Feingold-Brownback amendment to be added to the Energy Policy Act of 2003.
I recognize the work that the chairman and ranking member have put on this particular topic. We hope this amendment can be accepted because we think it strengthens the bill.
With that, I yield the floor.
