Public Statements
Brownback Examines Benefits of Space Exploration
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 30, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today chaired a Space Subcommittee hearing to discuss the broad benefits of U.S.-led space exploration.
"Since becoming Chairman of this Subcommittee, I have been fortunate to meet with people from all across the board in the realm of space science," Brownback said. "I have always been drawn towards the big ideas and the vision of visionaries, and I thought that working with the space exploration field would give me the opportunity to work closely with those big
dreamers.
"Unfortunately, I have been experiencing the opposite for the most part. I hope that today's hearing will bring a little more creativity to the issue of space exploration. With activities and responsibilities in space being spread across several government agencies, it is important that we take a comprehensive look at the totality of U.S. involvement in space exploration.
"Throughout meetings with NASA and other space industry representatives, I have become aware of the burden of bureaucracy that is plaguing the American space program. I hope that our witnesses here today may be able to break out of this bureaucracy and will share with us a unifying vision for America in space exploration, utilization, and development. The U.S. must dominate the Earth-moon orbit for exploration, discovery, scientific research, commercialization, environment and national security purposes.
"This Subcommittee is in the unique position to help shape the American space program and increase the numbers and purposes of U.S. entrants into space. But to do that, we need to have an accurate assessment of where we are currently in space exploration and determine where we need to go in the future.
"NASA is a key agency, but so too will be other agencies, such as Department of Defense, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the Federal Aviation Administration. As we move forward in this committee with the reauthorization of NASA, I want to involve all government agencies who have a role in space exploration," Brownback said.
