Public Statements
Brownback Calls for Renewed Fiscal Responsibility
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 16, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today called for renewed fiscal responsibility in response to the mid-session review, which was released yesterday by the White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Current projections place the FY '03 federal deficit at $455 billion.
"Fiscal responsibility and restraint in government spending are paramount in this period of budget deficits," Brownback said. "Yesterday's release of the OMB's mid-session review reminds us of this necessity. While the tax relief measures enacted in 2001 and earlier this year have gone far toward helping improve our economy and ensuring that our deficit situation is not worsened; we must do more.
"Spending must be kept within the limits outlined by the Budget Resolution. I would also add that we need a new accounting measure to ensure that all Federal domestic agencies and programs are getting the most use out of all hard-earned taxpayer dollars that come to Washington.
"Bipartisan legislation that I have introduced - the Commission on the Accountability and Review of Federal Agencies (CARFA) Act (S.837) - would help us to reach this very end by creating such an accounting measure. This bill would establish a commission to review federal domestic agencies and programs within agencies in an effort to eliminate wasteful federal spending on programs that are duplicative; wasteful or inefficient; or outdated, irrelevant, or failed. The commission would make recommendations for the elimination or realignment of such programs, and the Congress would be required to vote either up or down on these recommendations.
"I am pleased to report that support for the CARFA Act continues to grow. Currently 18 Senators have cosponsored S.837, and earlier this year, the Senate passed a measure on the Budget Resolution recommending the enactment of the commission described in the CARFA Act. I will continue to push for this legislation so that the federal government will be held to the highest standards of fiscal accountability with tax-payer dollars," Brownback said.
