Public Statements
Tribute to Bonjwing
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 15, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

TRIBUTE TO BONJWING
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to recognize my staff member Bonjwing Lee on this 15th day of July, 2003.
It is with both regret and heartfelt joy that my staff and I see Bonjwing leave my office today. I as well as many of my staff member have had the blessing of knowing Bonjwing nearly the entire 7 years of my tenure thus far in the Senate. Hailing from Kansas City, MO, he first came to service in my office as a bright young college student at Northwestern University and in the subsequent years has become a friend and family member to the Brownback crew and me.
For the past year and a half, Bonjwing has worked with me as a legislative aide. Professionally, the "Jwinger," as he is affectionately called by his colleagues, has demonstrated diligence, dedication, kindness, and humility in his work, and his outstanding service has been deeply appreciated. Beyond the office, I am honored to call Bonjwing a personal friend.
Through talks we have shared and interactions, I have come to know Bonjwing as a remarkable young man with unique perspectives. I have learned a great deal from his cultural heritage, his religious faith, active endeavors, talents, and amazing experiences, and for this I thank him.
Although I lose a valued staff member today and will miss his presence and company, I heartily congratulate Bonjwing Lee on his many successes and prayerfully wish him well as he heads off to take on the rigors of legal study at the University of Michigan School of Law this fall and to an exciting future beyond. As he has taught me that the Chinese never say goodbye, instead parting company with a promise, "we shall meet again," I remain optimistic that our paths will cross again and look forward to my next meeting with Bonjwing.
I wish to leave Bonjwing with a verse from the Book of Philippians, IV: 9
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things.
