Public Statements
Brownback Voices Support for Iran Protestors
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 9, 2003
Location: Washington, DC



WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today spoke to a large group of Iranian-Americans at a rally in support of the pro-democracy movement inside Iran. Today marks the fourth anniversary of the original student protests in Iran which were brutally put down by the current regime. The text of Brownback's speech follows. "My friends, I am so happy to be with you on this important day," Brownback said. "We are here today to stand in solidarity with the Iranian people who are resisting the oppressive regime which has refused to reform despite nearly seven years of promises to do so.
"Four years ago today, Iranian protesters again took to the streets and were brutally put down. The fact that we continue to see protests in Iran, despite very harsh treatment, is showing the world that these protests are growing and will eventually lead to real change inside Iran.
"People have said that Iranians are too divided and too independent to come together and provide meaningful support for regime change. Pundits have condescendingly referred to the current protests in Iran as a 'blip' - something which will soon fade. But standing here looking at the group that has gathered here on behalf of the protesters only confirms what I have long believed: these pundits are wrong, and Iran will soon be free.
"You come here today from different political backgrounds, and you have many different opinions about what a future Iran should look like. But you are joined by your common love for your homeland, your support of the brave Iranian people who are protesting against this terrorist regime, and your strong belief that the U.S. must be on the right side of history and remain strongly supportive of a free Iran. What you have in common is stronger than your differences, and this is why you will eventually succeed. "Some have said that if the U.S. supports the protestors, we will be bound to intervene militarily.
These people have not paid attention to the unique situation inside Iran. Young people make up nearly 70 percent of the country, and they are taking it back from the mullah minority. The Iranian people are a proud, strong, and independent people. They do not need, nor do they want an outside military force to come into their land. They will handle this matter themselves - they have already begun to do so. This does not mean that the military option is off the table. America reserves the right to protect its people and innocent civilians from a nuclear threat or further Iranian-backed terrorists. But this is a defensive option. "To be honest, America hopes that the Iranian people change their regime themselves.....and the hesitancy you see within America's foreign policy circles with regard to Iran comes largely because there is such hope for internal change, where there was none in Iraq or Afghanistan. There is no division in the U.S. government about the fact that Iran is a threat to its own people, and certainly to Americans. The Iranian people and the Iranian regime alike should know that we are united and resolute in our understanding of what Iran is doing. We will not allow Iran to spread its corruption throughout the region.
"Recently, President Bush praised the Iranian people who kept up protests for over a week in the face of government sponsored thugs who beat innocent women with chains. The president called these protests 'heroic' and indeed, they are.
"Just as it was an important rhetorical step for President Reagan to dub the Soviet Union an 'Evil Empire,' so too it is important for us to recognize the current regime in Iran for what is - an illegitimate, ruling elite that stifles the growth of genuine democracy, abuses human rights and exports terrorism.
"It is clear from the regime's treatment of its own people that Iran is no democracy. I understand that the State Department's job is diplomacy and the search for common ground, but now is a time for moral clarity, not excuses.
"You can't call a country that screens the candidates a democracy. You can't call a government that tortures and kills its people - openly - a democracy. You can't call a country that refuses to enforce the laws that the screened, elected officials pass a democracy.
"After all, it is the State Department's own report that classifies Iran as the largest state sponsor of terrorism. Do we really believe this is the will of the Iranian people? America must make it clear that we see the difference between the Iranian regime and the Iranian people - and we are supporting the people. President Bush is calling the shots with regard to America's foreign policy - and he has been clear about where he stands on this subject.
"Iran is not a democracy now - but we hope one day it will be.
"Once again, I call on the Iranian government to stop beating and harassing your own people. The students are shouting, 'Khatemi, Khatemi, go away!' These are the same students that gave the so-called reformist President Khatemi his start.
They are disillusioned because there has not been reform, there has not been real democracy and there has not been respect for the rule of law and human rights.
"The Iranian people are clearly stating that they are done with empty promises of reform. America must listen to this message. We cannot make the Iranian government less of a threat by wishing, nor by negotiating. How can we trust the word of a country that can't keep the trust of its own people?
"To the Iranian people, I offer my continued support. This is how history is made - one brave act at a time. The battle for your freedom will be long and hard. Stay strong, and know that America supports you, and will be there to help you rebuild your beautiful land. Hopefully, next July - as America again celebrates its independence, we can rejoice with you in celebrating a free Iran as well," Brownback said.
