Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions S.J. Res. 14
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 27, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

June 27, 2003
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
S.J. Res. 14. A joint resolution expressing support for freedom in Hong Kong; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to introduce a joint resolution for myself and Senator KYL regarding the United States' commitment to preserving freedom in Hong Kong. It is not simply the responsibility of the United States, but also of the Administration of Tung Chee Hwa, Hong Kong's chief executive and the People's Republic of China.
This resolution emphasizes an isolated event taking place on July 9 of this year—the passage of draconian laws on sedition, subversion, and theft of state secrets. This law evokes something out of one of the novels of George Orwell. Just as the resolution states, the law, as now drafted, is vague and overly broad in its definitions of subversion, sedition, and official secrets.
The Secretary of Security, an appointee of the Government of the People's Republic of China, would have very broad authority to ban organizations not approved by his Beijing masters. Nothing less than the survival of the Catholic Church in China and the Falun Gong, a quasi-religious practice that emphasizes breathing and meditation, are at stake with this law.
Beijing has clearly targeted these and many other groups promoting democracy and human rights.
In addition, the Secretary of Security would have the authority to waive the right to notice and the right to be heard—something that person could execute on a whim. This horrendous bill would allow the Hong Kong Government to prosecute members of the news media for publishing information that would arbitrarily be deemed a "state secret."
These "state secrets" might include Hong Kong-Mainland cooperation on the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome or SARS. If China handled a new outbreak of some contagion the same way it handled SARS, I would think the people of Hong Kong should know that their lives might be in danger because of the Government's negligence.
This is the extreme case, however, it must be made clear to my colleagues, and to the world, that the legislation to be voted on July 9, in Hong Kong would create a severe chilling effect on the press to freely report information. The Hong Kong Journalists Association, the Overseas Press Club, and the Committee to Protect Journalists all oppose this bill.
In addition, the legislation would strip other provisions contained in a current Hong Kong law, the Societies Ordinance, of due process protections. On top of that, the Hong Kong police would have new powers to search without having a warrant.
Those two provisions are the bedrock of a free society. How does the Hong Kong government think it can get away with this?
It assumes that it can ride out the cries of outrage from inside Hong Kong and throughout the world. I hope that Chief Executive Tung's administration understands that this resolution only represents the beginning. Sir, if you read these comments, please understand you are on the losing side of history.
Hong Kong has been remarkably free in the last six years. That is a true statement. The fact that Mr. Tung and his colleagues fail to understand is that without these freedoms, Hong Kong will surely fail.
Unfortunately, the People's Republic of China has increasingly interfered in Hong Kong's independent judiciary, intimidated the media to induce self-censorship, and excluded visitors who disagree with the Chinese Communist Party's policies.
The Hong Kong SAR Government, encouraged by the Government of the People's Republic of China, has eroded Hong Kong's political independence, international prestige, and its appeal as a business and financial hub of Asia. Recently, the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong reversed its position regarding the bill saying that it would be a disaster for business in Hong Kong.
The South China Morning Post reported: "In a letter to all legislators, chamber chairman James Thompson said the bill contained worrying provisions, such as that seeking to ban organisations. These would jeopardise Hong Kong's distinctive features, in particular its transparent legal system and free flow of information."
Similarly, the International Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong in its submission to the Hong Kong Government opposing the bill stated "We regret that the Administration has chosen to ignore our request, and that of many others in Hong Kong for a second round of public consultation before bringing the matter to the Legislative Council, and rigidly following its own timetable.
They continued saying, "The Consultation Document is complicated enough, and has taken us much time to prepare a response. The Bill is even more difficult to study as it relates to a number of existing ordinances, if nothing else. Yet we have to rush to forward our comments to meet a deadline. This timetable also puts undue pressure on the Legislative Council to finish scrutiny in a hurry. For a matter of such great significance, it is to be regretted that it should have to be rushed through at the risk of sacrificing quality."
The lifeblood of Hong Kong's existence, its business community, opposes the bill and the Hong Kong Government pressured by Beijing fails to understand why there is all this outrage. The business community in this fascinating center for finance, shipping and media is well known for its cozy relationship with Mr. Tung, his cabinet and other officials, and even for being close with Beijing to get the favorable treatment it receives in China.
Yet, this community, arguably the most influential in Hong Kong's affairs, is out right opposed to the effort to suppress freedom in Hong Kong. It is not such a large leap to understand that Hong Kong's vibrancy results from its freedom.
I underline these concerns for my colleagues today in the hope that it will give pause to legislators in Hong Kong, and deter this and any future assaults on freedom in this important territory.
I ask unanimous consent that the text of the joint resolution be printed in the RECORD.
