Public Statements
Brownback, Weldon & Member of European Parliament Discuss Ban on Human Cloning
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 25, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Rep. Dave Weldon, M.D. (R-FL) held a news conference today with bioethics expert and Member of the European Parliament, Dr. Peter Liese, to discuss European support for a ban on all human cloning. The European Parliament has voted repeatedly for a total ban on human cloning, most recently on April 10th of this year.
"I am pleased Dr. Peter Liese is here today to join us in talking about human cloning," Brownback said. "It is becoming increasingly clear that there is a growing tide of international action on the issue of human cloning. A growing number of members in the international community are now embracing a complete ban on all human cloning and condemning proposals that authorize human cloning under some circumstances.
"It is wrong to create human life just to destroy it. It is time for the United States to act.
"We have a responsibility to lead in the ethical dialogue that surrounds some of the most recent developments in the field of biotechnology. Human cloning is one such issue and our silence is deafening.
"Human cloning is immoral and completely unnecessary. Recent advances in adult and non-embryonic stem cell research are showing that real results are being achieved without reliance on controversial human cloning technology. In fact, I just held a hearing highlighting some of the advances that are being made in the field of Cord Blood Stem Cell Research. At the hearing we heard from scientists and researchers actively engaged in finding cures to the diseases that plague humanity.
"We also heard from a patient, Keone Penn, a young African-American male, who has been completely cured of sickle cell anemia through an unrelated cord blood stem cell transplant. Cord Blood Stem Cell research is delivering cures.
"We do not have to create human beings who are destined for destruction in order to find the cures that plague humanity.
"The House of Representatives voted, overwhelmingly, to ban all human cloning. In his State of the Union Address, President Bush called for a ban on all human cloning. Now, the Senate must act," Brownback said.
