Public Statements
National Museum of African American History and Culture Passes Senate
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 24, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - The Senate last night passed historic legislation authorizing the National Museum of African American History and Culture (S. 1157), authored by U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback.
"I am pleased to join my colleagues in announcing the passage of S. 1157, the National Museum of African American History and Culture Act," Brownback said. "It has been well over 70 years since an effort was begun to establish such a museum to honor the magnificent contributions and sacrifices of African Americans. This is a very important step in finally realizing this piece of American history.
"I commend the Senate for moving so quickly on this bill. I particularly thank Sen Christopher Dodd (D-CT) for his leadership, Sen. Trent Lott (R-MS) for ensuring the expedient passage of this bill out of his committee, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-AK) for his guidance, and Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) for his steadfast commitment and passion.
"I know that my partner in the House of Representatives, Congressman John Lewis (D-GA), will continue in his unwavering dedication to the passage of this bill in his chamber. Congressman Lewis is an extraordinary man who put his life on the line in order to ensure a better America not only for African Americans but for all Americans. I know he and I both look forward to completion of this long overdue museum," Brownback said.
"I applaud my Senate colleagues, Sen. Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Sen. Christopher Dodd (D-CT), for guiding the National African American Museum legislation through the Senate," Congressman Lewis said. "Passage of the Senate bill is a major victory. We are now closer than ever before to realizing our dream of a National African American Museum in Washington, D.C.
"I strongly believe that a National African American Museum will help lead our nation toward a greater sense of community, inclusion and racial reconciliation. This museum will tell the story of human struggle, promise and progress in America. Families all across the nation will visit the National African American Museum and gain a greater understanding of the contributions of African Americans and their relationship with every aspect of our national life.
"Now that the Senate has spoken, it is time for Members of the House to move swiftly and pass legislation establishing a National African American Museum," Lewis said.
"This legislation establishes a museum within the Smithsonian Institution that will honor nationally the legacy of African Americans," Brownback said. "It establishes a council under the direction of the Smithsonian Board of Regents, and will be comprised of leading African Americans and other individuals in the areas of art, history, and academia. Additionally, the bill authorizes an appropriation of $17 million to begin the process of creating the Museum Council, as well as the beginning stages of creating the museum itself. Also included in S. 1157 is the establishment of the Office of Education and Liaison Programs. This office will work with educational institutions to promote the study of African American history and culture, and will also be a resource for museums and historical societies in this regard.
"It is my fervent belief that by creating this museum we will be taking a considerable step forward in the area of racial reconciliation. I do not pretend that this museum is a panacea for the issues involving race in this country. However, I am hopeful that this museum will be a catalyst for improvement in this area of our society," Brownback said.
