Public Statements
Governor Sam Brownback Highlights 2014 Legislative Session
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 3, 2014
Location: Unknown

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback today issued the following statement regarding the completion of the 2014 Legislative Session.
"I congratulate the legislature, the Senate President and House Speaker, on an historic legislative session. This year's session was efficient and productive. Its 79-day length is the shortest legislative session since 1972.
"I was proud to sign into law a bill puts $61 million into classrooms, returns $84 million in property tax relief and which fully complies with the recent Gannon court decision. It ensures a continued quality education for Kansas students. Legislators worked diligently to address this issue and produced a strong bill less than 30 days after the court decision. It is a bill that fully addresses the equity issue, provides property tax relief to Kansas homeowners and includes important educational reform.
"We invested more than $8 million in our Regents' institutions and are building a new medical school at the KU Medical Center. These strategic investments focus on unique areas of excellence to make these universities more competitive and position them to better serve their students.
"I was pleased that legislators approved the budget for the Department of Corrections, an important issue of public safety. The KanCare dividend is allowing us to take more of our most vulnerable citizens off the waiting list for people with disabilities.
"In my 2014 State of the State address which began this legislative session I asked what kind of state we would leave to our three millionth Kansan. I believe, through the hard work of this legislature, we have met our commitment to leave her a state with a growing economy, responsible state government and a world-class education.
"Under the leadership of House Speaker Ray Merrick and Senate President Susan Wagle, the 2014 Legislature served the people of Kansas well and kept Kansas on a path to prosperity."

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2014/05/03/governor-sam-brownback-highlights-2014-legislative-session
