Public Statements
Bipartisan, Bicameral Group of Members Support Cancer Bill
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 24, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today participated in a news conference with a number of his colleagues on the Quality Cancer Care Preservation Act.
"I would like to thank everyone for joining us to advocate Quality Cancer Care Preservation Act," Brownback said. "This bill is aimed at sending reinforcements to those on the front lines of the war on cancer. While there are millions of researchers, policy makers and advocates fighting against cancer around the country, we cannot forget that the real battles are won in the cancer center, where the care is delivered. The war on cancer will be won by the people in this room. The war on cancer will be won by nurses, patients, and physicians - one survivor at a time.
"For years, bureaucrats at Medicare have over-paid for cancer drugs, but under-paid for cost of administering the therapy. Unfortunately, many in Washington have advocated fixing the over-payment for the drugs and ignored the under-payment for administering the drug. Well, as you will here from the survivors in this room, cancer therapies may be a miracle, but the oncology nurses and physicians are the angels. That is why my colleagues and I are offering this legislation, which we believe will bring about fair reimbursement for chemotherapy drugs and administration.
"The managers of S. 1, the Medicare bill we are debating on the Senate floor, have committed to work with, and are working with us and the cancer community to find a reasonable solution to this issue in the context of the that bill. On behalf of cancer patients around the country, I thank them for their dedication. I also like to commend my cosponsor, Senator Nickles of Oklahoma for his comments during the mark-up of S. 1 and for his dedication to this ensure proper reimbursement for cancer treatment.
"My hope in introducing this bill last week was that it can serve as guide posts for my colleagues as they navigate the Medicare legislation, in their pursuit of fair reimbursement. We can accept no less," Brownback said.
