Public Statements
FOX News Sunday Transcript - Interview with Sam Brownback
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 22, 2003
Location: Unknown

Fox News Network
SHOW: FOX NEWS SUNDAY (09:00)
June 22, 2003 Sunday

HEADLINE: Interview With Sam Brownback
GUESTS: Sam Brownback
BYLINE: Tony Snow, Brit Hume
BODY:
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The international community must come together to make it very clear to Iran that we will not tolerate the construction of a nuclear weapon.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
SNOW: President Bush talking tough earlier this week about Iran, a charter member of the axis of evil. He scolded the Iranian regime for refusing to abide by U.N. resolutions and agreements designed to prevent the Islamic republic from developing nuclear weapons.
Demonstrators also pressured the regime by organizing pro- democracy marches in Tehran and other cities. An influential imam responded by demanding severe punishment for the protesters.
How should the United States respond to these developments? Joining us from Kansas City, Missouri, with his answer, Kansas Senator Sam Brownback, a key member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
Also here, Brit Hume, Washington managing editor of Fox News.
Senator, first, a couple of matters of fact. How close is Iran to having nuclear weapons?
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R), KANSAS: We don't know for sure. And some suggest they may have them now, although those are very minor report that that would be the case.
But it appears as if that they clearly are working on those, and they don't want the international community to know that they're doing this. And they're saying that they're working on nuclear power generation, and yet that just doesn't seem to pass the laugh test, because they have so much oil reserves that they can depend upon for power.
SNOW: Well, of course, the Russians have been supplying many of the parts and the expertise for that. Are the Russians doing anything to help? They have made gestures in the past, but lo and behold the construction of the nuclear facilities has proceeded.
BROWNBACK: You may recall, and this is some time in the past, but Al Gore had signed an agreement where they allowed the Russians to pass a certain amount of technology that could be used for nuclear development for nuclear power, but also for nuclear weapons development to the Iranians. And that was something that came up during the Bush-Gore campaign for the presidency. So this has been going on for some period of time.
But now recently, the Russians are saying, "OK, we're now starting to grow concerned," and they're starting to put a little bit of pressure, although I don't think near enough, on the Iranians.
SNOW: The president said that if this proceeds that the United States will not tolerate it. What are the options?
BROWNBACK: The options are pretty stark, although I think the first one we clearly can do is support the pro-democracy advocates inside Iran. That's step one, and it's right on base with our principles.
The second is to try to constrain Iran with international pressure from the international community. That's starting to come together. You saw at the G-8 Summit some pressure coming on the Iranians.
When you move past those two, the further kind of political isolation, I think the final option you're left with is a military option.
BRIT HUME, FOX NEWS WASHINGTON MANAGING EDITOR: Senator Brownback, Brit Hume here in Washington.
BROWNBACK: Hi, Brit.
HUME: How are you, sir? You have a bill, I believe, that would provide American, U.S.-government funding to these American-based Iranian- American radio and television stations that beam their signals into Iran, much to the consternation of the government, and have been encouraging the pro-democracy movement there.
My question to you, sir, is, do you really think it's wise to put the money, and therefore the stamp, of the United States government on these broadcasts?
BROWNBACK: Well, I think it is. Now, the bill does two things, and the first thing I think is the most important, which says that it's U.S. policy to support democracy in Iran. I think that statement is a very, very important statement.
HUME: Well, the president has already made that as clear as anybody could make it, hasn't he?
BROWNBACK: He's making that statement very clear, and it's now bleeding out throughout the administration.
The second portion of it, for as far as support for the broadcasting entities, I think it's been important to try to encourage them, even though we have no allocation of funding there.
The second thing is, within Iran you have the most pro-American population in that region of the world, amongst the Iranian people. And so I think the putting of the stamp of the United States on something doesn't hurt it. I think it helps it in the cause of liberty.
HUME: Well, the accusations are already coming from the mullahs over there that the United States is behind this recent round of quite noticeable protests that have occurred.
I'm wondering if this just doesn't kind of play into their hands for that reason? I mean, they seem to think it's good politics for them to blame the U.S.
BROWNBACK: And they're going to do that. Regardless of whether we put any funds forward or not, they're going to blame the United States. The United States doesn't put any funds forward today, and they blame the United States for this.
I think we really would be enabling and helping this nascent democracy movement—and clearly within the country there's strong support for a true democracy to take place. The United States really needs to be behind that in a very, I think, aggressive way.
HUME: Is there not also a concern, Senator, that if the United States encourages these protesters, and they ultimately erupt even more than they have now and there proceeds then a bloody crackdown, because we're clearly not positioned at this stage to come to their rescue militarily or much of any other way, that we'll have a situation not unlike the one we had in southern Iraq after Gulf War I and not unlike we had in Hungary in 1956, where, believing in help that was never coming, they ended up being crushed?
BROWNBACK: Yes, and what you just described is the thing that I'm most concerned about, is that as these students and as the democracy advocates get out there and they express themselves more and more, that there could be this Tiananmen-type bloody crackdown that takes place.
The United States is not promising, and we have not promised, and I have not stated, nor has anybody in the administration stated anything about going in with military support for the democracy advocates.
Still, I think as they move forward, heroism is done one act at a time, and you're seeing that. But we are not in a position to go in militarily to support them.
Still, I think it is good for their country and for them to move forward in this yearning for freedom that you're seeing.
SNOW: Senator, you have said that you need to put different kinds of pressure on the Iranian regime. Let's try to separate a couple matters of fact. You have a regime now, whose definition of democracy was one election one time for one party. And that's basically what you've had, at least at the very top.
Are you not advocating a specific policy on the part of the U.S. government of regime change?
BROWNBACK: I'm advocating for democracy inside Iran and a true democracy.
SNOW: Well, that being the case, but this is—I think you'll concede that is a government that doesn't want true democracy, therefore, it will have to be out for democracy to take root.
BROWNBACK: In all likelihood, that would be the case. But if they would decide to open up and say, "OK, we're going to allow a full, free, fair election to take place," God bless them, let's move forward. I don't think that's likely to happen.
SNOW: Now, you and Brit were just talking about that students and others, demonstrators, pro-democracy demonstrators might be exposed to a crack down on the part of the regime. You also mentioned earlier that the final option is military.
Would it not be advisable, if the United States is really serious about supporting these demonstrators, to have some show of force in the region other than what we now have in Iraq, so that people there might have some confidence that there would still be the ability or the possibility or the potential of American support?
BROWNBACK: I don't know about that, Tony. And as far as a military show in the region, what we did in Iraq would certainly, I think, qualify for that or what we did in Afghanistan, which is just on the other side.
HUME: Well, that being the case...
BROWNBACK: The other this is, if I could, just on this point here, a lot of people want us to stop and to pause at this point in time and not pressure Iran, saying, "Look, we've got enough in the air right now with Iraq, with Afghanistan."
But that's the very issue. You have right between them a terrorist state that continues to foment terrorism to try to get us destabilized. And in these countries, I think we have to keep that pressure on Iran and keep it on right now.
HUME: Well, Senator, that being the case, the flip side of the question I was asking you earlier about overencouraging when there is no military option available, isn't there a danger is we—from things such as the remarks you were making here, that we've put the military option off the table? Is that not unwise?
BROWNBACK: I agree with that. And that's why I said, you know, I think that the military option remains. I think it's one that remains on down the road, but I don't think we should take it off the table.
SNOW: Senator, given what's going on in that country, do you think it's inevitable that the pro-democracy forces are going to prevail and that this regime is going to collapse?
BROWNBACK: I think ultimately democracy wins. And I hope it's sooner rather than later. And I think you're seeing the nascent start. I think you will reading about these students in Iranian history for some time to come that stood up against this tyrannical regime to try to stand for true freedom.
SNOW: And do you believe that the administration has done too little at this juncture to support those students?
BROWNBACK: I didn't quite hear all of that, but the administration is formulating its policy right now toward Iran and trying to pull that together. And I think one of the key components is going to be the democracy advocacy on behalf of the students and the people in the country.
SNOW: All right, Senator Sam Brownback, thanks for joining us.
BROWNBACK: Thank you, Tony.
