Public Statements
Brownback Presses French Not to Turn Over Iranian Opposition Figures
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 20, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today sent a letter to French Ambassador Jean-David Levitte, urging the country of France not to take action against Iranian opposition leaders. The text of the letter follows.
"I write to you with great urgency regarding your country's recent actions against Iranian opposition figures - particularly Mrs. Maryam Rajavi," Brownback wrote. "It is my understanding that these individuals had been granted political asylum by your country years ago - and were residing legally in France at the time of their recent arrest. Now, there are reports that your government intends to extradite these Iranian opposition leaders to a third country where they will be handed back to the Iranian regime.
"It should be made crystal clear that such an action will result in the certain death of these individuals as reprisal for political criticism and revealing sensitive information about Iran's nuclear program. I urge the nation of France - which has long prided itself on being a protector of human rights and freedom of expression - to live up to its ideals and avoid action that would put it in league with the terrorist state of Iran.
"Your country and ours share concerns about the People's Mojahedin group. But no group of people deserve the fate you are considering. By handing these people to the Iranian regime, you may incur some short-term favor in Tehran, but you will most certainly lose respect around the world. Furthermore, as I'm sure you are aware, there remain numerous protests inside Iran which have been going on for over a week. Surely, France does not wish to empower a terrorist regime over a group of its own people who are protesting for freedom?
"When America was struggling for its independence, it was France who came to her aid. I urge you not to turn your back on your country's own rich tradition of supporting freedom by doing the dirty work of the Islamic Republic of Iran,"
Brownback wrote.
