Public Statements
Brownback Cosponsors Legislation to Help Unaccompanied Alien Children
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 19, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today made the following statement at a press conference to discuss the Unaccompanied Alien Child Protection Act.
"Today, I am pleased to join my colleagues, UNHCR, and actress Angelina Jolie to talk about legislation that will fix the legal loophole that leaves confused, unaccompanied alien children where they are most vulnerable - in the adult legal system," Brownback said.
"In fact, just today the New York Times reported on a study released by Amnesty International. The results of this study are bleak indeed. Unaccompanied alien children are often strip-searched, shackled and housed with convicted juvenile offenders. Even children as young as seven were shackled or had belly chains or leg irons used on them during court appearances. Meanwhile, instances of abuse were discovered, such as solitary confinement for minor offenses like misuse of grammar or poor hygiene. Needless to say, this only emphasizes exactly why we must move to protect these children.
"Last year, the Senate Judiciary Committee held a hearing on this topic, inviting Senator Feinstein to speak. Her testimony, and the testimony of the children who came, moved me to cosponsor the bill that very day. I still remember the story the Senator told of a young girl from China, standing before a judge, unable to speak the language, her arms shackled to her sides, crying. That sort of situation is shameful.
"These are children - not common criminals - and they should be treated as children. The main purpose of our legislation is to ensure just that - that children who come to the United States are still treated as children. That does not mean that they will escape a proper and appropriate accounting and ruling on whether they may stay or not - it simply means that their age and circumstances will be considered at all times.
"We are still the nation that is described upon the Statue of Liberty. Let's ensure our legal system remembers this point as well," Brownback said.
