Public Statements
Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act of 2003
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 11, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

BURMESE FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY ACT OF 2003
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for allowing me to speak on this legislation.
The weekend before last, the military junta in Burma, ironically going by the name of the State Peace and Development Council, staged a violent clash between a government-supported militia called the United Solidarity and Development
Association and activists of the National League for Democracy, the NLD.
As reported in the press, during the ensuing assault on the NLD, these thugs attacked the caravan of supporters led by Nobel Peace Prize laureate and democratic activist Aung San Suu Kyi and subsequently detained her and 19 members of the NLD, killed scores of NLD activists and, in the aftermath, closed down universities and NLD offices in the country. This is intolerable. Today I hope this institution can stand tall by roundly condemning this thieving, bantam tyranny that is taking place in Burma.
The regime claims they are detaining her, a Nobel Peace Prize winner, and NLD supporters for their safety. They accuse her of causing unrest and violence and claim she is in danger because of inflammatory speeches she has been giving on her tour of northern Burma.
I find this accusation to be absolutely ridiculous, but nevertheless, a common refrain coming from a government known for flaunting its human rights abuses which include slave labor, rape and forced prostitution, pressing children into the military, all a carefully constructed campaign to terrorize the people of Burma and consolidate the petty kleptocracy.
Aung San Suu Kyi's whereabouts are now known; the UN Secretary General's envoy Mr. Razali Ishmail is in Rangoon working to negotiate her release. I cannot bring myself to believe a word of what the SPDC says. It was reported in the press that she has a serious head injury; however, today I hear that Mr. Razali has seen her and that she is unharmed. My colleague from Kentucky and I do not believe it. And the regime has done nothing to reassure any member of the international community of their intentions. Aung San Suu Kyi is not free, Burma is not free.
In fact, this is part of a clear pattern of continually thwarting the advance of democracy and freedom in Burma—something for which Aung San Suu Kyi is the living symbol. More than that, she has recruited some of the most talented and most dedicated young people to her cause.
As reported by yesterday's Washington Post, one of those young people was a young man by the name of Toe Lwin. This young man, and many others in NLD like him, dedicated every once of his being to the cause. Bringing change to Burma and protecting Aung San Suu Kyi were the things for which he was willing to die.
This young man died trying to protect her. I am told that she sees all of these dedicated, inspiring young people as her children. I am sure that it breaks her heart to know that blood has been spilt in this effort.
We cannot seek a better tribute to this young man's life than by aiding the cause of democracy by passing this bill.
The SPDC seems like a bunch of bush-league autocrats. But what I want my colleagues to know is that this group of thugs is not just some common banana republic or petty dictatorship.
In 1988, the then-called State Law and Order Restoration Council, SLORC, took power and began its repression of pro-democracy demonstrations. After National Assembly elections in 1990, which were poised to overwhelmingly bring to power Aung San Suu Kyi and the NLD, SLORC annulled the elections, began jailing thousands of democracy activists, suppressed all political liberties, and periodically placed Aung San Suu Kyi under house arrest.
And this is just the opening line of the story. These thugs conscript thousands of their citizens, including children, into the military to serve as porters and to work on state development projects. In addition, narcotics is a big business for the ruling Burmese generals; however, there are some who will claim that we are getting full cooperation in combatting Burma's trade in heroin and amphetamines.
The most recent International Narcotics Control Strategy Report published by the Department of State reads, "Burma is the world's second largest producer of illicit opium." It continues stating ".    .    . no Burma Army Officer over the rank of full Colonel has ever been prosecuted for drug offenses in Burma. This fact, the prominent role in Burma of the family of notorious narcotics traffickers, and the continuance of large-scale narcotics trafficking over the years of intrusive military rule have given rise to speculation that some senior military leaders protect or are otherwise involved with narcotics traffickers."
Yet I understand there was an active effort by some embedded bureaucrats to give the junta a free pass on drug certification. We are not dealing with the boy scouts of Southeast Asia.
I think that is the wrong approach to dealing with the problem of the SPDC's brutal rule. If today's paper is accurate, then it looks as if our government is beginning to take the correct steps to respond to the situation. We have put eleven countries on notice, notably Thailand and China, for their support of Burma.
This may be the mortal blow that weakens the regime. That is why next Wednesday I have planned hearings to discuss the support for the SPDC coming from key players in the region. Some of these countries need to give us some private assurances about their willingness to forgo continued support of the regime. Others need to be put on notice for the degree and nature of support for the SPDC junta.
Singapore, North Korea, Russia, and Malaysia have all been in cooperation or given assistance in the political, economic or military spheres. I will be inviting members of the administration and the NGO community to give their knowledge of on-the-ground support for the SPDC.
This week, the Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra of Thailand is in town for an important visit with President Bush. It was reported that the President has already weighed in with the Prime Minister. I hope to do the same when I attend a luncheon today for the Prime Minister hosted by Senator BOND.
Because the can predict the perils of dealing with a thieving, murderous dictatorship, many companies, especially here in the U.S., are avoiding doing business with these guys altogether. Department stores, clothing manufacturers, footwear and apparel companies are all telling the junta to take a hike.
Maybe the Senate should consider telling them the same.
I note my personal experience. I was on the Thai-Burma border in late 2000. This was on a trip where we were working on the issue of trafficking in persons, sex trafficking. We found at that point in time in 2000, and it continues today, one of the highest trafficked areas in the world was between Burma and Thailand. What was taking place was the people of Burma were fleeing this totalitarian dictatorship that brutalized its own people. The people of Burma were fleeing into Thailand.
On that border, then, they were fresh meat for the people who traffic in persons, primarily for sex exploration, primarily of young girls. We saw girls 11, 12, 13 years of age, even younger, being taken—abducted in some cases—and in some cases sold because the family was so poor, sold into what they thought was a condition they would serve someone in a home or work in a restaurant. Instead, they were put in a brothel in Bangkok or someplace else in Thailand to a horrific environment at this very young age, with most of them contracting AIDS, tuberculosis, and dying at a young age. This was one of the key traffic areas of the world. It was being caused by this government in Burma that cared nothing about its people.
These were the most wonderful people in the world. They were trying to eke out some mere existence. This was a government that cared absolutely nothing at all about them.
Now they have gone and arrested the Nobel Prize-winning activist, democracy activist who has done this in a peaceful way in Burma to try to bring her country forward. They have taken the next step down the road on this anarchy of horrific treatment of their own people, a complete movement against the way the rest of the world is moving.
I support this resolution. It is very timely. I applaud Senator McConnell for his work. It is important we send this message that this regime is treating its own people so badly that these sorts of conditions arise. We need to be on record. The rest of the world needs to be on record to press this regime to stop persecuting its own people in such terrible ways.
I hope this will send a message to the regime in Burma and to people around the rest of the world that we will continue to bring economic and diplomatic pressure in a quick fashion against this regime in Burma. This should not wait for years to develop.
Furthermore, there are big questions many times about whether these sanctions work. Against a big economy there are legitimate questions. Against a small economy, against a situation in a country such as Burma, where it is located, I think these work very well and it sends an extraordinary message to Burma. It also sends a big message to Thailand, which is a key country for us, to get their attention that they should not repatriate the Burmese back into Burma and we should recognize the refugee status for the Burmese in Thailand, a country that wants to work closely and carefully with us.
I yield the floor.
