Public Statements
Eisenhower Statue Dedicated In U.S. Capital
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 4, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Eisenhower Statue Dedicated in U.S. Capitol
WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today participated in the dedication ceremony of the statue of Kansan, President Dwight D. Eisenhower, in the Rotunda of the U.S. Capitol building.
"Dwight D. Eisenhower has become a legend in so many minds - and rightfully so," Brownback said. "But the truth, as always, is so much richer and offers so many more reasons as to why we are all gathered here today to honor him. "He was a general and a politician - an unparalleled leader - but most of all he was a gentleman, in both senses of the word. Despite being one of our greatest military commanders, and a fearless character on the political scene as well, Eisenhower was also a gentle, honorable man.
"He commented once, during an address at Guildhall in London in July 1945, that 'Humility must always be the portion of any man who received acclaim earned in the blood of his followers and the sacrifices of his friends.' He followed his own advice carefully: his mistakes were always his own, and his victories were those of his men. He knew that his accolades were laurels resting upon the fallen - and that without his men, his actions meant nothing and achieved nothing.
"He was a true Kansan, for his dignity forever illustrated that he never forgot his roots - roots in the homespun nature of the great state of Kansas; Roots firmly based in our state motto: Ad Astra Per Aspera - To the Stars Through Difficulties.
"Eisenhower is now looked at as someone larger than life - but this is a view of himself with which he would never have been comfortable. It was, instead, his modesty that was larger than life - a quality that a leader can never have enough of - that, in fact, defines a true leader.
"Eisenhower was such a leader - it showed in how he approached everything in life, but especially in how he approached the nation. He knew that leaders must actually lead - they must stand at the forefront of their troops and they must urge them on with the fire of their belief and confidence in their abilities.
"One of the great dangers when studying history is the false impression that things were destined to turn out as they did. Make no mistake, people matter. The choices people make matter. Leadership matters. Character matters. Eisenhower mattered. The Normandy Invasion might have failed, and World War II could have been lost. Eisenhower helped to make the difference for freedom. He was the pivotal man in the pivotal moment of the 20th Century - D-Day - and it is appropriate that this statue commemorates, of all his great contributions, that event.
"We must never forget all that Eisenhower accomplished throughout his life. This wonderful statue that we dedicate today will help us remember Ike and the things for which he stood. As in this statue, he stood at our frontlines and exhorted us onward, knowing it was not his leadership, but those he led that provided the glory. For we must also never forget his view of life: that it is not our glory that defines us, but our humility," Brownback said.
