Public Statements
National Museum of African American History and Culture
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 4, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY AND CULTURE
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to join several colleagues who have already made presentations here today about the introduction of a bill for a National Museum of African American History and Culture. We currently have 48 cosponsors of this bill. I hope after today we will have a strong and clear majority sponsoring this legislation.
I want to particularly thank Senator Dodd, who is the lead Democrat sponsor of this bill, and Senator Lott, who chairs the Rules Committee through which it will go, both of whom are cosponsors of the bill, along with the majority leader and the Democratic leader who are also cosponsors of the bill, for pushing this issue, making it go forward.
I cannot go forward without recognizing Congressman JOHN LEWIS from Georgia, who has been the lead sponsor in the House, along with J.C. Watts, before he left that body, being the inspirational leader behind moving this issue forward.
Over 200 years ago, there was a dream that was America for a group of individuals who were brought to our shores in shackles, a dream so powerful it compelled a race of people to fight for the liberty of others when they were in bondage themselves, a dream that not only served as a catalyst for physical liberation in the African-American community but removed societal shackles from our culture and enabled us to realize the ideals set before us in the Constitution—that all men are created equal under God.
Today, we celebrate this magnificent history, a history of a people's quest for freedom that shaped this Nation into a symbol of freedom and democracy around the world. I am proud to stand here today with my colleagues and introduce once again to this body a bill that will create the National Museum of African American History and Culture.
I would specifically like to mention Senator Dodd, Senator Stevens, Senator Lott, Senator Santorum, and the other 48 cosponsors who are pushing this museum forward.
The National Museum of African-American History and Culture Presidential Commission—signed into law by President Bush—stated that the time is now. Indeed the time is now to honor this incredible history that has shaped this great Nation.
I thank the Presidential Commission for their hard work and effort in recommending to Congress that we should build this museum, and that there is sufficient interest in the philanthropic community to financially support this museum, and that there are sufficient artifacts to fill this museum.
So many Americans will be able to share in the celebration of this museum—a uniquely American museum, one that we can celebrate. I remember when I met with the Dean of the Afro-American Studies at Howard University. He told me of a story about his grandfather who finished a bowl the day the Emancipation Proclamation was authorized. His grandfather decided to keep the bowl because it no longer was the property of a slave master but the man who made it—his grandfather.
The dean has this bowl in his home—an incredible piece of history, and I am sure there are many more pieces out their waiting for a home, a national home.
Today, we are not just introducing a bill; we are completing a piece of American history by introducing the National Museum of African-American History and Culture, which will create a museum to honor African-American contributions to this Nation—which is an extraordinary story of sacrifice and triumph.
This bill will create this museum within the Smithsonian Institution—America's premier museum complex. We have worked very hard with the Smithsonian Institution to craft a bill that will compliment their programs. And, indeed, we have done just that.
This bill is very similar to the American-Indian Museum, slated to open next year. And I know that the Smithsonian Institution will create another national treasure—one that tells the story of African-Americans in this country—a proud history, a rich history.
This bill charges the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, along with the Council of the National Museum to plan, build, and construct a museum dedicated to celebrating nationally African-American history—which is American history.
In addition, this bill charges the board of regents with choosing a site on or adjacent to the National Mall for the location of the museum.
Additionally, the bill establishes an education and program liaison section designed to work with educational institutions
and museums across the country in order to promote African-American history.
Finally, the bill sets forth a Federal-private partnership for funding the museum, and authorizes $17 million for the first year in order to begin implementation of the museum council, which will be comprised from a mixture of leading African-Americans from the museum, historical, and business communities.
It has been well over 70 years since the first commission was formed to seek ways to honor nationally the contributions of African-Americans—70 years. It is about time that we move forward with it.
It has always been my hope that this museum will not only showcase nationally the accomplishments of African-Americans—which are great—but will also serve as a catalyst for racial reconciliation in our Nation. Indeed we have triumphed over our difficulties in this area, but we must continue to do more.
I can see a number of people going through this museum with a lot of tears coming out as they see the progression of people coming to this continent in shackles and moving forward in triumph. There are going to be a lot of tears along that trail. The beautiful thing about tears is that they don't have color; they just cleanse. I think they will be tears of cleansing.
I do not pretend that this museum is a panacea for racial reconciliation, which this country desperately needs. It is, however, a productive step in recognizing the important contributions and the debt all Americans owe to African Americans.
I close my comments with a quote from Dr. Martin Luther King, a prophet in his time and now a prophet to us. He said this that could have been said about the museum in this time we are in:
That the dark clouds of [misconceptions] will soon pass away and the deep fog of misunderstanding will be lifted from our fear-drenched communities and in some not too distant tomorrow the radiant stars of love and brotherhood will shine over our great Nation with all their scintillating beauty.
We are one step closer to that today.
I thank the Chair. I yield the floor.
