Public Statements
Energy Policy Act of 2003
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 4, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

ENERGY POLICY ACT OF 2003
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the ethanol amendment No. 850 that has been offered by our distinguished majority leader, Senator FRIST. This is a bipartisan amendment which has been crafted thoughtfully by leadership on both sides of the aisle and proves to be a compromise bill that will triple the amount of domestically produced ethanol used in America. President Bush was right when he said 2 years ago that we are long overdue in implementing a comprehensive energy policy for our Nation. If he were to say the same thing today, he would still be right.
We need a policy that broadens our base of energy resources to create stability, guarantee reasonable prices, and protect America's security.
I believe that increasing our use of alternative and renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel is a key element in our effort to constructing that much needed stability. It is a clean burning, homegrown renewable fuel that we can rely on for generations to come. Ethanol is a step towards good stewardship of our environment. Expanding the use of ethanol will also protect our environment by reducing auto emissions, which will mean cleaner air and improved public health. It just so happens that as we are looking out for our environment we are not only going to benefit in the arena of environmental friendliness but as the same time boost our economy.
Consumers will benefit from more efficient use of their vehicles at a lower cost. Adding 10 percent ethanol to a gallon of regular gas would reduce the retail price to consumers by almost seven cents per gallon according to the Energy Information Administration.
By continuing each year to increase the volume of ethanol in a gallon of gasoline, we can concurrently decrease the volume of crude oil needed for it. Crude oil prices have risen in 2003 as a result of the war with Iraq and international tensions. We must protect ourselves and be secure with our independence during these trying times and possible terrorism. It is no secret that we currently import over 58 percent of the oil we use. This dependence is not getting better. The Energy Information Administration estimates that our dependency on imported oil could grow to nearly 70 percent by 2020. We are so dependent on foreign oil, that the demand for renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel is on the rise. Although our troops were successful in the liberation of Iraq, our greatest energy challenge remains the need to reduce our reliance on foreign sources to meet our energy needs.
The production and marketing of ethanol is very important to the economy of my state and the nation. The Energy Information Administration has proven that tripling the use nationally of renewable fuels over the next decade will increase U.S. GDP by $156 billion by 2012, reduce our National Trade Deficit by more than $34 billion, save taxpayers $2 billion annually in reduced government subsidies due to the creation of new markets for corn, and create more than 214,000 new jobs.
The benefits for the farm economy are even more pronounced. An increase in the use of ethanol across the Nation means an economic boost to thousands of farm families across my State. Currently, ethanol production provides 192,000 jobs and $4.5 billion to net farm income nationwide. Passage of this amendment will increase net farm income by nearly $6 billion annually. Passage of this amendment will create $5.3 billion of new investment in renewable fuel production capacity.
Kansas are loudly voicing their support of this legislation. Phasing out MTBE on a National basis will be good for our fuel suppliers. Refiners are under tremendous strain from having to make several different gasoline blends to meet various state clean air requirements. The MTBE phaseout provisions in this package will ensure that refiners will have less stress on their system.
This entire Nation's is in need of this environmentally friendly, sustainable fuel as we carry on in our efforts to be good stewards of our environment. Ethanol will boost our energy independence and become an aid to national security while we as a country find ourselves continuing the battle against terrorism. I cannot proclaim enough, the greatness of the positive impacts this fuel contains. Leaders here in our body have discovered it. The language in this bill has strong bipartisan support and is the result of long negotiations between the Renewable Fuels Association, National Corn Growers Association, Farm Bureau Federation, American Petroleum Institute, Northeast States for Coordinated Air Use
Management, NESCAUM, and the American Lung Association.
Americans can rest more sound and secure as we further develop the use of our homegrown fuel, ethanol.
