Public Statements
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 4, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2004
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am pleased to join Senators KENNEDY and MCCAIN today in submitting an amendment to honor the contributions of immigrants who have shown their dedication both to this country and to creating a better future for themselves by joining the military. This amendment will do two critically important things: it will offer easier access to naturalization for immigrant men and women of our armed forces, and it will establish immigration protections for their families if they are killed in action.
Having just been through a tough period of war, it is especially important to recognize those who fight on our behalf to preserve our freedom and our way of life. This is particularly true for those immigrants who have too often given their lives to defend our principles.
This is poignantly illustrated by an anecdote from the President's visit to Bethesda Naval Hospital with his wife, Laura, back in April. In the press conference afterward, visibly moved by the heroes he met, he noted a special moment for him—witnessing two wounded soldiers sworn in as citizens of the United States. As the President put it himself, "You know we got an amazing country where so powerful, the values we believe, that people would be willing to risk their own life and become a citizen after being wounded. It's an amazing moment. Really proud of it."
The President's words speak to exactly why this legislation is so important—and so worthwhile. These men and women are willing to risk their own lives on our behalf, even though they are not yet citizens of this country.
In fact, there are more than 30,000 noncitizens on active duty in the U.S. military—approximately two percent of the total U.S. forces—who are willing to risk their lives on our behalf without the privileges of citizenship. In the Reserves and the National Guard are another 20,000 noncitizens. These immigrants have proven a dedication to our country by joining the military or the Reserves or National Guard, dedication which should be recognized and rewarded.
Our amendment will do that. First, it provides easier access to naturalization to members of the armed services who are already lawful permanent residents. Currently, being a member of the armed services allows a permanent legal resident to reduce their wait time for naturalization from five years to three years—our legislation would reduce the time to only two years. It would also ease this process by allowing naturalization interviews and oath ceremonies abroad at U.S. embassies, consulates, and overseas military installations, and by waiving naturalization fees.
In addition, the language provides for the immediate families of immigrant service personnel killed in action by either giving them the opportunity to legalize their immigration status or by allowing them to proceed with their own applications for naturalization as if the death had not happened. By protecting their immigration status, this element provides critical acknowledgment of the sacrifices that the families of our military members make as well.
Finally, the amendment remembers those courageous men and women who ensure that in times of war or hostility, our country is ready and our recruiting needs are met, by saying that members of the Reserves or National Guard will have expedited naturalization during times of war or hostile military operations.
It is easy to see why so many groups are supporting this amendment—from the Veterans of Foreign Wars to the Non-
Commissioned Officers Association to the National Council of La Raza to the National Asian Pacific American Legal
Consortium, among others.
This amendment on the naturalization and family protection for military members is a vitally important piece of legislation
that both honors and rewards immigrants to this nation. They are already legal permanent residents—this simply ensures that they have the opportunity to truly become a part of this country through citizenship. Therefore, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment today.
