Public Statements
Brownback Applauds Launch of "Congress Building America"
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 3, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - As a cosponsor of legislation urging that Members of Congress participate in activities providing decent homes for Americans, U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today made the following comments regarding the Congress Building America program.
"I am pleased that this exciting program is being launched today," Brownback said. "The Senate seized the opportunity to promote homeownership nationwide by unanimously passing this legislation. I am confident that Congress Building America will direct new resources and attention to this important issue and enable Congress to be a catalyst in the creation of strong families and stable neighborhoods, one home at a time.
"I applaud Habitat for Humanity International, the United States Congress, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and national corporate sponsors for making this program a reality.
"Congress Building America is designed to highlight the importance of volunteerism, to produce new, affordable single-family homes, and to strengthen the network of affordable housing supporters by partnering Members of Congress with local Habitat for Humanity affiliates to build homes using the 'self-help' homeownership model.
"The 'self-help' model, by which homeowners contribute sweat equity towards their new dwelling, is used by nonprofit housing developers across the country and is recognized as an innovative tool for making house construction more affordable, thus expanding the ranks of homeowners among low-income families.
"Self-help housing has resulted in tens of thousands of homes built in this country alone and hundreds of thousands of homes worldwide. These homes are built and purchased by families who would likely be unable to afford a home on the conventional market. The labor of volunteers and partner families, efficient building methods, modest house sizes and Habitat's zero-interest loan makes it affordable for low-income families to purchase a home of their own," Brownback said.
