Public Statements
Transcript from MSNBC's "Lester Holt Live"
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 27, 2003
Location: Unknown

MSNBC's LESTER HOLT LIVE
HOLT: Having toppled the Iraqi regime with brute military force, hard-liners in Washington are suggesting regime change might be the answer in neighboring Iran. With the Bush administration demanding Iran's cooperation in rounding up al Qaeda terrorists inside its borders, some members of Congress are pushing for an even tougher approach with Tehran, among them Kansas Republican Senator Brownback, who joins us this afternoon from San Antonio.
Senator, good day. Thanks for joining us.
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R), KANSAS: Happy to be with you.
HOLT: You're backing a bill that would provide $57 million for an Iranian opposition broadcasters. Would that be the first step in trying to secure regime change in Iran?
BROWNBACK: Well, what we want to do is work with the democracy forces inside Iran. They've actually been able to do some polling inside Iran and well over 70 percent of the people do not support this dictatorial, terrorist regime inside Iran.
And this is a regime that is causing us a lot of trouble in Iraq, in Afghanistan and we think, most recently, in the Saudi Arabia bombing. So I say let's work with the democracy advocates inside of Iran to change their government, hopefully for the much better.
HOLT: Would you support any legislation that would call on official U.S. policy to be toward regime change in Iran?
BROWNBACK: The bill I put forward혰and it's a bipartisan bill혰in the Senate calls for the support of the United States for democracy inside Iran and supports a referendum, an internationally monitored referendum, to move towards that democracy, a true democracy, where the people have a chance to elect whomever they choose, not the situation that's existing today, where the ruling mullahs pick a slate of candidates that then you get to vote from, but actually let the people pick and choose what candidates they want to go for.
There appears to be very, very strong support inside Iran for the change and to move towards freedom and liberty for the Iranian people.
HOLT: In fact, when we look at who's running Iran, there's almost two voices there. There's the more moderate voice of President Khatami, and, of course, the hard-line Islamic clerics. Is there not room for more discussions, for more diplomacy between the Bush administration and Tehran before taking stronger legislative actions?
BROWNBACK: I wish there was.
But the reformists혰so-called reformists혰have been elected for seven years now. They've been in power seven years. And these reformists continue to support terrorist regimes throughout the world. Iran, according to our own State Department, is a terrorist state and, some would argue, the lead sponsor of terrorism around the world. And you've got in place the ruling mullahs, who control most of the apparatus of government.
So it appears, after seven years of reformists being elected, they are not reformists and they are not going to change the system. And we need to press for the Iranian people, press for true democracy in that country.
HOLT: And then what do you make of contacts, official contacts, between the Iranians and the U.S. government if in fact they are this supporter of terrorism? Has that been appropriate, that kind of contact?
BROWNBACK: Well, I think you have to determine what was in the contact. If it is contact for us to work with them, that, if we have a plane that goes down in Iran, that our pilots are returned, if you have terrorist information of terrorist groups that they're not supporting that they could can us information, I think that's appropriate.
But if we're contacting them to work with the regime to keep the regime in power and in place, and yet somehow work around it, I really question that. I think, clearly, we've learned that you don't negotiate with evil. You confront it and you deal with it, and particularly in the situation Iran is in.
HOLT: And the conversation that we're having and a lot of the conversation in Washington with regard to Iran is not all that different from the conversations that started out with Iraq that ultimately led to the war.
Are we heading there? Is it a possibility? Do you see a point that, if Iran were not to become more forthcoming regarding al Qaeda, that the U.S. would have to act militarily?
BROWNBACK: I don't see a military engagement in Iran. I think there's enough of a groundswell going on in that country now that the people themselves can push this regime off and move towards a democracy. And I think there will be a very active, vibrant democracy quickly.
HOLT: All right, well, Senator Sam Brownback, our thanks to you for taking the time and joining us this afternoon.
BROWNBACK: Thank you.
