Public Statements
Brownback Presses Veneman on Country of Orgin Labeling
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 27, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Brownback Presses Veneman on Country of Origin Labeling
WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today sent a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman expressing his concerns with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's implementation of Country of Origin Labeling. The text of the letter follows:
"As the U.S. Department of Agriculture continues the series of listening and information sessions across the country on the Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) issue, I wanted to make you aware of some of the concerns I share with many of my constituents regarding the implementation of this program.
"I understand that the details of this program are currently being finalized by your Agency. There are several issues that need to be considered during this implementation process. Although this law applies to fresh fruits and vegetables, red meats, seafood, and peanuts, I am most interested in the effects this law will have on the livestock industry. This law should be implemented in a way that does not create an artificial barrier to trade, rather, it should be implemented to help encourage American exports on the international market.
"Additionally, I encourage USDA to work not only with retailers and packers, but also with producers, considering their interests and concerns when making the final guidelines. As the date of implementation nears, you must consider that the first stages of implementation will be the most difficult. In the coming weeks, producers will start to purchase cattle for the 2003 and 2004 grazing programs. However, the provisions of COOL will not go into effect until October of 2004. The cattle purchased in the next weeks will have no tracking information because cow-calf producers have not started the identification program. Packing plants will not be able to accept cattle without full tracking as required by USDA. In short, if COOL goes into effect as scheduled, cattle bought this summer will not be eligible for sale in 2004. With several million dollars of cattle being purchased each year, this is a serious problem.
"I encourage you to look at this problem and consider that when making the final rules on implementation. Kansas producers want to be able to market their beef as the safest, highest quality product in the world. However, if this comes at a price that prohibits cattle from being sold, no one will profit from this industry."
