Public Statements
Senate Passes Jobs and Economic Growth Bill
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 23, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Senate Passes Jobs & Economic Growth Bill
"Hard-working Kansans continue to be over-taxed," Brownback said. "Today's passage of the jobs and economic growth package is a positive step toward remedying this, and helping to generate the necessary economic growth that will return hard-working Kansans to their jobs where they can earn a living. The package passed by the Congress today provides measures that will both help individuals and spur economic growth.
"I have long championed elimination of the onerous Marriage Tax Penalty. This bill is great news for the roughly 260,000 married couples in Kansas. The legislation accelerates the Marriage Tax Penalty relief contained in the president's 2001 tax relief package, and expands the 15 percent income bracket in 2003 and 2004.
"The bill accelerates the Child Tax Credit to $1,000 in 2003 and 2004. Included in this is an advance rebate of up to $400 per eligible child.
"An area I worked hard to include in this bill is depreciation, which allows companies more flexibility in their investment opportunities, leading to the creation of more jobs.
"General Aviation workers who have been hit especially hard by the economic slow-down scored a significant victory with bonus depreciation being increased from 30 percent to 50 percent in the growth package. The depreciation measure should help hard-working Kansans return to their jobs. I have already heard that manufacturers are receiving inquiries from customers inquiring as to how the new bonus depreciation will help them upgrade their business jets. The ink on the economic growth package has hardly even had the chance to dry, and its impact is already being seen.
"Other important features of the package passed by the Senate today include measures that will help economic growth, such as: lowering the dividend tax rate to 15 percent immediately; lowering the capital gains tax to 15 percent immediately; lowering the top income tax rate from 39 percent to 35 percent; and front-loading the tax relief so that it takes effect now.
"The bill also includes $20 billion in much-needed state fiscal relief.
"I would have liked an economic growth package closer in size to the president's original request of $750 billion. I believe we would have seen much more economic growth out of a larger package. However, I am pleased with what the Congress has produced within the $350 billion framework. This is a good bill that should help to create more jobs for Kansans," Brownback said.
