Public Statements
Governor Sam Brownback Requests Additional Funding for Disability Waiting Lists and Mental Health Services
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 25, 2014
Location: Unknown

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback today announced that his Governor's Budget Amendment will ask the Legislature to provide additional funding to further reduce the physical disability (PD) and intellectual/developmental disability (I/DD) HCBS waiting lists, as well as fund badly needed behavioral health services for the uninsured.
From Fiscal Year 2013 through Fiscal Year 2015, $43.4 million dollars has been invested in reducing the physical disability waiver waiting list, the developmental disability waiver DD waiver waiting list and 1,700 individuals with developmental disabilities who are on the waiver but who have requested additional services -- the underserved waiting list.
"Reducing the disability waiting lists has been a priority of my administration for the past three years," said Governor Brownback. "The savings we have achieved through KanCare are allowing us to accomplish this much more quickly than anticipated. This is good news for the individuals and families who need these services."
The Governor's Budget Amendment calls for an additional $1.33 million to take 132 more individuals off of the PD waiting list and into HCBS services, $1.33 million more to take 77 more individuals off of the I/DD waiting list and into HCBS services, as well as $1.33 million more to increase services to individuals already on the I/DD waiver program who have requested additional HCBS services.
"Through the KanCare dividend, we are proposing an additional investment of $9.2 million in all funds to reduce these disability waiting lists, bringing our total investment over the last three years to $52.6 million," Governor Brownback said.
The Governor also is requesting the Legislature appropriate an additional $1 million to behavioral health services for the uninsured to expand the state hospital and corrections system's mental health diversion programs. The amendment request calls for $500,000 to strengthen substance use disorder (SUD) treatment for the uninsured. This will allow the state to fund 81 SUD inpatient beds that are sitting idle and to serve 190 uninsured consumers and $500,000 to expand state hospital and corrections system mental health diversion programs for the uninsured through crisis services, law enforcement training and prevention programs.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2014/04/25/governor-sam-brownback-requests-additional-funding-for-disability-waiting-lists-and-mental-health-services
