Public Statements
Unaccompanied Alien Child Protection Act Introduced
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 23, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today released the following statement regarding introduction of the Unaccompanied Alien Child Protection Act of 2003. Sponsors include Sens. Brownback (R-KS), Feinstein (D-CA) and Voinovich (R-OH).
"This important piece of legislation will address an area of our immigration law that is sorely neglected - unaccompanied alien children," Brownback said. "Currently, these children face a legal loophole that can leave them in a confusing maze of technicalities, none of which actually help the child or the nation. This bill will fix that problem through several very straightforward remedies.
"Last year, through the Homeland Security Act, the responsibility for the care and custody of unaccompanied alien children was transferred from the now-defunct Immigration and Naturalization Service to the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Refugee Resettlement. This was an important step in the right direction, but it did not accomplish everything we had hoped to do last year. That is why I am pleased to join my colleagues in providing safeguards for these vulnerable children.
"These safeguards are simple, but to the point. This legislation will ensure that the transfer of responsibilities mandated last year actually occurs in an orderly manner. It will remind Federal authorities to keep in mind the special needs and circumstances of unaccompanied children. It will ensure that these children have access to competent counsel and guardians ad litem when appropriate. Minimum standards for the care and custody of these unaccompanied alien children will be established, and the procedures for access to permanent protection for abused, abandoned or neglected children will be reformed. Finally, the legislation will require an annual report to Congress to ensure these provisions are being carried out faithfully.
"But that is all simply the legalese surrounding this issue. What's truly important are the children. That's the whole point of this legislation, and why I - and my colleagues who are cosponsors - got involved and are committed to seeing this legislation pass. It is the children who suffer, through no fault of their own, if they're run through the legal system in the United States without any accounting for their unique situation as children," Brownback said.
