Public Statements
Transcript from Federal News Service
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 22, 2003
Location: Unknown

Federal News Service
SEN. LUGAR: Thank you very much, Senator Feingold.
Senator Brownback?
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
And I want to thank the panel for hanging in here in a long afternoon. I appreciate—well, some of you haven't been working as hard as others. But I appreciate very much your being here.
Let me also say at the outset, as several others have said, fantastic plan and job. I realize you're still in a very difficult part of working with Iraq. But the military campaign, it appeared to me, not one schooled in military arts, but it appeared to me from outside, it was incredibly successful.
I can pass on to you from Jacob Butler's family—his father—he was a soldier from Kansas that died in action; I've met and visited with his family several times—how proud they were of him and what the country has done, and that they wanted me to pass that along personally to the president. And this is a family that's given the ultimate in it in a soldier that was lost, but in a wonderful cause.
And I think you also provide the images that we all yearn to see, and that is of the face of freedom, and that face of freedom in Baghdad is the same as it is anywhere else in the world, and it's a beautiful face.
Obviously have plenty of difficulties. I've been in communication with people on the ground in Iraq. I know of some of the difficulties that you're confronting, and I know you'll work through those as well. Although I think it's going to be—I think it's going to be a difficult time, as we're getting from this hearing.
If I could, Secretary Wolfowitz, yet again call on you in the questioning. And I apologize that I've been in and out some. But I wanted to focus on Iran and a statement you've got in your testimony that's been troubling me in the meetings that I've been having with different individuals. You note on page 10 of your testimony that "Ba'athist remnants and Iranian-oriented theocratic groups constitute at present our main concerns with respect to the political reconstruction of Iraq"—is what you state.
And I've been deeply concerned about what's taking place in Iran, of the push, the difficulty that they're creating for us in Iraq. I don't know the degree in Afghanistan. I understand from Pakistani officials that Iranian-backed groups continue to cause them concern in Pakistan. We had two newspaper reports of al Qaeda operatives or headquarter-type figures in al Qaeda operating out of Iran.
And I'd like to hear your thoughts and comments about are we going to be able to stabilize the region and move forward to this much broader, grander vision of the spread of democracy in the region, with the difficulty we continue to confront from the dictatorial regime that's in Iran. And what's your—if you can give us any thinking about that, the problems it poses to us.
MR. WOLFOWITZ: Well, as I did indicate in my statement, I think that is one of the threats to building the kind of stable and free and democratic Iraq that we would like to see. I think that kind of Iraq poses a special challenge to the regime in Iran in two important respects. And it's the reason why I think it's an opportunity for us. I think, first of all, just the example of a free and democratic country next door is one that's likely to inspire the Iranian people, 75 percent of whom voted for an opposition figure some five years ago, but the country is still run by the people who lost the election. That's part of the problem.
I think also it's important, and it's an opportunity, if we're right in thinking that a significant portion of the Shi'a population of Iraq do not welcome the idea of theocratic rule and if, as is the case, Iraq is really the heartland of Shi'a Islam, then that will be a challenge even to the theological basis of the Iranian regime.
I think for both those reasons, they are not only ambitious about Iraq, they're kind of fearful about Iraq. And whichever the motive, we've seen evidence of a willingness to interfere, and that simply can't be tolerated. We will do everything we can to prevent it.
And the one good thing in all this is—my sense is the Iraqi people do not want to be governed from Tehran or told what to do by some Persian ayatollahs, when they think, as the Arab Shi'a, they are the ones who really ought to be the authorities. So I think we have a certain fundamental political sympathy on our side. And I think we will have to make sure that the Iranians don't use other means to try to destabilize the situation.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I really applaud -- (audio break) -- vision and work in the region; that the road to peace is not through dictatorships, but is through democracy and the spread of that in the region.
I think for the first time in 50 years, we're on a path where you could actually see us moving -- (audio break) -- for an enormous period of time. It is a really tough path, but it's the one that actually can work. I applaud that.
I've put forward a bill that we have a number of Democrat and Republican co-sponsors called the Iran Democracy Act. And it states that it's U.S. policy to support democracy in Iran and authorizes the use of funds to—for outside groups outside of Iran to broadcast into Iran—these private groups—in broadcasting messages of freedom and liberty. Because it appears to me from what I'm reading, and the information we're getting is that there's an enormous push from inside Iran for a democracy, for a true government that represents them and for a referendum supervised from outside Iran for a change of regime, for a change of government there; not suggesting at all a military campaign, but really, more of a campaign to help the people that are inside that already want to push towards a democratic form of governance. And it seems to me we're going to have trouble stabilizing in the region if we're always going to have an irritant in the form of Iran, given the nature of this regime that's lead sponsor of terrorism in the world today.
MR. WOLFOWITZ: I find myself in great agreement, and I think the important point is it's the Iranian regime that is the threat, not the Iranian people. They are a great people who deserve a better government, and I think most of them recognize that what they got out of that revolution 20 years ago is a failed situation.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
