Public Statements
Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions S. 1129
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 22, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
S. 1129. A bill to provide for the protection of unaccompanied alien children, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am honored to join my distinguished colleagues, Senators FEINSTEIN and VOINOVICH, to introduce this important piece of legislation that will address an area of our immigration law that is sorely neglected—unaccompanied alien children. Currently, these children face a legal loophole that can leave them in a confusing maze of technicalities, none of which actually help the child or the nation. This bill will fix that problem through several very straightforward remedies.
Last year, through the Homeland Security Act, the responsibility for the care and custody of unaccompanied alien children was transferred from the now-defunct Immigration and Naturalization Service to the Department of Health and Human Services's Office of Refugee Resettlement. This was an important step in the right direction, but it did not accomplish everything we had hoped to do last year. That is why I am pleased to join my colleagues in taking one more crack at providing safeguards for these vulnerable children.
These safeguards are simple, but to the point. This legislation will ensure that the transfer of responsibilities mandated last year actually occurs in an orderly manner. It will remind Federal authorities to keep in mind the special needs and circumstances of unaccompanied children. It will ensure that these children have access to competent counsel and guardians ad litem when appropriate. Minimum standards for the care and custody of these unaccompanied alien children will be established, and the procedures for access to permanent protection for abused, abandoned or neglected children will be reformed. Finally, the legislation will require an annual report to Congress to ensure these provisions are being carried out faithfully.
But that is all simply the legalese surrounding this issue. What's truly important are the children. That's the whole point of this legislation, and why I—and all of my colleagues who are cosponsors—got involved and are committed to seeing this legislation pass. It is the children who suffer, through no fault of their own, if they're run through the legal system in the United States without any accounting for their unique situation as children.
Last year, the Senate Judiciary Committee held a hearing on this topic, inviting Senator FEINSTEIN to speak—her testimony and the testimony of the children who came, moved me to cosponsor the bill that very day. I still remember the story the Senator told of a young girl from China, standing before a judge, unable to speak the language, her arms shackled to her sides, crying. That sort of situation is shameful.
Or how about the case of Edwin Munoz, a Honduran youth who testified last year during this hearing? His story was simple but appalling: abandoned by his parents at age 7, he was left in the care of a cousin, who beat him mercilessly. At 13, he finally escaped, and hitchhiked alone to the United States. I can only imagine how frightening that experience was—but unfortunately it was only the start: once he arrived in the U.S., he was thrown into a San Diego juvenile facility filled with violent offenders. Without a lawyer or court-appointed guardian for weeks, this became a nightmare of taunts from the other inmates and being shackled each time he had to appear in court.
These are children—not common criminals—and they should not be treated as such. They should be treated as children.
The main purpose of our legislation is to ensure just that—that children who come to the United States are still treated as children. That does not mean that they will escape a proper and appropriate accounting and ruling on whether they may stay or not—it simply means that their age and circumstances will be considered at all times.
I therefore urge my colleagues to support this critically important legislation. We are still the Nation described upon the Statue of Liberty—let's ensure our legal system remembers this point as well.
