Public Statements
Iran's Continued Menace
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 21, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today reacted to the new evidence that Iran has links to an Al Qaeda cell, noting that such news further demonstrates the futility of making a deal with the "reformers" in Iran.
"To say that we cannot trust the Iranians is perhaps the understatement of the year," Brownback said. "I know many on this committee have hoped that we could reach some type of deal with the so-called reformers in this country - but it is obvious that this is not only impossible, but that trusting in such an approach is extremely dangerous for U.S. security.
"The Iranian regime is a terrorist regime. A longstanding truism of American foreign policy has been that you cannot and should not negotiate with terrorists. I hope that the current revelations will put an end to the dangerous desires by some to make a deal with these tyrants.
"Just yesterday, I introduced the Iran Democracy Act, along with Senators Cornyn, Coleman, Santorum, Campbell and Bunning. With me yesterday were several Iranian-Americans with direct experience with this horrific regime, who recounted excruciating details of how their friends were tortured, raped and executed by the Iranian regime. How can a regime that would do this to its own people ever be trusted?
"The Iran Democracy Act would provide funds for pro-democracy broadcasting into Iran, would reform radio Farda to make it more effective, and would state that it is the policy of the United States to support transparent, full democracy in Iran; to support an internationally-monitored referendum in Iran by which the Iranian people can peacefully change the system of government in Iran; that Iranians have a right to choose their own government and determine their own destiny - and that the United States supports their aspirations to live in freedom. The Act would also state that Iranians deserve a free press to express themselves to help build an open, democratic and free society.
"I will offer this language as an amendment to the State Dept. Authorization bill on the Senate floor. I hope my colleagues will take the time to look through this language and will work with my staff to find a way to support this important message that clearly needs to be sent to the Iranian regime. I have listened to the concerns of my colleagues with regard to my amendment on Iran - and have made significant changes to it. I will not be offering the amendment in committee today because the program I am amending is established in the State Authorization bill - but I would take this opportunity to urge my colleagues to take a serious look at this issue," Brownback said.
