Public Statements
SAFETEA Legislation Good for Kansas
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 21, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today participated in a hearing on the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act of 2003 (SAFETEA) as a member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee.
"There are several issues in this legislation which are of high importance to me and the State of Kansas," Brownback said in a prepared statement. "These issues include ethanol tax credits and the Revenue Aligned Budget Authority, or RABA mechanism.
"I am pleased to see that the Administration's proposal maintains funding guarantees and improves RABA, which are both good for Kansas. The environmental streamlining provisions in SAFETEA are good common sense improvements.
Additionally, the transfer of the 2.5 cents per gallon from gasohol sales to the Highway Trust Fund is positive for the State of Kansas as well.
"As revenues continue to be collected into the Highway Trust Fund, we should ensure that federal fuel taxes deposited in the Fund are used solely for highway purposes. Prior to TEA-21, the last transportation reauthorization, these funds could be used for other government spending, essentially shortchanging the needs of the highway program. I will be watching closely that these funds in the trust fund continue to be directed for highway transportation purposes.
"Kansas is a large agricultural state. Encouraging ethanol use throughout the country helps the ethanol producers in my state. In the past, I have supported efforts that encouraged ethanol use, and this remains a priority for me.
"I was pleased to see in the Administration's proposal some attention given to the RABA mechanism. As we are all aware, there have been major fluxuations in RABA predictions in the past. Unfortunately, predictability has suffered under this mechanism and states are not able to accurately plan their highway projects. I am pleased to see that the proposal modifies the RABA calculation so that annual funding level adjustments are less dependent on future receipts and more dependent on the levels of actual receipts. It is critical that states are able to more accurately assess what their funding levels will be, particularly as states all across the nation are suffering major budget problems.
"As the Senate continues to move forward on the transportation reauthorization legislation, I will be watching closely those issues of particular importance to Kansas," Brownback said.
