Public Statements
United States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 15, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

UNITED STATES LEADERSHIP AGAINST HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA ACT OF 2003
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank the leader for yielding the floor. I thank the Senator from California for the spirit in which she is putting this amendment forward. She wants to see the best possible happen. I appreciate the tenor and spirit she is putting forward.
I reiterate what the chairman of the committee said: We want to get a bill through. If we put this amendment in, it is not going to get done in time for the G-8 meeting.
The second issue, this week the First Lady of Uganda was visiting and spoke to a number of us. Uganda has been a wonderful model with great success thus far working on reducing the incidence of AIDS from a 21 percent level of infection of AIDS in their country in 1991 to 6 percent in 2002. She said very clearly and directly this is about a change of culture, about pushing a model of ABC which started with abstinence and be faithful. That was the key, the key area they needed to push in that they got the most success, the right thing to do.
I point out in this area, the way the bill reads, in this actual provision, 33 percent of 20 percent would be used for abstinence programs, but not just abstinence programs. It would be abstinence and other programs along with it.
Effectively, we are talking about roughly 6.5, 6.7 percent of the money. This is a small amount. It is a clear message we think needs to be sent along with an effective model that worked very well in Uganda and is being implemented in Senegal, Zambia, Ethiopia, and Jamaica because it has proven so successful.
This is an important provision to leave in because if we change it, even with the good intentions of the Senator from California, it will stall, if not really put the bill way back, because this issue involved a major dispute with the House.
Second, the abstinence programs have worked, in the clear places they have been used, particularly in Uganda, the model that has been most frequently cited.
Third, it is a small portion of the funding; 6.7 percent is actually in use here.
I urge for all those reasons my colleagues vote down the Feinstein amendment and stay with the provisions of the bill as sent over from the House.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, the hour is late and I point out to my colleagues, I am told this is the 36th vote of the day. According to some, that is a record for this body in a 24-hour period. This appears to be the last one.
I appreciate the spirit in which this is being put forward by my colleague from Connecticut who has a lot of interest and is focused on this region a great deal. This is coming from his heart.
However, we can do this, and what he is asking for, under this bill as it is. What is in this bill would provide that opportunity to do it. Really, by his raising this, it will elevate the focus, the possibilities in the Caribbean.
I read directly from the bill, "directly approving all activities of the United States relating to combating HIV/AIDS," and it lists some 14 countries. Then it says "and other countries designated by the President."
I hope the facts he has put forward tonight will be considered by the administration. I believe they will be in combating this and we would use the funds—this is a large portfolio of funds we put forward, $15 billion—to focus and get results. We are on the edge of accomplishing something historic, of helping a lot, and we can do what our colleague from Connecticut says under the plain language of this bill.
I hope we can go ahead and vote on this.
I yield the floor.
