Public Statements
Brownback Stresses Benefits of Hydrogen Energy at Hearing
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 7, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today chaired a hearing in the Science, Space and Technology subcommittee on the benefits of hydrogen as a source of energy.
"Americans would like to be energy independent," Brownback said. "This country is best when it is a forceful advocate for democracy and freedom. Unfortunately, far too often our nation's interest in advancing those principle stumbles over our interest in affordable and reliable sources of energy.
"It is a generally held belief that the more affordable and reliable energy sources we can develop at home, the more freely we will be able to advance American ideals abroad.
"If the duty of a leader is to advance a vision of the future, perhaps the greatest trick of leadership is not having to sacrifice one goal for the sake of another. And therein lies the importance of the hydrogen fuel cell.
"Hydrogen is the most plentiful element on the planet. Two thirds of the planet is water. Two thirds of water is hydrogen. Now I'm trained neither as a scientist nor an engineer, but-as near as I can figure-we have all of the hydrogen we need right here within our own borders.
"As for the environment, the emissions of a hydrogen fuel cell is minimal; and the efficiency of fuel cells is unmatched by conventional technologies. Today's internal combustion engine captures only 15 to 20 percent of the energy in gasoline. Fuel cells on the other hand convert 40 to 65 percent of hydrogen energy into electricity. The potential of this 160 year old technology to help us achieve cleaner air by the time my kids are driving their kids to school is staggering.
"And not only can our economy be sustained in a transition to a greater reliance on hydrogen, but our economy can grow as we move toward hydrogen. As we have seen in the past several years, our economy is extremely sensitive to fluctuations in energy costs. Moving away from the more limited and unstable commodities of fossil fuels and towards the more abundant hydrogen has a tremendous potential to insulate the economy from fluctuations in energy prices. In addition, where there is innovation, there is growth. As American companies - like those represented here today - develop the innovative technologies that carry us into the hydrogen-based economy our country will see growth follow," Brownback said.
