Public Statements
Transcript from Federal News Service (Continued)
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 7, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

...
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. McCormick, pull that microphone a little closer to you if you will.
MR. McCORMICK: I'm sorry. Before I go into my prepared text, I'd like to make a couple of additions. First of all, you may have noticed today that we made an announcement, a business announcement with Dow Chemical. We think it's a milestone in moving towards the hydrogen economy, and it's somewhat different than many of the things that people talk about.
Dow and General Motors today entered into an agreement with a plan to use byproduct hydrogen generated in their chemical production facilities in Texas and other places in the world, with General Motors using its automotive fuel cells to create electricity from that byproduct hydrogen to in fact then help power the facilities themselves.
It's a pure business proposition, and one that we think makes a great deal of sense. But for us allows us to move the technology out of the laboratory into low volume production, where we'd begin to develop our supply base et cetera. The second thing I'd like to mention before I go into my larger discussion is that we'd like to invite the members and their staff this afternoon, we have at the exit of a building hybrid and fuel cell vehicles which will be available for ride and drive, and over the next two years we will have hydrogen fuel cell vehicles here in Washington DC available for you to drive and your staffs to drive, and you can contact our Washington office so you can get some hands on experience with the technology.
Now, as I comment, this is a really exciting time for the automotive industry and for general motors in particular. Technology is changing the way we live our lives for the better, and there's much more to come. This year we announced a three phased advanced technology plan focused on reducing consumption and vehicle emissions. This plan includes internal combustion engine initiatives such as displacement on demand, cylinder deactivation and many other activities, as well as a suite of high volume hybrid offerings for the mid term. And these hybrids are really designed to match the driving patterns of U.S. consumers, and in fact are on most of our best selling vehicles. And then early next decade to be ready to introduce hydrogen fuel cell vehicles.
The subject today is hydrogen in fuel cells and these technologies when they're fully developed and deployed will not only deliver revolutionary vehicles like the Hy-Wire vehicle—which we will be showing at RFK Stadium, if you have a chance to see it this week—but also will change the way we think about the automobile in our environment. We are on the threshold of an historic opportunity. Instead of the historical evolution of automotive technology by incremental improvements, we now see our way to bold technology advances that will fundamentally change personal transportation in this century.
These advances have the potential to lead to the creation of commercially viable zero emission fuel cell vehicles with the functionality that Americans expect. This vision is based on hydrogen as a fuel, which can be made from many non-petroleum sources. Not only will fuel cells essentially remove the auto from the environmental debate by reducing tailpipe emissions to only water vapor and potentially shifting vehicles to renewable fuels, they will also offer the performance for every type of vehicle: heavy duty commercial, sports utilities, trucks, mass transit or cars.
Fuel cells running on hydrogen fuel are the ultimate environmentally friendly vehicles because their emission is only water. The fuel cell supplies the electricity to electric motors, which power the wheels. The fuel cell produces electricity by stripping electrons from the hydrogen that travels through a membrane and combines with oxygen to form water. Fuel cell vehicles are substantially more efficient than internal combustion engine vehicles, have no pollution and are quiet.
Beyond the advantages for the vehicles, fuel cells promise two additional benefits. First, once integrated into our daily lives, fuel cell vehicles will be supported by broadly available cost effective hydrogen refueling infrastructure, and I'm sure we'll want to talk more about that as we go forward. Such an infrastructure by its very nature would provide an evolutionary shift of personal transportation from petroleum to, very importantly, a mix of sources, including renewables.
Secondly, the development of this technology will create new, more environmentally compatible distributed electric power generation capabilities like the type we announced with Dow this morning. The automobile will have the potential to provide electric power for homes and work sites as well. The power on today's electrical grid could be supplemented by generating capacities of cars in every driveway. For example, if only one out of 25 cars in California today was a fuel cell vehicle, their generating capacity would exceed the entire utility grid. A typical mid-size fuel cell vehicle produces 50 to 100 kilowatts and a typical household power is on the 7 to 10 kilowatts load. So you can see that one vehicle can really power a neighborhood.
Like any advancement that has promise to completely change the dominant technology, fuel cell development is a major costly technical endeavor which, if aggressively undertaken and sustained, should allow significant implementation in the 10 to 20 year timeframe. Our rate of progress today is rapid. With an uninterrupted focus, our technology momentum should make this vision possible. It is clear that we are in intense global competition for leadership in this race to establishing commercialized fuel cell technologies. In Japan the kyogikai, which are companies operating under government auspices, are developing a program for the implementation of fuel cell technology. Now is the time for the U.S. government and U.S. industry to create a partnership that can lead to the changed world that we see in this vision.
Recognizing this potential approximately six years ago, General Motors consolidated and accelerated this fuel cell program. We were given one mandate by our management: take the automobile out of the environmental debate. Regardless of whether the environmental debate is focused on air quality, climate or overall sustainability, GM leadership recognizes that the global conditions inspire bold and thoughtful action.
Number one, there are over six billion people in the world, with 10 billion expected later this century. Most of these people are young, globally aware, web connected and, most importantly, residing in emerging economies with escalating demands for personal transportation. Only 12 percent of the world's population have automobiles today. That's a staggering number. Eighty-eight percent non-penetration of automobiles in the world today. Therefore a breakthrough in energy efficiency and emissions will absolutely be required to meet the demands of a future sustainable high quality environment.
Our vision is as follows. We see fuel cells as the long-term power source. The GM global fuel cell program seeks to create affordable, full performance fuel cell vehicles that meet customer preferences and demands and emit only water from their tailpipes. We see hydrogen as the long-term fuel and the creation of a robust, readily available hydrogen refueling network for those vehicles must be accessible through refueling stations as gasoline is dispensed today. The hydrogen infrastructure—or the hydrogen in the infrastructure could be certainly derived from a mix of hydrocarbons and any source of electricity.
In the first case, hydrogen is subtracted from petroleum, natural gas or renewable hydrocarbon such as ethanol, via reformers or fuel processes which catalytically decompose the hydrocarbons into hydrogen carbon dioxide. Hydrogen can also be extracted from water using electrolysis which uses electricity dissociate water. Electricity could come from conventional power plants, renewable power such as hydro, solar, wind or geothermal sources and in this way, the hydrogen economy allows a graceful transition for transportation from a reliance on petroleum to a robust diversity of energy sources, including renewable. The blending of these energy sources is a seamless driver of the vehicle. The driver of the vehicle really only sees the hydrogen fuel and not whether it came from petroleum, natural gas, nuclear or renewable. And we should point out that hydrogen can be created directly from nuclear energy as well.
There are major challenges we need to overcome to make this hydrogen economy a reality. First, we need continued development of onboard hydrogen storage. Using hydrogen in a vehicle requires a completely new type of tank. The challenge is to find a lightweight compact tank that stores enough hydrogen at modest pressures for a lengthy drive. Liquid hydrogen stored cryogenically or compressed hydrogen stored at high pressures will suffice for early market introductions. But over the long term we should seek "solid", in quotes, storage techniques such as chemical hydrides, which will more efficiently and cost effectively store significant amounts of hydrogen on board the vehicles.
We need the government to partner with us on fundamental long- term research and development of hydrogen storage, as well as a full portfolio of technologies. And that includes our second major challenge to our hydrogen economy: developing and commercializing clean and efficient methods of producing hydrogen. Eventually we want to use methods that are renewable and have no adverse environmental impact. We're working closely with energy suppliers to investigate the best solutions.
A few weeks ago we announced that we're partnering with Shell to demonstrate our fuel cell vehicles here in Washington DC, and Shell will be putting a hydrogen fueling station in the district to be operational in the October timeframe so that people can begin to experience hydrogen as a real fuel.
The third challenge we have to overcome is developing business models for the deployment of the hydrogen infrastructure and piloting technologies to support it. As for the reality of the vision, we at General Motors have invested aggressively in what we call enabling technologies: fuel cells, reformers, electrolyzers and automotive electric propulsion. Our commitment is clear in the significance of our investment, hundreds of millions of dollars annually for several years to date and growing. The acceleration has spurred some very rapid technical progress. To give you an idea of that rate of progress, in at least the last four years the size and weight of our fuel cell stack for a given power has decreased by a factor of 10 and we've also achieved significant cost reduction with each new generation of stack technology. In fact, we generate new generations a couple, three times a year.
Like today's gasoline cars, fuel cell vehicles must be able to handle a tremendous range of environmental conditions. We are now able to start fuel cells in freezing, down to minus 40, and do it in substantially less than a minute. Also at the vehicle level, we have developed and demonstrated full performance vehicles like our HydroGen 3 vehicles that you will be able to drive later today. We have developed revolutionary auto designs such as our Autonomy concept, Hy- Wire concept, which combine fuel cells and by-wire electronics and other advanced technologies in new and unique ways. These designs could make fuel cell vehicles more affordable and, most importantly, more compelling to our customers. Additionally, we have demonstrated numerous stationary distributed electrical generation systems based on our fuel cell technology.
These milestones represent remarkable progress and the rate of progress encourages us. But no one should overlook that there remain major technical obstacles that must be conquered before vehicles can be brought to market and become commercially successful. Let me be clear about the progress represented by our demonstration vehicles. The progress is rapid and encouraging, but we are not there yet, although we are well on our way to achieving automotive performance levels required for reliability, durability and safety and full capability in harsh weather extremes, including the ability to withstand environment and in-use abuse that trucks and automobiles are subject to worldwide every day.
We must achieve these goals and, most importantly, do it in a way that is affordable to our customers. Achieving full automotive performance and affordability targets is the key to customer acceptance and enthusiasm. These targets require a huge investment and can only reasonably be made if we believe the infrastructure will be there to allow us to introduce fuel cell vehicles to the public.
Now, I want to emphasize the next sentence. Consistent and sustained government policy today must drive the development of the hydrogen economy by accelerated R&D and hydrogen storage, pilot scale distribution networks, fuel cell stations and most importantly incentives for proliferation. Selected demonstration vehicles or captive fleets will not suffice to encourage major timely investment by energy producers or automotive companies. Nor will potential creators of the hydrogen infrastructure invest until they see a rapid expansion in fuel cell hybrid vehicles. Even then, there is an economic burden of supporting the infrastructure during the long transition period from today's gasoline powered fleet.
Stewardship of this transition requires a careful and thoughtful, well thought out plan which allows automotive manufacturers or materials and component suppliers, hydrogen fuel suppliers and government regulatory bodies to progress hand in hand. This careful coordination must also take into account technical, financial and environmental realities that a successful transition requires. This is the basis on which a government/industry partnership must be based.
Within General Motors the magnitude of our fuel cell investment creates an intense business dilemma. The choice between using our resources to meet expanding funding needs to achieve the revolutionary vision at the expense of short-term initiatives, or to fund an aggressive pursuit of more incrementally based technologies. To a large degree the outcome of that internal debate in General Motors will depend on the development of a long-term stable set of governmental policies and initiatives upon which we can properly balance the investment of our finite financial and technical resources.
As a closing thought, I believe that fuel cells and hydrogen based transportation are absolutely the future. The pace of technical progress is accelerating. We cannot be left behind or sitting on the sidelines. Now is the time for the U.S. government and U.S. industry to create a partnership that can lead to the world which we have envisioned. General Motors and our partners are driving to bring the first generation fuel cell technology to market as rapidly as possible. To a large degree, this initiative was made possible by the pioneering research and development sponsored by NASA and later extended by the Department of Energy. We now look forward to not only realizing the full benefits of that pioneering work in automobiles, but additionally in working together with the government to create new generations of breakthrough technologies in hydrogen storage and fuel cell materials.
Thank you and I look forward to your questions.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Mr. McCormick. That was very encouraging testimony.
Mr. Preli, very good to have you here today.
MR. FRANCIS R. PRELI: Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, Senator. My name is Frank Preli. I'm vice president of engineering for UTC Fuel Cells, a business of UTC Power, which is a division of United Technologies Corporation. I appreciate the opportunity to participate in today's hearing.
UTC Fuel Cells is one of the largest and most experienced fuel cell companies in the U.S. and the world. We're the only company addressing space, stationary and transportation markets. We employ a total of 850 individuals, of which 350 are dedicated solely to fuel cell research and technology development. Over the years our employees have amassed a patent portfolio of more than 550 U.S. patents.
UTC Fuel Cells produced its first fuel cell in 1961 for the space application, and since then we've supplied fuel cells for every U.S. manned space mission. UTC Fuel Cells has also led the way with terrestrial fuel cell applications. We've sold 255 stationary 200- kilowatt units, known as the PC25, to customers in 25 states, 19 countries on five continents.
Our installed base of PC25 has generated clean energy for over six million hours. We're also a leader in the development of fuel cell systems for the transportation market. We count Nissan, Hyundai and BMW among our transportation fuel cell partners. In addition, California's only hydrogen fuel cell transit bus and revenue service is operated by SunLine Transit and it's powered by one of our fuel cell power plants.
Great progress has been made in fuel cell technology. For example, in the past five years the life of a fuel cell stack has been extended from hundreds of hours to 1,000 hours and in recent lab tests close to 10,000 hours. Costs have also come down dramatically from $600,000 a kilowatt for the space application, to $4,500 a kilowatt for our PC25 stationary power plant. Our next generation stationary product is targeted at an initial cost of around $2,000 and of course for automotive transportation uses, that has to go much, much lower; probably down to $50 a kilowatt or below.
We've also achieved 50 percent reduction in size since 1977. The weight has decreased approximately the same amount. But we still have a long way to go. The automotive application is the most challenging based on cost, durability and performance requirements. The internal combustion engine has a 100 year head start and benefits also from huge volumes. Therefore, it will take longer for fuel cells to successfully compete in this market. But the auto market also offers the largest payoff in terms of environmental benefits and our ability to reduce the nation's dependence on foreign oil. We believe fuel cells will be deployed first in stationary devices and fleet vehicles, such as transit buses, and only later in the personal auto market.
Transit buses are a strategic enabler on the path to autos powered by fuel cells.
Hydrogen fueling stations can be made available, given the relatively small number of inner city bus stations, and the power plant size and weight requirements are less demanding than those associated with automobiles. We need to walk before we run, and gain experience in real world operating conditions. Fleet vehicles represent a perfect candidate for this type of practical experience. As the industry gains experience in deploying fuel cells for stationary, inner city buses and fleet applications, these successes can pave the way for zero emission fuel cell cars and serve as benchmarks to measure progress.
A team effort that involves original equipment manufacturers, power plant component and raw material suppliers, energy companies and governments will be required, with substantial sustained global investment by both public and private sectors. Our recipe for successful fuel cell commercialization is included in my written statement. The top ingredients, however, are: (1) development of a comprehensive long-term national strategy with sustained national commitment and leadership; (2) robust investment by the private and public sector, focused on research development and demonstration programs for both fuel cells and hydrogen infrastructure, with an emphasis on renewable sources of hydrogen; (3) financial incentives in government purchases; (4) elimination of regulatory barriers, and; (5) harmonized codes and standards that permit global involvement with open access to markets.
We've covered a lot of distance in the past few years, but we are engaged in a marathon and not a 100 yard dash. If the technical challenges are met, the private and public sector make robust investments, suppliers perform as predicted, consumer acceptance is won, and the necessary infrastructure developed as required, we anticipate the early adopter vehicle fleets will result in at least 10,000 fuel cell cars, trucks and buses on the road by 2010, and a substantial amount of stationary fuel cell generation capacity deployed. Mass production of fuel cell vehicles could then begin, starting in the 2012 to 2015 timeframe.
UTC Fuel Cells believes that in order to meet the automotive challenge, a national strategy for fuel cell commercialization must focus on stationary and fleet vehicles to ensure our success in the automotive market and get us there sooner. At UTC Fuel Cells we're proud of our past accomplishments. We're excited about meeting the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead so that the many benefits of fuel cells can be enjoyed not just by a lucky few, but on a global scale. We look forward to working with you, Mr. Chairman, and other members of Congress to ensure the fuel cell agenda noted above becomes a reality and the full promise of fuel cell technology is realized. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity to testify.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, and that was very encouraging. Ten thousand vehicles on the road by 2010, these are fleet vehicles, that's what you project now?
MR. PRELI: Obviously a projection of how much will happen in the future when the technology is at the current state is fraught with uncertainty. But if you look at extrapolations based upon the number of vehicles today, the number that some auto companies are projecting for 2005-2007, if we can make inroads in infrastructure and if the technology comes home and the cost comes down, we think that's a reasonable assumption.
SEN. BROWNBACK: It's a pretty short time horizon to be able to get there, too. I mean, a seven year timeframe to be able to do that.
MR. PRELI: Right. I think the opportunity is here now. If you look at fuel cell technology development, it was invented in 1830. Not an awful lot happened. In the '60s we did some work in space. In the '70s and '80s in commercial. But I would say over the last 10 years the level of interest investment in this PEM technology, which is a potential technology for automotive, has vastly increased the number of minds and the amount of money being brought forward. And really the achievements over the last five years, and maybe 10 years, are really stunning in terms of the evolution of fuel cells since the 1830s.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is it safe to say from the scientific community—and I don't care who would want to respond to this—that as the scientific and engineering community looks to the future and wants to take the automobile out of the environmental equation, that this is by far the most promising technology, most promising fuel to long term do this?
MR. McCORMICK: I'll take that on for General Motors. Unambiguously we believe that and it's because we think that, in a sense, moving from petroleum to hydrogen gives us an awful lot of very substantial societal benefits. But moving to the electric drive in the fuel cell allows us to do things with the automobile that we haven't been able to do before, as evidenced by our Hy-Wire concept where we now can package cars and design them in ways that give better style and better utility than the conventional designs we have that have to design around the hard mechanical interfaces between the engine, transmission and wheels.
And so, in a sense, this idea of having customers that want to buy what we sell is performance, transportation for sure, utility—which has something to do with how the vehicle is designed—and most people buy vehicles to a large degree based on style and fun as well. So you've got to put all that together and these new concepts allow us to design vehicles that we think people absolutely want to buy. So from our viewpoint it's a win all the way around.
MR. FRIEDMAN: If I might add to that. I think this is one of the areas that's really encouraging because the automotive industry, and generally the environmental community and scientific communities, agree that fuel cells hold amazing long term promise. I do have to underscore, though, that it is promise. Hydrogen is only as clean as how it is made. So if it is made from coal, if it is made from other dirty resources we will definitely not be taking vehicles out of the equation. So it's very important that as we look forward to developing fuel cell vehicles, that development also happen for the energy resources to make sure that the hydrogen can be as clean as possible.
It's also important that we develop a lot of other technologies. A lot of the conventional technologies and a lot of the hybrid technologies will actually feed into fuel cell vehicles. For example, the electric motors in hybrid vehicles and the aerodynamic improvements, or better rolling resistance tires in conventional vehicles, all are very important to ensure that fuel cell vehicle costs can come down and that their efficiency can be maximized. So there is a real synergy between those technologies that's important to take advantage of.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But, Dr. Friedman, I want to make sure I understand. You believe as well, representing the Union of Concerned Scientists, that hydrogen technology represents the most promising aspect of taking the automobile out of the environmental impact equation?
MR. FRIEDMAN: As long as hydrogen technology is linked to renewable fuels, definitely.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Preli, do you agree with that statement too that hydrogen is the key opportunity that we have here in taking the automobile out of the environmental equation—problematic part of the equation?
MR. PRELI: Yeah, I think we agree with that and I think our concern is really when. Sooner or later fossil fuel reserves dwindle down. Sooner or later you have to make a switch. How quickly do you move toward that goal?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Dr. Friedman, I want to go to a statement that you made about—that hydrogen is an energy carrier, not—let's see, energy fuel I believe is the way you put it. And I see your difference and I agree with that. What sources would you support, and perhaps you can state even generally from the environmental community, what sources should we be deriving hydrogen from?
MR. FRIEDMAN: Well, certainly that's a near term and a long term question. In the near term I think natural gas is likely the most promising source of hydrogen. If you look at this projection for basically getting 50 percent of the new vehicles as fuel cell vehicles by 2030, then kind of look back at 2010 -- sorry, 2020 where we're expecting maybe 10 percent of the new vehicles would be fuel cell vehicles, the hydrogen demand is on the order of one quad of energy.
To make that from natural gas, that's about two quads of energy, which is less than 10 percent of the projected natural gas demand in that timeframe. So as a transition fuel, natural gas makes a lot of sense, specifically because you can put a natural gas reformer at the fueling station.
So instead of necessarily having to build up the infrastructure in the short term to pipe hydrogen to fueling stations, you have --
SEN. BROWNBACK: You just pipe natural gas to the station?
MR. FRIEDMAN: Exactly, and then you crack the fuel there.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Is it that cheap to be able to make that transfer technology where you crack it right at the station?
MR. FRIEDMAN: Well, in terms of technology, that technology is actually what UTC Fuel Cells is using for their stationary technology for the PC250s—or PC25s. Sorry if I'm saying them wrong. Certainly it's still more expensive than gasoline and it will take time to get that down. It will also probably take tax credits: infrastructure tax credits and fuel tax credits, such as are being looked at in the CLEAR Act in order to help in the short term bring down those costs. In the long term, because fuel cell vehicles can be on the order of two to three times more efficient than the cars we have today, the price for the fuel can be higher than gasoline. But because the vehicle is so much more efficient, the actual on-the-road price can be quite similar.
Now, in the long term, though, we can't rely on natural gas. Obviously there are still carbon emissions associated with natural gas and there are some upstream emissions and air pollutants associated with producing natural gas. Ultimately we do need to move to electrolysis type technologies based off of wind and solar energy, as well as using biomass to gasify and produce hydrogen fuel.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Gentlemen, do either of you have any comments to make about his analysis there, as to hydrogen—the sourcing of the hydrogen?
MR. McCORMICK: Maybe we see it somewhat differently. And if you use the analogy of electricity—which in the future we envision there are two energy carriers: one being electricity, one being hydrogen. The earlier we begin to get the infrastructure in—get the vehicles out there and get the fueling infrastructure in, then we have the opportunity over time to balance environmental policies, economics, balance the trade kind of issues and other real world things that we have to balance in order to fundamentally come up with what's our national policy around these issues.
And so a bit like electricity, once the grid is in then you can decide incrementally how do I want to move my base production of electricity. How do I want to deal with the environmental issues. And so the quicker we begin to get the vehicles out there and we get the infrastructure in, the better we are in terms of developing that path to renewables that we've just talked about.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You know, what's exciting to hear being talked about here is there is frequently—as long as I've been around there's been tension between the automobile community and the environmental community, and I don't sense that same level of tension here. There seems to be a coming together of interests, which is a delight to see.
Mr. McCormick, congratulations on the historic announcement this morning that GM with Dow Chemical will provide fuel cells with, as I understand it, a generating capacity of 35 megawatts at Dow's Freeport, Texas, plant. Could you speak to some of the business advantages that both companies experience, because you noted this was a straight business-to-business arrangement that both saw advantages from.
MR. McCORMICK: Right. And, if I may, I'd like to generalize some business-to-business opportunities beyond this. First of all, it's in the nature of the chemical industry that quite often one of the things they produce is hydrogen and --
SEN. BROWNBACK: What do they do with that now?
MR. McCORMICK: Pardon?
SEN. BROWNBACK: What's done with it now?
MR. McCORMICK: Well, what they do with it now is one of two or three things. They'll sell it into the merchant hydrogen business; they'll clean it and sell it. Second of all, they'll combust it to create some heat or to create—put it into a turbine or something and generate some additional power. Or, thirdly, in some cases it's vented. And therefore that hydrogen is there as an economic commodity and if we then put it through a fuel cell and take advantage of the efficiency of the fuel cell, we allow Dow then onsite to generate electricity to help run their own facility.
So what they're doing is they're taking the basically free hydrogen, running it through a fuel cell and playing that off against the need to buy electricity off of the grid. And in so doing, you notice that also now that they're going to have some big environmental benefits because they are not driving coal-fired power plants or other power plants to generate that electricity for their facility. So it has many, many wins, both societal and business wise. But fundamentally that's the win for them.
The win for us is that you don't go from a laboratory to generating five to 10 million vehicles a year all in one step. And so what we need to do is take that automotive technology and begin to build 1,000 then 10,000 then 100,000 because not only it's important what we do in General Motors, but we have an entire supply base to transition. And our suppliers that make sensors or membranes or catalysts or gaskets, or whatever, have to go through that learning with us.
And so it's very important that we bring this out of the laboratory and start getting real experience with it. So this was a pure business-to-business opportunity. At the cost of fuel cells as we have them, or will have them during the next couple of years, it turns out it's a profitable venture for both of us. Pure business.
Now, I would comment that --
SEN. BROWNBACK: I hope when you open that up that you'll have a public announcement and reception for people so that they can look at that. That's an exciting development.
MR. McCORMICK: One of the other things that I think is implied in the discussion of what we call forecourt manufacturing of hydrogen in the filling station is that the technologies we're talking about—fuel cells work well in small sizes and in large sizes. The fuel processors are nicely scaleable. We built a car which had a small fuel processor on it. The people at UTC build small fuel processors, large fuel processors. Electrolyzers are also—work well when they're small or well when they're large. So consequently the notion that you have to do everything centralized in some big, massive, capital intensive way is not appropriate in this environment.
So the idea that we can start to put in small fuel processors, small electrolyzers, as there's a few cars out there and the demand is not large, and later put in larger facilities as that demand grows gives us an opportunity to sort of manage that transition. And that's a key difference in terms of how this transition can happen. It also means that whenever there is an economic inefficiency, because we've got lots of sources of energy and lots of ways to convert it to hydrogen, if one of the economic factors is out of whack, somebody can arbitrage it. That is, somebody can make hydrogen from some other source and so you start to get free market competition here, which at the end of the day is going to stabilize markets and drive good competitiveness. So the key is for us to get the fuel cell vehicles out there and begin to get that infrastructure started.
SEN. BROWNBACK: You mentioned that—you stated that a typical fuel cell vehicle produces 50 or 75 kilowatts of electrical power. I think you also noted that not all of that is going to be needed in the vehicle and that that could be used to generate electricity in a narrow area. Describe how that would work?
MR. McCORMICK: Well --
SEN. BROWNBACK: I mean, you're not going to plug your car into the house and start running the house, are you?
MR. McCORMICK: Well, in fact look at that. We had—well, think about the tornadoes in your state and others recently, where there's disruption of electric power. A couple of weeks ago in Detroit we had an ice storm and we had 175,000 people without power. And so right off the bat the notion of a, let me say, re-configurable electric grid becomes very, very pragmatic. Now the electric cars can help power the grid and help deal with emergencies, homeland security, those kind of things.
And, lastly, because of the way that—and I've got to be very careful how I say this because I'm not an expert on it. But quite often utility rates are set by the peak that you use over some period: a year, a month, or whatever. And so the ability to plug your car in and just occasionally peak shave, particularly during the summers when your air-conditioner is driving a lot of the power, could change the utility rates a lot. Remember that the brownouts in California and other places are not due to base load generation, they're due to peak. And so what you'd like to be able to do as a society is take that peak offline so that you don't have to build all that base load. So the vehicles again could play a key role and be economically a very, very pragmatic solution to that.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Preli, would you comment about that.
MR. PRELI: Well, I think if you look at the automobiles, particularly in the United States, it's a largely underutilized capability. Automobiles are operated about 10 percent of the time and the other 90 percent of the time they're sitting in a parking lot or a garage. So if you were able to tap that, then all of the effort that goes into building an automobile could be put to much better use, I think, in that you could use it for generation of electricity at an industrial site, at a home or anywhere else that you need electricity. Really, the home load would be an automobile more or less idling. Its idle capability is more than enough to power a home, and maybe you would even form micro-grids at an industrial site to tap that power if you had hydrogen available.
SEN. BROWNBACK: So you would see pragmatically the possibility that people driving to work, when they get to work, would plug their car in to generate electricity there at the work site for the plant or the office building that they work in?
MR. PRELI: It's certainly possible. We would have to change the design of the power plant for the automobile a little bit because right now let's say an automobile lasts for 10 years, which is 87,000 hours of which maybe you'll use it for 8,700 hours perhaps. If you're going to use it more, then the power plants would have to be designed to live more like a stationary power plant. For example, the PC25 power plant we currently market has a minimum life of 40,000 hours and we have units that have run to 60,000 hours. So if you're going to use these as more of a stationary power generation capability, you would have to improve upon the design life of the power plant. But that's certainly doable, as we're—both GM and ourselves are looking at the stationary market as an early market for these types of fuel cell power plants.
SEN. BROWNBACK: What are the top two or three policy issues that we have to get right here to press this technology on forward?
Mr. Friedman?
MR. FRIEDMAN: I think there is—the top policies, and one is—sadly we don't have a fuel supplier here today, but supplying the fuel and making sure the fuel gets out there is probably one of the most important hurdles, and that's much less of a technical hurdle, it's much less of an engineering hurdle, and it's more of a question of sustained commitment from the government to provide certainty for fuel companies that they're going to have a market. The auto companies have been investing billions of dollars over the last several years to get fuel cell vehicles developed, and they've been really making a lot of progress.
The fuel companies have not been really making as large an investment, because they're waiting for a lot of the vehicles to be out there. But the vehicles aren't going to be out there unless the fuel is out there, and you get into this chicken and egg problem, which is where I think the government can play a very significant role in helping to assure the fuel companies that there is going to be a market, to help mitigate their risk and their financial risk. Part of the way to do that is by providing tax credits for putting in infrastructure, tax credits for actually selling the fuel, especially in the early years, so that you can bring down the initial costs of hydrogen.
I think second it is very important to deal with the storage issue, as we heard earlier today, but I don't see that as as major of a stumbling block. We've seen studies by Ford Motor Company that show with really good packaging they can get over 300 mile range with 5,000 psi tanks. But storage is an important issue. And I think also education is important. It's very important that we train the next generation of engineers so that they are ready to deal with fuel cells and fuel cell technology. It requires a much more interdisciplinary engineer than your typical mechanical or electrical or chemical engineer.
And finally I would say that one of the important things we need to do to make ourselves ready for fuel cell vehicles is to do something about oil consumption as soon as possible, investing in other conventional technologies so that the problem doesn't continue grow and so that the urgency for fuel cell vehicles maybe isn't as large and we can wait and we can afford to wait until the technology is ready.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. McCormick?
MR. McCORMICK: Well, I have four. First of all, when people talk about the cost of hydrogen, a lot of that cost is in the capitalization of the hydrogen generation hardware. It's not necessarily in the hydrogen itself or the raw fuel that makes the hydrogen. So as we go forward, policies that enable people to put in the capitalization and get it amortized or get it written off quickly, or maybe in extreme cases—in the railroads when they were put in the United States, west of the Mississippi they were highly subsidized by the government because there wasn't enough population to support having profit making railroads there. So there are a number of ways that the government can think about dealing with what I'll call the capital issue. I don't want to—I don't want people to be misled to think that the cost of hydrogen is purely a technical issue. In fact, to a minor degree it's a technical issue. It's primarily a financial issue.
The second one is codes and standards, and it comes in two forms. Codes and standards as relates to putting in the hydrogen fueling stations—in particular, when we did the electric vehicles in California we found that we had to go to every municipality, every people that handled jaws of life, everybody that could license anything and try and convince them to put the electric chargers in. It means that nationally we have to really start harmonizing codes and standards work across the national government.
Number two, if we're going to have this—around codes and standards, if we're going to have this merging of hydrogen electricity and the ability to switch back and forth between the two, or use the vehicles to power the grid or have distributed generation, it means that we need standards—codes and standards for connection onto the electrical grid. Right now public utility commissions in each location have sway over how that happens, and so consequently it's a very difficult proposition to really move distributed electrical generation into the market, except in select places.
Number three, this sounds strange, but I think this is a long- term proposition. We start—if we're going to make a change that happens in 30 years or even 50 years, the first 10 years—this next 10 years are absolutely pivotal to us. And so what we need are policies that don't change every year or two. They've got to be policies that envision continuity for periods of 20 and 25 years if you want this kind of a transition to happen. As we talk to fleet users one of the problems with some of the earlier initiatives is that fleet users will begin to get ready to take advantage of the tax credits, only to find out the tax credits have gone away because they're four years out and by the time people get the planning, get the capital, get ready to do it, all of a sudden the incentive to do it is gone. So I think we need to be looking at 20 year kinds of policies and make them consistent.
And then lastly, we're beginning on a journey in a sense. As one college student told me recently, we're moving away from the theme of fire to the theme of electrochemistry. And when we look at that, the fuel cells that we're putting out in the next 10 years are going to be absolutely antiquated and obsolete-ed by the technology that's possible.
And so consequently I think that we need now to be energizing some of the best scientists in the country, places like National Science Foundation, NIST, many other of the research agencies and people who could take on very aggressive kinds of things. We're going to drive that cost curve, our technical suppliers and our—and the supply community are going to do that. But I look to the day when we don't even think about using precious metal catalysts, maybe organo- metallic catalysts and things that are much more aggressive.
And I think now is the time so that as we get those first vehicles out there and we start moving, that there's a whole body of new technologies for us to implement in the 2010 to 2020 timeframe. So again, I think we should be looking at the short term to implement, but I'd also like to see some really good research to get some of those Nobel prize winners to look beyond what we're doing. And those would be the four things I would have in mind.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Mr. Preli.
MR. PRELI: Perhaps this is redundant and maybe surprising that we all agree. I'll run down my list maybe for reinforcement. I think we need to lead in the development of technology, both short-term technologies like improving durability and lowering cost. In particular, we need to lead in advanced concepts.
We're at the Model T stage in terms of fuel cell development and there's many, many more advancements to come, and I think the U.S. needs to lead in that regard. I think we need to provide a forum for demonstrating these technologies, make these easier to demonstrate in stationary bus and fleets, and auto. I think we need to lead in the development of an infrastructure because one fear I have is that the technology is moving very, very rapidly—maybe more rapidly than some of us originally anticipated—but the technology is not very useful without an infrastructure to fuel. And then finally, to continue to spur the market through incentive programs.
SEN. BROWNBACK: That's very good. Very good thoughts and comments, gentlemen. I very much appreciate your testimony, your enthusiasm, your unity on an important, important topic for us. This is an exciting forward-looking hearing. I would like to join Mr. McCormick in inviting people here to go view—I hope to drive it. My license is good, I have insurance, to be able to drive it.
Where is the vehicle located, Mr. McCormick?
MR. : The back side of the Russell Building, out the back door at the corner of C Street and First Northeast.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Very good.
MR. MCCORMICK: If you follow that gentleman right there he'll make sure --
SEN. BROWNBACK: So if we follow the gentleman over here, then people can look and see, possibly drive it. It's an exciting issue and I hope you'll continue to work with us. Thank you all for coming. The hearing is adjourned.
