Public Statements
Brownback Speaks at AEI Forum on Iran
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 6, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today spoke at a forum on the plight of Iranian dissidents against their country's tyranny, held at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, D.C.
"The issue we gather here to discuss today is at both the most significant source of terrorism in the world as well as the single biggest opportunity for a peaceful democratic revolution in our age," Brownback said. "The issue is Iran - and the importance of standing in solidarity with the brave Iranians who are resisting the tyranny and terror of the Islamic Regime to win back their country.
"In practical terms, this means that America must abandon any talk of engaging the self-described reformers who have not reformed the system in the seven years they have been in power.
"In a country where nearly 70 percent of the people are under the age of 35, the majority of Iranians today have never known a system of government other than the tyranny of the mullahs - and they rightly place the blame for their miserable lives, on the regime that promised to care for them - but has instead, only brought sorrow, domination and torture.
"The experiment that was the Islamic revolution as a form of government has failed. To see this, you need only look into the faces of Iran's youth. These brave kids - and their mothers and grandmothers, are risking everything for a better life. They know that each time they take to the streets protesting the orders of the regime, that they face imprisonment, torture, and perhaps death, but they continue to defy their oppressors by the tens of thousands.
"The Iranian-American community and Iranians themselves explain that this courage comes from a determination not to live lives of continual desperation, lives without liberty. What we are seeing in Iran is truly historic - the people are resisting the regime through non-violent means and they are successfully weakening it from the inside. "But this regime won't go away easily. As a result of the defiance of their people, the regime is telling Iranians that America has cut a deal with the current government in Iran - that America will not support the brave protestors who are giving their lives and their blood for freedom. They are being told daily, that America will soon loosen its tough sanctions on Iran - that America will recognize the Islamic regime and look the other way against its terrorist acts.
"Before I go any further, I want to emphasize to the Iranians who may read this speech, that this is absolutely untrue. America has cut no deal with Iran. America will not cut a deal with Iran.
"Iranians are being told this because it is the surest way for the regime to dishearten the people and tear down the glimmer of hope that is inspiring their pursuit of greater freedom and equality. Because right now, America is the only world power that has stood strong against this tyrannical regime. It is America who drew a line in the sand and told Iran that there are consequences for such destructive behavior. The youth of Iran know this - and that is why there has been such an immense sea change in the attitudes of the Iranian people toward America.
"Some of my colleagues may be surprised to learn, as I was, that there has evolved a great change in Iran which has slowly taken place over the last several years. Many of us only hear about Iran in the news when Western media show violent protests - and the burning of the American flag surrounded by chants of 'Death to America.' "But my friends, that is exactly what the brutal regime in control of Iran wants you to think. The fact is, the overwhelming majority of Iranians today are strongly pro-American.
"After Sept. 11th, the Iranian people took to the streets holding impromptu candlelight vigils in solidarity with the American people. As you can imagine, such action was highly embarrassing to the ruling mullahs - and harsh crackdowns were ordered, people were again imprisoned and tortured. What does it say to us that Iranians knew this would be the consequence of their action - and they did it anyway.
"Contrast these scenes with the images that came from other nearby countries on that day, who are supposedly our allies - images that celebrated the destruction that came to our country on Sept. 11th. How can we fight a war on terrorism where we engage our enemies and ignore our friends? If we coddle the Iranian regime one iota, that is what we will be doing.
"My friends, the simple fact is that the Iranians are going to solve the problem that Iran poses to the rest of the world. All they really need from us is strong and consistent political and moral support.
"There is too much at stake in the region and in protecting our own shores to shy away from this responsibility. If Iranians are willing to be imprisoned, tortured and killed for merely demanding a better life for themselves and their children, the very least we can do is to support them whole-heartedly.
"Now is not the time for timidity or for trying to win the favor of a regime that is going out of its way to cause us harm. We must show the world that we stand by who we are: the land of the free and the home of the brave," Brownback said.
