Public Statements
Brownback Says Trade Aggreement Will Help Kansas Economy
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 6, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Brownback Says Trade Agreement Will Help Kansas Economy
WASHINGTON - As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today attended the White House ceremony where President Bush signed a free trade agreement between the United States and Singapore.
"I am pleased with today's signing of the free trade agreement between the United States and Singapore," Brownback said. "Singapore and the United States already maintain close economic ties, and the elimination of tariffs on $33 billion worth of annual trade is a very positive development for American business.
"Kansas stands to benefit from this agreement. According to the U.S. Trade Representative, Kansas exported $626.2 million to the Pacific Rim in 1999, excluding exports to Japan and China.
"Kansans have long understood the importance of trade. Kansas is an export state and relies on strong international trade ties to keep the local economy vibrant. As the world becomes more connected, it becomes increasingly important that the U.S. strengthen its relationship with its trading partners.
"By promoting fair and free trade, the U.S. economy will face the future from a position of strength. Opening worldwide markets supports the economy by creating jobs. Kansas exports create more than 90,000 jobs directly and more than 110,000 jobs indirectly.
"The free trade agreement contains a number of important provisions, including new opportunities for trade in services and digital commerce. The agreement also includes special protections for intellectual property rights, U.S. investors in Singapore, and addresses labor and environmental concerns.
"The removal of trade barriers in Asia is a significant development, is central to perpetuating America's economic prosperity and is an important part of our nation's relationship with several countries in the region. In fact, Singapore is the United States's 11th largest trading partner, and the U.S. is the single largest foreign direct investor in Singapore.
"I applaud the Free Trade Agreement with Singapore and look forward to its consideration in the Senate," Brownback said.
