Public Statements
Brownback, Nelson Introduce Rural Health Care Legislation
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 29, 2003
Location: Unknown

Tuesday, April 29, 2003
WASHINGTON -U.S. Sens. Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Ben Nelson (D-NE) held a news conference today to introduce the "Rural Community Hospital Assistance Act of 2003," bipartisan legislation that will support rural health care facilities and communities.
"Rural America is a great place to live," Brownback said. "However, for rural towns to thrive they have to be able to provide the basics - like high quality health care.
"For the hospitals represented here today to provide high quality health care for rural America, they have to be able to count on Medicare for fair reimbursement. For quite a few hospitals in Kansas, 70 and 80 percent of their caseload is paid for by Medicare. Medicare reimbursement is vitally important.
"Much of the regulation that comes out of CMS is based on economies of scale. The actuaries and accountants in Baltimore produce payment systems and formulas for reimbursement. The assumption is that the hospitals that are the most efficient will be the most successful. Unfortunately, efficiency is often a product of volume. If you treat 5,000 stroke patients in a year, you will likely be more efficient than if you treat only 5.
"Efficiency is a laudable goal, but it should not be the only goal of Medicare. Particularly, when it comes to providing health care in a hospital with fewer than 50 beds.
"That is why Senator Nelson and I are introducing the 'Rural Community Hospital Assistance Act of 2003.' Rather than rely on formulas calculated by CMS bureaucrats in Baltimore, the hospitals covered under our bill will rely on cost-based reimbursement. In addition, the bill recognizes that these hospitals do not have the volume to cover bad debt from patients and to keep up with growing demands for new technology and infrastructure.
"This is an important bill for rural hospitals, and I do not believe we can overestimate the importance of rural hospitals to the communities they serve," Brownback said.
This legislation is supported by the Kansas Hospital Association, the National Rural Health Association and the American Hospital Association.
