Public Statements
Senator Brown back Introduces Naturalization and Family Protection for Military Members Act of 2003
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 11, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am pleased to join Senator KENNEDY today in introducing legislation to honor the contributions of immigrants who have shown their dedication both to this country and to creating a better future for themselves by joining the military. The Naturalization and Family Protection for Military Members Act of 2003 will do two important things: it will offer easier access to naturalization for immigrant men and women of our Armed Forces, and it will establish immigration protections for their families if they are killed in action.
In this time of war, it is especially important to recognize those who are fighting as we speak to preserve our freedom and our way of life. This is particularly true for those immigrants who have too often given their lives to defend our principles. In fact, after just 2½ weeks of our current conflict, of the 71 U.S. service members killed, seven missing and seven captured, eight of those killed, two of the missing, and two of the captured are immigrants. Most important, only four of the immigrants were U.S. citizens when the war began.
There are more than 30,000 noncitizens on active duty in the U.S. military—approximately 2 percent of the total U.S. forces. In the Reserves and the National guard are another 20,000 noncitizens. These immigrants have proven a dedication to our country by joining the military or the Reserves or National Guard, a dedication which should be recognized and rewarded.
The bill we are introducing will do that. First, it provides easier access to naturalization to members of the armed service who are already lawful permanent residents. Currently, being a member of the armed service allows a permanent legal resident to reduce their wait time for naturalization from 5 years to 3 years—our legislation would reduce the time to only 2 years. It would also ease this process by allowing naturalization interviews and oath ceremonies abroad at U.S. embassies, consulates, and overseas military installations, and by waiving naturalization fees.
In addition, the bill provides for the immediate families of immigrant service personnel killed in action by either giving them the opportunity to legalize their immigration status or by allowing them to proceed with their own applications for naturalization as if the death had not happened. By protecting their immigration status, this element provides critical acknowledgment of the sacrifices that the families of our military members make as well.
Finally, the bill also remembers those courageous men and women who ensure that in times of war or hostility, our country is ready and our recruiting needs are met. While we have seen success in Iraq in recent days, this war is not yet over—in fact, we have truly only reached the beginning of the end, not the end. As such, we must keep in mind that more and more Reserve and National Guard units are being called to active duty. Therefore, we have not forgotten the bravery of those who have immigrated and filled our ranks. Our legislation says that naturalization benefits similar to those conferred on members of the regular forces on duty will also apply to lawful permanent residents who are members of the Reserves or National Guard. In other words, they will have expedited naturalization during times of war or hostile military operations.
This Nation has long reserved the Congressional Medal of Honor for those select war heroes of unsurpassed courage. It is our highest honor and our greatest praise—and one out of every five recipients of this honor have been immigrants. This accounting of the bravery and spirit of the immigrants in our Armed Forces speaks to the fact that they are as dedicated and as willing to sacrifice on our Nation's behalf.
The Naturalization and Family Protection for Military Members Act is an important piece of legislation that both honors and rewards immigrants to this Nation. They are already legal permanent residents—this simply ensures that they have the opportunity to truly become a part of this country through citizenship. I urge the Senate to give its full consideration to this bill and to lend its support.
