Public Statements
Honoring Our Armed Forces
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 10, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, the military campaign to disarm Iraq and free the Iraqi people has been a display of America's technology, power, and compassion. Our fine men and women in uniform have demonstrated that they are not only fully capable of defeating anything that comes their way, but also that they are dedicated professionals even when confronted with the worst sort of cowardice and terrorism. Amidst fake surrenders and using innocent women and children as defensive shields, our troops have stayed on target and have kept civilian casualties to a remarkable minimum.
We now have word that our troops have found what may be chemical weapons on warheads. If proven, this will indeed be the answer to those who claimed that Saddam was not an imminent threat. It is unfortunate that some of our so-called allies, namely France, could not see this danger. But it is a reminder to every American—of just how important it is for the U.S. to act in preserving our security—and not to defer our defense to countries that refuse to face today's new threats.
When completed, military action is only half the battle. In order to secure a long-term peace in the region, and consequently, security for our Nation; we need to ensure a strong and vibrant democracy thrives in a new post-Saddam Iraq.
There have been numerous questions raised about the likelihood of such a transition. But based on my long experience in working with the Iraqi opposition, I strongly believe a better day is around the corner for Iraq. It will not be easy, but it is very likely. Allow me to explain a few reasons why this is not mere optimism.
Iraq is not Afghanistan—the problems we have seen in reconstructing Afghanistan will largely not be present when it comes to Iraq for many reasons. First, Iraq is a resource-rich nation and can afford to pay for its own reconstruction. Second, Iraq is not filled with religious radicals that plagued Afghanistan. And third, Iraq does not have armed warlords to settle with. In fact, Iraq has a history of having an educated and sophisticated population with a unique focus in the fields of technology and medicine. This will be a huge asset which will make a transformation to democracy more plausible.
There will need to be an extensive "de-Bath'ification" of the nation—just as in Germany it was necessary to "de-Nazify" much of that country's leaders following WWII. Even after this process, there will remain numerous ethnic, tribal and religious factions within the country that will likely have strong differences of opinion. But that is true of nearly every society and hardly a reason to believe there could be no democratic government. In fact, it makes it more likely that those differences will finally be recognized and worked out through a more productive manner than the use of brute force.
Iraq has a historical model for a federated democratic system—Much like Britain, Iraq used to have two parliamentary bodies. Opposition groups are working to reconstruct that model now to replace the existing regime. This is important because it shows that democracy as a concept, is not something that is being imposed on the Iraqi people, but rather, something that is being brought back to them from their own people. The U.S. should continue to work with all the Iraqi opposition groups in order to assist in this noble goal.
Iraqi opposition leaders have already held elections to replace Saddam—Just last month, members of numerous Iraqi opposition groups met inside northern Iraq and elected six leaders to help in the transition to a democratic government once Saddam Hussein is gone. These opposition members come from very diverse religious and ethnic backgrounds. But they agree on the basic principles—that Iraq should be a federated democracy which respects the freedoms of religion, speech, and respects human rights.
These Iraqi exiles have returned to fight for their homeland side by side with American forces. They have been flown into southern Iraq and are working with the local people there, as we speak, to help unify and embrace a peaceful transition to democracy.
I had an opportunity to meet with many of these now elected Iraqi leaders in a meeting with them in London this past December. I saw then, and I see now, the unity that they are creating. It is not always picture perfect. Democracy never is. But too often, there has been a tendency to write off the important work and success of these leaders. We should not underestimate them. We should instead, use our energies to help make their dreams for a peaceful and prosperous Iraq, into a reality.
Iraq's ultimate success will have to come from the Iraqi people—and it will! This is also why I believe we will see a strong, democratic Iraq in the near future. The people of this country have suffered under the rule of a tyrant. They have watched as their neighbors in Iran increasingly rise up to protest against the tyranny of the Islamic regime. They see the destitution that years of terrorism has brought to the Palestinian people. Democracy is the only way forward—and the people of Iraq know it. We don't have to convince them of it, but we do have to help them implement this dream. That will be the role for reconstruction in the months to come.
If there is a danger that we face in looking at reconstruction policy in Iraq, it comes from holding on to the old belief system that the Middle East just can not handle democracy. Sadly, there are many in various government agencies who strongly cling to this view. We must make sure that those who hand out the funds to rebuild Iraq are on target with the President's vision. We will only get one chance to do this right. We must not revert back to the lobbying of dying regimes in the region. We must stay true to the bold vision that democracy in Iraq is coming.
I thank the Chair. I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.
