Public Statements
Brownback Statement from FAA Reauthorization Hearing
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 10, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Thursday, April 10, 2003
WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today participated in a hearing in the Senate Commerce Committee regarding the reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
"As we debate the key issues in FAA reauthorization, I would like to discuss a bill I have introduced with my colleague on the committee, Sen. Hollings - S.788, the Second Century of Flight Act," Brownback said. "The bill addresses many of the concerns currently facing the aviation sector. Many of the issues we will be discussing today are addressed in S.788. As the committee works on the reauthorization bill for the FAA, I hope my colleagues will take a serious look at what our bill does.

"This bill would create a national office to coordinate aviation and aerospace research activities within the U.S. government and encouraging public-private cooperation. Additionally, this bill creates a national office to focus on a next generation air traffic management system and establishes a new educational program to train the next generation of aeronautics engineers and mechanics.
"It is a goal of all of ours on this committee to ensure that the U.S. continues to lead the world in aeronautics and aviation safety, technology, and efficiency. The United States has revolutionized the way that people travel, developing new technologies and aircraft to move people more efficiently and more safely around the world. Past federal investment in aeronautics research and development have benefitted the economy and national security of our nation. The total impact of civil aviation on our economy exceeds $900 billion, nine percent of the gross national product. Future growth in civil aviation will be increasingly constrained by concerns related to aviation system safety and security, aviation system capabilities, aircraft noise, emissions, and fuel consumption.
"Last year, the Commission on the Future of the U.S. Aerospace Industry recommended to Congress that the United States bolster investments in aeronautics and aerospace research. U.S. leadership in aerospace is threatened by our international competitors. Revitalization and coordination of our efforts in maintaining leadership in aviation and aeronautics are critical and must begin now. Global leadership in aerospace is a national imperative.
"We need to look at ways to bolster basic research for the aviation industry. Federal sources such as the FAA, NASA, and others can play a role, but we must also look at opportunities for the private and educational sectors to get involved. This bill accomplishes all of these initiatives.
"As this committee begins the debate on FAA reauthorization, I hope my colleagues will take into consideration some the issues addressed in the bill I have introduced with Sen. Hollings," Brownback said.
