Public Statements
Senator Brownback Supports CARE Act
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 9, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure to join with my colleagues today and support this magnificent bill, the Charity Aid, Recovery, and Empowerment Act of 2003. This was a long fought endeavor—one that is worthy of the effort—and an endeavor that will continue to promote the act of charity, but also serve as a catalyst for those who need help in gaining self-sufficiency.
As you may know, the motto of my State, Kansas, is, Ad Astra Per Aspera or "to the stars through difficulty." Indeed this is not only true of my State, but true of our Nation as well. The act of charity and benevolence is a hallmark of our great Nation and this bill will help to continue that legacy and provide a pathway for success for those in need.
During the aftermath of the September 11 attacks on our Nation, we saw the best of America in one of the darkest times of our Nation's history. Though as a Nation we were physically and emotional battered, we were able to rise up and come together as one Nation united, determined to help those in need. Many organizations such as the Salvation Army, the Red Cross and countless other charities and nonprofit organizations stood together with the men and women who attended to the victims and their families. The strength and resolve of our Nation was truly remarkable through the benevolence shown to the families of those lost on that tragic day.
It is time now that we help these and many other charitable organizations continue to help those in need. This bill, the CARE Act, will do just that. This act provides charitable giving incentives in the form of tax deductions for individuals and couples who do not itemize their tax returns—$250 for individuals and $500 for couples. It allows IRA holders to make charitable contributions from their accounts, and provides an enhanced charitable deduction for donations of food and books to charitable organizations.
Additionally, it provides an expedited review process for organizations seeking a 501©(3) status designation, which makes it easier to qualify for Federal grants and contracts. Along those same lines, the bill requires the IRS to expedite the 501©(3) application for any group that needs that status to apply for a government grant or contract. To further help in this arena, the bill requires the IRS to waive the application fee for groups whose annual revenues do not exceed $50,000.
I am also pleased that we are encouraging savings accounts for those in our society who are in the lower income brackets. The Individual Development Accounts, IDA, section provides a tangible incentive for folks to save and become self-sufficient, which not only provides financial security but increases the participants self-esteem which is priceless. Participants are able to withdraw these matched funds for a first home purchase, higher education costs, or to start a new business.
Lives are dramatically changed by this program and I am pleased to see the Senate backing this important incentive.
Lastly, I would like to highlight an issue that I am passionate about, an issue of the value of human life. I am very pleased that this bill will provide additional funding—$33 million to be exact—for helping teenage mothers achieve self-sufficiency by strengthening Federal support for locally run maternity group home programs. As we know, this was an important agenda item in the 1996 Welfare Reform bill. Under the 1996 law, minors are required to live at home under adult supervision or in a maternity group home in order to receive benefits. Teenagers who are provided the opportunity to live in these homes are more likely to continue their education or receive job training—this is paramount for not only economic stability but for the efficacy of the participant as well. These young women, who enter this program are less likely to have a second pregnancy, and more likely to find gainful employment that allows them to end a dependence upon Federal Government programs.
I am positive that this bill will continue to financially aid those organizations that reach out to those in need and will help them to build on the success they have already seen in their communities.
Indeed in my own State, I have, for several years, toured charitable organizations such as the Grace Center, which is a home for unwed mothers, and Bread of Life, which is an inner-city church that is leading community revitalization by partnering with schools and neighborhood organizations to provide scholastic, mentoring and bible study programs.
As a nation, we are strongest in our ability to provide assistance to those in need, and to provide individuals with the tools necessary to succeed. Dr. King once said, "The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and confidence, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy." These organizations embody the epitome of Dr. King's statement. I encourage all of my colleagues to support this legislation, support those organizations who have committed their lives to helping others and who are indeed helping individuals through difficulties reach for the stars.
