Public Statements
Senator Brownback Discusses Support for Iranian People
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 9, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Brownback Discusses Support for Iranian People
Wednesday, April 9, 2003
WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today discussed support for the Iranian people and offered an amendment during today's markup of the FY '04 Foreign Relations Authorization Act in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. A portion of Brownback's statement follows.
"I have offered an amendment which provides funding - $50 million - for an Iran Democracy Foundation," Brownback said. "This foundation would receive funds from the State Department - through its public diplomacy account, and would then provide grants to help organize the Iranian-American pro-democracy community, support organizations that advocate for human rights improvements in Iran, and supply needed funding for broadcasting efforts - from private stations in California, which broadcast directly into Iran.
"Some may ask why not just do this through some of the various government agencies already established for democracy development - in particular, the National Endowment for Democracy?
"The answer, quite simply, is that these organizations have taken a 'hands-off' approach when it comes to Iran. Part of that has to do with OFAC laws that restrict spending in terrorist countries like Iran. Part of the resistance comes from a belief that it is better to focus on countries that have a stated desire to move toward democracy rather than engage a regime that is outwardly hostile to it. And part of the reason comes from a failure to realize exactly how much the situation in Iran has changed. The traditional foreign policy view on Iran has been that anything the U.S. does to help democracy dissidents will only poison them inside their own society as tools of America.
"For all these reasons and more, U.S. diplomacy has not made the most of an incredible opportunity to encourage regime change without firing a weapon.
"Before we vote on this amendment, allow me to share some facts with you - which you may not be aware of, because so much of our national focus has been on Iraq, rather than on the incredible events going on inside Iran. This is information I've received from numerous Iranian Americans with contacts and family inside Iran:
"The majority of Iran - nearly 70 percent of its population, are young people under the age of 30. The Islamic Regime is the only reality they've ever known. As a result, they rightfully blame the regime for the abhorrent human rights abuses and tyranny that make up their daily lives. Let me say it again - they blame the regime, not America.
"Much of America's collective image of Iran - is that of protesters burning the American flag - of revolutionaries taking our embassy hostage. But today's Iran is filled with people who regret the direction their country has gone - and their children who actively demonstrate for a secular, democratic Iran.
"To Iranians today, America is a beacon of freedom - the only Western power to stand up to the regime with tough sanctions. Unlike the Europeans, who continue to trade with the regime, America has drawn a line - and the university students, who are protesting by the millions, know this.
"This is why after Sept. 11th it was Iranians who held candlelight vigils mourning the tragedy in America. Ask yourself, what has happened in Iran to move from a country that seemingly hates America above all else - to a country whose children stand in defiant support of America in a region that remains hostile to the U.S.?
"This is a crucial time. History will judge us by what we do right now. We do not need to make Iran a military target - that is the whole point of this amendment. The Iranian people want to take their country back - and are in the process of doing so. If we try to engage a dying regime, one that stones its people, that gives death sentences for speaking out, that supports and exports terrorism around the world - we will surely prove ourselves the worst possible hypocrites.
"Sadly, there are those who want America to pursue this course. This information is being used by the regime to dishearten the young protesters. My Iranian-American sources tell me that it is widely reported in Iran that the U.S. has cut a deal with Iran - that we will soon trade and engage with the so-called 'reformers' who have had nearly seven years - and no reforms to show.
"This fact alone should tell us how desperate the regime is. We must not allow this perception to stand. We must actively support the democracy dissidents in their push for a referendum - for a whole new government. This is not only the right thing to do - the moral thing to do, it is what is best for America's security. Iran is projected to have nuclear weapons by 2005. Iran is possibly the largest state-sponsor of terrorism in the world. We cannot afford to make a deal with people who will not honor it and cannot bring reform.
"What's more, the people of Iran themselves have turned their backs on the reformers. President Khatemi - the leader of the reform movement, won power from the support of these students with a whopping 77 percent of the vote - and his party held 70 percent of the seats in Parliament in 2001 (CRS). But in this year's most recent local elections - held just months ago, Khatemi suffered a severe political blow to the hardliners when voter turnout hit a low of 14 percent. The people stayed home despite being ordered to vote or face jail. Are we really going to stand against such courageous action and tell them they should support these do-nothing reformers?
"There is a Farsi phrase that the Iranian students are shouting at their demonstrations in Tehran - [Iran-Aaa Ahhh Zahhd], it means 'free Iran.' That goal should be our goal - and this amendment helps take us a step closer to it," Brownback said.
