Public Statements
Tribute to the Mt. Carmel Regional Medical Center
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 7, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

TRIBUTE TO THE MT. CARMEL REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize Mt. Carmel Regional Medical Center in Pittsburg, KS for its 100 years of providing healthcare services to the people of Crawford County and the surrounding region.
From a handful of Sisters of St. Joseph of Wichita and only a few doctors a century ago to more than 800 employees, 200 volunteers and 50 physicians, Mt. Carmel Regional Medical Center has remained true to its founder's directive to "Do all the good you can, to all the people you can, in all the ways that you can, and just as long as you can."
On a rainy April morning in 1903, Mother Bernard Sheridan and five Sisters answered a call to serve in a region where countless immigrant miners and their families had flocked to work in the coalfields, a place where injury and illness were rampant. One of the Sisters described the deplorable conditions: "When the miner's wife or children fell ill as a result of these unsanitary conditions, or when the miner himself was carried out of the pit broken and bloody or overcome by gas or powder fumes, there was no sickroom but the hot, crowded, dust-covered, fly-infested shack." With faith and little more than $5 in her pocket, Mother Bernard opened a hospital to serve those as they would "that God should deal with themselves and their loved ones." The hospital was the first of many healthcare ministries the Sisters would later sponsor throughout Kansas, Oklahoma, Colorado and California.
The little hospital could accommodate 20 patients at the time of its opening, and there was no paid staff. The six women worked 7 days a week attending to the nursing, cooking, laundry, cleaning and minding of the furnace. Eighteen-hour workdays were common, and when time allowed, the sisters slept in the attic. To aid in the hospital's survival, the Sisters worked out an agreement with the Santa Fe Operating Companies to care for the firm's employees for $80 and 15 tons of coal a month, an early example of managed care. The Sisters also created Kansas' first prepaid hospital insurance plan. For 25 cents a month, miners and their families were assured hospital care for as long as it was needed. Moreover, addressing their own nursing shortage, in 1904, the Sisters opened a school of nursing which continued into the 1970s when it was transformed into the present day university nursing education program.
Mr. President, 100 years later, Mt. Carmel Regional Medical Center is a state-of-the-art facility serving nine counties of southeast Kansas, and it continues to be a leader in meeting community need with creativity and innovation. Mt. Carmel has overcome the early-day adversities of Kansas blizzards and oven-hot winds, numerous epidemics, war, drought, floods, mine strikes and shutdowns; to present day difficulties of escalating operating costs, third party payer cutbacks and work force shortages. So well did the hospital adapt, that it was recognized by the American Hospital Association in 1991 as one of the three best hospitals in the Nation to respond to the changes in health care.
Mt. Carmel continues to meet the needs of those it serves, identifying health care issues and addressing them with the same ingenuity and collaboration its founder relied upon in the beginning. It holds fast to its mission of providing healthcare to all, regardless of ability to pay. Mt. Carmel has addressed the region's need for comprehensive cancer care with the creation of a certified community cancer center; and it is now aggressively fighting heart disease through the opening of a regional heart center. It has collaborated with others to create high quality, affordable childcare for working families and has provided accessible healthcare services through the creation of a community health clinic, recently transformed into a federally qualified health center. It has developed one of the few free dental clinics in the State, and a prescription drug assistance program to aid those who cannot afford them. Mt. Carmel has developed a congregational health ministry that actively involves and encourages area churches not only to take care of their own, but to put their faith in action for the betterment of their community.
On the occasion of its centennial, Mt. Carmel Regional Medical Center looks to the future as it completes the most significant expansion and renovation in its history. A $16.5 million Outpatient Services project doubled the facility's ground floor square footage and included the opening of the heart center, and the installation of one of the most powerful MRI units in the region. Also completed were a new emergency department, expanded diagnostic imaging and surgery center, new occupational health and pre-op testing departments, expanded laboratory, pharmacy, medical records, patient registration, and financial services.
So much has changed since Mother Bernard Sheridan embarked on her first healing ministry 100 years ago. Mt. Carmel has grown, adapted, and positioned itself as a healthcare leader and visionary, while never forgetting its mission to do all the good it can. I welcome this opportunity to pay tribute to all that has and will be done by Mt. Carmel Regional Medical Center as its looks forward to yet another century of service.
