Public Statements
Aviation and Aeronautics Bill Introduced
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 3, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Thursday, April 3, 2003
WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today joined Sen. Ernest Hollings in introducing the 'Second Century of Flight Act', legislation which will help to ensure the U.S. remains the world leader in aviation and aeronautics.
"I am pleased to introduce the 'Second Century of Flight Act' with my colleague Sen. Hollings," Brownback said. "The United States has revolutionized the way that people travel, developing new technologies and aircraft to move people more efficiently and more safely around the world. Past Federal investment in aeronautics research and development have benefitted the economy and national security of our nation. The total impact of civil aviation on our economy exceeds $900 billion, nine percent of the gross national product. Future growth in civil aviation will be increasingly constrained by concerns related to aviation system safety and security, aviation system capabilities, aircraft noise, emissions, and fuel consumption.
"Last year, the Commission on the Future of the U.S. Aerospace Industry recommended to Congress that the United States bolster investments in aeronautics and aerospace research. U.S. leadership in aerospace is threatened by our international competitors. Revitalization and coordination of our efforts in maintaining leadership in aviation and aeronautics are critical and must begin now. Global leadership in aerospace is a national imperative. I am committed to making this happen and hope that my colleagues in the Senate agree.
"We depend on air travel to move people and products across the nation. And we need to look at ways to bolster basic research for the aviation industry. Federal sources such as the FAA, NASA, and others can play a role, but we must also look at opportunities for the private and educational sectors to get involved. It is important that we also promote the growth of a scientifically and technologically trained U.S. aerospace workforce. This bill accomplishes all of these initiatives.
"I want to thank Sen. Hollings for his coordination on this bill and look forward to having our colleagues join us in the fight
to push forth U.S. dominance in the aviation and aerospace industry," Brownback said.
