Public Statements
Hearing Examines NASA and the Future of Manned Space Flight
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 2, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Wednesday, April 2, 2003
WASHINGTON - As chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Science, Technology and Space, U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today chaired a hearing to examine the future of manned space flight. A portion of his statement follows.
"America has consistently proven her leadership in space science technology. The predominance of America in space came from the charge set forth by President Kennedy to land a man on the moon and return him safely to Earth. The technological advances made during the Apollo era were a result of the U.S. space program pushing forward in human space exploration. Today, I hope to take a look back briefly a the recent history of human space exploration, specifically the space shuttle, as well as look forward at what the vision of NASA should be.
"Recently, the shuttle has been the topic of many discussions and debates in the wake of the Columbia shuttle accident. As these debates continue, I hope we are able to add to that discussion today.
"In the wake of the Columbia tragedy, and the decision to not replace Columbia, we must take a close look at our efforts in developing the next launch vehicle for NASA. It is imperative that we make our way to space and do so as quickly as is safely possible.
"When President Kennedy challenged America to send a man to the moon and return him safely to Earth by the end of the decade, NASA was sent on a mission in which the only option for the outcome was success. It seems that it is going to take that same kind of dedication and determination to successfully accomplish the next step in human space exploration.
"Today, I hope to learn more about how NASA came to the decision of using the shuttle and if the shuttle is the best means of space transportation for the future. Additionally, I would like our witnesses to comment on the role of human space exploration in the overall goals of NASA.
"Just a few weeks ago, members of NASA's Advisory Council announced their concerns that NASA's decision to build an orbital space plane lacks vision. I hope that today we can help determine what a vision for human spaceflight in the U.S. should look like and bring focus where we are currently lacking."
