Public Statements
Hearing of the Communications Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 2, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding the hearing.
SEN. BURNS: From a rural state.
SEN. BROWNBACK: From a rural state and the country boys. I identify with you. Let me submit my full statement to the record and say this: this is incredibly important for us to be able to maintain and ensure that all Kansans have comparable access to basic telecommunication service. I think that's a basic and everybody understands that. The question is where we're going to get the funds or can we take some places that the funds are currently being dissipated to and get them back to their original purposes, I think is what the chairman is just citing, the funds and the amounts that's going to California versus a state like Montana, because this was meant to be able to make sure that the entire country, regardless of population density, is being able to access basic telephone. That's what the fund is about. And we may, I think, Mr. Chairman, have to look at where all the fund is going to and see if we can consolidate some of that to get it back more pointed in the right direction and at the primary purpose for which the universal fund exists. And that's been my big concern.
Also I'm sorry that Mr. Hollings isn't here. I want to say to the commission on the decision regarding broadband information, I think you were perfectly within your right of doing that and I applaud what the commission did in that area. This is an area that we've been wrestling around with for some time up here. It's been holding back the expansion of broadband, which clearly we needed to get out and we needed to get it out in rural areas and less economically attractive areas. And I think the commission's ruling is really going to help us be able to do that, and so I hope you will take that message back with equal fervor, even if I can't express it quite as well or as fervently as Senator Hollings can express that. We've been dueling on this topic for some period of time.
Thanks for holding the hearing, Mr. Chairman.
