Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 2, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Well, thank you for the good work that you're doing. I think --
SEN. BIDEN: Excuse me, if you don't mind. You are doing good work. You just don't have the resources. (Laughter.) You don't have the resources.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And I think if we could cut taxes and get the economy growing, you'll have more resources to be able to put forward.
SEN. BIDEN: And make sure you get a $350,000 cut -- yeah.
SEN. BROWNBACK: And that will help out, I think, as we've shown and proven in the past, when President Kennedy cut taxes and President Reagan cut taxes and we grew the economy, and that that created more that we could be able to do, and that that's an important way for us to press on forward.
Also, I want to really commend the administration for the global HIV initiative. That's an outstanding initiative that the administration has put forward. I know the House is considering the bill; I think the markup is today on that. We've been working here to try to get something pulled together and moving forward. And I think that's really a key initiative for us to press forward.
I just want to say that it seems to me that the time has come for the United States to focus a lot more on Africa. And I feel it coming. I'm hearing and seeing a lot more comments from people talking about what we need to do in Africa. And they don't necessarily couch it in the terms of vital and strategic interest, which is where it usually used to be our matrix of how we decide where we're going to invest time and resources.
But now it's out of a humanitarian need and it's some of what Senator Feingold said, the view of the world towards us. We're a country that is a nation that's been greatly blessed and that we need to help in return. To whom much is given, much is expected. And I appreciate you stepping forward with things like the Millennium Account, the Global HIV Fund, to do these items.
One item that I want to get your numbers for is a basic issue that we've seen coming up is whether, on the level of the food aid in total -- that is, the food aid total that's needed and how much has been conveyed to Africa to make sure -- as I look at the numbers, what I'm getting is that we've got food aid. We've got food aid going to Africa in a quantity that we need, but we're not sure that we're going to have enough into the future if the current crises in the various places throughout the continent continue.
I'd like to hear what your perspective is on that, because I want to make sure that we have at least -- that we've got the food aid necessary pressing on forward and into Africa.
