Public Statements
Hearing on Cancer Survivorship
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 31, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Monday, March 31, 2003
WASHINGTON - As co-chair of the Senate Cancer Coalition, U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today participated in a hearing on cancer survivorship. "First and foremost, I would like to once again thank Senator Feinstein for her leadership on this important issue," Brownback said. "It has been a great pleasure for the past two years to co-chair the Senate Cancer Coalition with the senior senator from California. She has a passion for this issue that is matched only by her ability to turn that passion into leadership.
"I'd also like to thank in advance all of our witnesses today. I look forward to each of your testimony. As survivors, family members and researchers, you represent hope to millions of cancer patients and their families. We are all praying for the well-being of cancer patients and survivors.
"Indeed, those are the key elements of this issue of Cancer Survivorship: hope, leadership and prayer.
"The discussion of survivorship is a conversation about hope to cancer patients around the country. When we began the war on cancer in 1971, a diagnoses of cancer was generally regarded as a death sentence. Today, however is a very different story. According to National Cancer Institute estimates, there are 8.9 million cancer survivors in America today. Over one million of those survivors were diagnosed over 20 years ago. And perhaps the most hopeful fact of all - there are an estimated 270,000 survivors of childhood cancers. Today, 75 percent of children with childhood cancer can be cured. Childhood leukemia, once almost certainly fatal, today has an 80 percent cure rate.
"However, in the midst of these hopeful figures there is a tremendous challenge in the issue of survivorship that will require a great deal of leadership. Fully a quarter of deaths among childhood cancer survivors result from the toxicity of the treatment. In addition to deaths, a host of other health complications can result as we live beyond cancer. Patients in treatment will often speak of 'Chemo-Brain' or slowed cognitive abilities. We are learning that these problems can persist for a long period. Survivors often live with continued pain and fatigue long after they have lived beyond cancer. And physicians recognize that the hearts and lungs of cancer survivors are often left extremely fragile.
"These continued health effects can carry with them profound emotional and social problems. For young men and women who lose the ability to have children, cancer leaves a tremendous burden. For children, according to NCI's Office of Survivorship, up to a third who undergo bone marrow or adult stem cell transplant suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder, an emotional diagnosis generally reserved for war veterans.
"It will take continued leadership from Capitol Hill, the advocacy community, the Administration and Bethesda to identify and address the emotional and physical health problems of cancer survivors. Our researchers must continue to focus on identifying the late effects of cancer. Advocates must continue to disseminate information to cancer survivors, that they may understand their continued health risks. And we must be sure that we don't regard surviving cancer as a final victory. Both in policy and in our budget, we, on this side of the dias, must ensure that advocates and researchers have the resources they need.
"On a personal note - I am a cancer survivor. However, more than just a survivor. I am a cancer-thriver. Living with this disease forced me to face my own mortality and brought my soul to life. Surviving cancer illustrated the preciousness of each and every life. Living with and beyond cancer brought me nearer to God, and gave my life clarity, meaning and joy.
"I know that there are many here today who are caring for someone with cancer. Aside from saying thank you, and keeping you in my prayers, I'd also ask you to remember that you are not just caring for the patients body, but also for the soul," Brownback said.
