Public Statements
Tribute to Daniel Patrick Moynihan
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 27, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise today to join my colleagues in offering a tribute to the late distinguished Senator Patrick Moynihan, a role model, an inspiration, a friend, and my fellow Senator. I can only hope that with my poor speaking skills, in comparison certainly to his, I can do justice to his many virtues and innumerable contributions he made to this Nation. I know today many of my colleagues are lauding him for his principled stands, even if it meant feeling exiled in Siberia. He many times fought the lonely and oftentimes frustrating fight, but he knew what was right and that sustained him through the years of criticism and controversy and, ultimately, was normally proven right. He was a great role model.
In fact, when I first met the Senator from New York, one of the things that came to my mind was what the German poet, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, once said:
Talents are best nurtured in solitude; character is best formed in the stormy billows of the world.
He also said:
He who is firm and resolute in will, molds the world to himself.
I can't think of anybody to which this statement applies better than to Senator Moynihan. He has always been willing to stand upon his principles, in solitude if necessary, to weather the stormy billows of the world, to truly mold the world to himself.
He has been someone who has been the epitome of being firm and resolute in will, no matter the criticism, the controversy or the circumstances.
In fact, when he first wrote his report to President Johnson, for example, 40 years ago, highlighting the rising out-of-wedlock birthrates that were taking place in the country, he felt that this threatened the stability of the family, particularly minority families, one of the building blocks of our society. He was roundly attacked at that time. Rather than seeing this report rightly as a chilling foreboding of problems to come, people chose to turn a blind eye to the truth upon which he so correctly shed light. Now we have reached a stage where the out-of-wedlock birthrates in all the communities in our country have reached dangerous proportions, and everyone is in agreement about exactly how dangerous this is.
How many times we have heard, "Patrick Moynihan was right." How many times should we have had to hear it said? Senator Moynihan always understood the overriding importance of the truth, of ensuring that there is substance behind one's politics and not just words. He showed this time and time again.
For example, one of the most important chapters of our Nation's story of human freedom and dignity is the history and legacy of the African-American march towards freedom, legal equality, and full participation in American society. Senator Moynihan understood the importance of this history, which is why in the 102d Congress he championed the effort to create a National African American Museum, a vital project upon which Congressman Lewis and I now have spent several years working and which we hope to get to completion.
With Senator Moynihan's leadership, at that time the museum idea successfully passed the Senate but, unfortunately, did not pass the House and to this day we picked up his mantle and are still working on it.
Senator Moynihan understood why it was so critical to honor this history, truly the history of not just African Americans but of our Nation. His commitment was key to the first efforts.
As I seek to move forward the legislation to create the museum, I am honored that I am now carrying on the work he began in this body. It certainly makes for very big shoes to fill, but I am only hopeful that in his memory I may do just efforts justice.
Billy Graham once said:
Courage is contagious. When a brave man takes a stand the spine of others are often stiffened.
This was always true when we associated with Senator Moynihan. Somehow, people seemed to stand a little taller, act more resolute. They even argued better. No one could ever out argue Senator Moynihan, but somehow the challenge of having such a talented opponent made one's own skills sharper.
There is so much more to my friend, though, than what is so obviously and publicly known. For example, so many of us here experienced his wonderful and robust sense of humor, something I wish everyone could have had the pleasure of participating in seeing. Senator Moynihan was all of this and much, much more.
He was often described as the great statesman of the Senate, a breed that seems more and more difficult to find in politics. He was always a steadfast defender of American principles. He was also someone who brought dignity, character, and humor to this body. He has been and always will be the role model of the true statesman.
In the Second Epistle to Timothy, Paul writes:
I have fought the good fight, I finished the course, I have kept the faith.
Senator Moynihan certainly did so. All of us here and across the Nation have benefited.
Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.
