Public Statements
Senator Brownback Holds News Conference on Iraq
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 24, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Brownback Holds News Conference on Iraq
Monday, March 24, 2003
WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback held a news conference today in Topeka on military action in Iraq.
"I want to express my deep appreciation for our men and women in uniform - particularly the Kansans who are serving in this campaign," Brownback said. "They are the best fighting force the world has ever seen. They have received the best training, and have the best equipment of any military in the world. As our president and military leaders have said - the outcome is not in question. We will be victorious.
"In times of warfare and military conflict, it is important for our service men and women to receive clear and strong support from us here at home. They need to understand that we are backing them 100 percent, that we want success for their mission, and we want to see them home as soon as possible. We pray for their safety and quick success.
"We know that their mission is dangerous, and that some will give their lives for this cause - of ridding Iraq of weapons of mass destruction that threaten American citizens; and for the cause of freedom - ridding the world of an evil dictator and liberating the Iraqi people.
"According to reports, an American soldier from Kansas, Pfc. Patrick Miller, of Park City, Kansas, is being held as a POW by the Iraqis. Our thoughts and prayers are with him and his family during this ordeal.
"According to the Geneva Convention relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War, 'Outrages upon personal dignity, in particular, humiliating and degrading treatment' are prohibited. Iraq signed the Geneva Convention. By broadcasting the interrogation of American POW's, they have violated the convention, and they will be held accountable for their actions. The U.S. government and military are doing everything we can towards a safe return home for Pfc. Miller.
"During these times, we all must pull together to support our troops, and a part of that is reminding everyone of the laws on the books - and that there are temporary holds on legal proceedings such as civil suits, evictions, foreclosures and non-criminal court matters while a service member is on active duty. The law also provides protections against the cancellation of health or life insurance during active service. Congress has required the extension of active duty health coverage to dependents while the service member is deployed.
"We need to have enforcement of existing protections and better cooperation between employers and creditors who do business with service members and their families. These men and women are putting their lives on the line to protect us. We should understand the law, and not make it harder for those who are unable to meet their financial obligations because they're fighting for our country," Brownback said.
