Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 19, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SEN. BROWNBACK: (Sounds gavel.) I call the hearing to order. Thank you all for joining us today. I thank everybody for participation and exploring an important set of topics regarding China, economic emergence in Asia, and the possible consequences this could have for the region and for U.S. policy.
At the outset, I want to say that this is really just an overview of an immense topic, one I feel is important for us to explore. I come from a heavily agricultural state, I know how important trade is to our economy, and trade with China is an increasingly important part of our overall economy for the United States. The total trade between the United States and China reached $147 billion a year in 2002, making China the fourth largest trading partner with the United States.
I'd note I met recently with the international buyer for Wal- Mart, and they buy so many products out of China that Wal-Mart itself is the tenth largest trading partner with China.
As a very important trade relationship, it's important for the American policymakers to ensure that U.S. interests are being served. In the case of China, we are only starting out on a process of WTO implementation. After one year, we are already encountering some difficulties. China is in violation of its WTO commitments regarding tariff rate quotas, export subsidies, and regulations on genetically modified organisms, which negatively affect agricultural producers in my state and across the country, especially considering that China is the fastest growing export destination for goods from Kansas.
The USTR must be vigilant in its efforts to ensure China complies with its WTO commitments in these areas and in general. China is also infamous for its failure to adequately protect intellectual property rights. While we have seen some improvement, more clearly more clearly needs to be done. IP piracy losses in China amounted to $1.85 billion in 2002, and piracy rates continue at over 90 percent across all copyright industries. When I was last in China in December, just outside of our hotel they were selling the new James Bond movie out on the street corners -- I hadn't yet seen it in theaters, and I don't know if it just comes late to our state, or it gets early to China and the vendors, but they were selling some pretty good looking cover copies of the new James Bond movie at that time.
Trade is only part of the issue we'll be exploring today. Another key concept to examine is the rapid rate of foreign investment, which China has steadily drawn the past few years. There's been a strong focus on investment reforms and incentives over the past ten years, which has led to a steady flow of foreign capital into the country. We can see the impact of this growth by looking at the levels of foreign direct investment. In 1983, China's FDI was $636 million -- about two-thirds of a billion dollars. And in 2002, China's FDI was approximately $53 billion.
In terms of percentages, the U.N. reports that FDI into China grew by nearly 13 percent in 2002, even while it fell by 27 percent in all countries for the same time period. All this growth is encouraging for China. It does raise some possible questions about China's role in the region if it continues on this path of growth to the exclusion of other countries in the region. Of particular concern to me is India, a country of nearly the same size and population as China, but whose economic reforms have not moved forward nearly as swiftly, despite attempts at market reform for the past 10 years.
We should explore the potential consequences that could come from China being an economic powerhouse as it is, and as it continues to grow. Would the profit be used to remake the Chinese military? Would this economic growth lead to more or less aggressive behavior towards Taiwan? Will the information leadership in China use the profit from the country's growth in ways that may be damaging for long-term U.S. security interests?
By no means am I suggesting that we should vary from our position supporting free trade with China. I voted for PNTR, and remain a supporter. But it is important for us to examine some of the long- term consequences of the economic growth going on in China, so that we and our friends in the region can approach the future from a more informed perspective. That's the intent of this hearing. We'll hear from a number of expert witnesses.
