Public Statements
Senator Brownback Testifies at Cloning Hearing
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 19, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Brownback Testifies at Cloning Hearing
Wednesday, March 19, 2003
WASHINGTON - As the co-author of legislation to ban human cloning, U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback today testified at a hearing in the Senate Judiciary Committee on the issue of human cloning.
"Human cloning is an issue that challenges our society in a way that few issues can because it challenges some of our deepest beliefs, and forces us to debate the true meaning of human life and what it means to be human," Brownback said.
"Ultimately, the question that will be put before this committee and the full Senate is whether or not the young human at his or her earliest moments of life is a person or a piece of property.
"But before we can get to this fundamental question - the question that must be resolved one way or another - we have to clear up some of the misunderstanding that has clouded this issue.
"There is only one type of human cloning and it always results in the creation of a new human being. Many of the proponents of human cloning would have society believe that there are two different types of cloning: so-called, 'reproductive' and so-called 'therapeutic'.
"There are not two types of cloning, there is only one, and it always results in the creation of a new human embryo.
"Whether the embryo created through the process of nuclear somatic-cell transfer (the technical name for cloning) is destined for implantation or for destructive research that ultimately kills him or her - it is the same, and it should be banned.
"We should not create life just to destroy it.
"Recently in what seems to be an attempt to avoid negative public opinion polls, a new term has been used to describe human cloning. The term, 'unfertilized egg' is the latest euphemism being used by cloning proponents. This term needs a closer examination.
"Any biology textbook will define a human ovum or 'egg' as a single cell. Moreover, it is a very unusual cell - a gamete cell, which means it has only 23 active chromosomes. Gender has not yet been determined.
"An ovum cannot 'grow stem cells' or otherwise develop, because it is just an egg. However, once an egg contains a complete nucleus from any species that is activated and developing -whether that has occurred by sexual fertilization or by asexual somatic cell nuclear transfer -then one has a developing embryo of that species (sheep, cow, Homo sapiens, etc.).
"There is no such thing in biology or in any dictionary as a human 'egg' or 'egg cell' that has 46 chromosomes, has been determined to be either male or female, and is five days old (consisting of several hundred cells) or 14 days old (consisting of thousands of cells).
"Calling a five-day-old or a two-week-old human embryo an 'egg' is an attempt to hide the fact regarding the true nature of human cloning.
"The phrase, 'unfertilized blastocyst' is likewise being used in this debate. The term, 'blastocyst,' of course, refers to a stage of embryonic development.
"Human cloning is human cloning, and all human cloning is wrong no matter what the euphemism used or what the hoped-for benefit.
"Science is proving again and again that we do not need to go down the slippery slope of human cloning.
"Some of the most recent advances in adult stem cell research prove again that human cloning is unnecessary.
"I understand that some of the other witnesses will provide testimony detailing some of the amazing advances being made in adult and non-embryonic stem cell research and so I would like to limit myself to one of the most recent announcements and would ask that the article be made a part of the record.
"In a March 6, 2003 article in the Wall Street Journal, it was reported that doctors were able to use a teen's own stem cells to repair his heart. The article reads, 'a 16 year old shot in the chest with a nail gun has undergone the nation's first procedure to repair dying heart muscles using his own stem cells. The experiment marks a step forward in the quest for "regenerative medicine" in which body parts could be rebuilt using biology's latest findings.'
"As this issue moves to the Senate floor we need to have an honest debate about whether or not we should create life just to destroy it.
"The grisly prospect of creating human life just to destroy it puts society on a slippery slope into the brave-new world of germline gene modification, and designer babies. It is a path that we must reject," Brownback said.
