Public Statements
Senator Brownback Introduces New Homestead Act
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 13, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am pleased to join colleagues in the introduction of the New Homestead Act. I am very pleased to be a supporter along with my colleagues from North Dakota, Nebraska, and South Dakota.
Alexander Hamilton once made a statement I think is particularly applicable to the current situation we are discussing—what is happening in rural America, particularly in a swath of rural America from Texas north to the Canadian border that includes the State of the Presiding Officer and a number of States throughout the Midwest. He said:
To cherish and stimulate the activity of the human mind, by multiplying the objects of enterprise, is not among the least considerable of the expedients by which the wealth of a nation may be promoted.
We listen to that and say: What does he mean? In other words, we must encourage and support intellectual activity and enterprise, and the area in which this has been most neglected has been in our rural communities. We must change this before some of these precious entities wither away.
Every year, rural communities become emptier and more desolate as fewer and fewer people remain. This out-migration of youth to more urban areas is due to the simple fact of a lack of economic opportunity within these beautiful settings.
Although America was originally rural, with most of its people living in rural areas and working on farms, that has changed dramatically over the course of the past century. Today, after decades of decline, less than 2 percent of the Nation's population live on farms in rural areas. In my State alone, over half of the counties are suffering from this youth drain and out-migration.
I have a map I want to show to my colleagues. These are counties in Kansas. We have 105 counties. These are the counties that would qualify for the New Homestead Act; that is 10-percent population decline or more over the last 20 years. You can see a huge swath of our State that has extensive out-migration.
You can say a lot of different factors caused this. One has been the concentration and growth in agriculture, where there are fewer farmers farming larger tracts of land. That is certainly accurate.
It is also the fact that a number of people in agriculture have, because of a lack of income, had to get off-farm jobs. There are not major urban areas in a lot of these places, so they have not been able to find that and they have had to move to major urban areas. So you have had this combination of difficulty in agriculture, difficulty of a lack of jobs on an off-farm basis. It has led to this huge out-migration.
If this were just Kansas, it would be problematic enough, but instead of a whole swath, particularly in the Middle West, from Texas sweeping up north all the way to Montana and Minnesota, you have a number of counties like this.
I believe nearly 90 percent of counties in North Dakota qualify because of the same feature: Concentration in agriculture, fewer off-farm job opportunities, and people saying: We simply don't have anyplace to work. We would love to live here. We would love to be able to stay here. We have to have a job. We have to be able to make a reasonable income.
This is the total population. If you look at the school-age population, it is even worse. It is even a more steep decline. I have been in cities in Rawlins County and far Northwest Kansas where the school-age population has declined nearly a fourth over the last 5 years. So while the overall population is going down like this, the school-age population is plummeting. As young people don't move back in the area, there are not the jobs and opportunities. They are saying: I would love to live here, but I can't.
I have been around a lot of rural development efforts that tried to push people back to rural areas. To me, this is a way to pull people back to rural areas, by providing economic incentives, the likes of which we did to populate the region in the first place. This is a region that was populated by the Homestead Act in the first place, telling people, if they will stay there and work 160 acres for 5 years, it is theirs.
We had people self-selected. It wasn't people saying: You are going to go, and we will select you, we won't pick you—it was the great American way. This is the opportunity. If you want to do it, it is your choice. You don't have to do it. People took it and moved out.
The New Homestead Act is recognizing the new economic realities and saying what can we do to pull people into these areas. These are ideas we tried in major urban areas, we tried them in Washington, DC, and a number of other places where we were having the hollowing out of urban areas, and they have attracted people back to the core in these urban areas. We are trying to take those same proven models, proven tests, to another area that has been hollowed out in the United States.
That is why I am excited about this bill. I am hopeful it is something we can move in total, or in part, quickly. We need to do so. We need to move this forward aggressively.
It is providing new hope and new vision in areas where a lot of people were of a mind that: I guess nobody is listening or paying attention, and we are going to have difficulty making it. Our community is not going to make it.
Here we are saying, no, we want to provide this new hope and opportunity with the New Homestead Act. I hope our colleagues, if they have other ideas that could strengthen this bill, will bring those forward as well.
It is a very difficult issue for our State. I am delighted to be supportive of this effort. My colleagues and I are going to push aggressively here and in the House to make it happen.
It is simple: rural America—our history, our founding lifestyle—is suffering and the Congress must not turn our backs. Take, for example, the town of Nicodemus, KS, in Graham County. This town was started more than a century ago when some 350 freed slaves left Kentucky and made a new beginning for themselves on the plains of Kansas. For a while, the town prospered, showing a new life to these newly-freed slaves. Unfortunately though, the railroad never moved in—a devastating lost opportunity that was followed by drought, depression, and, finally, a post-war exodus. Suddenly, the town itself and its population seemed almost ghost-like. Today, Nicodemus is without a school, and there is only one full-time farmer left in the area.
Unfortunately, this story is not an isolated one, as hard times have hit throughout America. In fact, this kind of situation is happening across our heartland, and we are here today to provide the much needed incentives to preserve rural America and the values instilled there.
We must revitalize within our heartland that spirit of creativity and enterprise that has always allowed our nation to grow and adapt. It has long been the key to our success both philosophically and in the wealth of our nation. For example, Americans who once held jobs that relied on the production of natural resources, such as farming, now work in service or technology industries. As a result of new technologies, American industries, including agriculture, have become more profitable with fewer employees. We in the Congress have an obligation to ensure the economic viability of these rural communities, even in light of the major problems and out-migration these areas are suffering.
In 1862, the Homestead Act inspired many to move to places like Kansas with promises of 160 acres of free land to those settlers who would farm and live there for five years. Today, we are introducing the New Homestead Act. While we aren't offering 160 acres, we are rewarding those individuals willing to take a risk and locate in a high out-migration county with the opportunity to get a college degree, buy a home, and build a nest egg for the future. Through loan repayment, small entrepreneurship credits, home tax credits, protecting home values, and individual homestead accounts, this bill reaches out to a new generation of Americans.
And it is this new generation of Americans that will help rejuvenate rural America. Since our founding, a strong and vibrant rural America has been essential to a strong nation—and this principle remains only more true today. Our continued national well-being depends as much, if not more, on the condition of our less populated areas as on our urban areas.
It is my hope that the Senate will take a serious look at this bill and move quickly to implement the provisions we have set forth. I appreciate the work that my colleagues Senators HAGEL and DORGAN have done on this bill. Their vision and drive have brought this bill to where it is today, and I hope that the same spirit will help propel this bill through the Senate so that we can start helping our rural communities as quickly as possible.
For, as we struggle through economic hard times nationwide, it would be wise to remember a comment George Washington made:
A people .    .    . who are possessed of the spirit of commerce, who see and who will pursue their advantages may achieve almost anything.
I know our rural communities are not only our history, but still have much to offer our nation today. Therefore, let us enable that spirit of commerce, and put these communities on the path to recovery.
