Public Statements
Press Conference with Senators Brownback, Wyden, Coleman, and Reps. Lantos and Roslehtinen
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 12, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you all for joining us today. My name is Sam Brownback. I'm a senator from Kansas on the Foreign Relations Committee.
I'm joined by several of my colleagues from both the house and the Senate, Republican and Democrat, on a resolution today regarding Iran, the United States' position towards Iran, and our deep concerns about what's taking place in that country -- the lack of human rights, the lack of freedom, the lack of liberty -- and the need for the United States to stand strong for all those basic principles.
And I want to start this off with a picture. This is a reproduction of a gentleman who was in the Economist magazine -- picture this -- he was in the Economist magazine -- standing for liberty, protesting in Iran, and now is under a death sentence, has received a death sentence in Iran, by the Iranian government. And this is what we are addressing, and this is what we're talking about today and in this resolution.
I want to just open the press conference with a Persian phrase that an Iranian student protester used, was conveying to our office. (Speaks in Persian.) Which means "Free Iran."
We're here today to say that the United States stands with you and we will not cut a deal with this terrorist regime that in any way undermines the struggle for a democratic referendum in Iran.
Today I join with Senator Wyden, in the Senate, Congressman Lantos, Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen, and Senator Coleman, also from the Senate, in introducing a resolution expressing the sense of the Senate concerning the continuous repression of freedoms within Iran and of individual human rights abuses, particularly with regard to women.
In addition to recognizing the deplorable conditions imposed by the Iranian regime, this resolution also condemns the brave -- commends the brave Iranian democracy dissidents who have been protesting at risk of their lives for a better Iran.
I believe strongly that the brave Iranian people will win this important battle. History is on their side. Tyranny and oppression as forms of government cannot last forever. Once the people commit to change and to a better life for their children, no force in the world can hold them back. America itself is a living example of this principle. It is so inspiring to see the 50 million young people in Iran rising up to demand free press, to demand basic human rights, and most of all, to demand the liberty that is their birthright as humans.
In order to appreciate the significance of this democracy movement in Iran and to understand why it is that the Iranian people have rejected the so-called reformers who have not reformed the system in their nearly seven years in power, we need to remember what the Iranian people are suffering.
My office has been contacted and working extensively with the Iranian-American community who have ties with the brave protestors in Iran. And they tell me of the ongoing, systematic terror that is inflicted upon civilians every day for the most minor of offenses. And let me give you a few examples.
Iran today is a place where a 23-year-old woman was hung because she spoke loudly -- too loudly to her husband. Iran today is a place where despite claiming to follow Allah's law, rape is used as a systematic torture of women by the government. Iran today is a place where even the modest press that was available to the people a few years ago have all been shut down in an attempt to keep the people blind and unorganized. Iran today is a place where a nine-year-old girl can be forced to marry.
What is crucial to remember is that this is only Iran today. Iran tomorrow will be a much different place. We're already seeing evidence of this. In the most recent elections of the Iranian people, just look at those results. Iranian voter turnout has hovered around 50 to 70 percent levels in recent years. In 2001, President Khatami himself was reelected with 69 percent voter turnout. But in the recent local elections, a paltry 12 percent participated -- and that occurring in Tehran -- and less than a third of the population turned out to vote in most of the major cities.
We need to be clear about what this means. This was a boycott of the current system. The people of Iran gave the reformers a chance. They overwhelmingly voted for the reelection of President Khatami. For seven years the reformers have made no improvement in the system and have not made the way of life better for the people. As a result, the Iranian people have decided that reform of the system is not the answer, the answer is a whole new system.
This is where it can get confusing for American policymakers and where it is critical that we not make a mistake. It seems logical to support the reformers in Iran; after all, any reform attempt of this terrorist regime should be better than nothing.
But in this case, this is not true. If the U.S. government or policymakers reach out to the reformers, they would essentially be throwing a lifeline to this dying tyranny, and they would be working in collaboration with the current Iranian regime against the people of Iran. And that's who we support, are the people of Iran. This must not be allowed to happen.
I stand here today to express my commitment to ensure that this does not happen, that we do not support this current regime in Iran. Instead of talking of reform, America must stand in strong support of the Iranian people's efforts to force a referendum, a true change in the nature of this brutal terrorist regime. The Iranian people have so much going for them. They have a rich history, a fascinating culture and a wealth of educated, determined people. I so look forward to the day when I can meet these brave souls in person in the new Tehran and see and realized (sic) the dream of Iran -- a azid (ph).
I want to call up one of the foremost people that stands for human rights in the United States Congress the entire time that I've been here, Tom Lantos, congressman that has worked on these issues for a long period of time, to address the group.
Congressman Lantos?
REP. LANTOS: Thank you very much.
As you note, this is a press conference of Republicans and Democrats, the House and the Senate. We are united in our determination to do our bit to bring freedom, democracy and human rights to the people of Iran.
Few captive peoples have so regularly demonstrated their love for democracy and freedom as have the Iranians. They routinely protest against their tyrannical regime in demonstrations numbering in the tens of thousands. In election after election since 1997 until just last week, Iranians went to the polls to demonstrate their democratic dreams, and they voted in overwhelming numbers for the most liberal candidates that the unelected clerical regime allows to run -- until last week.
Last week, something changed. Conservatives won nationwide municipal elections, not because they were more popular, but because reformists stayed at home. Voter participation fell dramatically.
After six years of dashed dreams, most Iranians have given up on the reformers. Yet we know that the Iranian people want a secular democracy. They want close ties with the United States. They are crying out for change. And they deserve our support. With our resolution, we want the Iranians to know we hear them and we support them.
The extremist clergy that dominate Iran knows their days are numbered. They are unpopular and they are frightened, so they try to snuff out any meaningful free expression. They close newspapers, they use vigilante groups and they sentence thoughtful dissidents to death. They arrest anyone who does not embrace the regime's rigidly ideological and viciously anti-American line, including journalists and parliamentarians.
Like the reformers in Iran, we in the United States were once heartened by Khatami's election six years ago. We repeatedly extended a hand to Iran. The Clinton administration lifted the embargo on Iranian caviar and carpets. And I myself offered to lead a congressional delegation to Iran. But official Iranian response to these overtures has been a clenched fist. In the five years since Khatami was elected, the same offensive and dangerous behavior that previously characterized Iranian regime policy towards its citizens and its neighbors has continued.
It is now time to acknowledge that the results are in. There will be no meaningful liberalization in Iran under this regime. This regime will continue to deny political and social freedom, and it will continue to repress its women. This regime will continue to spend its resources not on helping its people but on developing the greatest threats the world faces today: international terrorism and weapons of mass destruction.
As International Atomic Energy Agency inspections last month confirmed, Iran is proceeding apace with the development of nuclear arms. The most recent revelations show that Iran may be producing enriched uranium within three years and is building a heavy water reactor. If any state in the world is energy-sufficient, it is Iran. Nobody need doubt why Iran is developing nuclear capability. It is to obtain nuclear arms.
I was in Russia just a few days ago, and I raised these issues in a very serious and substantive discussion with Russia's Minister of Atomic Energy, Aleksandr Rumyantsev. His views are most sobering. Iran's clerical regime will continue unabatedly to undermine the interests of the United States and our allies, whether supporting anti-U.S. tribal leaders in Afghanistan, shipping 50 tons of arms to the Palestinian Authority, blowing up Jewish institutions in Argentina, training and funding Hezbollah, or directing Islamic terrorism in Turkey. At long last, the Argentine judiciary has indicted significant Iranian officials for the 1994 bombing of the Jewish Center in Buenos Aires, which left 85 innocent men, women and children dead. I urge them to indict more senior Iranian officials, including Khamenei and Rafsanjani, as the Argentine prosecutor has urged, and as the evidence warrants. Let the people of Argentina know that we in the United States stand with them in resisting the threats Tehran has already started issuing in the wake of this important judicial action.
Finally, let me add a further warning against Iranian aggression. The Iranian regime should be wise enough not to interfere if U.S. troops enter Iraq, whether in northern Iraq or elsewhere in Iraq. Iranian leaders should know that would be a terrible mistake. With the resolutions my colleagues and I are introducing today, the American people are sending the unmistakable message that they have lost all hope that this ugly extremist theocracy could change.
At the same time, we stand foursquare in solidarity and respect with the Iranian people in their quest for true freedom and secular democracy.
Whatever hopes any of us may once have harbored for Iran's ruling regime are now thoroughly dashed. But our belief in and support for the Iranian people remains unshaken.
I'm very pleased to introduce my good friend, Senator Wyden.
SEN. WYDEN: Well, thank you Tom and Sam. The three of us have been at this now for two Congresses. And we're so pleased to have two distinguished colleagues from the Senate and the House. They said it really well.
My staff wrote this wonderful speech, and I think what I'll do is put it in the Congressional Record, and anybody who wants a mailed copy can have that. And just make a couple of points.
First, the entire world is now focused on Iraq, and it is especially important that people understand the timing of this resolution. The timing of this resolution gives us an opportunity to say to the world: Do not forget the danger of Iraq's neighbor. And at a time when the world is paying so much attention, for obvious reasons, to the question of what is ahead with respect to Iraq, we're trying to make sure that the world understands that there is another tremendous threat to peace and stability in the region, and that nation is Iran.
And Tom touched on the question of just learning in recent days that Argentina has formally accused Iran of involvement in the 1994 bombing. Frankly, I think that is tremendously important. But there is another event that is equally of concern, and that is over the past weekend, we've received information indicating that Iran's uranium enrichment program has progressed to the point where it is just two years away from producing enough enriched uranium to build several nuclear weapons.
And so what we are doing at this time is trying to send a message worldwide to the clerics and the repressive, you know, cohorts, at a time when there is a prospect of setting up a nuclear, you know, missile assembly line, at a time when the world is focused on Iraq, we are simply not going to let our government sit by and ignore the need to support reform.
And I think that what this resolution is all about -- stripped of everything else -- is that the Iranian people, who so much want freedom and hope, need to see that the United States Congress is going to stand with them.
And we have seen a variety of public opinion polls that 75 percent of the Iranian people favor the kind of dialogue that has been in our bipartisan resolution over these Congresses. The clerics' response to all this? They just shut down the institute that conducts the poll, prosecutes (sic) the director, does (sic) everything they can to say that they really aren't in the kind of speech and liberty and freedom that we were told for so long reform is all about.
And my sense is that it is time to do something to help the people of Iran, who have been whipsawed in the power struggle between the elected reformers and the clerical conservatives of Khamenei and the Council of Guardians. The clerics keep tightening restrictions on freedom of expression and association, as my colleagues have mentioned. The detention centers are entirely outside any accountability whatever. And Khamenei's allies in the judiciary just keep tightening the noose around the neck of those who would like to exercise the right of free expression.
So today, with this resolution -- it is being formally introduced in the United States Senate -- we send a message to the clerics and their repressive cohorts that the United States Congress is not going to look the other way. United States Congress is going to draw a line in the sand and make it clear that we are on the side of freedom, we are on the side of true reform, and we want to send that message right now, when the world is focused to a great extent on Iraq, because we think the threat from Iran is tremendously serious as well.
And let me introduce now our good friend -- the congresswoman from Florida and Senator Coleman are here as well.
REP. ROS-LEHTINEN: Thank you. Thank you so much, Ron. I appreciate it. Thank you so much for the opportunity. I'm honored to be with my distinguished colleagues from the House and the Senate.
Scores of political prisoners continue to languish in squalid cells after being sentenced in unfair trials. Clampdowns on freedom of expression have resulted in the arbitrary arrest and imprisonment of scores of journalists. Torture continues. Hundreds are executed each year. And as the so-called leader of the regime, Khatami, was touring Europe, individuals seeking human rights and democracy for Iran were being hung in the public square in Teheran, photos of which were published in the front pages of newspapers in Spain.
Trafficking in Iran remains a serious problem for women and girls -- traffic to Gulf states and Turkey for the purposes of commercial sexual exploitation.
Boys are trafficked through Iran for the purpose of slave labor. Internal trafficking for women and girls and sexual exploitation occurs, while victims of trafficking are often jailed, flogged, and sometimes stoned to death for adultery.
We first became involved in this issue of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Iran after viewing graphic and disturbing videos of women in Iran being subjected to abhorrent and cruel practice of stoning. In the video, the condemned begin to pray, asking their God for the inner strength to endure with faith and fortitude what awaits them. They are wrapped head to foot in white shroud and buried up to their waist. Then the stoning begins.
The stones are specifically chosen so they are large enough to cause pain but not as large as to kill the condemned immediately. They are guaranteed a slow, torturous death. Sometimes their children are forced to watch. And it is true that while the European Union's commissioner for external relations was visiting Iran earlier this year to discuss a trade agreement with the regime, the ayatollah which heads Iran's judiciary told him that execution by stoning would then stop. However, what many sympathetic-of-engaging Iranian officials fail to recognize is that the ayatollah emphasized that stoning would be replaced with other means of punishment, leaving flogging or public hangings as the two top choices for a regime which broadcasts these deplorable actions to further intimidate the growing pro-democracy forces.
We've seen the photographs. We've spoken to the victims; that is, those who have survived. And as moral obligations to them and to all of those who struggle against oppression in Iran, our colleagues address the human rights and democracy issues in hearings and briefings on the State Department Country Reports of Human Rights Practices and on the Religious Freedom Reports, during markups of such measures as the resolution condemning the practice of execution by stoning and with the U.N. Commission on Human Rights and with the special rapporteur on the human rights situation in Iran.
We've worked repeatedly to ensure that U.S. policy does not legitimize or appease the regime in Iran by buying into ephemeral or empty promises of reform and cooperation. Many of these regime leaders now classified by some as moderates were referred to by the same sources just 10 years ago as radical, violent extremists. Engaging with the oppressor only stifles the growth of genuine democratic forces in Iran and does not serve the national security interests of all of us in the United States.
Democracy and freedom are the best antidotes to terrorism. We must work together to bring about this change in Iran. U.S. efforts in Iran should focus on supporting the Iranian people and not individuals whose future and very survival depends upon the continuation of an oppressive, closed regime which is the most active state sponsor of terrorism and is developing nuclear, chemical and biological weapons for offensive purposes, despite its assertion to the contrary. And this is the message that is underscored in the resolution that my colleagues and I are introducing today.
And in closing, I'd like to mention that as the new chair of the Subcommittee on Middle East and Central Asia, we have scheduled a hearing on this issue later this -- next month, in April, which will focus not only on democracy and human rights, but also on Iran's support for global terrorism, how it is increasing, and its secret weapons of mass destruction program. So I hope that all of you will be able to participate in our upcoming hearings.
Thank you very much, Sam.
I don't think Norm needs this. (Laughter.)
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you. We next have one of my colleagues at lunch today was looking at my notes and asked to join in this effort and has been very interested in it, a new member in the United States, United States senator from Minnesota, Norm Coleman.
And, Norm, I'd like for you to come up and make a statement.
SEN. COLEMAN: Thank you, Sam. And as the new kid on the block, it's a pleasure for me to be here; it's important for me to be here. And thrilled, by the way, that this is a bipartisan, bicameral effort. This is not about Democrat, Republican, this is about democracy, this is about doing what's right.
And I want to repeat what Senator Wyden said a little bit about the timing, because timing is important. There will be regime change in Iraq, and there is no question that the largest source of state- sponsored terrorism in the world is the tyrannical regime in Iran. That's what we're left -- that's the reality. And we've got to be very careful as we -- we look at what we read and then look at the words: Americans read the word "reform" and they think there's good things going on; we've got to support reform. But what we all understand -- and I think the chart behind Tom represents that -- the supreme leader still dictates and controls everything in Iran. It is a tyrannical regime, and reform is a word that, as we've seen over the years, does not have real meaning; does not have real meaning.
And I think it's important, then, that what we do here today is that we send, as has been stated by others, the very clear, the very unequivocal, the very firm message that we cannot, we cannot be caught up in believing that reform as it is is going to continue in Iran. We cannot deal with this regime. We have to be true supporters of democracy, true supporters of those who are under the thumb and under the heel of the oppressors today. And so that has to be the message.
And as the world's attention will focus, and is focusing right now, on what's happening in the Persian Gulf, the fact is that the timing issue is critical.
We are dealing with Iraq. We have the threat of Iran having nuclear materials, clearly for the purpose of building nuclear weapons. And we have to send a very clear message. So that is being done today, and I am simply humbled and honored to be part of this effort and will work in a very strong manner to reach out to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle so that we do what needs to be done: support true democracy in Iran, support the future of a people with an incredible history, an incredible history, and the prospects of a bright future. We have to be part of it; this resolution today will help make that a reality.
Thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you, Norm.
We might be able to take a couple of questions, and then we'll need to slip on. Ileana, I think, needs to go right now. Thank you very much. And she chairs the appropriate subcommittee in the House. I'm really appreciative of her effort and support. I just --
Q First off, are you getting -- (off mike)-- Iraq? The second part is, Iran -- (off mike) -- government says that -- (off mike) -- new regime in Iraq.
STAFF: Please identify yourself when you ask a question. Thank you.
Q (Off mike) -- the first question?
SEN. BROWNBACK: No. No, we can go -- we'll take the question. Just from now on, if you could, just let's do one, because we only can take a couple here before we're going to have to go on.
STAFF: Please identify your name and what organization you're with -- (off mike).
Q My name is (Ushan Urali ?). And I'm -- (off mike).
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let me try to address the question as best I can.
What's taking place now -- and that's one of the reasons we're putting this resolution on forward -- is that there is concern that we're going to be working with the Iranian government or support the Iranian government in our efforts and fights against Iraq in the regime. And we want to put this forward to say that we are pleased that Iran is helping us in the efforts against Iraq. It does not change the nature of the Iranian regime. This is a totalitarian regime. It is controlled by one person and a council that's appointed for life. It is not reformed. It is not open. It continues to do a number of oppressive things that have been cited here. And that's why we put this forward now. Not to support efforts of what you're saying, but to say this remains the nature of this regime.
Q (Name and affiliation off mike). You say that the resolution supports the people of Iran. Can you expand on that?
How are you going to support the people? And how are you going to reach them? And how is it possible to reach the regime?
SEN. BROWNBACK: We've held hearings in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee about this issue already. And one of the big things that we have been told from a number of experts is what we need to do is to broadcast and support the people who are standing for freedom. And we need to say so clearly. And that when President Bush identified Iran as one of the "axis of evil," it was one of the most empowering things that he did for the Iranian movement of reform. It was to say that this is not a good regime, and it needs to be changed, and it added power and push.
We hope that this information, this putting this forward and standing with the dissidents, along with broadcasting into Iran, and working with groups that broadcast and provide information into Iran, will help and sow the seeds of change itself. The reformers want change and they are a majority in Iran today, by what we've seen in voting. Yet, that power is all taken from them. The structure is wrong. And the structure has also yielded these problems over here -- a complete stagnation in the economy, no political participation of any legitimate consequence taking place in Iran.
We think this can be a very bold and positive thing. It's the same as when Ronald Reagan asked Mikhail Gorbachev, "Bring down this wall" -- it was a very empowering thing. Where he called the Soviet Union the "evil empire" -- those are very empowering things. Words do have power and consequence.
Q Senator, can I have a follow-up on that? You (found ?) in your resolution last July condemning the Iranian government and supporting the Iranian people, yet there is not even simple, basic -- (inaudible) -- law, and yet you talked of writing articles. How are they going to do this on their own, without any action from the United States?
And my second question is: Is Iran next after Iraq?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I'm not -- I'm not going to answer the follow-on question. The administration is working on a total war on terrorism. Iran, as Senator Coleman noted, is one of the lead, if not the lead, sponsor, exporter, of terrorism around the world today. I don't claim to know or have any idea of the administration's thinking on this.
We are going to continue to support the Iranian people. And we've stated this previously and we'll continue to state it here. And I think it is important that we do state it. There are some that want to have more of an appeasement strategy towards Iran: "Let's just work with the reformers; they've got the right name, even though they're not doing the right thing. And let's just work with them." We are stating clearly here we think that is wrong as a strategy, and we're pressing that forward in competition.
And I don't know if Tom or if Norm wants to join in on --
REP. LANTOS: I just would like to add a word to what my friend Senator Brownback has said. It's important to have some historical perspective on these issues. The Soviet empire was in power from 1917 until 1990. It was one of the great superpowers on this planet, a huge nuclear power. And the combination of its own internal contradictions and a steady barrage of free media -- Voice of America, BBC, Radio Free Europe and others -- and the constant pressure of political leadership in democracies brought about the collapse of the Soviet Union.
I was last in Iran months before the regime changed from the shah to the ayatollah. That was 25 years ago. It's a long and painful time for the Iranian people. But there isn't the slightest doubt in my mind that this regime will be in power far shorter period -- a far shorter period than an equally oppressive regime was in the Soviet Union. We would like to see it end tomorrow, and we hope it will end soon.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Let's take one more over here.
Q Eli Lake from United Press International. Have you identified activists who the United States would support with either money or material? And do you think that a possible model for them sort of might be what U.S. NGOs did in Serbia prior to the fall of Slobodan Milosevic?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I can't speak of particular activists in- country. We are working with a number of activists that are outside of Iran, that are in this country, that are operating in Europe, that are beaming information, working to provide that information into Iran. And I think that is an appropriate model for us to provide of that information and is appropriate means for us to work.
That information has great power, and Iran -- we can get some of that information in. And I think that's going to be a very powerful tool for change. But working internally -- I can't speak about that issue.
SEN. COLEMAN: Can I -- if I can just add one point, Senator Brownback mentioned that I also serve on the Foreign Relations Committee and serve on the Near East/Middle East committee. We had a presentation about our efforts throughout the world to spread democracy by means of communication, what are you doing -- words have great meaning.
And I can tell you -- and both Senator Brownback and I raised the issue of Iran in this discussion. A lot of it was focused on some other areas. We talked about the importance of getting the word out to folks who are struggling for freedom that we stand behind them, of doing those things that can inspire those who are in the belly of the beast to have a sense of confidence, to know that their voices are being heard.
Again, I'm the new guy here, but it's very clear to me that as we look at the issue of state-sponsored terrorism, as we look at what's happening in the Middle East, that we -- that the United States has to take a look at what it is doing specifically with Iran and what are the possibilities out there to find ways in which we can be more supportive of clearly what is a very populist, growing sentiment in that country, and that is to throw off the yoke of oppression.
So I think we're in the process -- there's a lot going on in the world right now, but clearly this is an area -- Senator Brownback has been very passionate about this; I've joined as a new colleague and share that passion. I think there is opportunity for us to do more than we're doing today, and we have to see how that plays out over time.
SEN. BROWNBACK: We need to conclude. I've got some other engagements, as do the others. Thank you very much for joining us. (Applause).
