Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 11, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and I thank the panel members for being here and the presentation. I want to make two notes, if I could. One is that I agree with a couple of the panel members and their comments about that we need to move toward civilian control as quickly as possible. And I think the chairman has held hearings about this point previously. We have had a number of hearings in the past Congress about various opposition groups -- the Iraqi National Congress and others that are working -- matter of fact are in northern Iraq today, have convened meetings in northern Iraq. Northern Iraq is operated now by a civilian authority -- the Kurds are operating northern Iraq. So I think there is a good basis to build off that I would hope that we would build and engage quickly in the process of moving to Iraqi control. Dr. Marr was talking about maybe to have a mixture of some military and civilian for a period of time, but you quickly move to that civilian Iraqi control. It's very qualified people, and this is going to be able to make a move that I think will be very well received, and I don't think a military oversight will be particularly well received over a long period of time, whether we'd have the capacity to do that.
I'd hope that the State Department would help in the funding of these opposition groups and get those funds out now and building them up to be able to get that done.
The second point is that I want to take this a little bit back to the big picture that President Bush addressed at the AEI speech that he gave about 10 days ago. And I appreciate your thoughts. I don't agree with all of them -- I appreciate the thoughts and spirit that it's put forward with, and your analysis that you created with it. But when he gave that speech he was talking about the big picture that he actually addressed in not this State of the Union but the State of the Union before, when he talked about the "axis of evil," which was a statement everybody latched onto. He also talked about pushing for democracy, human rights, religious freedom everywhere in the world, and that would include within this region of the world where Iraq is located. You have a number of countries in that region who are not democracies, do not respect human rights, do not respect religious freedom or tolerance -- indeed, they all go the exact opposite of that. And we have been supporting a number of countries in this region that haven't, and their populations have generally been very restive underneath them. I think there are a fair number of experts that believe that that's a big part of the problem in the region, is that we have not stood by our basic principles. We stand for liberty, we stand for human rights. We stand for these principles, and we haven't pushed them in this region as we have in other regions before.
I think what President Bush was saying in that AEI speech was let's look at the big principles of what we stand for and what could happen down the road if this effort is successful in Iraq, and that Iraq is a very likely place for this to succeed. Undoubtedly it takes a long period of time. Undoubtedly it is also costing us a great deal that in this region there is a dearth of democracy and human rights and religious freedom. And undoubtedly that is also contributing to our costs of beefing up our interior defenses against terrorism, because that isn't the rule of order within that region.
So while I think there are clear costs associated with this, and there are clearly going to be expensive costs, I would hope that a fair amount of resources there locally could pay for this. There may be a question about over a period of time whether that can take place or not. I think we're paying a huge cost for the destabilizing nature of what is taking place in this region today. And I hope as you appraise these issues you would also look at the current costs that we are going and not just the operation, the no-fly zones, the areas that we are currently going -- but also what all we are doing to fight. I've had experts that I've hosted who have said the way you are going to have to deal with this is this way, to work with in the region and to sow those seeds of this type of opportunity -- democracy, human rights, religious freedom -- into the future. I would hope you would use that in your appraisals as well as you look at the cost of this operation that it is already costing us a great deal of what's being spun in some regions, this region of the world.
