Public Statements
Honoring Hays High School
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 11, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

HONORING HAYS HIGH SCHOOL
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise today to congratulate some hardworking students who are paying attention to a neglected area of all of our education—our own history and founding.
Fortunately, there are programs such as "We the People: The Citizen and the Constitution program," which is the most extensive educational program in the country, and was developed specifically to educate young people about the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. This program, which is administered by the Center for Civic Education and funded by the U.S. Department of Education by act of Congress, finally addresses this woeful lack of knowledge in a systematic and thorough way.
In fact, on April 26, 2003, more than 1,200 students from across the United States will visit Washington, D.C., to compete in the national finals of the "We the People" program. What an experience!
I am especially proud to announce that the class from Hays High School from the town of Hays will represent my home State of Kansas in this national event. These young scholars have worked diligently to reach the national finals by participating at local and statewide competitions. As a result of their experience, they have gained much—including a deep knowledge and understanding of the fundamental principles and values of our constitutional democracy.
The three-day "We the People" national competition is difficult, yet true to life as it is modeled after hearings in the United States Congress. These hearings consist of oral presentations by high school students before a panel of adult judges on constitutional topics. The students are given an opportunity to demonstrate their knowledge while they evaluate, take, and defend positions on relevant historical and contemporary issues. Their testimony is followed by a period of questioning by the judges who probe the students' depth of understanding and ability to apply their constitutional knowledge.
