Public Statements
Senate Foreign Relations Holds Hearing on North Korea
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 6, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

BROWNBACK:
Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thanks for holding this hearing. I missed the thoughts on North Korea. I was down at the Columbia funeral, and I apologize for that. Appreciate you holding this. Hopefully, we can hold even some subcommittee hearings on North Korea as well, because there's a number of facets to the problem that I think bear looking at in totality. And time is short, and I think we need to have some intense focus.
First, let me state clearly that from my perspective the U.S. must not allow North Korea to develop nuclear weapons, period. And I've also contacted the NSC of the administration and they do not support nuclear weapons being developed in North Korea, as I think Mr. Einhorn had said in his testimony. They're not saying, "OK, you can go ahead and develop them, we're going to try to contain once you develop them, North Korea." They don't support that position either of North Korea developing nuclear weapons. It should not even be a question.
BROWNBACK:
Kim Jong Il is one of the largest proliferators of missiles now, selling them to the very worst parts of the world where intent to destroy America is clear. If he has nuclear weapons, the selling of these weapons would surely follow. We would have a nuclear storehouse open for business.
In retrospect, it is clear to me that the agreed framework did not work. It was nothing more than a tactic of deceit used by the North Koreans to lull the U.S. into thinking that postponing a problem is as good as dealing with it. We now have evidence that the North Koreans began pursuing nuclear weapons almost before the ink was dry on the agreement that they made with the U.S. to abandon this destructive path.
This week's events, where North Korean MiGs shadowed an American observation plane in international airspace, make it clear that the North Korean Regime is intent upon playing the one and only card they have, escalating tensions to the point of forcing America to pay up once again. These are dangerous tactics by Kim Jung Il and his Stalinist regime.
We cannot afford to give the North Koreans the impression that their tactics are working, that they will pressure the president and pressure this administration into caving and negotiating with a blackmail artist, and that's exactly what Kim Jung Il wants to do and is doing. He's launched a surface to ship missile as a test. He sent MiGs into South Korean airspace. He sent even people—gardeners, I guess, across the DMZ line, all as a way of trying to rattle the international cage and to do two things, have us leave him alone and the international community leave him alone and send money.
Engaging in a sequel of a failed agreed framework not only risks our immediate security in the region, but it allows Kim Jung Il to proliferate any and all missile and nuclear technology he can develop. Now, perhaps if we had started off with the agreed framework being a multilateral approach, it would have had more leverage to get the necessary concessions from the north that could have prevented this current mess. Specifically, it should have been an absolute requirement that the nuclear rods and other materials in the Yongbyon facility be removed.
As we've seen, the agreement cannot guarantee a freeze in the north's nuclear pursuit. It didn't freeze it. But the agreement could have at least removed the material we knew they had.
I've been following this issue for some time from another perspective, and here, I want to speak for myself and a partner of mine who's no longer here, Paul Wellstone, and that's on the human rights issue. Frankly, I'm very disappointed that you just waved past that one.
We've held hearings in the Judiciary Committee on the atrocities—and let me just give you a few eye witness testimonies that we've had of people testifying of watching North Korean guards suffocate newborn babies, of people having to live on tree bark as they escaped from the regime, of mothers who have given their children rat poisoning rather than watching them die slowly from starvation. These are people who have been tortured, starved, and executed for no reason other than the bad fortune of being born in North Korea under the Kim Jung Il regime.
And we don't know exactly how many it is. Some people think it's one to two million that have died of starvation over the last five years. Somewhere between 30,000 and 300,000 are now living off the land in China, fleeing this regime.
They operate a gulag. The North Koreans operate a gulag system of a large fenced-in area that's a mining camp, and you go in as a political prisoner, and the likelihood of you coming out is small.
There are books—I'm reading a book on one right now, The Crayons of Pyung (ph) Yang (ph), about a young boy that went in and made it out some way -- 10 years in one of the gulags. Or a book—Sono Calese (ph) book, The Eyes of the Tailless Animals, about serving in one of these. There are horrific conditions.
This is probably the worst systematic human rights abuses by a government on its people anywhere in the world today. Maybe you'd argue that Sudan is there with it. But it's in the top two or three. This is horrific, and we're going to just walk past that one and say, "We can't deal with it in this setting?"
China is the country most directly able to put pressure on this regime by letting the people of North Korea simply stay in China instead of sending them back in a procedure called refoundment (ph). They could at least be forced to live up to their own international obligations to allow these people to stay in China.
The people will vote with their feet, and many already have. They will leave North Korea if given the chance. And then this failed state of North Korea will have that pressure put on them. To merely make another deal that won't be abided by is not in the security interest of the United States and is a malicious neglect of the horrific behavior of this regime.
Now, we shouldn't cower to the demands of this dictator who's starving and torturing millions of his own people, as well as kidnapping citizens from Japan. I met this week with three family members from Japan and four members of the Japanese (OFF-MIKE). These three members—these three people had family members who had been abducted, kidnapped, by the North Koreans 20 years ago. And last year, the North Koreans admitted, "Yes, we did it. We're not going to let the family members come back, or if we do, we're going to keep their children in North Korea."
I mean, it is a multilateral issue. We need to work with the Japanese, the Koreans, the Chinese, the Russians, at least. And probably in the future, we're going to have to work with the Taiwanese as well, if they continue to—North Korea operating in such a threatening manner.
The world deserves the U.S. to take a multilateral approach on Iraq, and we have, and I don't see why we should be doing any less with North Korea. This is a very troubling issue with all these prongs within it, and I think that we've got to deal with the various facets of the prongs.
And one of the key routes that we have not even been addressing, that none of you have addressed here, is the real key—what these refugees do represent, a people willing to walk, and a Chinese government that has signed agreements with the UNHCR, High Commission on Refugees, that they will treat refugees without sending them back into harm's way. And the Chinese are saying they're economic migrants, but in the very agreements that they signed, if there's a dispute between the two bodies, this is to be submitted to arbitration.
The Chinese say they're economic migrants. The world says they're refugees. This is to be submitted to binding arbitration, and the Chinese should be forced to live up to their own obligations to these refugees.
If you allow these refugees out, they will come. And the international community and the United States can work with them, and this is a key area that we should be working on and pressure we should apply.
Mr. Chairman, I've taken past my time. If one of you would like to respond—I would particularly appreciate a response on the refugee issue, why that's just been put aside and not even hardly spoken about.
LUGAR:
Please proceed.
KANTER (?):
I was not actually going to address the refugee issue. Maybe someone who knows more about that can.
I would like to address the second—what you said about the nature of the North Korean regime. The last time I appeared before this committee, we were not just talking about the nuclear issue, but the larger question of North Korea's destiny and future, and I was explaining that in 1998, when I was first given the task of looking at North Korea in the large, the so-called Perry process, run by former Secretary of Defense Bill Perry, we came to basically the same assessment you did of the North Korean regime.
The evidence, as the kind you've adduced, is abundant. It's a remarkable situation. It's the third generation of Stalinism, which we haven't seen anywhere else in the world.
We looked at a couple of possibilities that are still possibilities for the United States. One is to try to undermine the North Korean regime, and we looked quite hard at that. And in the end, we set that aside for two reasons.
The first was that we couldn't come up with any realistic plan or prospect for accomplishing that. It's not like Afghanistan, where you sort of throw in an ingredient of disorder, and you can expect an uprising. We could not produce presidential quality information that a strategy of undermining was likely to succeed any time soon.
BROWNBACK:
But you know these refugees have walked already. A number of them have walked into China already.
KANTER (?):
You're talking about the whole—I understand the refugee situation. I'm talking about—
BROWNBACK:
And I'm not talking about undermining here, but talking about—even the Indochina situation in the 70s didn't undermine regimes, but it put pressure on them—at least the people got out.
KANTER (?):
No, I wasn't suggesting that you were suggesting a strategy of undermining. I'm trying to respond to the general question about the North Korean regime—how long can it last.
And one possibility is to try to hasten what human nature and history suggests will happen eventually in North Korea. We looked at that, and I'd be happy to talk to you further about our analysis of that, but in the end, we couldn't figure out any way to do that quickly, and the nuclear issue was pressing. The nuclear issue was on a time scale of months, while the larger question of North Korea's destiny was on a time scale of years, maybe even decades.
The same thing can be said of reform. Many people have suggested that North Korea follow the path of reform, Dung Shao Ping style reform. One would like to see them do that also. They certainly don't seem to show any inclination to do that.
But, in any event, that's a long-term project, and we have a short-term emergency with the nuclear problem, and that's the one that we've been addressing here. But what you say about the nature of the regime and the question of its long-term future, I couldn't agree with more.
BROWNBACK:
Well, I want to dispute the answer, my point being that the refugees can be a clear key to a near-term pressure on the North Korean regime, and the door there is China. It is an unguarded border. I've been there. I've met with many of the North Korean refugees, and they will walk if China will simply live up to its international obligations against refoundment (ph).
That is the simple, direct point, and it's a near-term answer.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
