Public Statements
U.S. Pakistan Connection
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 5, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

U.S.-PAKISTAN CONNECTION
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, last week, with the help of Pakistani authorities, Khalid Shaikh Mohammed was captured and taken into custody. This represents the highest ranking al Qaeda official to be apprehended in the war on terrorism and, according to some experts, Mohammed is the most important terrorism related arrest in history.
I come to the floor today to publically express my gratitude to the government of Pakistan and to President Musharraf in particular.
The arrest, along with the intelligence information gathered at the scene, brings us one giant step closer to dismantling the al Qaeda terror network.
You don't have to dig too deeply into the recent press stories to see the significance of this event.
From the Washington Post:
U.S. authorities said they expect a trove of leads from the search of Mohammed's living quarters . . .
From the New York Times:
Al Qaeda Hobbled by Latest Arrest . . .
From Time magazine:
Pakistani authorities nab Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the al-Qaeda bigwig who helped mastermind the Sept. 11 attacks.
It is important to note the context in which this significant accomplishment was achieved. Pakistan today is dealing with internal terrorist elements that want to turn that country into a radicalized, terrorist state. There are whole areas of the country in the mountainous boarder with Afghanistan—which are outside the control of the government. And while the campaign against the Taliban was a crucial first step in the war on terrorism, it has also shifted many of the radicals who were operating there into this part of Pakistan.
Against this backdrop, it would be easy for President Musharraf to yield to the threats and intimidation of these elements within his society. We have seen all too well what happens when leaders neglect their responsibility to educate and lead their people rather than cave to popular mob mentality. Even in Europe, we have seen elements of this in the performance of Schroeder and Chirac.
But despite some public pressure, President Musharraf has taken a bold and strong stance against a fundamentalist future for his country. He understands that it is in Pakistan's best interest to rid the country of the terrorist cells that are acting as parasites on the Pakistani people. He understands that the best way to bring investment, jobs, health care and security for his people is to join the realm of the responsible world.
It is easy to underestimate the amount of courage this type of leadership takes. Sitting in our comfortable democracy in the U.S., it seems the obvious choice.
But I call on my colleagues to take a moment to remember the immense problems that Pakistan is dealing with: because of tensions in the region, and the war in Afghanistan, Pakistan's economy has suffered a huge loss. And despite my best efforts with some fellow colleagues, the U.S. has yet to provide the one thing Pakistan really needs: a better deal on textiles.
Textiles and textile products are Pakistan's main export. As a result of the war effort, invaluable orders for textile products made and exported by Pakistan have been canceled due to perceived instability in the region and a lack of confidence that such orders will ultimately be delivered.
According to the Pakistan Textile and Apparel Group, Pakistan has witnessed a 64 percent reduction in orders for clothes that would be made from last year alone, by the 14 largest apparel factories in Lahore, Karachi, and Faisalabad. As a result, employment in these factories has dropped 32 percent from a year ago. The Pakistani government has estimated the overall decline in orders at 40 percent. This has very real consequences for the future of Pakistan, its stability, and its ability to forge a future of economic prosperity for its people.
As a weakened market for Pakistani textile exports ultimately renders human development programs within Pakistan less effective, especially the primary education element, young Pakistani's are faced with the prospect of no education and therefore no quality employment. An all-to-frequent alternative to this prospect is for young Pakistani's to attend Madrasas—Islamic religious schools run by mullahs—where too often basic skills and primary education are supplanted by religious teachings used to indoctrinate young Pakistani's into following the perverted version of Islam followed by Osama Bin Laden, Al Queda, and the Taliban.
Mr. President, I urge all of my colleagues to work with me in the Congress to provide the President with authority to assist Pakistan in the textile market immediately. Such action is vitally important to the stability of our important ally, and victory in our Nation's war against terrorism. Failing to take quick action only strengthens our enemy.
The war on terrorism will only be won through the continued cooperation of important countries like Pakistan. The very least we can do in this body today is to recognize this support and to say thank you for it.
