Public Statements
Senate Foreign Relations Committee Holds Hearing on Millennium Challenge Account
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 4, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

BROWNBACK:
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Gentlemen, thank you for coming here. And Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding the hearing. I want to compliment the administration on this Millennium Challenge Account, Millennium Challenge Corporation. I think it's a fabulous step forward.
I had a meeting—a number of meetings I've had in the Senate have been very memorable, one that I remember with Senator Moynihan. And we were talking about an issue that both of us were trying to grapple with. And he noted, in all of his experience here, that until you figure out how to measure something, you can rarely figure out how to change it.
And that seems to me to be really square on with what we have had of our history of development aid funding and where we are today. We've done a lot of development aid funding. And we've done it out of really trying to think we're doing things out of the goodness of our heart.
It's the right thing to do. We want to help people. Those are the right instincts. It's the right thing to go at.
But until you can figure out how to measure it, you rarely are going to be able to figure out: have we really been successful with this or not? Consequently, when you go across the country, a lot of people are not very supportive of development aid funding. They think it's a much larger portion of the budget than it is.
I've generally had people say, when I ask in groups, how big do you think the development funding is, foreign aid? Generally around 25 percent, they think, of the budget, is the usual figure that I get.
(LAUGHTER)
And when I say one percent, then I've lost credibility with the audience because they don't think—that can't be true—that it's at that level. But I think a big portion of it is they're good- hearted people. They want to support and do things right to help others.
But they just—the history has been very checkered of success or failure and how it's been given to people and on what basis has it been passed to others? Is it based on some sort of political relationship between the president of that country and the president of this country? Is it based upon some greater issue that's involved?
And then the money is wasted. And there is a view of a strong amount of waste.
That's why I really compliment you on this program. It's measurable. It's definable. And it bases it on accomplishments that are there and not on any sort of basic political relationship.
With that as a premise, I would hope you would look at this into the future, that if we can get this established, as pulling other funds into it. And I think, Mr. Natsios, you were suggesting that, that you've got a lot of different agencies that have international funds now. I would hope more funds could be attracted to this sort of criteria-based allocation—not all. And each country is in a different setting than another one is.
And I like your group discussion, too. I've worked in central Asia for some period of time. And clearly, that region needs to work together and collectively to expand its economic opportunity, expand its trade, expand the East-West corridor, oil movement. I mean, there is huge synergies for them if we can encourage them to work together.
But I would urge you—and I don't know if there is any thoughts about this, about drawing more of the foreign aid budget into this sort of criteria-based allocation, rather than just starting a new account and it being another foreign aid account, rather than one that really helps reform much of the system. I don't know if anybody would care to ...
NATSIOS:
Let me just speak about our budget in AID. We are actually going through a very substantial review of the way in which we do our business, to use the MCA model and criteria as a way of restructuring AID internally. And if you look at the longer testimony for the record, it goes into some detail as to how we're doing that.
We've done a lot of work on it. And I have to say, there is wide acceptance within the agency that this is the opportunity to change what we know does not work toward a model that the career people and the political appointees are very enthusiastic about.
We believe the president was right on in what he said, not just because he is our boss, but because, based on the empirical research, which his initiative was based on, he is exactly correct. And so we are looking at the existing portfolio in a detailed way and determining which countries fall into which category.
A failed and failing state, like Sudan or Somalia, which hasn't had a government in 10 years, for example, they're not going to be eligible for MCA. And we can't provide assistance to them based on this model.
We're not going to provide assistance through HIV/AIDS based on whether the government performs or not, because it's an epidemic that crosses national boundaries. So there are nuances in this that we need to make sure get worked into the way in which we structure our existing program.
But point very well taken. You are exactly correct. And we are trying to do that now.
TAYLOR:
Senator, could I also add to that? With respect to the foreign aid that goes to the international financial institutions—for example, the World Bank's fund for the poorest countries, IDA—we are also trying to emphasize these same features in those programs as well.
For example, the most recent replenishment to IDA has a very specific, measurable results component to it. And in the authorization we are requesting, there would be an incentive built in to the World Bank to explicitly measure the accomplishments of their programs, in much the same way that we are focusing here in the Millennium Challenge Account.
And there is also an emphasis on allocating the funds based on policy performance. So in some sense, the MCA is incorporating the features that are so important and the president has emphasized. But we're trying to have those same features apply to other parts of our foreign aid as well.
BROWNBACK:
Good. Good.
Mr. Chairman, I just would note finally on this that we have generally done many things on our involvement based upon vital and strategic interests of the United States. And I think that measure generally served us well.
I think in looking to the future, vital and strategic is going to include more functions with it. And this is one of the functions of expanding democracy, of getting systems right. Systems of government really matter.
Just compare North and South Korea if you want to get a really drastic example of that. One is the 12th largest economy in the world and the other, a third of its people are living on food aid donations. Systems hugely matter in the world.
And I would hope, as we move forward with the overarching views of foreign policy, that in our vital and strategic, we look at how we do our compassion and how we present that in a way that can be most empowering to the people. And that's why I think this account and the way you have measured it and set it up is really good.
Thanks, Mr. Chairman.
