Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 27, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you, Mr. Chairman, very much. And thanks for holding the hearing. I think it's an important one, an important topic. And thank you both for being here to brief us and testify and answer questions.
I'd like to direct your focus right now to Iran. I've had some discussions on that. And pardon me for not being able to be here for all the questioning thus far. But I really want to ask you a little bit about Iran and the public diplomacy efforts in Iran. I think they're critical, crucial for what's taking place. As I look and observe, and have held a number of hearings in the subcommittee in previous Congresses on Iran, you have got a real fomenting that's taking place there as one of the countries of the axis of evil. It's one the United States is certainly not going to invade or use a military option, but it seems like the most positive, the best option in dealing with Iran is the public diplomacy option, where you have a very ready population there that wants to hear what's taking place. You have an enormous diaspora in the United States that has lots of personal contacts back in forth with Iran, because there is a communication that can take place back and forth, and that the mixture is there for public diplomacy to be the enormous tool to really change a society that needs changing and a government that needs changing. I'd draw your attention -- and I am sorry I don't have this blown up, but it's a map of funding of terrorism and spread of fundamentalism by the Iranian government around the world -- a lot of it in Central Asia that is taking place, and a number of other different places. But this is a government in Iran that is really attempting to spread a message and a difficulty for us in a lot of places.
The public diplomacy efforts in Iran some have been critical of as not being robust enough, not being targeted and supportive of the student protest movements that are taking place there, of the overall protest movements. I want to applaud some of your efforts. I want to ask you do you think you are hitting the target for the need? And you're -- you're clearly the very point in dealing with Iran and the change of that society that we most need to exercise in a robust, wise, targeted fashion. What's your estimate of your reactions in Iran?
MS. BEERS: Well, we are doing careful and I'd say modest efforts. And part of that is because of the implication that we do not want to go in as the U.S. government being pro a group of people who are trying to workout their own history. So I would say we need to be subtle about our support, and make -- try to make available the pieces of information and the processes that they need to learn from. We do now just have coming up a Persian website. We also know that, you know, there are a number of difficulties into getting into Iran with the Internet and so on. When we did this Muslim life in America story, we tracked the fact that some of the pan-Arab television and some of the others had overlap into Iran, but we were not able to go in and research it or do any formal assessment of it. I --
