Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 12, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. O'Keefe, thank you very much for coming in front of our joint committees here and your great leadership of NASA in a really difficult and a trying and challenging time. We all grieve the loss of human life that's happened to NASA and at this particular point, I turn to the subcommittee in the Senate that will be dealing with this and I want to work with you and your agency as we lay out the future of manned space flight in the United States.
I want to ask you about the broad objectives and the broad program objectives that we are on and about right now.
It seems to me that the space program is really at a critical juncture and the totality of the space program is and it's got to decide amongst a couple of competing options. One is to maintain the current set of programs and current missions. The second one that you read a lot about in the newspaper and people speculate in is to dramatically reduce manned space flight, go into more robotics and different types of vehicles, questioning about the safety and try to be more safe. And the third, a number of people are saying that our vision is too small in space currently right now, that we need new initiatives, we need to go back to the moon, we need to go to Mars. We are at this tremendous fork in the road of decision of which path to take.
It's certainly my intent of the subcommittee to look closely at where NASA has been and where you are today and where we plan to go into the future. And most importantly, we need to discuss as well the financial situation, the terms of how we get NASA where it needs to be. I'm glad to see that the Appropriations Committee were putting in an additional $414 million over the president's request.
The goal is to reflect an accurate and effective determination for the future of NASA and I would simply like to ask you, what have you done recently -- and I realize you're dealing with a tragedy mostly now, but to look at this need for a review of the mission of NASA amongst these three policy objectives, have you had a chance to start contemplating some of that? And I hope you'll be open to work openly with the Congress as we look at this fork in the road we're in right now.
