Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 11, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you gentlemen for being here and sharing the nitty-gritties of this, which is really difficult process. I was looking at this, comparing it to Afghanistan, and the thing about Afghanistan that is different -- and there were a number of things different, but there was a process, a local process, that loya jirga process that everybody kind of agreed to as a way that you can come at some sort of government and it's in Afghanistan. We had this local communities elect representatives and send them to a national kind of convention at a long standing system and setup and agreement and buy in by the population in Afghanistan, and you can arrive at a system of governance. They're -- Afghanistan has a number of other great problems, but there was a system that people could agree to.
Iraq, I haven't been able to identify one and I'm gathering really it's tough for people to identify. And I've worked with the Iraqi opposition for a long period of time now, with the INC, Iraqi National Congress, they've had their difficulties, though I was in London meeting with them in December, I know both of you gentlemen have met with them, and they were really setting their differences aside and doing a very nice job, I thought, together. And of a broad set of opposition groups, and these are exterior oppositions, they are working with people interior, primarily in the north, some in the south, but I was quite impressed at how far forward they had gone, how much they were cooperating and working together and really pulling together. I appreciate you're working with them, with the INC and with other groups. Although I do note, as the chairman did when he first started your questioning which must seem to you guys like hours ago, it's like coming up and being in a dentist's chair for hours to get us to press on you. But there was a New York Times article today, continuing to have this question of working with the INC versus recruiting some additional new leadership.
And to me this is the real nuts and bolts -- one of the real nuts and bolts tough problems in the transition period that you've talked about. You've got a post-Saddam period and then within that you've got to have some leadership arise, Iraqi leadership arise to run Iraq, because we don't want to run Iraq, we're not going to run Iraq, it'll be Iraqis that do this. Are you -- is there still this level of debate within the administration on whether to engage the INC or somebody else of leadership to come forward from Iraq interior? Can you, if you can, disclose any of the thinking that's going on about that very specific yet critically important problem?
MR. GROSSMAN: Let me try and ask Doug for some help. The answer to the question about whether there's still a big debate going on in the administration about all this is no, sir. Doug and I last July kind of looked up from our pencils and paper and said, you know, why are we spending all this time fighting with each other over what Iraqi opposition, we ought to do this together. And so you'll recall perhaps that last August we invited the six major groups, very much including the INC to meet with both of us together. And we tried to show them that we had a unified front and we were hoping to encourage them, therefore, to have a unified front. And I don't say it has anything to do with us, but, like you we see a lot of positives there.
And so we are continuing to work with all of these groups, and I know that you know, Senator, since it is money that you all have authorized, we continue to provide the INC with a considerable sum of money and I'm glad for the record to break that down over the last few months. So the debate in this administration --
SEN. NELSON: Secretary, could I, on that point -- I don't mean to interrupt you, but I just want to make sure I get this before my time's up, the TV liberty that they were operating is not operating now, and they're saying that there are lack of funds for being able to operate that television and radio, which I think would be a critical communication component, I hope that can be resolved --
MR. GROSSMAN: We'd like to get started with that TV and radio right away again, we have money set aside for it. As I understand it, and I'd be glad to give you a further answer, what we need is a clean request for TV and radio and then it can be funded, but we'll work on that. If I might just say one word about Afghanistan, Iraq and the question of governance, absolutely right, you are faced, in a sense, with mirrors here. In Afghanistan you had no bureaucracy to speak of and you had no money to speak of but there was a loya jirga process so we could see our way forward. In Iraq of course there is a talented bureaucracy -- a bureaucracy that we hope we can kind of take the top off of and then use, and of course there's money, there's oil. And yet the way forward, as you described it through an established loya jirga-like system isn't there, but it's one of the reasons that we have spent so much time and so much effort on these future of Iraq projects, so that we have a way forward, we have an idea for a constitution, we have an idea for laws. And exactly, as you say, those things then need to be legitimated in some way by the people inside of Iraq. But we're not going to show up there and then try to figure out what to do.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I hope you will continue to work with these outside oppositions along with inside oppositions and I agree we shouldn't show up and say, "Okay, here is the new leader of Iraq" but that we should use all of this talent that's been very dedicated for a period of years to confront Saddam Hussein and to remove Saddam Hussein and to liberate the Iraqi people. I think one thing we lose sight of here is how much they are and have suffered, the Iraqi people. Their worst nightmare is what they've been living. And I hope we can identify and see and work with them very closely as we move on forward.
MR. FEITH: Senator, when you ask about the INC, it reminded me that Senator Allen had raised the question, whether the principles that we've laid out in general for the kind of government we would like to see arise in Iraq are shared by Iraqi opposition groups.
One of the principal accomplishments of the INC was organizing conferences of multiple groups over the last 10 years or so where they themselves promulgated principles that all of the major Iraqi opposition groups now subscribe to that are principles that we support.
Now I take Senator Chafee's point that you shouldn't look at that through rose-colored glasses. We do not in any way underestimate how difficult the problems are going to be of getting these people to actually work together and develop a kind of smooth cooperation in a country that does not have a history of a democratic political culture and the kind of cooperation that we would like to foster. It's going to be very difficult and we don't to be overly, you know, rosy in projections about it. But nevertheless we shouldn't be blind to the good news that at least there have been accomplishments at the level of principle. And the Iraqi opposition deserves some credit for lining up behind the, I think, very admirable principles.
MR. GROSSMAN: Just one other thing, Senator, and that is that Zal Khalilzad has been out for a couple of weeks talking to Iraqi oppositions and why don't we just offer either to members of staff as you wish a briefing when he returns? I think it would be helpful to put all this into perspective.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think that would be helpful and I would note those principles are democracy, human rights, an open economy. I mean, they are the basic things that we stand for is what this opposition is pushing aggressively and these basic principles are ones that will truly liberate the Iraqi people when they're implemented.
