Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 11, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thanks for holding the hearing. Welcome, administrator, thanks for coming to Wichita recently and touring the industry there, it's an important sector and it's important that we deal with reauthorization. I just want to draw your attention to one issue, and it's a narrow issue and other people have talked about the bigger frame issues which I agree with, but one I'm concerned about for my home state and for the central region is a recent analysis on the non-primary entitlement programs within general aviation.
This is an analysis and it looked at the central region and it looked at my state as -- well, it looked at the whole country. But in FAA's central region, which includes Kansas, only 28 percent of the non-primary airports would receive the annual maximum entitlement compared to a regional average of 66 percent. Twenty eight percent for the central region, 66 percent for a normal region and then looking at my state revealed that only 45 percent of Kansas's non- primary airports would be eligible to receive the annual maximum entitlement of 150,000 compared to 70,000 nationwide.
So 45 percent in my state, normally 70 percent. I'm concerned that we're not receiving, not getting the national average and I know it's a narrow issue of real consideration. We need to look at the broader issues as well but it's one that's of big concern in my state and it's a state that's heavily dependent upon general aviation. It's heavily dependent on these non-primary airports for industry, for the building of the aircraft but for the using of them as well and I'd hope that you could take some point in time to take a look at that and I look forward to hearing your thoughts and comments about what we can do for the state of the airline industry overall. That's obviously in a great deal of difficulty.
Thanks for being here, Mr. Chairman.
