Public Statements
Senator Brownback on Buchanan and Press
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 11, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

PRESS: Pat Buchanan and Bill Press here, keeping on top of the breaking story of the day.
Folks, he has spoken out again, a new audiotape received at Al-Jazeera TV from Osama bin Laden, in which he calls on -- if you're just joining us -- all Muslims to unite in solidarity against the Americans, against us, and on behalf of the people of Iraq.
To get some reaction from a very important member of Capitol Hill, Senator Sam Brownback, a Republican of Kansas, and a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, who joins us now on BUCHANAN & PRESS.
Senator, I know you've heard about this latest tape from Osama bin Laden. Does this, do you think -- ups the ante for war in Iraq, if he's calling on all Muslims to unite now to defend the people of Iraq?
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R), KANSAS: I don't know that it ups the ante, Bill, but it makes the point and it proves the point of what has been so troubling so long about Iraq.
And that's the tie and that's the connection between terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, that you have terrorists that are operating, have operated, have operated freely, have trained in Iraq for some period of time. You have weapons of mass destruction. And the two of those together are just such a potent, lethal mix, that we just cannot contemplate continuing to allow that type of situation to exist.
PRESS: But doesn't it, also, Senator, point up sort of an embarrassing fact that Osama bin Laden, despite almost two years now, a year and a half, is still out there, he's still alive, he's still plotting against the United States, and we have failed in the No. 1 target of our war on terror, which was to bring him back dead or alive?
BROWNBACK: Yes. I mean, he's been the No. 1 target for about 10 years, actually. And he's been coming at the United States for that period of time. And we haven't been effectively responding.
And I think there are people in the past administration and this administration who would certainly desire that that were not the case. But it continues to be the case, if indeed this is Osama bin Laden on this tape.
BUCHANAN: Senator Brownback, Pat Buchanan here. Thanks for joining us.
BROWNBACK: Hi, Pat.
BUCHANAN: Hi.
Senator, clearly, what Osama bin Laden has wanted and what many Islamists, or the radical Islamists, have sought for a long time is basically a war of civilizations between the United States and Israel on one side and all the Arabs and all the Muslims on the other. And it looks like, if this is an authentic tape, that Osama sees this as an opportunity, the American strike on Iraq, when the Israelis are cracking down -- they've locked up the Palestinians again -- as a glorious opportunity to stir up the entire Arab street, if you will, and the Islamic world.
Should we be apprehensive of something like that taking place when the balloon goes up?
BROWNBACK: Well, I think it's a time for us to be very cautious and be very sure-stepped -- surefooted as we move on forward.
Clearly, bin Laden, for some period of time, has sought to unite the Arab world in opposition to us. And you remember, Bill and Pat, he's not been pleased with a lot of the different countries in the Arab world. Some of his first targets have been within the Arab world to get regimes out that are not sufficiently militant towards the rest of the world and particularly towards us.
So, I think what you're seeing is a continuation of something that he's pursued for some period of time, if, indeed, again, this is an authentic tape.
BUCHANAN: Senator, that's correct.
But one of the individuals for whom he has had great contempt has been Saddam Hussein, as a secularist and one who is not faithful to the beliefs of Islam. And now he seems to be seizing upon this as an opportunistic moment. And the question is going to be, I guess, whether the president, who has, in my view, wisely sought to separate our war on Saddam from opposition to all of Islam -- we are only against the terrorists and the extremists and the America haters.
Clearly, the battle is on for the heart and soul, if you will, of the Islamic world.
BROWNBACK: Well, I think you've got a good point here on that, because he has been opposed to Saddam for some period of time. But he's seeing a moment here where he can join together. And we're seeing that taking place in some other factions.
That's why it is always critical for us to state that our opposition -- we are not whatsoever opposed to Islam. If an Islamic country such as Turkey wants to work with us, we want to work with them. If you're going to attack us, we will defend and we will respond. But I think it's very key, particularly like what's taking place right now in Turkey, where the French and the Germans weren't going to support them in NATO defense, that the United States step up and work closely with the Turks and with other countries in the Islamic world that will work effectively with us.
PRESS: Senator, Associated Press is reporting that Russian President Vladimir Putin just said -- quote -- "Unilateral action against Iraq would be a grave error" and that Russia would oppose any unreasonable use of force.
It seems, Senator, that, despite all the efforts of Colin Powell and others, and Secretary Rumsfeld and the president,in the last week or so, that you have still got Russia, France, Germany, China, Belgium who just are not ready to go along. Don't you think we maybe should take some more time to bring them in line?
BROWNBACK: Well, what about on the other on the side, Vilnius 10, the others throughout Europe, throughout the rest of the world?
And, more particularly, Bill, what about within the region, the support we're getting from the Jordanians this time around, where, the last time around, they were in neutral, and what we're getting from Saudi Arabia and from the Turks? I think you should look at the neighborhood that's most impacted.
Plus, if I could also agree with one thing that Vladimir Putin is saying, unilateral action -- the United States is not going to take unilateral action. This will be a consortium of countries that are going to be working together.
PRESS: Well, with all due respect, Senator, if you add up Estonia and Lithuania and Latvia and Hungary, you don't add up with the muscle or the might or the history or the geography of China and Russia and France and Germany. It's not just a numbers game here, is it? These are important allies. Do we really dare to go along without them?
BROWNBACK: What's your answer? Do we put in triple the number of inspectors? Do we wait another five years? What is it, then?
PRESS: Well, maybe not five years. The French are saying triple the inspectors, put surveillance flights in, give the inspectors more time, put more pressure on Saddam Hussein.
What's the hurry, Senator? That's the real question. What's the hurry? Why do we have to go this month?
BROWNBACK: You got Osama bin Laden, terrorists, and weapons of mass destruction. Now, maybe we get by fine this month or next month. If you or I have cancer and it's inside of us and we feel fine today, we could say, let's put the surgery off.
But you don't know when things are going to metastasize and move. And do we wait and have another hearing down the road, when thousands have been killed somewhere in the world, perhaps even in the United States, because these weapons of mass destruction are in the hands of terrorists?
BUCHANAN: OK, Senator, let me change the subject, or, rather, move to a related one.
It seems to me there clearly is dissent in the United States. There is dissent in the Senate to a possible war. There's dissent in the Europe. And the French and Germans have been opposed. But what the French and Germans are doing now, it seems to me, by repeatedly blocking AWACs and Patriot missiles for Turkey, as we were on the precipice of war, is getting pretty close to sabotage.
It's getting like the Vietnam days, when, instead of just marching against the war, people started lying down in front of troop trains. Now, if this is what our NATO allies are doing, what kind of alliance is it?
BROWNBACK: Well, you have a good question with that.
And I'm very disappointed in that particular action by the Germans and French. I think it's one thing for them to have a different political position. They've expressed that vocally. They have got a different point of view. But the efforts that they're doing now, I think, are wrong for them to do as a NATO alliance and particularly as it reflects and impacts on Turkey, that's a NATO ally.
I think this is a bad step for them to take. And it's going to have much longer-term consequences than the political position that they've taken heretofore.
BUCHANAN: OK, Senator, can you hold on a second. We want to come back to you.
But, right now, we have got an update on that Osama bin Laden tape.
(INTERRUPTED FOR BREAKING NEWS)
PRESS: Our guest, again, is Senator Sam Brownback, Republican from Kansas and a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
Senator, can I pick up on another area of the world that may be a companion crisis, if you will? And that is North Korea. North Korea, we know, has nukes. North Korea kicked out the inspectors. They bragged about the fact they're starting up their reactor. And if the administration says, well, what we're going to do with North Korea is, we're going to talk to them, get some other neighbors to talk to them, maybe contain them and try to deter them from doing anything rash, is that the right strategy?
BROWNBACK: Well, it seems to me what's taking place in North Korea is, Kim Jong Il is really trying to heighten the crisis in the Korean Peninsula to make us deal with both issues at the same time, both Iraq and North Korea, and that the administration is saying: Look, we are focused on Iraq. We will talk with North Korea, but we are not going to deal with both of these at the same time.
And I think that's an appropriate strategy. I also think Kim Jong Il, probably in his mind and probably wisely, has the right strategy, too, to try to make us deal with both at the same time. I would really hope that we would pressure and continue to pressure aggressively the Chinese to be much more engaged in North Korea, if for no other reason than the humanitarian crisis that they are causing by sending the North Korean refugees, who are walking and going to China, back into North Korea to an uncertain future, if not death.
BUCHANAN: Senator Brownback, let me follow up on that.
One of the reasons the Chinese appear to be apprehensive about -- or they have been utterly unhelpful -- let's be candid -- about using sanctions on North Korea is, they're afraid a regime collapse will send maybe 500,000, a million, two million, three million North Koreans pouring across their border.
But my point here is that the president says, we put this on the back burner; we deal with Iraq. But, as Secretary Rumsfeld said, you could have a matter of six or seven weeks, they could have that reprocessing plant up and running, extracting the plutonium, getting enough plutonium for one atom bomb a month and have a number of these by summer.
Now, the United States, it seems to me, we've taken the military option off the table. Nobody is helping us with the sanctions option. North Korea says: Sanctions are military and we go to war. So, this thing is marching down the road and nobody has got, it seems to me, a credible plan to put this nuclear process out of operation in the next few months.
BROWNBACK: It is a tough situation that they've put forward.
But what are the options that we have at this point in time? You could say, OK, let's put the military option back into play as a possibility. And yet the size of the North Korean military and their willingness to then respond and move right across into South Korea is something pretty difficult to contemplate.
You can say, let's put in economic sanctions into place. And perhaps we should. But you've got to have the Chinese participating in that for that to make that work.
BUCHANAN: Senator, I'm not disagreeing with you. What I'm saying is, I don't see the light at the end of this tunnel. We've had ambassadors on here. We've had conservatives. Everybody has been very tough-minded and, we can't let this happen.
But nobody has shown me a credible policy which is going to prevent this guy from getting a number of nuclear weapons. And, as our own secretary of defense has said, when this guy gets them, he will sell them. He likes to sell missiles. He proliferates weapons. And this is going to happen.
And to some of us, it is more imminent, more acute, and more threatening than this character over there in Baghdad, who's got a couple hundred U.N. guys running around the country in Toyotas and who does not look like an imminent threat.
BROWNBACK: I think they are both substantial threats to us.
And you can say imminent with that or however you would look at it, but both of them are substantial threats. I just think that the policy options that we have in North Korea, at this point in time, are pretty limited. And they need to be pretty focused particularly on the Chinese and on what we can do to deal with North Korea. What North Korea wants in this nonaggression pact doesn't solve the issue. So, I think we've got to focus there.
PRESS: Senator, I have to interrupt you again. Just hang on there for a second.
(INTERRUPTED FOR BREAKING NEWS)
BUCHANAN: Let's take that question to Senator Brownback of Kansas, Republican of Kansas, Foreign Relations Committee, who, I believe, was up on the Chinese-North Korean border just recently.
Senator Brownback, listening to this, hearing what this tape -- reportedly, this is Osama bin Laden urging suicide attacks. And I assume he means not only in Iraq, although it mentioned only Iraq, but in the Arab world against the United States. Does this argue for delay or does this argue for the administration moving and cutting and ending this thing, get this crisis resolved as quickly as possible?
BROWNBACK: Well, Pat, they've been -- Osama bin Laden has been coming at us for at least 10 years, if not more.
If we delay dealing with what we need to deal with in Iraq, does that stop him from coming at us? Does it just put it off and does it make him stronger and does it make Saddam stronger in the process? And I think that's probably the case.
Again, I think the cancer analogy is pretty accurate to it, that you can leave it there, the cancer, before it metastasizes, but are you better tomorrow by not having dealt with it today?
