Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 6, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Mr. Secretary, it's -- first, let me say I think you're doing a fabulous job on a whole lot of tough issues that you've got spinning up in the air. It seems Kim Jong Il and North Korea is bound and determined to try to make us deal with him at the same time that we're confronting the situation in Iraq. I mean, that's the way I read this is he's just saying: Look, I'm not going to let you deal with sequentially with things in the world. I'm just going to jam this up right up against you. And I hope we don't play his game on his time frame.
I guess I was noting in today's papers: London Guardian, "North Korea threatens U.S. with first strike" -- in the London Guardian there, quoting there. And this is in the Washington Post that the Japanese government is considering sending two destroyers equipped with Aegis air defense systems to watch for North Korean missile launches, that they may try to up the pressure even more on us to make some sort of deal or agreement. And I applaud you standing firm against that, and I hope you can continue to do that even though it seems as if they're bent and determined to use every tool they can to build pressure on you and on us to make some sort of early deal, early agreement that may well not serve our best interest or the world's best interest or more even importantly than all of that, the people of North Korea's best interest, who have suffered so much under this tyrant.
One thing I would like to -- I want to bounce around to a couple of topics, and time's short, but on the road map in the Middle East, if I could. I'm concerned about a point on the road map, that it not follow a prescribed timetable but, rather, it follow performance, as the president laid out. Not any sort of artificial deadlines.
I'm troubled, also, at the enhanced role that the other parties in the Quartet set for themselves in monitoring and enforcing the terms of the road map, of the -- what the other parties are saying what their role is going to be in enforcing and monitoring the terms. Ultimately, as you've said many times, the Israelis and the Palestinians must make peace for themselves, and that it cannot be imposed from the outside. And I wonder if -- you've commented some on this already -- but what you see as the record so far for Palestinian reforms that were outlined clearly by the president and the road map, and the role you see for the Quartet versus the United States in monitoring, enforcing the road map that's been laid out?
