Public Statements
Senator Brownback on Inside Politics
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 3, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

With me now from Capitol Hill is Kansas Senator Sam Brownback. He chairs the subcommittee on Space, Science and Technology.
Senator, I know you are already looking into this. You were just telling me you're having meetings today. We know hearings are coming up.
Did you have any concerns at all about the safety of the shuttle program before this?
SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R), KANSAS: There's always concern from the standpoint that this is a dangerous operation. When you're putting somebody up into space, the reentry point, this is a dangerous operation.
But I think we had been, overall, as a country somewhat lulled into just thinking, well, this is a very routine issue and we don't need to really look at it. As we were planning, we were looking forward, what is it that we need to do to take the next step forward for space exploration, prior to what took place on Saturday.
WOODRUFF: As we now begin to look back over the hearings that were held in the last few years related to NASA, we're now finding a pretty well-documented record of people concerned about tight budgets, that not enough money was being spent, safety concerns here and there. You're not going to lack for information, I assume, as you start to set up hearings.
BROWNBACK: We're not going to lack for information, and we're not going to lack for comments and we're going to dig into all of it. We will cooperate and work with NASA on their internal and external investigation as to why, but then we need to take the step in moving forward as to now how do we proceed on forward.
I think there's strong support, strong bipartisan support to continue, aggressively, manned space flight. Now we need to look at how we're going to do that and how we make safety the premiere issue. It has been in the past. We've got to reemphasize it now again.
WOODRUFF: But what about the shuttle program itself, Senator? Are you personally persuaded right now that the shuttle program is worth the risk that it poses to human life?
BROWNBACK: We're tied into it at this point in time. The international space station, we really can't operate presently without the shuttle program, taking people and payload to and from the operation.
We can get the three astronauts, the two astronauts and cosmonaut, down without the space shuttle, but it really can't continue to build on forward without the space shuttle.
I think the question is, we've got to make it as safe as we can now and then really ask the tough questions of how do we proceed forward in the future with a robust space program but that's as completely as safe as we can make it, recognizing this is an inherently dangerous, risky operation.
WOODRUFF: There is -- We know now that there are people who were fired from what was called the NASA Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel. At least they say they're fired.
There's another side to the story. There are others saying, well, they were just stepping out at the natural end of their term.
Are you going to be talking to those people? They're saying they were fired after they raised safety concerns.
BROWNBACK: We're going to be talking with everybody about this. This is the sort of thing that we really have to look thoroughly into.
I just don't want to leave the impression, though, that people are walking away from space. We're going to continue that commitment and just as after the Challenger episode, to really examine what was taking place at that time.
We're really going to examine now, as well, to see how we proceed forward as safely as possible.
WOODRUFF: But it sounds like, just to be clear, Senator -- You're not saying that we are absolutely certain at this point that the shuttle mission going forward is worth the risks that we've seen?
BROWNBACK: I think we have to go forward at the present time with the space shuttle missions, at some point in time, or else you have to give up on the international space station, as well.
But what I'm saying is at you look on down the road several years and remember, these things, these programs, the space shuttle, a space plane, take years to develop, years to fund, years to build. I think we're locked into that space shuttle program for a period of time until we can move forward to the next set of technologies.
WOODRUFF: All right. Senator Sam Brownback, we thank you very much and we'll be talking to you as those hearings get underway.
BROWNBACK: Thank you, Judy.
