Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 30, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Welcome, gentlemen. And I want to endorse the thought of having Secretary Powell up here, but I also want to say, on top of that, I appreciate how much you've worked with us to date. A number of us put forward the idea that there should be a resolution passed by Congress to the administration. The administration -- I think a number of people actually argued in the administration we don't have to do that, but you did. I think that was a wise move.
A number of us argued that you should go to the United Nations for a resolution. The administration, I think, probably a number of people within, argued we don't have to do that, but you did.
Last week, Thursday, there was a briefing of Secretary Powell and Secretary Rumsfeld, with members here of the Senate, that I thought was pretty candid. Thank you for doing that.
I think this would be another positive step. And I think there's been a good -- frankly, I think there's been a very good movement back and forth and communications back and forth. We're getting down to the real tough point now: whether you actually engage U.S. military force and other military force. And I think that's obviously where we all get antsy and hard-pressed.
I want to make one point about the weapons inspection, because I've chaired the subcommittee that's dealt with this for some period of time, and we've had a lot of hearings on Iraq over the period since I've been in the Senate in '96. They haven't complied at any point in time in the past.
We have models of compliance of weapons inspections that the U.N. has done, like South Africa and Kazakhstan, where these were two countries that did cooperate with the U.N. And they didn't -- there wasn't any hide-and-seek. They said, "Come in. We don't want these things anymore. Here is where they are. Come and get them." I mean, I think that's the nature of the resolution we have. Now if I'm wrong on that, correct me. But that's the nature, and we actually have a model of that in the past.
I want to follow up, Secretary Armitage, on your point about the hearing that we don't want to have about terrorists distributing weapons of mass destruction and using them in the United States. There's an article in the New York Times today talking about large convoys moving out of Iraq and to Syria. And I guess -- I'm just going to read you this instance or report: "For instance, the administration today was still debating the credibility of intelligence about a Christmastime Iraqi truck convoy that some American analysts say could have been transporting weapons of mass destruction or scientists to Syria, where they would be safely out of the United Nations inspectors' view."
Do you have any either further illumination you could give us about what we know about movement of weapons of mass destruction out of Iraq, if you can identify -- ?
MR. ARMITAGE: I would -- Senator Brownback, I would say that there's been a debate in the administration, as I know, in the intelligence community. It's about how much we know about other countries perhaps receiving such things as missiles. I don't think -- particularly, I don't think we know the definitive. I saw the report that you referred to. And I've seen other reports. Now, I can't give you a level of credibility on other reports as to whether missiles are in other countries. Those countries whom we've approached on this with our suspicions have vehemently denied. But -- that's what they've done. So I can't --
SEN. BROWNBACK: You can't confirm or deny this, this report in the New York Times today? Okay.
Let me ask you about the presence of terrorists on Iraqi soil. You identified or spoke some about some al Qaeda. Again, another New York Times article just today talked about the presence of other terrorist groups in Iraq, Ansar al-Islam, an extremist group. Can you identify for this group other terrorists that are currently operating on Iraqi soil?
MR. ARMITAGE: I can verify that, and I can provide you -- I can do that. I don't think I want to do that publicly. I think it's part of what the secretary will be saying. There are other groups who have apparently either been driven or have found some ability to be harbored in Iraq. Some are the -- around the northern part of Iraq, close to Iran, but not associated Iran, the group you just mentioned and others. But with your permission, I'd provide it for the record and in a classified way.
SEN. BROWNBACK: But you can confirm this in the New York Times today that this group is operating on Iraqi soil. (Pause.) Thank you. And I -- and others you will provide to us in a -- can you provide that in a secure setting, of other terrorist groups that are operating on Iraqi soil?
MR. ARMITAGE: I will do so, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Can you provide to us either here or in private, do we know of any distribution of weapons of mass destruction to terrorists? I know that would be a very difficult thing to find. But do we know or can you provide that either here or in a private setting?
MR. ARMITAGE: Yes, I can. And I'm not an expert in these matters, but there have been some real speculations about certain poisons and other things that were associated with some of these groups who are in -- particularly northern Iraq. But I -- with your permission I'll content myself with those comments only.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Okay. And you can provide that to us in a private distribution. Because that to me has been the real issue about Iraq. There are a lot of bad players in the world. There's no question about that. North Korea is clearly up there, and we've got others. But the mix here of a guy with weapons of mass destruction, Saddam Hussein, who's used them in the past, and terrorists on his soil that are willing to use them against us, and on our soil, is the potent mixture that I think is so poisonous and so hard for us to even contemplate that you've got to go with that on an early basis.
And I just want to conclude by asking you about other countries that'll be supporting us, whether or not there's another U.N. resolution, which I -- I question the need for another resolution on top of it. But I note that you have -- eight European leaders have voiced their support for the U.S. on Iraq that just was out again today. This is a Wall Street Journal article. I note today that Jordan has now said they're even going further than they did in the Gulf War I of allowing some positioning of U.S. forces, where they maintained a neutral position in the invasion of Kuwait.
Congratulations on those. Do you have others that you can announce to us that are joining our coalition?
MR. ARMITAGE: I'm going to give you a numerical idea. I do not desire to announce the names publicly, sir. But for instance, those who have committed to full access -- 21 countries are fully committed to grant us access on route, should a military activity be required. There are others that are under discussion. But we've got 20 countries that are fully committed, and three that are partially committed to allow basing. Overflight -- 22 countries. We've got a total of nine countries who have either fully committed or partially committed some troops.
So, should a military activity be required, there's more going on than one suggests. And I've got a list, and I don't want to -- I can provide it secure. But I deliberately had it done that way for this hearing.
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think it's particularly significant about the Jordanians, who are right there in the area, and have taken even a more aggressive stance this time than last.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
