Public Statements
Senator Brownback on Iraq
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 29, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I am delighted to join my colleagues in talking about the situation in Iraq and what the President has said and what some of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle are saying, that we need to wait, and wait longer.
I will make a few simple points. I have served on the Middle East subcommittee since I have been in the Senate. I have chaired it for a good portion of the time. I have worked on the issue of Iraq since 1996. I have worked with the Iraqi opposition. I have held hearings on this topic. We have had meetings with the then UNSCOM inspectors. We have really worked the full gamut of what is taking place in Iraq. My colleagues on the other side want to wait longer. We have waited 12 years. How much longer do we need to wait?
They want to allow the weapons inspectors to work longer. We had them in there for a number of years and then Saddam Hussein threw them out. They have only been back for a short period of time. I remind my colleagues that we were not finding anything when the weapons inspectors were there prior to 1998. We did not find anything until we had some high level defections on the part of the Iraqis. That is when we started finding things.
Iraq is a country the size of California. It has a dedicated leader who is seeking to thwart the will of the international community to disarm. He is trying to hide items that may be the size of a 5-gallon bucket. He is manufacturing biological weapons and moving them on mobile units the size of a van. He is trying to hide them in a place the size of California, and there are only 120 inspectors in Iraq, as the President suggested last night, in some sort of scavenger hunt. The idea was not that we would go into Iraq and have to find these items. It was that Iraq would step forward and disarm and say we agree, we are going to disarm. That was what they were supposed to do, come forward and disarm. Instead, we have this hide-and-seek that Saddam continues. It is what he did when we had weapons inspectors in Iraq previously. It is what he continues to do now.
What happens if we wait? Let's say we agree we are going to wait. Maybe we will find something, maybe not. What if we do find something else? Is that going to be enough for us to move forward and say we need to completely disarm Saddam Hussein? I think we are left with a similar set of circumstances-plus, if we do not do anything.
