Public Statements
Senator Brownback Opposes Mikulski Amendment
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 23, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Wyoming for recognizing me.
I rise in opposition to the Mikulski amendment to this omnibus appropriations bill. Succinctly put, we held a hearing 4 or 5 years ago on this very particular point. Much of it has been covered in the discussion and the debate so far, but if we want to have an efficient Government, we need to allow the private sector to compete.
What we need to do as well is make sure this 47-year-old Federal policy—which states "the government should not be involved in commercial activities"—is complied with and is enforced.
The goal of the FAIR Act was to eliminate the Government's direct competition with the private sector while at the same time providing a better utilization of taxpayer dollars. This is going both ways: So we do not have direct competition with the private sector, which we should not do, which is against Federal law for us to do, and at the same time provide a better utilization of taxpayer dollars so we concentrate the Government workers in areas where only the Government can do the work.
This seems to me to be good management and good objectives.
In 2001, the FAIR Act inventory noted that over 840,000 Federal jobs were noninherently governmental. President Bush's Competitive Sourcing Initiative requires Federal agencies to conduct public-private competition on 15 percent of the jobs listed on the FAIR Act inventory. This seems to be minimal at best.
The Mikulski amendment prohibits the President from establishing or enforcing goals for competitive sourcing. This is not the direction in which we should go. In addition, it would severely impede our ability to manage the Federal Government. We need that management flexibility at this time. Where we have budget deficits that are rising, we need to get those down and to use every tool we have at our disposal to be able to keep those budget deficits down as efficiently and effectively as we possibly can.
This amendment would prevent improving the performance of the Government's many commercial activities. We certainly do not need to do that. The amendment goes against the congressionally mandated findings of the Commercial Activities Panel which unanimously adopted the principle of competition.
Competition has been good in this country. It is the basis for what our economy is—so that things can grow based on competition.
For those reasons, I will oppose the Senator's amendment.
