Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 14, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate you holding this hearing. I thank the Commission very being here. I think you're going to hear a lot of statements because we don't do this often enough, as Senator Burns said, and so we've got some things to put forward.
The commission in my estimation -- I've got a couple of items I want to specifically hit with you -- really needs to be bold and decisive at this point in time and you've got several big issues in front of you. You hear a lot of us talk about Broadband facilities. I clearly think we need to move forward in this area, put legislation in the past, and we continue to work on that so that we can put inner platform competition into overdrive in an economically sound manner providing consumers with unprecedented and lasting competition and the benefits that that will put forward in revitalizing telecom and the technology economy.
I just recently signed a bipartisan letter to the Commission with 12 of my colleagues requesting the Commission take special interest in its treatment of fiber to the home to help make this happen. That's one area I wanted to mention to you. Another is on the UNE-P regulatory construct. It's my understanding that the Commission may be considering phasing out the regulatory construct known as UNE-P, or removing switching from the list of available network elements for competitive use. I would welcome such a reform.
It's clear to me that if Congress intended for UNE-P to exist, we would not have included a separate resale provision in the Act. Such action will help us encourage facility-based competition in the telephone market which reflects the viable economic and regulatory foundation that Chairman Powell has mentioned. I think this is something that needs to be moved forward aggressively and not phased in on a multi-year basis, if at all possible.
TELRIC reform, either going forward or in general, must be included in efforts by the Commission to revive this sector in my estimation. TELRIC can be revised and implemented faster than any unbundling deregulation to make a positive impact in the market sooner. Such reform must include the elimination of the hypothetical cost model and reliance on actual cost.
TELRIC reform will enable incumbents to invest in new technologies and services in competition with other platforms, yet still permit competitors to use those facilities that continue to qualify for unbundling to get a foothold in the marketplace. Now, if the Commission's efforts to revive the telecom sector do not include the elimination of the current TELRIC pricing methodology, I fear this Commission will not or cannot live up to its important responsibilities at this juncture. I really think this is a key place to focus on.
And finally, and this is something I visited with a number of you about at different times, for more than 50 years regulations regarding indecency have existed on the books at the FCC. And yet in recent years it appears that this portion of the Commission's job description has been forgotten. As medical studies continue to mount, more than 3,500 already -- and we just saw a front page story in USA Today yesterday talking about violence in our children at a younger age. Thirty-five hundred studies showing a correlation between viewing violence and violent behavior. Thirty-five hundred studies, which is stronger -- and that correlation is stronger than that of tobacco smoke and lung cancer. It's clear that we must do something about the amount of indecency that plagues the airways.
Now, this is not about censorship or government meddling, but about remembering that freedom of expression is not immunity from criticism, and particularly here when it involves the public airwaves. I would really encourage the Commission to look at this area, given the huge amount of medical data now available of what's happening when we entertain our children with violence. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
