Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 9, 2003
Location: Washington, DC

SEN. SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS): Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thanks again for holding the hearing on the airline industry. As I have pointed out and talked in the past, I wanted to speak, if I could briefly on the airline -- on the aircraft manufacturing industry. Over the break I had a chance to sit down with the major airline aircraft manufacturers, all of which have plants in Wichita, Kansas. Wichita is home to Boeing, Raytheon, Cessna and Bombardier major factories or headquarters. Over the break I sat down with leaders of these four major aviation manufacturers in Wichita, and discussed their situation. And, as you might suspect, and as I have pointed out to the committee previously, they are in a very, very difficult situation.
While the state of the commercial airline industry is dismal, the general aviation community is suffering even more so. Over the past 18 months there have been 10,400 layoffs in Wichita alone -- 10,400. And this is just the direct layoffs in the aviation community. This number does not include the multiplier effects that are felt throughout the city. For every one job in the aviation industry in Wichita, 1.9 jobs are created. This is devastating when you consider even since the last hearing we had in October, Wichita has suffered another 1,000 additional layoffs. The situation is not getting better, and we must commit to improve it immediately. And while we are focused so much on the airline industry, the manufacturers are really taking a huge hit, and much of the business is being moved overseas or taken over by Airbus, which I am going to ask the Commerce Department, Mr. Shane, about later on as well -- about what Airbus is doing during this period that we are seeing a downturn in aircraft manufacturing, and they are upscaling their manufacturing during the same period of time, and it has to be due to heavy government subsidization for them to be able to do that at this time.
I've got a chart that I just wanted to show briefly, if we could, of Boeing commercial aircraft delivery -- it's right here, if we could put that up, Mr. Chairman, you can see in 2001 Boeing commercial delivered 527 aircraft; 2002, 381; projected this year somewhere between 275 and 285. Now, if that last number holds, you can see we are roughly half of what we were in 2001. And Airbus will take over for the first time since its creation the number one position of delivery of aircraft, of the main airliners throughout the world. And they've done that through heavy subsidization, against agreements. So we have got a twofold problem here. We've got a difficult situation financially for the airline industry, which is being shown by the manufacturers; and then you have a heavy subsidization coming in by other countries to take over the manufacturing. And that's something that I am going to be working aggressively on.
We need to focus and I think take into clear concern and embrace the recommendations of the commission on the future of the U.S. aerospace industry, that final report to Congress. They emphasized the needs, the ways we can bolster basic research for the aviation industry. What the manufacturers were telling me is, Look, we are hurting, we don't have the income -- and so we are going -- or other countries are coming to us and saying, We will pay for the research and development of this wing or of this engine on this aircraft, but if we do that we want it manufactured here. We want it manufactured in China, or in Japan, or Taiwan, or Europe -- wherever they are coming to buy the -- if they are going to pay for the research they want the manufacturing or the jobs to go there. And the companies, strapped for cash, are saying, Well, I guess we're probably going to have to do that. So you are seeing the dismantling of the aviation, the aircraft manufacturing industry in this country now. So the industry, it's used to cyclical ups and downs. It's had those for a number of years. But what's different about this is a structural change, is that a number of those are being then sucked away to other countries that are unlikely to come back. So we will be importing the wing from China, the engine from somewhere else -- assembling it here -- but you have lost those jobs, and you've lost them on a long-term basis. And I really hope we look at what this commission reported to, and we take a serious focus on that. And, Mr. Shane, I also what your department to be looking -- and I am going to be asking questions about what Airbus is presently doing to take this industry away via government subsidization. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
