Public Statements
Issue Position: Foreign Policy
Issue Position
By: Sam Brownback
Location: Unknown


Issue Position: Foreign Policy
Since September 11, 2001, it is increasingly clear that national security must be at the forefront of our overall foreign policy. As we face the threat of terrorism, as well as threats by rogue nations such as Iran and North Korea, it is more important than ever that we have a coherent, strong and wise foreign policy. As we continue to wage the war on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan, we must look ahead to the prospect of these countries serving as models for freedom and democracy in an otherwise troubled region.
We must also remain vigilant, pursuing terrorists anywhere they hide while guarding ourselves against additional proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The ongoing insurgencies in Iraq and Afghanistan emphasize the extent to which Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups have infiltrated the region by seeking shelter in despotic regimes. The tragedies that continue to occur demonstrate the great need to defeat terror networks by promoting democracy, freedom and human rights in these areas.
Since the fall of communism over a decade ago, the U.S. remains the only super-power nation in the world. With great power comes great responsibility, and we, as Americans, must continue to use that power for good -- to encourage political, economic and religious freedom throughout the world. Just as we can never hesitate to counter threats to our security and interests, we can never forget that individual freedom and democracy for all people represent our best hope for a peaceful future.
Our foreign policy encompasses a whole host of issues from economic cooperation and trade to strategic partnership, and it has far reaching effects throughout the world, in such areas as democratization, human rights and economic growth. We can be confident that bringing freedom and democracy to the world helps provide security and prosperity at home. My efforts in the United States Senate and in my role as a member of the Helsinki Commission are guided by the principles of democracy, free markets and individual liberty.

Source:
