Public Statements
Issue Position: Kansas Economy
Issue Position
By: Sam Brownback
Location: Unknown

Economic Growth: Sam Brownback is running for Governor to grow Kansas. Economic growth supports everything we do as a state---it feeds families, provides opportunities for young people, makes seniors more secure in their retirement, generates revenue for government services and charities at all levels and provides the goods and services that support our quality of life. Economic growth is the engine that makes our state go. Restoring growth will be Sam Brownback's top priority as Governor.
Jobs: Kansas unemployment is at historic levels---the highest in decades. Over 100,000 Kansans are looking for full-time work and can't find it. The effects on individuals and families can be devastating.
Sam Brownback has identified several specific areas where we can create new jobs in Kansas, including the development of alternative energy, the establishment of the National Bio-Agri Defense Facility in Kansas, expansion of high-tech animal health and aviation research, the expansion of medical education, the Polymer Institute at Pittsburg State, destination tourism in the Flint Hills and value-added agricultural products with new uses for Kansas foodstuffs.
Taxes: Sam Brownback opposes tax increases, particularly in times of economic distress. He signed the Americans For Prosperity's "No Climate Tax" Pledge.
Energy: Sam Brownback's approach to energy is simple---we need to make more and use less. He supports the multi-billion dollar investment being made in new power generating capacity in southwest Kansas as well as the continued development of our state's wind resources and the attendant supply chain jobs. Since his days as Secretary of Agriculture, Sam Brownback has been a leader in promoting bio-based fuels and energy conservation as a way of improving our state's balance of trade.
Infrastructure: Few things government does contribute as much to our economy as sound investments in infrastructure. While these investments include traditional items like roads and bridges, a comprehensive approach is needed that recognizes the value of air, rail and public transit infrastructure in Kansas. Additionally, greater access to broadband services is as important to our communities for the next 150 years as conventional infrastructure has been to Kansas' first 150 years.

Source: http://www.brownback.com/news/2009/dec/07/issues-kansas-economy//
