Public Statements
Issue Position: Kansas Government
Issue Position
By: Sam Brownback
Location: Unknown

Term Limits: Sam Brownback supports term limits as a way of keeping public servants in touch with those whom they serve and grounded in the reality their decisions help to shape.
When he first ran for the US Senate in 1996, Sam Brownback signed a pledge to the people of Kansas that he would seek no more than two full terms in the US Senate. As always, he is keeping his pledge. Consequently, he is not running for re-election to the Senate. Sam Brownback believes that public officials who make term limit pledges should always keep them. What's more, term limits currently applied to the executive branch of state government could be a model for the other branches as well.
Constitutional Integrity: Government in Kansas and Washington has grown dangerously beyond the designs of our Founders. Ever-expanding government is unsustainable and a threat to liberty. As Governor, Sam Brownback will apply a strict constructionist approach to constitutional matters and seek out highly qualified individuals who share this philosophy for important appointments. In Congress he co-sponsored "The Enumerated Powers Act H.R. 450" which requires every act of Congress to contain a statement on the constitutional authority for each portion of proposed acts, "The Freedom from Government Competition Act" and "The Federal Reserve Transparency Act S. 604".
Second Amendment: Sam Brownback's position on the Second Amendment is simple. "A well-regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the People to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed." It means what it says. Sam Brownback has a career lifetime "A" rating from the National Rifle Association.
Public Safety: The first civil right of every citizen is to be free from the threat of violence. Government's constitutional mandate to "establish justice" and "insure domestic tranquility" assigns an obligation to punish the guilty and protect the innocent. Law enforcement needs the latest tools to investigate and prosecute crimes. Our sentencing and corrections policy should prioritize the protection of citizens from violent criminals.

Source: http://www.brownback.com/news/2009/dec/08/issue-kansas-government/
