Public Statements
Kansas, Utah Governors to Exchange Gifts Pending the Outcome of the Major League Soccer Championship Game
Press Release
By: Gary Herbert Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 6, 2013
Location: Salt Lake City, UT

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback and Utah Governor Gary R. Herbert will exchange a state-related gift pending the outcome of Saturday's Major League Soccer Championship game. Sporting Kansas City will be taking on Real Salt Lake in Kansas City on Saturday, Dec. 7.
Gov. Herbert offered locally produced 100 percent pure honey and salt water taffy if Real Salt Lake loses, and Gov. Brownback offered Kansas City barbecue sauce if Sporting KC loses.
"I can't wait to taste the sweet victory of Kansas City BBQ sauce," said Governor Herbert. "I am very proud of Real Salt Lake. They are incredibly talented and I wish them all the best as they play our friends to the east."
Governor Herbert has offered 12 bottles of locally produced Miller Pure Honey and Taffy Town Salt Water Taffy. Nephi Miller started his honey business by trading five bags of oats for seven colonies of bees in 1894. Located in the Beehive State, Miller Honey is still family owned and producing 100% pure, natural honey. Taffy Town has been locally and family owned for over 97 years, and offers a variety of gourmet salt water taffy flavors to enjoy.
"I am excited to see Sporting Kansas City doing so well and I can't wait to watch them win over Real Salt Lake on Saturday," said Governor Brownback. "Kansas City is renowned for its barbecue sauce and is quickly being recognized for our soccer fans."
Governor Brownback has offered two cases (12 bottles) of Eat barbecue sauces made by Rod Gray of Leawood, Kansas. Rod, and his wife Sheri, are national BBQ champions with their team, Pellet Envy, and are the 2013 grand champions of television competition series BBQ Pitmasters on Destination America.
The game kicks off at 2 p.m. mountain time and will be aired on ESPN and UniMas.

Source: http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=9549
