Public Statements
Governor Issues a Call to Action for a 50-Year Vision for Kansas Water
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 24, 2013
Location: Manhattan, KS

Governor Sam Brownback today issued a call to action to address the need for a 50-year vision for Kansas water that meets the state's needs now and in the future. More than 550 attendees representing diverse water interests are participating in the Governor's Conference on the Future of Water in Kansas.
"We have been reminded of the importance of water with another year of extreme drought for our state, which is now beginning to ease in eastern Kansas, but continues to persist in the west," said Governor Sam Brownback. "Water and the Kansas economy are directly linked. Water is a finite resource and without further planning and action we will no longer be able to meet our state's current needs, let alone growth."
Governor Brownback articulated the need for a future vision for Kansas water management and issued a call to action for that work to begin immediately. He charged his administration, including the Kansas Water Office, Kansas Department of Agriculture, and Kansas Water Authority, along with the Kansas Department of Health and Environment, and Wildlife, Parks and Tourism, to lead the vision and called upon his Council of Economic Advisors to engage in the planning since water and the economy are closely linked.
"We are at a pivotal moment in our state. We can talk these issues to death, but without vision we won't be able to address these priorities," said Governor Brownback. "Ensuring each citizen has a reliable water supply includes addressing both the groundwater decline in the Ogallala Aquifer as well as securing, protecting and restoring our reservoir storage."
The Vision will take the Kansas Water Plan to a new level with more intense work and cooperation with communities, affected industries and citizens throughout the state to develop this vision to ensure a reliable water supply for Kansas citizens. Governor Brownback directed the groups to deliver the 50-Year Vision for the Future of Water in Kansas to the Governor's office for review no later than Nov. 1, 2014.

Source:
