Public Statements
More than 650 Kansans with Disabilities to Receive New Access to Home & Community-Based Services Due to KanCare Dividends
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 17, 2013
Location: Topeka, KS

Today Kansas Governor Sam Brownback, along with Lt. Governor Jeff Colyer, M.D., and Secretary of Health and Environment Robert Moser, M.D., announced that savings from care coordination under the new KanCare Medicaid program will bring in-home services to hundreds of additional people with physical and intellectual/developmental disabilities.
"This commitment will allow an estimated 250 developmentally disabled and 400 physically disabled Kansans to begin living more independent and fulfilling lives in the community," Governor Brownback said. "It is something Kansans are proud to support."
The dividends realized by KanCare savings will substantially reduce the time it takes for consumers to receive in-home services. The total amount of savings dedicated to the waiting list is $37 million in both state and federal funds during State Fiscal Years 2014 and 2015. Services will become available as the necessary community supports are in place to begin reducing waiting lists for eligible consumers.
Kansas offers Home and Community-Based Services (HCBS) through Medicaid waivers. These services, which are provided along with medical care, are designed to help people remain in their homes. Changes in the way Medicaid services are coordinated under the new KanCare program are allowing the state to reduce waiting lists which have existed since 2000.
"For the majority of these people, the wait has been more than weeks and months; the wait for services has taken years," Lt. Governor Jeff Colyer said.
The 2013 Kansas Legislature approved funding to reduce the waiting lists for people with physical and intellectual/ developmental disabilities (I/DD). An additional proviso made the funds related to the I/DD waiver contingent upon the Jan. 1, 2014, inclusion of the I/DD waiver services in KanCare. In August, the Kansas Department of Health and Environment, the State's Medicaid agency, submitted to the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
"Serving the needs of our consumers though integrated care and incorporating all Medicaid services in the individual's plan of care will result in better outcomes for the individual, the families and for the delivery system as a whole," said Dr. Moser.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2013/09/11/more-than-650-kansans-with-disabilities-to-receive-new-access-to-home-community-based-services-due-to-kancare-dividends
