Public Statements
Governor Brownback Announces More Than $2.8 Million For Crime Reduction Efforts in Kansas
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 9, 2013
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback today announced the grant recipients of the 2014 Federal Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program. JAG funding helps strengthen partnerships for safe communities and enhance the state's capacity to prevent, solve, and control crime. Local and statewide criminal justice agencies and support organizations will receive $2,865,208 for their criminal justice projects.
"Kansas has an impressive network of agencies and organizations committed to making our state a safer place to live, work, and raise a family. JAG funding helps strengthen their partnership for safe communities and enhance the state's capacity to prevent, solve and control crime," Governor Brownback said.
The Kansas Criminal Justice Coordinating Council (KCJCC) oversees the criminal justice federal funding made available to Kansas through the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance. The KCJCC includes the Governor, Attorney General, Supreme Court Chief Justice, Corrections Secretary, Superintendent of the Kansas Highway Patrol, Juvenile Justice Authority Commissioner, and Kansas Bureau of Investigation Director.
"These grants will help improve public safety and provide critical assistance to victims of crime," Attorney General Derek Schmidt and KCJCC Chair said.
Entities eligible for JAG grant awards include units of state and local government, Native American Tribes, and nonprofit, community, and faith-based organizations. JAG funds are intended to support:
Law enforcement programs
Prosecution and court programs
Prevention and education programs
Corrections and community corrections programs
Drug treatment programs
Planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs
Crime victim and witness programs

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2013/09/09/governor-brownback-announces-more-than-$2.8-million-for-crime-reduction-efforts-in-kansas
