Public Statements
Governor Brownback Calls Special Legislative Session
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 9, 2013
Location: Topeka, KS

In the interest of protecting public safety and in response to a request from Attorney General Derek Schmidt, Governor Sam Brownback will call the Legislature into special session at 8 a.m. Tuesday, Sept. 3.
The Attorney General formally requested the special session on July 24, 2013 for the purpose of repairing Kansas' "Hard 50" sentence following the June 17, 2013 decision of the United States Supreme Court in Alleyne v. United States. Legal experts in the field agree that the Alleyne decision renders the current Kansas "Hard 50" law unconstitutional because the sentencing decision is made by a judge and not the jury.
According to the Attorney General, the Legislature can cure the constitutional defect by adopting a relatively simple procedural fix allowing the jury to making the necessary factual findings before the "Hard 50" sentence is imposed.
"The "Hard 50' sentence is a vital public safety tool that has been in place for more than 10 years," Brownback said. "It is intended to remove the most dangerous and violent killers from society for at least 50 years. The sudden absence of the "Hard 50' sentence poses a real and present danger to the public safety of all Kansans. I am confident the Legislature can and will act quickly, with resolve and narrow focus, to protect our citizens by restoring to prosecutors the immediate ability to seek the "Hard 50' sentence for the worst offenders."
Broad bipartisan support exists among the leaders of this Legislature that this special session is necessary and is in the best interests of public safety. Additionally, law enforcement and prosecutorial agencies across the state have urged the Governor to adopt the Attorney General's recommendation.
"We must address this issue to protect all our citizens, but particularly out of concern for the victims of these crimes and their families," Brownback said. "I agree with the Attorney General's opinion that we face an "extraordinary occasion' sufficient to justify this office exercising its authority to call the Legislature into special session pursuant to Article 1, Section 5 of the Kansas Constitution."
Due to the constitutional and statutory requirement that the state bring criminal defendants to trial in a speedy manner, time is of the essence. After consulting with Attorney General Schmidt and legislative leaders, it was agreed a special session during the first week of September is optimal timing. According to the law enforcement community that time period effectively protects public safety while allowing the necessary time requested by the Attorney General for adequate preparation and planning to ensure a quick, focused and orderly session. According to the Attorney General, putting this issue off until next January will "virtually guarantee" an increase in "the number of convicted killers who will be eligible for parole after only 25 years instead of after 50 years."
"It is my hope after talking to legislative leaders that the special session can be completed by the close of business on Sept. 5," said Governor Brownback.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2013/08/06/governor-brownback-calls-special-legislative-session
