Public Statements
Governor Signs Highways Bill to Produce Consistency, Savings
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 19, 2013
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback signed a bill into law Friday that will produce consistency and savings in the operation of Kansas highways. House Bill 2234, which takes effect July 1, makes the Kansas Department of Transportation (KDOT) secretary the director of operations of the Kansas Turnpike Authority (KTA).
"While there will still be two transportation agencies in Kansas, this new law sets up a new structure that will improve efficiency and reduce the duplication of resources and efforts that now exist in the operation of the state's highway systems," Gov. Brownback said. "As he has done since joining my administration, KDOT Secretary Mike King will identify ways in which the turnpike and state highway system can be operated more efficiently through resource sharing."
Sec. King said teams from KDOT and KTA will look for savings through the consolidation and reduction of assets such as land and buildings, and in the sharing of resources in areas such as technology and engineering services.
"Kansans have come to expect good highways whether they are traveling on the state system or the turnpike, and there is nothing about this operational arrangement that will change that," Sec. King said. "It is unlikely travelers on the turnpike will notice any changes as a result of the legislation."
King said toll revenues, which have always been used to improve and maintain the turnpike, will continue to be used exclusively for those purposes.
Governor Brownback also signed House Bill 2253 into law Friday. The new law prohibits certain abortions related to the gender of the unborn child, revises the general and late-term abortion statutes, and declares that the life of each human being begins at fertilization. ,
The Governor has signed a total of 116 bills into law during the 2013 Legislative Session.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2013/04/19/governor-signs-highways-bill-to-produce-consistency-savings
