Public Statements
Governor to Emphasize Higher Ed Funding During Campus Tours
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 15, 2013
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback announced Monday he will meet with state university leaders and students in the coming weeks to emphasize his support of his proposed budgets for Kansas universities, community colleges and technical schools.
"I believe the state must live within its means and recognize there are difficult spending decisions we must make. This is why my administration has worked to reform state agencies so they are more efficient and effective," Gov. Brownback said. "However, there are core responsibilities that we must protect -- higher education is one of them. My proposed two-year budget holds higher education harmless and includes targeted funding important to our state's economic growth. I have challenged education leaders to focus their schools on improving student results. It is important we keep state funding level."
The Governor is tentatively scheduled to visit the following campuses:
April 22nd - Wichita State University
Butler Community College
April 23rd -- Washburn University/Washburn Institute of Technology
April 24th -- Pittsburg State University
April 25th -- University of Kansas School of Medicine
Kansas City Kansas Community College
April 26th -- Emporia State University
May 6th -- Kansas State University
Governor Brownback also emphasized the importance of continuing the momentum the state has gained in his goals to increase the number of high school students who are career and college ready through the Career and Technical Education program (CTE) launched this school year.
"For Kansas to compete in the marketplace and help businesses meet their workforce needs, we established a way students could immediately have a marketable skill to begin their career or to get a job that will help pay their way through college. Cutting funding for the community and technical colleges that support the CTE program would hinder students from obtaining industry-recognized credentials by the time they graduate from high school and diminish the workforce pool for businesses," Brownback said.
Details of these and other campus visits will be released as soon as they are finalized.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2013/04/15/governor-to-emphasize-higher-ed-funding-during-campus-tours
