Public Statements
Governor Appreciates President's NBAF Funding Recommendation; Will Work with Kansas Legislature to Secure Additional Bonding
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 10, 2013
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback released the following statement Wednesday regarding President Obama including $714 million for the National Bio- and Agro-Defense Facility (NBAF) being built in Manhattan, Kansas in his Fiscal Year 2014 budget.
"I appreciate President Obama's recommendation to invest more than $700 million for the completion of the NBAF," Governor Brownback said. "I look forward to working with the Kansas Legislature to meet the requirements of the President's request by approving the additional bonding needed to complete this project during the upcoming veto session. The NBAF is vital to the security of our country's food supply, the health of our livestock industry and growing our state's economy."
So far the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has invested nearly $200 million into site preparation, engineering, design, and site specific risk-assessments. The state of Kansas already has committed $105 million dollars of matching state funds to the NBAF project and $35 million dollars of research funding for transitioning the NBAF mission to Manhattan. The President is requesting the state invest another $202 million of matching state funds.
A January 2012 economic impact report found the NBAF will employ approximately 326 permanent workers and support about 757 construction jobs. It is expected to have a $3.5 billion economic impact on the state in the facility's first 20 years of use.
The approximately 46 acre site is located on the north side of the Kansas State University campus. The laboratory will research and develop countermeasures to animal, human, and zoonotic diseases.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2013/04/10/governor-appreciates-president-s-nbaf-funding-recommendation-will-work-with-kansas-legislature-to-secure-additional-bonding
