Public Statements
Teams Have Lost a Total of 39,496 Pounds in the Governor's Weight Loss Challenge
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 28, 2013
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback announced Thursday that participants in the Governor's Weight Loss Challenge have lost a combined total of 39,496 pounds. The Governor made the announcement during a rally on the south steps of the Statehouse held to kick off the second half of the Challenge with participants.
"The challenge has been going on for 11 weeks, and I'm excited to see that so many have been successful in their weight loss," said Governor Brownback. "Everyone has been so dedicated to keeping their healthy routines in place and committing to a lifestyle of better choices."
Gov. Brownback also held a drawing to award $1,000 to one of the 108 state employee teams that have lost more weight so far, calculated by total percentage of weight loss, than the Governor's team. The winning team of the $1,000 is Journey 2 Lose, whose team captain is Lolitta Tucker from the Kansas Department for Children and Families. Teams who were part of the midway drawing did not need to be present to win.
The Governor's team consists of himself, Department of Transportation Secretary Mike King, Department of Labor Secretary Lana Gordon, Adjutant General Lee Tafanelli and Department of Commerce Secretary Pat George. Together they have lost 6.33 percent of their weight.
The mid-point rally also included a live fitness demonstration, displays from local health and wellness organizations, and testimonials from Challenge participants.
"My team and I made a firm commitment to work hard and lose weight," said Chris McGinley, who talked about his efforts to lose weight at the rally. "The Governor challenged us to live healthier lives, and our enthusiasm remains high going into the second half of the competition."
Three weigh-in periods remain in the Governor's Weight Loss Challenge, which ends May 15. Participants log in at www.weightloss.ks.gov to track their weight loss. The website also gives information on nutrition, healthy lifestyles, and physical activity.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2013/03/28/teams-have-lost-a-total-of-39-496-pounds-in-the-governor-s-weight-loss-challenge
