Public Statements
Gov. Matt Bevin Signs Statement and Proclamation Supporting Guard and Reserve
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 23, 2016
Location: Frankfort, KY

Gov. Matt Bevin today signed a Statement of Support and proclamation with the Employer Support of Guard and Reserve (ESGR), the Department of Defense agency that works to ensure that the 40 percent of U.S. military personnel who serve in the National Guard and Reserve are also able to succeed in their civilian careers.
"National Guard and Reserve members have training and skills that are of tremendous value when applied in the civilian workforce," said Gov. Matt Bevin. "As a state we fully support the military commitment of our employees, because we recognize and appreciate these additional qualities that they possess."
"This is a very special day for our ESGR committee," said Bob Silverthorn, retired Army major general and chairman emeritus of the Kentucky ESGR committee, who spoke at the signing ceremony. "The support of the governor and state government will make our mission much more successful. "Success' for us translates into making it easier for our citizen warriors and employers to have a mutually beneficial relationship."
Signing the ESGR Statement of Support demonstrates the state's intention -- as a supportive employer -- to support and maintain the readiness of the nation's Guard and Reserve units. The statement pledges to recognize, honor, and comply with the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act; to appreciate the values, leadership, and unique skills service members bring to the workplace, and to recognize and support service members and their families in times of peace, crises and war.
"Our Kentucky ESGR committee seeks to foster a culture in which all employers support and value the employment and military service of the members of the National Guard and Reserve," said Kentucky ESGR Chair Allen Youngman, a retired Army major general. "At a time when our military forces are so dependent on Guardsmen and Reservists to carry out their global responsibilities, Gov. Bevin's willingness to set the example as an employer sends a special message."
The signing was held in the Capitol Rotunda before a crowd of Kentucky state government officials, members of the Kentucky ESGR committee, supportive employers and friends.

Source: http://kentucky.gov/Pages/Activity-stream.aspx?n=KentuckyGovernor&prId=178
