Public Statements
Kansas/CMS finalize KanCare contract
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 28, 2012
Location: Unknown

The State of Kansas and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) have finalized the special terms and conditions (STCs) for KanCare under the Section 1115 waiver process. The state received the signed Section 1115 demonstration approval letter, including the finalized STCs, from CMS late Thursday afternoon. This approval is effective January 1, 2013.
KanCare is Kansas' innovative new system to provide Medicaid services through an integrated care model that achieves measurable goals and focuses on wellness and care coordination. In addition to current program benefits, KanCare also adds services such as heart and lung transplants, bariatric surgery and adult preventive dental care at no cost to the state.
The Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) and Kansas Department for Aging and Disability Services (KDADS) will launch KanCare on January 1st.
"Thank you to the thousands of Kansans who provided their ideas, suggestions and feedback to Lt. Gov. Jeff Colyer, M.D., KDHE Secretary Bob Moser, M.D., KDADS Sec. Shawn Sullivan and their staffs on how we can improve health care for the 380,000 Kansans served by Medicaid -- and to the team of state employees who dedicated themselves the last two years to reforming the state's system," Gov. Sam Brownback said. "We have a Kansas solution that meets Kansas needs."
KanCare is based on three criteria - improving quality of care of Kansans receiving Medicaid; controlling costs of the program; and providing long-lasting reforms that improve the quality of health and wellness of Kansans.
"Serving the needs of the whole person as well as ensuring long term fiscal sustainability for the state are the principles this plan is built upon," Lt. Gov. Colyer said. "KanCare will improve coordination of care and services to achieve better outcomes and long-term savings without reducing benefits or eligibility, while safeguarding reimbursement for providers."
The KanCare Continuity of Care Plan will ensure members continue to have access to their current providers during the transition. A summary of those provisions and other member protections is available on the KanCare website: http://www.kancare.ks.gov/benefits_services.htm.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2012/12/28/kansas-cms-finalize-kancare-contract
