Public Statements
Governor Brownback Signs Proclamation Marking Anniversary of Americans With Disabilities Act
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 26, 2012
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback today signed a proclamation to mark the 22nd anniversary of the enactment of the Americans with Disabilites Act (ADA).
"The ADA is an extremely important piece of legislation, and the state is committed to the principles of equality and inclusion that were the inspiration for the ADA. I want to thank all of those who have helped make Kansas an inclusive state for people with disabilities," said Governor Brownback.
President George H. W. Bush signed the ADA into law on July 26, 1990 to ensure the civil rights of people with disabilities. Martha Gabehart, and Kerrie Bacon of The Kansas Commission on Disability Concerns; Anthony Fadale, the State's ADA Coordinator; Dennis Selznick, Kansas Commission for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing; Steve Gieber, Kansas Council on Developmental Disabilities; Jane Rhys, disability advocate; Ray Petty, ADA Project; and Pat Terick, Cerebral Palsy Research Foundation all joined the Governor for the signing of the proclamation.
"Today we celebrate the anniversary of the signing of the ADA. We value our citizens with disabilities and continue to work to make this state a welcoming, inviting and inclusive state for all people with disabilities," said Martha Gabehart.
A portion of the proclamation reads: "The State of Kansas has affirmed its commitment to expanding employment opportunities for people with disabilities through programs, such as, the Work and Working Healthy programs, implementation of the Employment First policy, newly created employer incentives for Kansas contractors who hire people with disabilities and who purchase from Use vendors, and the newly expanded Career Tech Education program which expands vocational training opportunities."

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2012/07/26/governor-brownback-signs-proclamation-marking-anniversary-of-americans-with-disabilities-act
