Public Statements
Cancer Center Designation Remarkable Achievement for Kansas
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 13, 2012
Location: Kansas City, KS

On behalf of the citizens of Kansas, Governor Sam Brownback and Lt. Gov. Jeff Colyer offered their congratulations today to The University of Kansas Cancer Center and all those involved in attaining recognition as a cancer center by the National Cancer Institute (NCI).
"What a remarkable achievement for the KU Cancer Center and all those involved," Gov. Brownback said. "A lot of people from across the state worked hard to earn this designation. It is exciting what their state-wide effort has brought us -- National Cancer Institute recognition. That's how we do things in Kansas -- we recognize a problem or a goal and then work together to resolve the issue or achieve the goal. And it's rewarding to know that this collaborative effort has already resulted in major advances in health care and science at KU."
Brownback continued, "NCI designation has been a key initiative for our state and my administration, primarily because it ensures that our citizens are receiving the best possible care without having to leave the state. We are also excited about the economic growth, jobs, and investments it brings to multiple sectors of our region. When the KU Medical Center improves, the positive effects it has on the community and the state are immeasurable."
A surgeon, Dr. Colyer practices at the University of Kansas Hospital and Medical Center.
"The drive for NCI designation has been a priority for the state for many years. As a doctor, I know firsthand how these efforts have given many people great hope for better cures and treatments for cancer," Dr. Colyer said. "Governor Brownback and I know that the best is yet to come."
The university has estimated that the NCI effort has created more than 1,100 jobs and contributed more than $450 million to the state's economy.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2012/07/13/cancer-center-designation-remarkable-achievement-for-kansas
