Public Statements
Governor Brownback: Federal Government Cannot be Allowed to Break Religious Americans
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 29, 2012
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback joined thousands of Kansans from across the state to take part in the Rally for Religious Freedom, "Fortnight for Freedom". Open for anyone to attend, regardless of their religion, the rally promoted the freedom of religion and protested the Obama Administration's mandate to require employers to provide contraceptive coverage.
Gov. Brownback told the crowd gathered on the south lawn of the Kansas Statehouse that the "federal government cannot allowed to break religious Americans to the saddle of a federal mandate".
"America has long been a safe haven for those of differing beliefs. Our founders recognized the importance of religious freedom and enshrined this right in the First Amendment. Despite this, the Administration has forged ahead with health care policies that mandate a disregard for conscience and require the faithfully religious to violate their beliefs," Brownback said.
The Governor continued, "This cannot be allowed to stand! This attack on religious freedom -- our First Amendment rights - transcends the usual back and forth between political parties and interest groups."
The event was hosted by the Catholic bishops of Kansas, Archbishop Joseph Naumann, Kansas City; Bishop John Brungardt, Dodge City; Bishop Edward Weisenburger, Salina; and Bishop Michael Jackels, Wichita.
Other speakers included Dr. Timothy Boyd, KS-NE Convention of Southern Baptists; U.S. Senator Jerry Moran, Cathy Ruse, senior fellow for Legal Studies at the Family Research Council in Washington, D.C.; Mercedes Helms, Pastoral Minister, Great Bend; St. Rep. Jerry Henry, Atchison and Karen Splichal, President Council of Catholic Women/Salina.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2012/06/29/governor-brownback-federal-government-cannot-be-allowed-to-break-religious-americans
