Public Statements
Governor Celebrates McCarty Dairy, Dannon Partnership
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 13, 2012
Location: Rexford, KS

McCarty Family Farms and The Dannon Company today announced the initial accomplishments from the first stage of their new and unique collaboration. Milk from the McCarty Family Farms' dairy cows is now being made into delicious Dannon yogurts at the company's Fort Worth, TX, plant. Additionally, a complete carbon footprint analysis of McCarty Family Farms has been completed and provides a benchmark for progress and a guide to future environmental sustainability projects.
One environmental sustainability initiative of the collaboration that is already yielding benefits is the construction of a milk condensing operation at McCarty Family Farms, which is now operating and reducing the environmental impact of milk shipping. This also allows the farm to reuse the water that is removed during condensing of the milk.
Present today to inaugurate the relationship and the commissioning of the milk condensing operation included Kansas Governor Sam Brownback, Congressman Tim Hueslkamp, Kansas Department of Agriculture Secretary Dale Rodman, Kansas Department of Commerce Secretary Pat George, and representatives of Senator Pat Roberts and Senator Jerry Moran, among many other notable guests.
"I applaud McCarty Family Farms and Dannon for entering into a successful partnership that benefits farmers, the small businesses that support farmers, consumers and the community as a whole," Kansas Governor Sam Brownback said. "This partnership is a fabulous example of how agriculture can create good-paying rural jobs with the potential to spur significant additional job creation in the future."
The Dannon Company, which is the leading selling yogurt maker in the United States, and McCarty Family Farms were both seeking ways to reduce the impact of the volatility of the price of milk and to continuously improve on environmental sustainability. According to McCarty Family Farms, this new relationship enables them to fully understand their customer's needs in terms of milk quality, and milk quality is impacted based on farming practices.

Source:
