Public Statements
Governor Brownback Updates Drought Order for Kansas Counties
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 4, 2012
Location: Topeka, KS

The winter conditions and spring climate for Kansas led Governor Sam Brownback to update the Drought Declaration for Kansas counties with an Executive Order 12-07 today. The update involves 91 counties either in a warning or watch status.
"Despite recent rains, the overall dry conditions that have persisted for more than a year now require us to continue to monitor the situation," Governor Brownback said. "Meeting the needs of crops is a concern as moisture demands increase with the growing season."
The updated drought declaration has 16 counties in a warning status and 75 in watch status. This action was recommended by Tracy Streeter, Director of the Kansas Water Office and Chair of the Governor's Drought Response Team.
"While 14 counties have been removed from the monitor, the overall total moisture for the past year is below normal and temperatures are projected to be above normal this year again," said Tracy Streeter. "It is important we monitor conditions for the state as they could deteriorate quickly with no reserves."
This Executive Order shall remain in effect for those counties so identified until rescinded by Executive Order or superseded by a subsequent Executive Order revising the drought stage status of the affected counties. Effective immediately:
Declare a Drought Emergency, Warning or Drought Watch for the counties identified below;
Authorize and direct all agencies under the jurisdiction of the Governor to implement the appropriate watch or warning level-drought response actions assigned in the Operations Plan of the Governor's Drought Response Team.
The Governor's Drought Response Team will continue to watch the situation closely and work to minimize the effects the drought has on Kansans.
For more detailed information about current conditions, see the Kansas Climate Summary and Drought Report on the Kansas Water Office website at: www.kwo.org
County Drought Stage Declarations:
Drought Warning:
Barber, Clark, Comanche, Finney, Grant, Gray, Haskell, Kearny, Kiowa, Meade, Morton, Pratt, Seward, Stafford, Stanton, Stevens
Drought Watch:
Allen, Anderson, Barton, Bourbon, Butler, Chase, Chautauqua, Cherokee, Cheyenne, Clay, Cloud, Coffey, Cowley, Crawford, Decatur, Dickinson, Edwards, Elk, Ellis, Ellsworth, Ford, Franklin, Geary, Gove, Graham, Greeley, Greenwood, Hamilton, Harper, Harvey, Hodgeman, Jewel, Kingman, Labette, Lane, Lincoln, Linn, Logan, Lyon, Marion, McPherson, Miami, Mitchell, Montgomery, Morris, Neosho, Ness, Norton, Osage, Osborne, Ottawa, Pawnee, Phillips, Rawlins, Reno, Republic, Rice, Riley, Rooks, Rush, Russell, Saline, Scott, Sedgwick, Sheridan, Sherman, Smith, Sumner, Thomas, Trego, Wallace, Washington, Wichita, Wilson, Woodson

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2012/05/04/governor-brownback-updates-drought-order-for-kansas-counties
