Public Statements
Governor's Veto Keeps Efficient and Uniform Management in Place
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 16, 2012
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback has vetoed House Substitute for Senate Bill 315, citing concerns with sections of the proposed legislation.
"Sections 11 through 13 of the bill unnecessarily impair the prerogatives of the executive branch and take away an important tool for the efficient and uniform management of the executive branch of state government," Governor Brownback wrote in his message to the Kansas Legislature.
Brownback said the remaining provisions of the legislation that updates the state's banking code represent good policy and should become law. He urged the Legislature to return the bill to him modified before final adjournment.
With the signing of 13 other bills (listed below) into law, the total number of bills signed into law by the governor this session is 105. He has vetoed a total of three bills and let two other bills become law without his signature.
Recently signed bills:
HB 2743 allows the Abstracter's Board of Examiners to increase the annual fee for each person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association licensed to make, compile, and sell abstracts of title to real estate in Kansas, to an amount not to exceed $75 for each year.
HB 2517 extends the Water Right Transition Assistance Program (WaterTAP), for which the pilot program is set to expire on June 30, 2012. The program was designed to permanently retire all or portions of irrigation water rights. The bill would establish a new sunset date for the program on July 1, 2022.
HB 2706 allows when the state is buying or selling property to require one appraisal. The new law also exempts the appraisals from mandatory disclosure in a Kansas Open Records request.
HB 2685 establishes the procedures to allow eligible water right holders to create a reservoir improvement district on any particular reservoir, similar to a district created by the Watershed District Act.
HB 2674 repeals five statutes and amends one related to the organization and management of the Kansas Highway Patrol.
Sub. for HB 2659 moves the licensing and regulation of speech-language pathologists and audiologists from the KDHE to the Kansas Department on Aging and would extend the number of successive terms a Speech- Language Pathology and Audiology Board member would be allowed to serve.
HB 2461 addresses investment of the Kansas Public Employees Retirement System portfolio in "alternative investments.
Senate Sub. for HB 2526 amends several statutes regarding energy and the powers and duties of the Kansas Corporation Commission.
HB 2563 designates the annual Kansas Wheat Festival held in Wellington as the official Kansas Wheat Festival and the annual Watermelon Festival held in Clyde as the official Kansas Watermelon Festival.
HB 2660 amends laws concerning maternity center and child care facility licensure, including the 2010 amendments referred to as "Lexie's Law."
HB 2517 amends and extends the Water Right Transition Assistance Program (WaterTAP), for which the pilot program is set to expire on June 30, 2012. The program establishes a process to permanently retire all or portions of irrigation water rights. The new sunset date for the program is July 1, 2022.
HB 2516 amends the statutes relating to the establishment of water banking, which is an optional program to allow irrigators an opportunity to bank water for future use.
HB 2416 conforms statues with 2011 Executive Reorganization Order (ERO) No. 38 which reorganized Kansas Health Policy Authority into the Division of Health Care Finance within KDHE.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2012/04/16/governor-s-veto-keeps-efficient-and-uniform-management-in-place
