Public Statements
Governor Signs First Repealer Bills
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 28, 2012
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback signed the first group of bills recommended by the Office of the Repealer today.
"This is just the beginning of repealing outdated and burdensome laws, regulations and executive orders," Governor Brownback said. "In addition to the work being done by the Office of the Repealer, state agencies work every day to identify ways to streamline application and licensing processes so Kansans can focus on growing their businesses. State laws and regulations shouldn't hinder opportunities for Kansans and Kansas businesses."
The Repealer bills signed into law are:
HB 2669 repeals statutes concerning the matron of a county jail. The statutes, which were enacted in 1913, are outdated and no longer reflect contemporary jail operations, civil service ordinances, state and federal employment law, or the role of female law enforcement officers.
HB 2675 revises a statute concerning the duties of county clerks and county appraisers with regard to the listing and valuation of real estate. The Secretary of Administration indicated the statute is out-of-date, as most of the processes associated with completing the real estate assessment rolls is done electronically.
HB 2677 eliminates the distinction that counties with a population greater than 25,000 must appoint a full-time county appraiser, while counties with a population of 25,000 or less may appoint either a full-time or part-time appraiser.
HB 2683 amends one statute and repeals several other statutes concerning the Director of Penal Institutions which are outmoded.
The Governor signed Executive Order 11-01 last year to establish the Office within the Kansas Department of Administration.
Administration Secretary Dennis Taylor said the Office of the Repealer is continuing to review hundreds of suggestions submitted by Kansans.
"Every week the Office of the Repealer receives requests that we review statutes and regulations for repeal. We welcome this input from citizens and businesses from throughout the state and are actively soliciting additional suggestions for inclusion in recommendations we will make during the 2013 legislative session," Sec. Taylor said.
Kansans can submit their suggestions for repeal at www.repealer.da.ks.gov or by email repealer@ks.gov.
Other bills signed by the Governor this week bring the total number of new laws this session to 54.
HB 2335 - Amends the Kansas Act Against Discrimination (KAAD).
HB 2491 - Prohibits the Kansas Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism from making any rule or regulation that would prevent an individual from carrying a handgun while lawfully hunting, fishing, or fur harvesting.
Sub. for HB 2207 - Allows for the formation of a business entity known as a series limited liability company (series LLC) and includes other provisions concerning their operation.
HB 2612 designates a portion of K-79 from the junction of K-79 and K-16 to the junction of K-79 and County Road 254 in Jackson County as the Barnes Brothers Memorial Highway.
HB 2509 designates a section of K-9 as the David Mee Memorial Highway. The portion so designated would be in Nemaha and Jackson counties from the junction of K-9 with US-75 to the junction of K-9 with K-63.
HB 2472 amends state law regarding membership requirements for rural water districts.
HB 2588 allows a water district to issue revenue bonds in order to repay any outstanding bonds, warrants or loans owed to the KDHE or to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. This bill also allows a water district to issue revenue bonds for the refinancing of up to 95 percent of the original cost of any project.
HB 2737 provides that any juvenile offender committed to a juvenile correctional facility who is adjudicated for an offense committed while in a juvenile correctional facility could be adjudicated to serve a consecutive term of commitment in a juvenile correctional facility.
HB 2473 amends the Kansas Code of Civil Procedure to conform to recent changes in federal law.
HB 2469 requires a defendant pay an application fee of $100 to the clerk of the district court to request indigent defense services in a proceeding for a violation of a condition of release, regardless of whether the defendant has paid application fees in another proceeding.
HB 2465 requires the court to order lifetime electronic monitoring upon release from imprisonment and reimbursement of all or part of the costs of such monitoring, as determined by the Prisoner Review Board, when a defendant is sentenced to prison for certain sexual crimes involving minors.
HB 2055 eliminates requiring courts send a copy of all county and district attorney reports to a law enforcement officer who has a convicted offender in custody for delivery to a correctional institution. It also clarifies information provided by the county or district attorney to the Secretary of Corrections be limited to special facts and circumstances surrounding the commission of the offense or the offender that cannot be obtained from records already provided to the Secretary by the court.
HB 2166 allows cities to publish summaries of ordinances on the city website provided that the publication is identified as a summary, notice is provided of where the complete text is available, the city attorney has certified that the summary is accurate and sufficient, and the summary is available for a minimum of one week after publication in the newspaper. If the ordinance is subject to a protest petition, the summary must contain notice of such. The bill also would correct non-uniform language in the city ordinance statutes.
HB 2666 requires cities or counties if they require the licensing of plumbers, electricians, or mechanical heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) contractors--to verify the applicant's respective documented proof of minimum necessary experience prior to issuing a journeyman or master certificate.
HB 2412 dissolves the city of Treece.
HB 2672 repeals a statute that concerns lynchings and subsequent vacating and reinstating of a sheriff for failing to perform certain duties.
HB 2420 extends the authorized and outstanding bonded indebtedness of Junction City for 3 years.
HB 2546 transfers the Horton Armory property from the Kansas military board to the City of Horton. This transfer would be at no cost to the City of Horton.
HB 2599 allows the owner of an antique vehicle displaying a model year license plate issued in 1976 or later to display an original decal for the year of the vehicle, as long as such decal is legible, or a replacement decal which displays the year of the vehicle.
HB 2600 allows mental health treatment facilities to disclose information about whether a person is or has been a patient within the last six months when a person has been detained by law enforcement.
HB 2618 amends the Portable Electronics Insurance Act.
HB 2470 removes wires or cables owned by a telephone, cable, electric, water, or other utility provider that has had the sheathing removed, making ownership identification impossible, from the list of items that scrap metal dealers are prohibited from purchasing without first obtaining proof that the seller is an employee, agent, or person who is authorized to sell the item on behalf of the owner.
SB 316 makes technical changes to existing statutes that pertain to the Kansas Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism to ensure that existing statutes and fund names conform to the agency's name change and that the appropriate statutory authorities for programs are transferred to the agency. The new law is a follow-up to the Executive Reorganization Order No. 36 that created the Kansas Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism from the former Kansas Department of Wildlife and Parks and the Division of Travel and Tourism within the Department of Commerce.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2012/03/29/governor-signs-first-repealer-bills
