Public Statements
Governor: State Will Do What it Can to Help Storm Ravaged Communities
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 29, 2012
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback worked with the Kansas Division of Emergency Management today organizing the state's response to a tornado that struck the city of Harveyville in Wabaunsee County Tuesday evening.
"Our thoughts and prayers are with the Kansans impacted by last night's storms -- especially those in the Harveyville area. The state will do what it can to help these affected communities get back on their feet," Governor Brownback said. "The state's emergency management team is working with local leaders to address their citizens' immediate needs and to organize the clean-up of the storm debris."
Severe storms and tornadoes that struck the state Tuesday evening caused injuries and property damage in a number of counties. Six persons were hospitalized because of injuries sustained in the Harveyville tornado, according to hospital officials in Topeka. One person was injured in Wilson County.
Varying degrees of damages were reported in Butler, Chautauqua, Cherokee, Coffey, Cowley, Crawford, Douglas, Elk, Franklin, Harvey, Jefferson, Johnson, Labette, Leavenworth, Marion, Montgomery, Pottawatomie, Reno, Republic, Sedgwick, Shawnee, Sumner, Wabaunsee and Wilson Counties.
Governor Brownback declared a State of Disaster Emergency Tuesday night for Wabaunsee County. The declaration activates the disaster response and recovery portions of the Kansas Response Plan, authorizing state resources to expedite emergency assistance statewide, as necessary.
The Governor will tour the city of Harveyville Thursday afternoon with Maj. Gen. (KS) Lee Tafanelli, Kansas adjutant general, to get a firsthand look at the damage and meet with city leaders and residents about the recovery and rebuilding of their community.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2012/02/29/governor-state-will-do-what-it-can-to-help-storm-ravaged-communities
