Public Statements
Governor Brownback Issues Statement Recognizing Veteran's Day
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 10, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

Governor Sam Brownback issued a statement today recognizing the Veteran's Day holiday. The Governor also issued the attached proclamation commemorating Veteran's Day on November 11.
The text of the message is below.
"On behalf of the citizens of the Great State of Kansas, I'm honored to send this greeting to you for Veteran's Day. This weekend, I'm sharing in your celebration of our nation's veterans.
Military service is one of the most solemn contributions that an American can make to his or her country. I want to extend my personal thank you to the many men and women of Kansas who have chosen to make that commitment. The skill, strength of character, and dedication of our veterans is second to none. I'm proud to honor their bravery. Those who have served in the Armed Forces have ensured that our freedom and way of life are protected, generation after generation.
Since the establishment of our nation, the men and women who serve in our armed forces have been the foundation of America. From the original Minutemen of the Revolutionary War, who could be called upon "in one minute" to defend their infant nation--to the Kansas National Guardsmen and women who leave behind parents, spouses, sons and daughters to serve their third, fourth or fifth tour of duty in a far off land--ensuring the future of children whom they have never met.
The citizens of Kansas have always answered the call to defend our nation. Our veterans and their families have made extraordinary sacrifices and I applaud the courage and strength our veterans and their families have shown in shouldering that burden. They stand as an example of selflessness and dedication to duty. To all the veterans and their families, your continued sacrifice to your nation and your community are held sacred.
On this Veteran's Day, I ask you to volunteer your time at a veterans Hospital, donate to one of the many veterans' relief organizations across the state, or to simply express your gratitude to a veteran in your community.
I also ask you to also remember those we have lost in the cause of defending our nation. Our heartfelt gratitude seems paltry beside their sacrifice. But we must remain committed that their sacrifice will never be forgotten, and that their lives will always be remembered. It's for that reason that we celebrate Veteran's Day. On behalf of my fellow Kansans, I say thank you and God bless America."

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/11/10/governor-brownback-issues-statement-recognizing-veteran-s-day
