Public Statements
Gov. Brownback Proclaims Statewide Committment to Child Health and Wellness through Fuel Up to Play 60
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 3, 2011
Location: Wichita, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback pledged his commitment to child health and wellness by declaring today "Fuel Up to Play 60 Day" in Kansas. Fuel up to play 60 is an in-school health and wellness program that encourages youth to consume nutrient-rich foods and achieve 60 minutes of physical activity every day.
Secretary of Agriculture, Dale Rodman; the program advisor and student body from Wilbur Middle School in Wichita; former Kansas City Chiefs player, Eddie Kennison; Kansas dairy farmers; and members of Midwest Dairy Council joined the Governor to celebrate the day at Wilbur Middle School.
At a school assembly, the Governor praised the progress of Kansas students and pledged his support for Fuel Up to Play 60, indicating the program is a positive step toward helping Kansas students achieve pathways to better nutrition and fitness for life.
"The health and nutrition of Kansans is very important," Gov. Brownback said. "This program encourages students to make healthy decisions in the foods they choose and to get proper exercise."
Launched by National Dairy Council and the National Football League, in collaboration with the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Fuel Up to Play 60 has activated more than eight million students in 70,000 schools nationwide, including more than 450,000 students in Kansas, to be healthy, get active and make a difference. Today, more than 1,260 schools across Kansas are designated as Fuel Up to Play 60 schools.
"As dairy farmers, we have always cared about legacy and the importance of passing on a better future to the next generation," said dairy farmer Steve Strickler, from Iola. "To date, the dairy community has awarded more than $74,000 in funding to Kansas schools to help jumpstart and champion school wellness efforts."
Any Kansas school who enrolls in the free program is eligible to apply for funds to help increase awareness of and access to nutrient-rich foods and physical activity opportunities for their students. As part of Fuel Up to Play 60, schools also can receive a free Quick Start Resources kit with planning tools and in-school collateral materials to help them implement healthy eating and physical fitness plans.
The program, now in its second year, also encourages young people to consume nutrient-rich foods (low-fat and fat-free dairy, fruits, vegetables, lean meat and whole grains) and to perform at least 60 minutes of physical activity every day. The ultimate goal is to ensure changes made at school are sustainable and to provide children with more opportunities to be physically active and choose nutrient-rich foods.
"As a parent and teacher, I rank good health as the number one thing I want most for students," said Carri Flores, a physical education teacher and Fuel Up to Play 60 Program Advisor at Wilbur Middle School. "Fuel Up to Play 60 provides dynamic tools that help me accomplish my mission of educating and motivating students to live healthier, happier lives, while also providing students a voice to influence their peers toward making healthy choices."

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/11/03/gov.-brownback-proclaims-statewide-committment-to-child-health-and-wellness-through-fuel-up-to-play-60
