Public Statements
Governor Brownback Testifies in Support of Keystone XL Pipeline
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 26, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback testified today in support of the Keystone XL pipeline during a meeting held by the U.S. Department of State at Agricultural Hall of the Kansas Expo Center in Topeka.
Monday, September 26, 2011
Submitted To:
Dr. Kerri-Ann Jones
Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs
Bureau of Oceans, Environment, and Science (OES)
State Department - Washington, DC
Thank you for the opportunity to join you today and offer testimony in support of a Presidential Permit for the Keystone XL pipeline.
As Governor, my top priorities are to grow the economy and create private sector jobs. Kansas is unique among the states along the XL route in that our section of the pipeline is already in the ground and operational. Our state benefited greatly from the construction jobs related to this project and look forward to the potential of many more permanent jobs as the remainder of the pipeline is completed.
We also have benefited from the increased supply of energy the pipeline provides. Our refinery in McPherson is using oil sands to produce the fuels that help power the economy of our state.
I strongly support an "all-of-the-above" energy policy that includes additional development of wind, clean coal, and bio-fuels. However, it is clear that oil will remain one of our state's primary sources of energy for the foreseeable future. Therefore, the importance of having access to a reliable and affordable supply of oil cannot be overstated.
I recently called for a national examination of new opportunities to power our future. As we consider these opportunities, we also must carefully consider where our energy supply comes from and how that affects our national security. The United States currently imports more than 63 percent of its crude oil, much of which comes from regions of the world that are unfriendly or unstable. Canada, our largest foreign supplier, provides about 20 percent of our imports. The XL pipeline is projected to increase Canadian imports to 4 million barrels a day by 2020 -- twice what we currently import from the Persian Gulf. We are fortunate to have a friendly, stable neighbor with oil sands capable of supplying up to 25 percent of all oil consumed by the United States.
For the myriad of reasons stated above it is clearly in our national interest to grant this project a Presidential Permit. We must grow our economy and create jobs. We must maintain our access to reliable and affordable sources of energy. And we must improve our national security by shifting American dollars to more friendly nations.
Once again, thank you for the opportunity to testify in favor of this critically important project.
Sam Brownback
Governor of Kansas

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/09/26/governor-brownback-testifies-in-support-of-keystone-xl-pipeline
