Public Statements
Governor, Agriculture Secretary Host Taiwan trade Delegation
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 22, 2011
Location: Unknown

Governor Sam Brownback and Kansas Department of Agriculture Secretary Dale Rodman hosted a Taiwanese trade delegation today where leaders signed a joint communiqué about Taiwan's continued purchase of Kansas wheat.
"We enjoyed hosting our friends from Taiwan and appreciate their pledge to purchase Kansas wheat," Gov. Brownback said. "This agreement to buy high quality Kansas wheat is a significant contribution to our state economy. My administration will continue to work with Kansas farmers, grain elevators and universities to ensure that Kansas continues to produce the highest quality wheat in the world."
The joint communiqué signifies the Taiwanese group's intent to purchase 1.7 million metric tons (62.5 million bushels) of Kansas Hard Red Winter wheat, valued at $484.5 million, in 2012 and 2013. The signing took place at 10:30 a.m. Thursday in the south wing on the second floor of the Kansas Capitol.
Kansas Wheat Commissioner Jay Armstrong and Taiwan Flour Mills Association delegation leader I-Tsung Chen both signed the document. Gov. Brownback and Taipei Economic and Cultural Office Director General Jacqueline Liu witnessed the signing.
Taiwan is not a wheat-producing country. It will import an estimated 42.3 million bushels of wheat in 2011.
Nicknamed the Wheat State, Kansas is a leader in US wheat production. In 2009, Kansas was the largest US wheat exporter, accounting for 13.6 percent of all U.S. wheat exports. The value of Kansas wheat exports in 2009 was $1.17 billion, or 25 percent of the total value of Kansas agriculture exports.
Proceeding the signing, the Taiwanese delegation toured the Kansas Grain Inspection Service in Topeka. The delegation's visit and the signing of the joint communiquéwere coordinated by the Kansas Department of Agriculture.
For more information, contact Chelsea Good, Communications Director with the Kansas Department of Agriculture at chelsea.good@kda.ks.gov or 913-735-9065.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/09/22/governor-agriculture-secretary-host-taiwan-trade-delegation
