Public Statements
Hearing of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee - Kansas and the 2012 Farm Bill
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 25, 2011
Location: Wichita, KS

Chairwoman Stabenow and members of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, it is truly my pleasure to welcome you to the great state of Kansas. I am most proud to welcome back home my good friend and colleague -- Senator Pat Roberts. His personal commitment to support the agriculture industry has made a difference in the life of every farmer and rancher. Kansas agriculture has always been in good hands as a result of his leadership. As we celebrate our state's 150th anniversary, it is extremely appropriate to recognize the importance of agriculture to our state and the nation by hosting this hearing.
Kansas has a strong agricultural tradition that predates its statehood. It continues to be a significant contributor to the state's economic well-being, and is also the state's largest industry. Even during trying economic times like these, Kansas agriculture provides Kansans with jobs and the opportunity to flourish. Agriculture is our state's largest industry. Your presence here is a reminder to Kansans of the importance of agriculture and a reminder to the nation of the importance of our state's most significant contribution to the U.S. economy.
My testimony today will focus on the policy options related to the Ogallala aquifer. Agriculture is key to the economic vitality of Kansas and water is key to agricultural production. In Western Kansas, we have a tremendous, but not unlimited, resource in the Ogallala aquifer. The vitality of the western portion of the state depends heavily on agricultural production and businesses supported by this water resource.
On July 21, 2011, I hosted an economic summit on the future of the Ogallala aquifer. This summit was one of a series of economic summits we are holding in Kansas to help develop our plan for economic growth. Nearly 400 stakeholders were in attendance.
The hard work, determination and leadership of farmers and ranchers in Western Kansas have created an agricultural economy that is of tremendous benefit to Kansas and the world. The First Congressional District of Kansas, home of my good friend Senator Roberts, is the number one congressional district in the nation in terms of the value of agricultural products marketed.





Source:
