Public Statements
USDA Announces Changes to CRP to Assist Producers Impacted by Severe Drought Conditions
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 9, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback received notice yesterday that the Farm Service Agency (FSA) is modifying its Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) policies to help those affected by sustained drought conditions.
On July 27th, 2011, Governor Brownback sent a letter to U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack requesting disaster declarations for Kansas counties suffering from severe drought conditions. Part of that request included amending the CRP to allow ranchers extra time for emergency grazing.
"Severe drought has taken a heavy toll on ranchers in Kansas," Governor Brownback said. "The modification of CRP policies is a positive step that will help Kansas producers in a difficult time."
The policy changes influence FSA rules governing emergency grazing. The period normally allowed for emergency grazing lasts through Sept. 30, 2011. FSA is permitting farmers and ranchers in drought stricken states who have been approved for emergency grazing, including those in Kansas, to extend the emergency grazing period to Oct. 31, 2011, without an additional payment reduction.
Producers wishing to participate in emergency grazing must first request permission from the FSA county office by indicating the acreage to be grazed.
As a second condition designed to help livestock producers, FSA will allow producers nationwide to utilize harvested hay from expiring CRP acres when those acres are being prepared for fall seeded crops. Prior to this modification, all mechanically harvested hay was required to be destroyed. This change enables livestock producers to feed the hay that is mechanically harvested to their own livestock or to sell or donate hay. Consistent with existing policy for managed or emergency haying and grazing of eligible CRP acres, rental payments will be reduced by 25 percent for those utilizing this option.

Source:
