Public Statements
Governor Brownback: Now is the Time to Pray
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 8, 2011
Location: Houston, TX

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback took part today in a day of fasting and prayer in Houston, Texas. Governor Brownback issued the following statement.
"In perilous times, our nation's leaders have turned to prayer -- and called the people to prayer.
During our Revolution from Great Britain -- General George Washington wrote:
"The blessing and protection of Heaven are at all times necessary but especially so in times of public distress and danger. The General hopes and trusts that every officer and man will endeavor so to live, and act, as becomes a Christian Soldier defending the dearest Rights and Liberties of his country."
In April of 1863 - at the request of the U.S. Congress -- President Abraham Lincoln issued a proclamation calling for a day of humiliation, fasting and prayer. He wrote:
"We have grown in numbers, wealth, and power as no other nation has ever grown. But we have forgotten God. We have forgotten the gracious hand which preserved us in peace, and multiplied and enriched and strengthened us; and we have vainly imagined, in the deceitfulness of our hearts, that all these blessings were produced by some superior wisdom and virtue of our own. Intoxicated with unbroken success, we have become too self-sufficient to feel the necessity of redeeming and preserving grace, too proud to pray to the God that made us! It behooves us, then to humble ourselves before the offended Power, to confess our national sins, and to pray for clemency and forgiveness."
Martin Luther King Jr, during the height of the Civil Rights Protest gave this prayer, "Oh God, help us in our lives and in all of our attitudes, to work out this controlling force of love, this controlling power that can solve every problem that we confront in all areas. Oh, we talk about politics; we talk about the problems facing our atomic civilization. Grant that all men will come together and discover that as we solve the crisis and solve these problemslet us join together in a great fellowship of love and bow down at the feet of Jesus. Give us this strong determination. In the name and spirit of this Christ, we pray. Amen."
We are in a difficult time again for our nation, now is the time for us to pray."
At his own expense, the Governor attended "The Response" at the invitation of Texas Governor Rick Perry. He read two passages from the Bible, Matthew 5:3-16 and 2nd Corinthians 7:13-14, and offered a prayer during the event.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/08/08/governor-brownback-now-is-the-time-to-pray
