Public Statements
Governor Brownback Suspends Rules to Aid in Drought, Tornado Relief
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 28, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback issued two executive orders today.
Executive Order 11-25 temporarily suspends certain motor carrier rules and regulations in order expedite efforts to transport hay to livestock in drought-stricken areas.
Executive Order 11-24 extends a previous order temporarily allowing doctors, nurses and other medical professionals licensed to practice in Missouri to provide medical services in Kansas.
"The severe drought in much of our state resulted in an emergency situation making it necessary to expedite efforts to transport hay to livestock in drought-stricken areas," Gov. Brownback said. "Additionally, allowing Missouri medical professionals to continue to work at Kansas facilities will ensure their patients continue to have access to all necessary and essential services."
Brownback continued, "These executive orders are designed to accommodate these needs and to provide assistance to Kansas citizens and our Missouri neighbors in these emergency situations."
Executive Order 11-25, which applies only to individuals hauling hay to livestock in drought-stricken areas, temporarily suspends the requirements to receive over dimensional permits from the Kansas Department of Transportation, registration and fuel tax permits from the Kansas Department of Revenue and permits from the Kansas Corporation Commission. Participating motor carriers will be allowed to travel during nighttime hours if the over dimensional load is marked with clearance lights or escort vehicles are used.
"I appreciate the Governor and state agencies working together and responding quickly to the concerns of livestock producers in need of hay," Kansas Sec. of Agriculture Dale Rodman said. "This drought continues to take a toll on so many Kansas farmers and ranchers and we are committed to doing our part to improve Kansas agriculture's ability to adapt and recover."
Participating motor carriers are limited to a load that does not exceed 12 feet in width and does not exceed a height of 14 feet, six inches. Under normal circumstances, haulers are required to get a permit for loads exceeding 8½ feet in width and/or 14 feet in height. All other applicable state and federal regulations continue to apply, including the requirement of having a valid driver's license.
EO 11-25 is in effect until it is rescinded or until drought emergency and disaster declarations are lifted.
Executive Order 11-24 only applies to those who maintain a current, valid license in good standing in the State of Missouri and who are in the process of applying for a permanent license to practice in Kansas.
For those who meet the order's qualifications, the Governor also temporarily waives:
* Licensing and permit fees;
* Certain licensing and permitting requirements;
* Annual insurance premium surcharge on each health care provider in the State of Kansas.
All other applicable state and federal regulations shall remain in effect, including the requirement for each health care provider to maintain a current and valid policy of professional liability insurance.
EO 11-24 will expire on November 1, 2011 with no further extensions.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/07/28/governor-brownback-suspends-rules-to-aid-in-drought-tornado-relief
