Public Statements
Governor Brownback Establishes Council of Economic Advisors
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 28, 2011
Location: Wichita, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback signed an executive order today establishing the Governor's Council of Economic Advisors.
"The economic future of Kansas depends on the growth of existing businesses and the development of new industries. Economic competitiveness requires a detailed understanding of regional, national and international economic conditions and trends," Gov. Brownback said. "This Council will operate as a Board of Directors for economic development in Kansas, working closely with me to assure strategy integration, coordination and accountability across all of the state's economic development-related initiatives and agencies."
Governor Brownback will serve as the council's chairman. The Council will have up to 20 members from various industries and business sectors.
"The individuals named to the council today have varied skills and backgrounds in business that will bring a good balance of ideas to the table," said Kansas Commerce Secretary Pat George. "The Administration will rely on their expertise and experience as we move forward to create an environment in which Kansas companies can flourish and create jobs."
The Council will have three main responsibilities:
* Coordinate strategic planning and economic development resources
* Evaluate state policies and agencies performances
* Conduct research on topics such as Kansas' basic industries, tax competitiveness, and regulatory structure
"In addition to representing the diversity of our state's economy, they also embody the different sizes, scopes and geographic nuances that will lend a new level of guidance and counseling to my administration's efforts to lead our state through these tough economic times and will position us well into the future. I appreciate their willingness to give of their time, energy and knowledge for the betterment of our great state," Brownback said.
Stan Ahlerich will serve as the Council's executive director.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/07/27/governor-brownback-establishes-council-of-economic-advisors
