Public Statements
Governor Issues Executive Order for NE Kansas Flooding and Tours Impacted Areas
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 1, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

After issuing an executive order to grant temporary relief from motor carrier rules and regulations in connection to the flood waters in the Missouri River system, Kansas Governor Sam Brownback toured affected areas in Atchison and Doniphan Counties on this afternoon. Maj. Gen. (KS) Lee Tafanelli, Kansas Adjutant General and Kansas Division of Emergency Director, as well as U.S. Senator Pat Roberts and representatives from the offices of U.S. Senator Jerry Moran and Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins joined him on the tour.
Executive Order 11-19 temporarily exempts motor carriers and persons operating commercial motor vehicles from certain state laws and regulations while they participate in restoration and relief efforts related to the regional emergency in Atchison, Doniphan, Leavenworth and Wyandotte counties.
"The high water of the Missouri River will affect many of our Northeast Kansas communities located near the river for quite some time," Gov. Brownback said. "These temporary reliefs from our state's motor carrier laws will help ensure the uninterrupted delivery of essential services and supplies as they deal with the flooding."
Executive Order 11-19 temporarily suspends the following rules and regulations as they apply to motor vehicles in the support of restoration and relief efforts in the areas impacted by the Missouri River floodwater:
* In accordance with Title 49 C.F.R. ยง 390.23, the requirements contained in the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations, Title 49 C.F.R. Parts 390-399 are hereby suspended through the duration of the motor carrier's assistance in the disaster relief effort not to exceed a period of thirty (30) days from the date of the initial declaration unless the order is rescinded or expanded by executive order or concurrent resolution of the legislature.
* All other applicable state and federal regulations shall apply to include but not limited to: Title 49 C.F.R. Part 382, Controlled Substances and Alcohol Use and Testing; the Kansas Motor Vehicle Driver's License Act, K.S.A. 8-234 et. seq. and Title 49 C.F.R. Part 383 Commercial Driver's License Standards as adopted by the Kansas Uniform Commercial Drivers' License Act, K.S.A. 8-2,125 et. seq., the federal Minimum Levels of Financial Responsibility (insurance requirements) Title 49 C.F.R. Part 387 as adopted by K.A.R. 82-4-3n and state insurance requirements as provided in K.A.R. 82-4-23; and, adherence to the regulations governing the Transportation of Hazardous Materials as provided Title 49 C.F.R. 397 and adopted by K.A.R.82-4-3k and Parts: 107, 171-173, 177, 178 and 180 as adopted by K.A.R.82-4-20.
* The registration and fuel tax permits as enforced by the Kansas Department of Revenue.
* The licensing, certification and permitting rules and regulations as required by the Kansas Corporation Commission.
* Participating motor carriers must still obtain the requisite over dimension/overweight permits as required by the Kansas Department of Transportation prior to operating; however, the fees associated with these permits are temporarily waived. Additionally, motor carriers and persons participating in restoration and recovery efforts will receive priority service and may operate during low visibility, night, holiday and curfew hours if the carriers and/or driver use clearance lights and/or escort vehicles.
Executive Order 11-19 was filed with the Secretary of State's office today, July 1, and is effective immediately for 30 days.
Representatives from FEMA and the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers also were on hand to meet with local elected leaders, emergency responders and residents to discuss how the rising water of the Missouri River is affecting their communities and how the state and federal government are assisting them.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/07/01/governor-issues-executive-order-for-ne-kansas-flooding-and-tours-impacted-areas
