Public Statements
Governor Requests Federal Emergency Declaration for Kansas Counties Impacted by Missouri River Flooding
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 24, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback sent a letter today to President Barack Obama requesting a Federal Emergency Declaration for Doniphan, Atchison, Leavenworth and Wyandotte Counties as a result of flooding along the Missouri River system.
"As the waters continue to rise, I want to ensure all possible resources are available for the impacted areas. A federal emergency declaration is a significant and appropriate measure to help protect the health, safety and property of everyone involved," Governor Brownback said.
The Governor's request specifically asks for appropriate shelter supplies such as food, water and generators to support long term operations of shelters in Doniphan and Leavenworth Counties. If necessary, additional shelters would be established in Atchison and Wyandotte Counties. The federal assistance also would assist in locating and securing the unsecured floating dock in the Leavenworth County area to prevent damage to the levee, bridge infrastructure and potable water.
At the advice of Maj. General (KS) Lee Tafanelli, Kansas Adjutant General and Emergency Management Director, and by the authority given to the Governor of Kansas by the Kansas Emergency Management Act, Governor Brownback recently declared a State of Emergency for Doniphan, Atchison, Leavenworth and Wyandotte counties. The emergency declaration activates the disaster response and recovery portions of the Kansas Response Plan.
"I have been pleased with the level of cooperation between the State of Kansas, local emergency responders and federal officials. We will continue to work together to do what we can to assist those affected by the flooding," Gov. Brownback said.
Maj. General (KS) Tafanelli stressed the importance of being prepared.
"As always, the best advice we can give to the people of Kansas is to be prepared," Tafanelli said. "Our first responders do heroic work in helping the people they serve, but it's up to each of us to prepare ourselves and our families for disasters. The key thing is to act now. The floods may never reach you, but don't wait until the water is at your doorstep to make preparations to evacuate."
Answers for Kansans with flood-related questions can be found at www.floodsmart.gov. Those with special needs should call *211 to register with the United Way so any additional assistance can be provided if needed.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/06/24/governor-requests-federal-emergency-declaration-for-kansas-counties-impacted-by-missouri-river-flooding
