Public Statements
Governor Announces New "Mentoring 4 Success" Program
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 20, 2011
Location: Wichita, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback announced today his administration will begin a new mentorship program called "Mentoring 4 Success." The program will be a collaborative effort between Kansas Department of Corrections (KDOC), Prison Fellowship Ministries, Reaching Out From Within, and the ecumenical Spiritual Advisors to the KDOC. The Governor made the announcement during the Out4Life Conference in Wichita.
"Last November, I pledged to Kansas voters that my administration would work to ensure that those incarcerated in our prison system would have access to mentorship programs designed to give them the tools necessary to succeed once they leave prison," Gov. Brownback said. "I know first-hand, as we all do, the importance and the power that a mentor has in our lives. The difference between where we sit this afternoon and where an offender sits in one of our correction facilities today is tied back to personal choices and to the relationships we make. Whether positive or destructive, these choices impact our ability to make the very decisions that impact our future.
How will this goal be accomplished?
* The State will be divided into six (6) different regions.
* Each region will have a "lead" mentoring organization that will be responsible for organizing the local mentoring partners and then connecting those partners to mentoring opportunities within our prison system.
* Mentoring programs will focus on providing participants with life and job skills that will prepare them for successful reentry back into society.
"We live in a time when fiscal accountability is a must and often times is dictated by a fragile economy. However, I will not allow this new budgetary reality to undermine the great strides Kansas has made in drastically reducing recidivism rates," Gov. Brownback said. "Not only is mentoring an opportunity to change the life of an individual in need and make Kansas stronger and safer now, but it also provides the promise of a brighter and safer future for future generations of Kansans--a truly lasting legacy that holds true to our State Motto: Ad Astra Per Aspera "To the stars through difficulty."
Brownback said the diverse organizations will provide the framework for a state-wide prison mentoring initiative which will connect faith-based and non-profit organizations, such as those attending the conference, across the entire State of Kansas.
"Now more than ever, your work is essential to the success of our criminal justice system and the transformation of thousands of lives from a life marked by poor and destructive choices to one of redemption and transformation," Brownback told the group.
Kansas is the 13th state to launch Out4Life. Reentry movements are already underway in Louisiana, Arkansas, Tennessee, Georgia, Michigan, Minnesota, Arizona, Ohio, Texas, Virginia, Oregon and California.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/06/20/governor-announces-new-mentoring-4-success-program
