Public Statements
Governor Signs Order to Assist Joplin Recovery
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 9, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback issued an executive order to grant conditional and temporary relief from motor carrier rules and regulations for those assisting with disaster recovery in Joplin, MO.
"The recovery efforts for Joplin will be ongoing for quite some time. This temporary relief from our state's motor carrier laws will help expedite clean-up efforts and the transportation of food, supplies, medicine and other necessities from Kansas to our Missouri neighbors in need as well as assist in the removal of debris and reconstruction," Governor Brownback said.
Governor Brownback issued a similar executive order (E.O. 11-09) on May 29, 2011. It waived fees and granted motor carriers involved in hauling weather related debris from Joplin priority status for obtaining permits. Despite the order, some motor carriers continued having problems obtaining a permit because their load violated the normal weight restrictions. Executive Order 11-12 specifically addresses the weight issue and fixes the problem.
Executive Order 11-12 temporarily orders the following:
* When hauling weather related debris from Joplin, Missouri, to waste disposal facilities in the state of Kansas, motor carriers are permitted to operate on Kansas highways in Cherokee and Crawford Counties with overweight loads of debris that exceed legally allowable weight limits by 10%, up to a maximum of 88,000 pounds.
* When hauling weather related debris from Joplin, Missouri, to waste disposal facilities in the state of Kansas, motor carriers shall continue to observe and obey the weight restrictions on all posted bridges in the state of Kansas.
* When hauling weather related debris from Joplin, Missouri, to waste disposal facilities in the state of Kansas, motor carriers may travel on Kansas highways in Cherokee and Crawford Counties without an overweight permit from the Kansas Department of Transportation.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/06/09/06-09-11-governor-signs-order-to-assist-joplin-recovery
