Public Statements
Gov. Brownback, Stakeholders Discuss Industry's Future at Animal Health Summit
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 9, 2011
Location: Manhattan, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback hosted the 2011 Governor's Economic Summit on Animal Health today in Manhattan, the fourth in a series of economic summits focused on creating jobs and growing the Kansas economy.
"The animal health sector is a significant industry in Kansas," Governor Brownback told the crowd of nearly 200 stakeholders and industry leaders gathered at the Kansas Farm Bureau office. "As a state, we must formulate strategies to achieve a successful economic cluster around the animal health sector. Today's ummit begins our discussion to better align the resources of the public sector, private sector, university, and philanthropic efforts."
Brownback emphasized the unique combination of industry, research and workforce found in the animal health corridor located between Manhattan and Columbia, Missouri.
"We have a very strong, economically viable growth sector right here in the State of Kansas, and we have all the pieces to make Kansas the center of the animal health industry. Nurturing this economic cluster makes sense and a partnership between the state and animal health industry can go a long way in fostering economic growth," Brownback said.
Presentations made by partnership stakeholders followed the Governor's remarks:
* Bob Marcusse, Kansas City Area Development Council President and CEO
* Kirk Schulz, Kansas State University President
* Dr. Ernst Heinen, Bayer Animal Health Research & Development Vice President
* Dr. Ron Trewyn, NBAF Presenter
* Dr. Tara O'Toole, Homeland Security Under Secretary for Science & Technology
After the presentations, Governor Brownback moderated a roundtable discussion whose panel included cabinet officials, industry leaders, researchers and the public. The discussion focused on what should be the state's priorities to grow the animal health industry and the future of the industry in the next 5-10 years.
"There's no doubt that Kansas is building something very pecial with the Animal Health Corridor," Kansas Commerce Secretary Pat George said. "The impact the corridor will have on the future prosperity of Kansas is significant, but our state must do everything it can to provide an attractive environment to encourage companies to invest and expand."
Among the general consensus reached by stakeholders during the summit included the need for the state to remove regulatory hurdles, invest in programs at colleges and universities to produce skilled animal health employees, to increase collaboration between university programs, and to develop and implement a long-term marketing plan for the animal health sector.
"Kansas is uniquely positioned to build on our strengths in animal agriculture and animal health. We are already a global leader in all aspects of the industry, but with the leadership of our Governor and private partners we can brand Kansas as the world's leader in animal health, safety and research. To the consumer, we should be the first place they think of when they want a safe food supply," Agriculture Secretary Dale Rodman said.
Revenue Secretary Nick Jordan pointed out new tax policies will help attract more investment.
"The animal health corridor in Kansas is a world class leader in helping protect the health of our global food supply," Secretary Jordan said. "We are building on Kansas' strong agricultural heritage and bio-science innovation. With recent improvements to the state tax structure we are making the Kansas an even more attractive place for capital investment and job growth."
The Governor's administration will develop ideas coming from today's animal health summit into an action plan for the industry.
"The Governor received input at the Animal Health Summit which will lead to future job opportunities for Kansas students in a field destined to grow rapidly. Kansas is uniquely situated to meet global needs in animal health because of the KSU vet med school & the coming NBAF facility," Labor Secretary Karin Brownlee said.
Governor Brownback will host the 2011 Economic Summit on the Defense Industry next Wednesday, June 15, in Leavenworth, Kansas. The event is free and open to the public. Kansans wanting to attend should RSVP to Tricia Olson at 785.296.2741.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/06/09/06-09-11-gov-brownback-stakeholders-discuss-industry-s-future-at-animal-health-summit
