Public Statements
Gov. Brownback, Stakeholders Discuss the Economic Vitality of the Flint Hills
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 17, 2011
Location: Elmdale, OK

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback hosted the 2011 Governor's Economic Summit on Flint Hills Visioning today at the Camp Wood YMCA near Elmdale, Kansas. The day-long event was the second in a series of economic summits focused on growing the Kansas economy and creating jobs.
In addition to general public attendees, stakeholders and community and state leaders representing a variety of interests including agriculture, tourism, natural resources, commerce, the arts and others joined the Governor and Lt. Governor Jeff Colyer, M.D.
"The Kansas Flint Hills presents us with quite a paradox," Gov. Brownback said. "On one hand, you have the blossoming and thriving native tallgrass prairie and on the other, you have struggling communities with shrinking populations and closing schools. I am here, and we are all here today, because we know these communities are worth fighting for. I am encouraged by the passion I've seen here for revitalizing the Flint Hills and I am excited about taking on the challenges ahead."
Governor Brownback said his administration will use the results of the summit to help develop a strategy to reverse the business and job losses most of the Flint Hills communities are suffering from and to create thriving and sustainable communities throughout the region.
Dr. Colyer added, "The Kansas Flint Hills have survived tens of millions of years of floods, droughts, tornados and just about every other natural occurrence on Earth. The history of these hills is strong, and so is the history of the communities spread throughout them. These communities have endured war, fire, a depression and weather extremes. Today's challenges are tough but the communities are tougher. And with the implementation of some of the initiatives discussed today, I am confident that the future of the communities in the Flint Hills is as bright as ever."
Secretary of the Kansas Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism Robin Jennison emphasized the Governor wants to hear from Kansans with ideas on how the state can work alongside Flint Hills stakeholders to grow the economy of this iconic Kansas region.
"A strong and consistent team effort will succeed in growing the Flint Hills economy," Jennison noted. "This summit is just the beginning of the work ahead of us."
Maggie Thompson-Doll, the Kansas Department of Transportation's Chief of Public Involvement, stressed the important role transportation plays in the economy of the Flint Hills region.
"We were excited to be a part of the Flint Hills Visioning Summit, joining together with private and public sector participants to discuss ways to promote growing the economy and creating jobs in the Flint Hills region," Maggie Thompson-Doll said.
Other topics of discussion included rural business development, hunting and tourism, agricultural marketing, voluntary conservation easements and the Flint Hills Discovery Center which is currently under construction in Manhattan.
Anyone interested in leaving a comment or suggestion for growing the economy in the Kansas Flint Hills is encouraged to share their ideas at the Summit website at www.fhs.ksoutdoors.com.
The Governor's next economic summit will be held at the University of Kansas' Medical Center in Kansas City, Kansas on Tuesday, May 24. This summit will focus on strategies for continued growth and emerging partnerships in the area of life sciences. To register, contact Alisha Kirby at Alisha.kirby@ks.gov or 785.296.2214.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/05/17/05-17-11-gov-brownback-stakeholders-discuss-the-economic-vitality-of-the-flint-hills
