Public Statements
Governor Addresses K-State Veterinary School Graduates
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 16, 2011
Location: Manhattan, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback delivered the commencement speech for 106th graduation ceremony of Kansas State University's College of Veterinary Medicine Friday afternoon in Manhattan.
"You have reached a major crossroad in your life," Governor Brownback told the 107 graduates. "All your hard work and dedication to getting yourself a quality education will now start paying you back. Your education will continue to open doors for you for the rest of your life."
Governor Brownback recognized that the State of Kansas is celebrating its 150th year of statehood and discussed the character and values of the first generation of Kansans.
"The first generation of Kansans pledged their lives and destinies to forge a Kansas of freedom amidst the blood and fire of war," Gov. Brownback said. "Some families succeeded, some failed, and meanwhile, a state was born through the creation of opportunities."
The Governor also spoke about the importance of animal agriculture and animal health on the Kansas economy.
"Animal agriculture and the animal health corridor are essential to growing the Kansas economy and to the state's long-term prosperity," Gov. Brownback said. "Kansas has a unique opportunity to become the animal health capital of the world. With the Biosecurity Research Institute right next door and the national Bio and Agro-defense Facility to be located here, Kansas State University and the College of Veterinary Medicine have unlimited potential for growth."
Brownback continued, "The K-State School of Veterinary Medicine is a jewel of the State. I challenge you to remember the legacy and heritage of past Kansans and to have courage in the face of seemingly insurmountable obstacles."
Approximately 1,500 guests attended the graduation ceremony. Other speakers included Class President, Sara Craven, Kansas Board of Regents member Richard Hedges, College of Veterinary Medicine Alumni Board member Pete Sherlock, and the Master of Ceremonies, the Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine, Ralph Richardson.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/05/16/05-16-11-governor-addresses-k-state-veterinary-school-graduates
