Public Statements
New Law Allows Inaugural Fund Donations to Non-Profits
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 12, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback signed into law today legislation that gives governors the discretion of donating unspent inauguration funds to any charitable organization which qualifies as a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit corporation.
"Kansans are a charitable people. And I believe those who give their financial support to an inauguration would want the money not spent on inaugural events to be given to an organization whose mission is to assist Kansans in need of a hand up, rather than to be used to supplement the budget of a governmental agency," Governor Brownback said.
Senate Bill 67 will go into effect after it is published in the Kansas Register in a few weeks. That will allow the Governor's inaugural committee to donate to non-profit organizations like Kansas community health clinics on July 1stwhen the committee is required to allocate the remaining funds.
"These clinics provide important health care services for Kansans regardless of their ability to pay. The inaugural committee's donation will go a long way in making sure more Kansans receive the care they need," Brownback said.
The new law also allows funds to be given to the Executive Mansion Gifts fund for expenditures related to Cedar Crest, the governor's official residence and historic properties.
Other bills signed by the Governor today during the signing ceremony bring the total number to 68. The following are brief descriptions of the new laws. You can find additional information about these new laws at www.kslegislature.org.
House Sub.for SB 23: The new law requires local school districts to reward high school diplomas to anyone who is or has been a child in the custody of SRS or Juvenile Justice Authority after turning 14 years of age and has achieved the minimum high school graduation requirements adopted by the State Board of Education. The law also automatically makes a grandparent an interested party in a child in need of care proceeding. And it establishes a statutory right to jury trial for juvenile offenders if requested and provides a jury trial procedure within the revised Kansas Juvenile Justice Code.
SB 136: Often referred to as "No Pay, No Play" insurance, this new law provides that anyone operating an uninsured vehicle who, at the time of an auto accident, has not maintained personal injury protection benefits coverage as mandated by the Kansas Automobile Injury Reparations Act is prohibited from having a cause of action for the recovery of non-economic loss sustained as a result of the accident.
SB 214: This new law makes changes to the Groundwater Management District Act and changes to the requirements to receive an exemption from having to obtain water obstruction permits.
HB 2104: This new law allows mental health treatment facilities to release information on whether a person is or has been a patient of any treatment facility within the last 6 months to law enforcement when they have reasonable suspicion that a person arrested suffers from mental illness and may benefit from treatment, rather than being placed in a correctional institution, jail, juvenile correctional facility, or juvenile detention facility.
HB 2105: This new law prohibits a court from ordering that a child be removed from the parents' custody solely because the parent is homeless. It also requires court designated custodians to notify the court at least 10 days before planned placement with a parent and requires courts to give notice within 10 days of entering an order to the designated custodian.
HB 2147: The new law amends current law regarding adult care homes that convert an area to a "home plus facility", which is separate from and contiguous with the adult care home, would be allowed to have not less than a five-bed and not more than a twelve-bed home plus facility.
HB 2151: This new law modifies the definition of the crime of "breach of privacy" and increases the penalties for some of the acts constituting "breach of privacy." It also amends the definition for the crime of blackmail, by adding threats to disseminate materials obtained using electronic or other means to secretly videotape, film, photograph, or record an identifiable person who is nude or in a state of undress. That act is a severity level 4, person felony.
HB 2172: This new law designates the junction of U.S. 24 and K- 7 highways in Wyandotte County as the Representative Margaret Long Interchange. It also designates a portion of I-70 as the Truman/Eisenhower Presidential Highway from the Missouri state line west to the junction with K-15, at Abilene and modifies the designation of the Blue Star Memorial Highway to exclude the portion of US-40 where it joins I-70 west of Topeka to the junction of I-70/US-40 and K-15. Both modifications are contingent on the State of Missouri designating the Truman/Eisenhower Presidential Highway.
HB 2044: This new law modifies the require action and notification in a motor vehicle accident and provides conviction guidelines for leaving the scene of an accident.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/05/12/05-12-11-new-law-allows-inaugural-fund-donations-to-non-profits
