Public Statements
Governor Announces Road Map for Wind Energy Policy
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 6, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback announced his Road Map for Wind Energy Policy for the state to ensure Kansas maintains its balance between the 3 E's -- the Economy, Energy, and the Environment. Included in the policy is a plan to protect a tallgrass prairie area in the Flint Hills from commercial wind development to be known as the "Tallgrass Heartland".
"Kansans understand and value our state's rich and abundant energy resources. The oil & gas industry has been a storied part of our history while providing the nation with energy supplies. And now Kansas wind is helping power homes across the Midwest," Gov. Brownback said. "We will continue to encourage the expansion of an unparalleled economic development opportunity that will allow our state to regain its energy exporter status while also protecting an ecological jewel of our state and the nation."
Economy: To meet his priority to grow the Kansas Economy, the Brownback Administration will encourage commercial wind energy development as well as projects that expand transmission lines in Kansas like the KETA Project and the Y-Plan, and a direct current line.
Energy: The Brownback Administration will continue to support an "all of the above" energy policy for Kansas that keeps energy affordable and expands the production and consumption of renewable energies.
Environment: In addition to designating the "Tallgrass Heartland", the Governor's Economic Summit on the Flint Hills will help the Brownback Administration develop a plan to increase eco-tourism to the tallgrass prairie and help promote its preservation.
Brownback said the extreme rarity of this last large scale vestige of the tallgrass prairie located in the Flint Hills calls for extraordinary care and attention.
"I do not, however, wish to convey a negative message about the future of wind energy in our state. My administration will continue to work with wind developers and wholeheartedly support their activities in other parts of the state," Brownback said. "The Tallgrass Heartland will not prohibit the construction of necessary electric transmission improvements. Wind farms that are currently under power purchase agreements within the protected area, are of course, expected to fulfill those contracts and will have every opportunity to renew their agreements moving forward. However, they will not be expanded."
Brownback said he was pleased a broad-based coalition of Flint Hills ranchers, preservationists, wind developers, power companies and government officials support his plan to expand the tallgrass prairie area to be free from additional commercial wind farm development.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/05/06/05-06-11-governor-announces-road-map-for-wind-energy-policy
