Public Statements
Governor Signs Historic Bi-Partisan Pro-Life Legislation
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 12, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback signed two pro-life bills today at the Statehouse in Topeka. Lt. Governor Jeff Colyler, M.D. as well as dozens of state lawmakers and supporters joined the Governor for the signings of House Bill 2218 and House Bill 2035.
"This is an historic day," Governor Brownback said. "So many determined people have worked long and hard to get these bills passed and I am happy to sign them into law today. These bills are a reflection of the culture of life that is being embraced all across Kansas. They represent a mainstream, bi-partisan, and common sense approach to a divisive issue."
HB 2218, the "fetal pain bill,' strictly limits abortions after 22 weeks based on the fact that fetuses can feel pain beginning after the 21st week of pregnancy.
HB 2035, the Abortion Reporting Accuracy and Parental Rights Act, requires minors who seek abortions to obtain consent from both parents and places certain prohibitions on late-term and partial birth abortions.
"As a doctor, I am thrilled to see this important legislation that will protect vulnerable human life and the safety of pregnant women passed into law," Dr. Colyer said. "After years of hard work, the pro-life community should be proud their efforts have protected some of the most vulnerable in our society."
HB 2218 passed the in the House by a vote of 91-30 and passed in the Senate 24-15. HB 2035 passed in the House by a vote of 96-25 and passed in the Senate 24-15.
"As part of the Road Map for Kansas, Dr. Colyer and I pledged to protect Kansas families by supporting and defending the dignity of human life," Gov. Brownback said. "It is our calling to support the dignity of every human being whether that person is unemployed, undereducated, or unborn."
Lawmakers joining the Governor today included Sen. Pat Apple (Louisburg), Sen. Ralph Ostmeyer (Grinnell), Sen. Mary Pilcher-Cook (Shawnee), Rep. Steve Brunk (Wichita), Rep. Jim Fawcett (Junction City), Rep. TerriLois Gregory (Baldwin City), Rep. Lance Kinzer (Olathe), Rep. Joe Patton (Topeka), Rep. John Rubin (Shawnee), and Rep. Jen Vickrey (Louisburg) as well as the Archbishop of the Archidiocese of Kansas City in Kansas Joseph F. Naumann, D.D. and representatives from Kansans for Life and the Kansas Catholic Conference.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/04/13/04-12-11-governor-signs-historic-bi-partisan-pro-life-legislation
