Public Statements
Governor Signs Bill Allowing Economic Development in Ellsworth County to Move Forward
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 28, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback signed several bills into law today, including House Bill 2258 which will allow economic development in Ellsworth County to move forward. Rep. Steve Johnson (R-Assaria) and elected leaders from the county joined the Governor for the bill signing.
"Our number one priority is to grow our state's economy and get the more than 100,000 unemployed Kansans back to work. We do that by getting state government out of the way of Kansas entrepreneurs. This legislation will allow an economic development plan to move forward in Ellsworth County," Gov. Brownback said.
HB 2258 will give the Secretary of Social and Rehabilitation Services the authority to convey certain property in Ellsworth County, Kansas, to the Evangelical Lutheran Good Samaritan Society via quitclaim deed. The bill would allow the State of Kansas to retain all mineral rights to the property, as well as the right to enter and leave the property at any time for the purpose of oil, gas, or other mineral production. The bill would provide that, in order to protect improvements that could be made to the land by future owners; the State of Kansas cannot harm the surface of the land when exercising its mineral rights.
As of today, the Governor has signed a total of 11 bills this legislative session. Other bills signed by him to date:
House Bill 2001 will amend the statute governing the Law Enforcement Training Reimbursement Fund to require that all expenditures made from the Fund be "in accordance with appropriation acts upon warrants of the director of accounts and reports pursuant to vouchers approved by the [Kansas Commission on Peace Officers' Standards and Training (KCPOST)] or by a person or persons designated by the commission." This language would give KCPOST the authority to expend money from that fund, which is located in the State Treasury. Similar language appears in other statutes governing fee fund expenditures. The Fund receives $1 from the $20 assessment imposed by KSA 12-4117(a) in each case filed in municipal court other than a non-moving traffic violation, where there is a finding of guilt, plea of guilty, plea of no contest, forfeiture of bond, or a diversion.
House Bill 2013 will repeal five statutes pertaining to the sale and purchase of certain firearms known as long-guns. The statutes are no longer needed to conform to federal law that was changed in 1986.
House Bill 2029 will add ultrasound technologists working under the supervision of a person licensed to practice medicine and surgery to the list of persons included in the definition of "charitable health care providers" for the purposes of the Kansas Tort Claims Act. The bill would require ultrasound technologists to be registered in any area of sonography credentialed through the American Registry of Radiology Technologists, the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography, or Cardiovascular Credentialing International.
House Bill 2038 will amend 2010 Session Laws chapter 136, section 298, concerning hearings to consider a departure sentence in felony cases. (2010 Session Laws chapter 136 recodifies the Kansas Criminal Code, and will go into effect July 1, 2011.) The bill would make clear that when a court determines it is in the interest of justice to impose a departure sentence, which requires a separate departure sentence proceeding, the proceeding must take place in front of a jury, unless the jury is waived.
House Bill 2057 will allow forensic scientists with the Johnson County Sheriff's Laboratory and Sedgwick County Regional Forensic Science Center to submit written reports and testimony for court hearings or trials in lieu of them requiring them to testify in person. Current law provides that an opposing party can challenge the admissibility of such reports and certificates.
House Bill 2078 will allow the School for the Blind to conduct training programs year round. Current law only allows training programs to be conducted during the summer. Current law does not prohibit the School for the Deaf from conducting training sessions at any time during the year.
House Bill 2083 will require any funeral director in charge of a facility that closes, to notify all those who purchased a prefinanced funeral agreement that they need to transfer their agreements to another facility. The notification must be provided prior to the facility's closing, and a copy of all such letters must be provided to the State Board of Mortuary Arts.
House Bill 2205 will amend a section in the weights and measures laws to delete the time limit on a provision which allows mechanical vehicle scales used solely to sell aggregate products to have a minimum tolerance of +/- 100 pounds, thus making the exception permanent.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/03/28/03-28-11-governor-signs-bill-allowing-economic-development-in-ellsworth-county-to-move-forward
