Public Statements
Brownback Administration Urges Senate Action on Judicial Reform Measure
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 15, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

The Brownback Administration today urged the Kansas Senate to take action on House Bill 2101, a judicial selection reform measure that would require appointments to the Kansas Court of Appeals be made by the governor and then approved by the state senate, reflective of the federal court selection system.
Currently, whenever there is a vacancy the Kansas Supreme Court Nominating Commission submits three nominees to the Governor. The Governor then must appoint one of the three nominees to fill the vacancy.
Approved by the Kansas House of Representatives last month, H.B. 2101 now sits in the Senate Judiciary Committee where Chair Sen. Tim Owens (R-Overland Park) has not scheduled any action on the measure.
"Unfortunately in Kansas, our current system of selecting our appellate judges fails the democratic test," Brownback Chief Counsel Caleb Stegall said, echoing public testimony he offered in support of the bill on behalf of the administration during House hearings. "Rather than providing an equal opportunity and voice to all Kansans to participate in the selection of the judiciary through the actions of their duly elected representatives in the Governor's Office and in the State Senate, our current selection method cedes the authority to select one-third of Kansas's government to a small, select group of unaccountable specialists."
Stegall added, "Without democratic participation in the selection of our judges, the confidence and respect that our courts must enjoy will erode. The judiciary serves all Kansans and all Kansans should have a voice in its selection. H.B. 2101 should come to a full vote of the Senate."
Kansas is the only state in the United States where the majority of its nominating commission is controlled by the state's attorneys. The Governor appoints four of the Commission's members while the Kansas Bar elects the Commission's chairperson and four other members.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/03/15/03-15-11-brownback-administration-urges-senate-action-on-judicial-reform-measure
