Public Statements
Governor to HHS Secretary: Kansas Needs Flexibility
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 10, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback has sent a letter to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, asking her and her team to provide maximum flexibility for Kansas with a global block grant for Medicaid and a complete waiver of the Maintenance of Effort (MOE) requirements.
In the letter, Governor Brownback laid out the challenges Kansas faces in its Medicaid program.
"Kansas has a proud history of responsibly and creatively meeting the health needs of children, the elderly, the disabled and the poor. We have used the flexibility available in Medicaid to their benefit, rising into the top tier of programs around the country on several key measures," Brownback wrote. "However, with the permanent extension of the Medicaid MOE requirements in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Kansas' progressive approach may be penalized and our flexibility to meet the needs of our citizens stripped."
Brownback told Secretary Sebelius Kansas faces a large and growing budget deficit in large part because of the growing costs of Medicaid.
In Kansas from 2002-2008, Kansas Medicaid spending grew 33%, from $1.8 billion to $2.4 billion, while the number of Kansans enrolled in Medicaid increased 25%, from 234,000 to 293,000. This occurred as Kansas tax revenues remained strong. Since the maintenance of effort went into effect in 2008 - 2010, enrollment grew nearly 18% to 345,000 and spending will reach nearly $2.8 billion, an almost 17% increase.
"Given the unyielding budget constraints we face, we have no choice but to make significant changes in Kansas' Medicaid program. Yet an over-reaching federal MOE will lock Kansas into an out-of-date, oversized, and unaffordable program. Most concerning to me is that the huge increases render the MOE standard unachievable, threatening the loss of the Medicaid program for vulnerable Kansans who are already in the program. This is an unsustainable path, and I believe there are workable alternatives," Brownback wrote.
The Governor acknowledged the offer Secretary Sebelius to him and his counterparts around the country to help identify savings opportunities and maximize flexibility in the Medicaid program. His staff has followed up with hers and he pledged they will take full advantage of this offer. However, he remained convinced that the accumulation of 45 years of rules and limitations in Title 19 of the Social Security Act, culminating in the new MOE, is too great a hurdle.
Brownback wrote, "For this reason, I am asking for your commitment to work with Kansas as we develop a global waiver to establish a more efficient, effective, and sustainable Medicaid program in the state of Kansas through a global block grant and a waiver of the maintenance of effort requirement."
He ended the letter pledging if the state received the block grant and relief from the maintenance of effort requirements can provide, the state would be able to provide superior service to our neediest citizens.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/03/10/03-10-11-governor-to-hhs-secretary-kansas-needs-flexibility
