Public Statements
Governor Signs Executive Orders
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 9, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback has signed two executive orders regarding state human resources policy and homeland security policy.
Executive Order 11-04 directs all non-Regents human resource directors and staff performing human resource functions of all state agencies, departments, or other entities under Governor Brownback's jurisdiction to report directly to the Director of the Division of Personnel Services in the Department of Administration.
The Division of Personnel Services also will establish uniform employment policies, procedures, and practices and oversee that they are implemented by the human resource directors and staff performing human resource functions for the various agencies, departments and other non-Regents entities of the Executive Branch of state government.
"The State of Kansas needs to establish and increase efficiency, uniformity, and fairness in employment policies, procedures, and practices within the Executive Branch of state government," Gov. Brownback said. "Streamlining the administration's human resources to the Department of Administration will ensure employees are treated equally."
Executive Order 11-05 appoints the Kansas Adjutant General as the Kansas Homeland Security Advisor and as the Director of the Kansas Office of Homeland Security.
The executive order also appoints the Kansas Office of Homeland Security as the State Administrative Agency for the administration of homeland security grants and funds.
"Putting management of our homeland security grants and funds under the Kansas Office of Homeland Security will ensure the most efficient and cost effective use of all public and private resources in the execution of these duties," Gov. Brownback said.
In addition to advising the Governor on homeland security issues, the Homeland Security Advisor is responsible for all homeland security matters within the state and serves as the Governor's personal representative, agent, and liaison to the United States Department of Homeland Security and all other governmental and private entities in Kansas involved in homeland security issues.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/03/09/03-09-11-governor-signs-executive-orders
