Public Statements
Letter to Barack Obama, President of the United States - Virginia and Florida Health Care Lawsuits
Letter
By: Scott Walker Dave Heineman Sam Brownback Brian Sandoval Bill Haslam Gary Herbert Matt Mead Jack Dalrymple Mitch Daniels, Jr. Rick Perry Bob McDonnell Susana Martinez John Kasich Butch Otter Sean Parnell Terry Branstad Nikki Haley Bobby Jindal Rick Scott Dennis Daugaard Paul LePage Robert Bentley Chris Christie Haley Barbour Jan Brewer Tom Corbett Rick Snyder Nathan Deal
Date: Feb. 9, 2011
Location: Unknown

Dear Mr. President
The undersigned governors hereby express our strong support for an expedited appeal of the Virginia and Florida health care lawsuits recently decided in favor of the states. We respectfully ask that you direct the United States Department of Justice to support an expedited appellate process for each case to reach the United States Supreme Court as soon as possible in order to resolve the significant constitutional issues presented, which we all agree are of national importance.
Regardless of our respective positions on the merits of the policies in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), every state faces significant challenges and expenses implementing PPACA over the next several years. Additionally, there is little doubt that the cases will ultimately be decided by the Supreme Court. This request for expedited review takes no position on PPACA, but seeks only to obtain the Supreme Court's final determination as soon as possible.
Give the daunting and costly financial and regulatory burdens that our states and the private sector will face in implementing PPACA over the coming years, particularly during this unprecedented budgetary time, public interest requires expediting a final resolution of the litigation to give certainty as soon as possible. We should not endure years of litigation in the circuit courts, when the Supreme Court can promptly provide finality. This resolution can help prevent the states and the private sector from undertaking potentially unnecessary measures and expenses. More importantly, our businesses, health care providers, and citizens of our great nation need to know as soon as possible whether all or part of the law will be upheld or stricken, sot hey know thier options and obligations.
To that end, we respectfully ask that you promptly support an expedited appellate process for each of the pending cases to achieve quick resolution by the United States Supreme Court and to encourage the United States Department of Justice to join these efforts.
Thank you for your consideration and prompt attention to this important national matter.
Sincerely,
Governor Robert Bentley
Governor Sean Parnell
Governor Janice K. Brewer
Governor Nathan Deal
Governor Mitch Daniels
Governor Sam Brownback
Governor Paul R. LePage
Governor Haley Barbour
Governor Brian Sandoval
Governor Rick Scott
Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter
Governor Terry E. Branstad
Governor Bobby Jindal
Governor RIck Snyder
Governor David Heineman
Governor Chris Christie
Governor Susana Martinez
Governor John R. Kasich
Governor Nikki Haley
Governor Bill Haslam
Governor Gary R. Herbert
Governor Scott Walker
Governor Jack Dalrymple
Governor Tom Corbett
Governor Dennis Daugaard
Governor Rick Perry
Governor Robert F. McDonnell
Governor Matthew H. Mead

Source: http://www.governor.virginia.gov/News/docs/Governors%20Lawsuit%20Letter.pdf
