Public Statements
Brownback: State of the State's Character is Strong
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 12, 2011
Location: Topeka, KS

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback delivered his 2011 State of the State address to the people of Kansas and their elected leaders tonight in the House Chambers of the Kansas State Capitol. The governor began his speech by reflecting on the state's history.
"Courage, humanity and hope -- in good times and bad, these bedrock characteristics of Kansans have stood the test of time," Gov. Brownback said. "It is this heritage and legacy that prepares us for the challenges that Kansas faces today. "
Brownback said his administration will tackle the daunting challenges facing our state through four significant and distinct initiatives, including Growing the Kansas Economy, Excelling in Education, Reforming State Government and Protecting Kansas Families.
"My administration's first priority will be creating jobs that provide more income and opportunity for Kansas families. When my cabinet meets, I will ask, "What are we doing today to help create jobs in our state?" Brownback said.
Brownback said his plan to Grow the Kansas Economy and create jobs will be paid for by eliminating corporate tax subsidies enjoyed by only a few. Among the other items critical to Brownback's plan to grow the economy:
* A three-year, $105M University Economic Growth initiative to enhance job growth in key economic sectors such as Aviation, Cancer Research, Animal Health, and Engineering. Each university will be required to provide through private sector or reprogrammed funds 50% of the cost of the program initiative.
* Creation of the Governor's Economic Council: Chaired by Governor Brownback, this council will consist of some of our state's most successful men and women who are leaders in the private sector. The Council will assure strategy integration, coordination and accountability across all of the state's economic development agencies and initiatives.
* Full funding of Wichita Fair Fares to underpin this critical economic growth initiative in south-central Kansas.
The governor said for all of this to work, the state needs a tax code that encourages investment, income growth, and job creation. He pledged to work with the Kansas Legislature on resetting the state's tax code, particularly with an eye toward lowering income tax rates.
To make sure the state Excels in Education, Brownback said the budget he is submitting to the Legislature will provide school districts with more overall state funding and also will stabilize state support for higher education for the first time since the Great Recession began.
"Since state money will be tight and federal funds declining for the foreseeable future, we need to make sure we target our funding in the right places to give children the foundation they need for success," Brownback said. "This is why I am proposing we dedicate $6 million this year from the Children's Initiative Fund to the development of early childhood education centers in our most needy school districts. No child should pass the 4th grade without being able to read. If a child cannot read, her world closes in. If she can read, her world expands."
In light of the renewed lawsuits over the school funding formula, Brownback also challenged the Legislature to define what a "suitable" education means and end the confusion.
"This will provide us with a definition of what we need to undertake to reform of our school finance formula and provide our school districts with stable, sustainable funding for the future. Let the Legislature resolve school finance not the courts, so we can send more money to the classroom, not the courtroom," Brownback said.
The 46th governor of Kansas told his fellow Kansans that "the days of ever expanding government are over -- and under my administration, they will not return." His plan to Reform State Government includes eliminating more than 2,000 unfilled employee positions; eliminating eight state agencies and establishing the Office of the Repealer to identify regulations or statutes for repeal that are costly, outdated and ineffective.
"The future demands of us a commitment to deliver core services in innovative and more efficient ways," Brownback said. "My proposed total state spending for the next fiscal year will be more than three quarters of a billion dollars lower than this year. This will be the first time that the total or all-funds state budget has been cut since 1972."
Brownback pointed out that Kansans are can-do people. "We take care of each other, even when circumstances are difficult, as they surely are now. We help those in their time of need; we protect those who cannot protect themselves."
His plan to Protect Kansas Families increases funding for increased caseloads in SRS and Medicaid and the federally-mandated increase in the state's share of funding for these programs as well as proposes restructuring Medicaid so that healthcare is improved and costs are decreased. He also asked lawmakers to address the KPERS unfunded liability and allow incoming governors to use funds raised from their inaugural galas on charity, not Cedar Crest.
"This is our calling: to help those in their time of need, including and especially those who are the most vulnerable. I call on the legislature to bring to my desk legislation that protects the unborn, establishing a culture of life in Kansas. We must support the dignity of every human being whether that person is unemployed, undereducated, or unborn," Brownback said.
He reminded Kansans that he has put forth five measurable, significant goals to help push our state forward into better times with courage, humanity, and hope:
* Increase in net personal income
* Increase in private sector employment
* Increase in the percentage of 4th graders reading at grade level
* Increase in the percentage of high school graduates who are college or career ready
* Decrease in the percentage of Kansas' children who live in poverty
"We are certainly subject to global currents largely out of our control, but we are not rudderless. I believe these goals to be significant and achievable; successfully reaching them will change countless lives for the better and make the future of Kansas brighter," Brownback said.
The Governor ended his first State of the State address by reporting the character of the state is strong.
"It is strong because since 1861, generations of Kansans and waves of immigrants have had the courage, humanity and hope to make it so. God's abundant grace has favored us. By His continued grace, the good character of the people of Kansas and the greatness of Kansas will grow," Gov. Brownback said.
The Kansas Constitution requires the governor to deliver a state of the state address to the legislature annually. Governor Brownback will present his Fiscal Year 2012 Budget tomorrow to the House Appropriations Committee and the Senate Ways and Means Committee.

Source: https://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2011/01/12/1-12-11-Brownback-State-of-the-States-Character-is-Strong
