Public Statements
Letter to The Honorable Harry Reid Majority Leader and The Honorable Mitch McConnell Minority Leader
Letter
By: Tom Harkin Amy Klobuchar Ben Nelson Debbie Stabenow Al Franken Kit Bond Sam Brownback Timothy Johnson Kent Conrad John Thune Mike Johanns Byron Dorgan Claire McCaskill
Date: Dec. 1, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Saying that ethanol offers the most effective alternative to foreign oil and supports hundreds of thousands of jobs in the United States, Senators Kent Conrad and Charles Grassley (R-IA) have gathered signatures for a letter to Senate leaders urging action this year on legislation to extend renewable fuel tax and tariff provisions.
The senators said immediate action is warranted to "provide stability and certainty for producers and consumers of renewable fuels."
"Our country is spending over $730 million a day on imported petroleum this year, money that often ended up in the hands of unstable or unfriendly governments," Conrad and Grassley wrote. "This is not the time to reduce the supply of a domestic source of fuel and place at greater risk the thousands of well-paying jobs that the renewable fuels industry has created."
The senators said that ethanol is the only renewable fuel that is working to reduce U.S. dependence on oil. Domestically produced ethanol displaces millions of barrels of imported oil every year from Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and Nigeria and now accounts for almost 10 percent of the U.S. fuel supply.
Last April, Conrad and Grassley introduced a bill to extend, through 2015, the volumetric ethanol excise tax credit, or VEETC, which is also known as the blenders' credit; the small ethanol producer tax credit; the cellulosic producer tax credit; and the ethanol import tariff.
Ethanol is good for rural economies, and a recent study found that the failure to extend the VEETC credit and the secondary tariff would result in the loss of more than 100,000 jobs nationwide and reduce ethanol production by nearly 40 percent.









Source:
