Public Statements
Senators Roberts and Brownback, Reps. Tiahrt, Moran and Jenkins Call For Passage of FAA Bill to Stabilize Struggling Aviation Industry
Letter
By: Lynn Jenkins Jerry Moran Sam Brownback Pat Roberts Todd Tiahrt
Date: Sept. 22, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

U.S. Senators Pat Roberts and Sam Brownback, and U.S. Representatives Todd Tiahrt, Jerry Moran and Lynn Jenkins today urged Congressional Leadership to bring the Federal Aviation Administration authorization bill to the floor to provide stability to an industry suffering in a struggling economy.
The members today sent the following letter to Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) and Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi (D-CA):
"We write in response to the growing instability faced by Kansas businesses and employees due to a lack of long term federal aviation policy. We urge you to provide both chambers an opportunity to vote on a long term reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Airport and Airways Trust Fund. The current authority for both programs expires this year.
"Kansas is home to nearly 3,200 aviation and manufacturing businesses, including Cessna, Hawker-Beechraft, Bombardier-Learjet, Boeing, Spirit AeroSystems, Garmin, Honeywell and many more. When Congress began debating the FAA reauthorization bill over two years ago, more than 40,000 employees in Wichita and surrounding communities made their living building planes, manufacturing parts and servicing aviation. Unfortunately, due to rough economic conditions, aviation related jobs have dropped to under 25,000.
"One way Congress can help provide stability to this industry and their employees is to pass a long term reauthorization bill. As businesses struggle to emerge from the recession, long range planning is necessary to successfully rebuild.
"Therefore, we urge you to bring a long term FAA reauthorization bill to the floor before Congress adjourns."

Source: http://tiahrt.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=169&sectiontree=5,22,169&itemid=1614
