Public Statements
Nominaton of Elena Kagan to be Associate Justice of the Supreme Court--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 4, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to discuss the nomination of Solicitor General Elena Kagan to the U.S. Supreme Court. Just over a year ago, the Senate considered the nomination of Judge Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court and today we continue the debate on Solicitor General Kagan's. Then, as now, I think it is fully appropriate for us to discuss the judicial philosophy of the nominees being put forward because of the increasing intrusion of the Supreme Court into very contentious issues within the society. If that is the case, then I think judicial philosophy needs to be discussed, and I think that is one that we need to consider in this nominee in Solicitor General Kagan.
The debate and discussion of Solicitor General Kagan's nomination followed a different path from the Sotomayor nomination, but it has led me to the same result: I have too many questions about the nominee's judicial philosophy to permit me to support the nomination to a lifetime appointment to the Supreme Court of the United States.
As I said last year, a nominee's judicial philosophy is a key concern at the heart of the Supreme Court confirmation process. For me, the question is whether a nominee to the Court supports an activist judicial philosophy that would invite the judiciary into all sorts of areas of American life where it has not intruded before, or whether they hold a more deferential view of the Constitution that would limit the role of the courts. It is really that view, of what is the appropriate role of the courts under the Constitution that I think is key, given the more activist role the Court has taken in this society in recent years.
As I noted during the Sotomayor debate, in my view, democracy is wounded when Justices on the high Court, who are unelected, invent constitutional rights and alter the balance of governmental powers in ways that find no support in the text, structure, or history of the Constitution. Unfortunately, in recent years the courts have assumed a more aggressive political role.

Source:
