Public Statements
Governor Sam Brownback Announces Kansas is Withdrawing from Refugee Resettlement Program
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 26, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Sam Brownback on Monday notified the Obama Administration that the State of Kansas is withdrawing from the federal government's refugee relocation program due to concerns for the safety of Kansans.
Beginning in November 2015, the Governor attempted to work with the federal government to address security concerns related to resettlement of some refugees in Kansas.
"We made a reasonable request of the Obama Administration to provide us with information we need to help protect the safety and security of Kansans," said Governor Brownback. "Because the federal government has failed to provide adequate assurances regarding refugees it is settling in Kansas, we have no option but to end our cooperation with and participation in the federal refugee resettlement program."
The Governor, along with Governors of several states, asked White House officials in November to share vetting information as President Obama pledged to take in 10,000 Syrian refugees. The Administration declined citing the privacy rights of the refugees. In December, the Governor subsequently asked the White House, Department of State and Department of Homeland Security to provide documentation and files on any refugee who had been or was scheduled to be relocated from Syria to Kansas since Nov. 16, 2016. Again, the Administration refused.
"As Governor, my priority has been and will continue to be the safety and security of Kansans," said Governor Brownback. "Kansas remains a state that has always been welcoming to refugees, but we must take prudent and responsible actions to protect our communities."
In February, in accordance with Executive Order 16-01, the Governor directed state agencies to use the U.S. Department of State's official list of countries identified as state sponsors of terrorism in identifying whether a particular refugee should be deemed to present a safety and security risk. Those countries are Iran, Sudan and Syria.

Source:
