Public Statements
Small Business Lending Act of 2010
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 28, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleague for yielding the floor. I invite him to stay. I want to talk about a renewable energy standard we need to have in an energy piece of legislation. I know it is something he is interested in, and has been, and it is something I am interested in. I think it is one of these commonsense approaches that you can get bipartisan support built for if you do it in a sensible fashion that doesn't raise utility rates; and that is a key issue to watch here--not to raise utility rights.
I think if we have a robust enough--but not greedy--renewable energy standard that is prudent, workable, over a period of time, where companies can work into this, we can start moving forward on renewable energy in a sound economic fashion, and we can balance our energy needs with our environmental needs and our economic demands and not raise utility rates.
That is why I was hoping that the leader, when he introduced his energy bill, would put forward a renewable energy standard. He didn't call for that. I do. If we get an energy bill on the floor--which I hope we do--I will certainly be supporting a renewable energy standard the likes of which we passed on a bipartisan basis through the Energy Committee.
I am looking forward to supporting what we put forward in the American Clean Energy Leadership Act of 2009, which was reported out of the committee on a strong bipartisan basis. There was a provision in it that called for a 15-percent renewable energy standard by 2021, and within that 15 percent was even allowed 11 percent by renewables and up to 4 percent by conservation, so there were some ways for groups and individuals to be able to work forward, building in some conservation but also renewable energy into the portfolio, such as renewable energy of wind, solar, biomass, or other means.
I have been advocating this, as has my colleague from North Dakota. It is something we have voted on recently in this body, as recently as 2005, when we looked at a 10-percent renewable energy standard. The differences in the conference prevented that from moving forward.
The amendment I would support on this bill that I hope the leader will reconsider and put forward in his base bill that he puts up on the floor is 15 percent, as I stated, by 2021. That is something that could have and would gain bipartisan support.
If we are serious about moving forward on reducing our dependency on foreign oil, from foreign sources, if we are serious about moving forward on environmental needs, this is a very sensible, pragmatic, prudent approach. It is one we can do. It is one we can accomplish. It is one that has passed this body before. We already know the votes are here to pass something like a modest renewable energy standard. That is why I am calling for this to be put forward in the leader's base bill. If not, I am supporting an amendment that would be put in this Energy bill should it come to the floor. I hope it does come to the floor. We need to address the energy needs of this country. We have a huge problem that has been going on for some time in the Gulf of Mexico. We have enormous energy needs in this country. We need to balance our energy needs with the environment and our economic abilities. We are in difficult economic shape now. We cannot put a load on the economy. We should not put any load on the economy. If we are wise and prudent about this, we can do these renewable energy standards and not put any load on the economy. I ask the leader to do that. I hope we can in moving this process forward. It is my hope that this will be included in any energy legislation that ultimately passes this body.
Mr. President, I ask my colleague from North Dakota for any comments he might have on a renewable energy portfolio in energy legislation.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I wanted to engage my colleague from North Dakota because there is a strong base of bipartisan support to do this, and I also believe there is a strong majority community across America that supports this. Don't get it out there so wild that it starts driving up utility rates. Nobody wants to do that, and everybody is opposed to pushing up utility rates. We don't want them to go up. They cannot go up. We cannot afford for them to go up in bad economic times, and I do not want it to happen in good economic times. But if we do this in a balanced approach where we say we are going to have a modest renewable electricity standard, a modest RES that people can work with--and in the bill in committee, we actually had an 11-percent energy standard--we could do 4 of the 15 by conservation, which is prudent as well. This is something we can support.
I know this is something which we could see a strong majority of the American public support. This is balanced and it makes sense and it moves us forward. That is why I hope that if we get into this Energy bill this week--it may not happen this week or it may not happen until September--that this is a piece that is in the bill, and it is something we can get done, and the vast majority of the public, if we do it wisely and prudently, will support this.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
