Public Statements
Small Business Lending Act of 2010
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 27, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I appreciate the opportunity to speak with my colleagues on the floor about jobs, job creation, opportunities that are there that are here now, and things we need to do.
I report to my colleagues the report came out yesterday from the Brookings Institute, citing exports and export opportunities that we have. They were pointing out that the President rightfully, in the State of the Union Message, called for a doubling of exports by the United States in the next 5 years. They were looking around, studying where is this possible for it to be able to happen. What are the possible communities to see this happen?
The Brookings Institute came out with a report yesterday that it released, and cited four metropolitan areas that doubled the real value of their exports between 2003 and 2008. One of them is Wichita, KS, and the aviation cluster--doubling its exports based primarily on aviation and the aviation industry. I congratulate Wichita and my State for what it has done to expand exports in essentially--a good portion of this being essentially a home-grown industry, general aviation. These are smaller aircraft, business aircraft, that travel to many of the airports throughout this country, and now airports throughout the world, that are not served by commercial aviation. Of the 5,000 airports nationwide, only 500 are served by common carriers that would be going out from different cities across their countries and our country. But that is only 10 percent of the airports that are connected that way. The rest have to be connected by business aviation, by products made in Wichita.
We make both large aircraft and small general aviation products--both of those--but particularly many of the general aviation products are made in my State, and this is an industry that is a home-grown one that we can grow and we can build exports on. Brookings cited to it yesterday. They pointed out that 40 percent now of the U.S. production of general aviation aircraft is going overseas.
Madam President, $150 billion of the U.S. economy is based on general aviation, the smaller business aircraft employing 1.2 million people in the United States.
The problem with this is that earlier this year the administration had attacked a lot of business aircraft and business aviation, saying this is not useful, squandering resources, when in fact it makes efficient use of resources and it is a home-grown business that is now exporting 40 percent of its product and is one of the leading clusters in the country to push exports which we need to have a lot more of, and export-related jobs.
I ask the administration and I personally invite the President to come to Wichita, KS, to see the business aviation, to see the general aviation business for himself, to see the fine products produced by Bombardier Learjet, Cessna, Hawker Beechcraft Corporation--those companies that are producing these excellent aircraft, and to help this business grow.
I also point out to my colleagues and to the administration that this is an industry that has been targeted by other countries for takeover. This is the same sort of thing that is starting to happen on general aviation that happened on the large-scale airliners when Airbus was built by government money in Europe to take on and build large airliners and take that business away from Boeing, McDonald-Douglass, Lockheed Corporation. Airbus succeeded in knocking two of those entrants out of the field, where they do not make large aircraft any longer and only Boeing is left and we recently won a large trade case against the European Union and Airbus for its heavy subsidization that it has had by the European Union to get to that marketplace and to steal market share from U.S. production. That is what has taken place in the large-scale aircraft business.
What is now setting up is many countries around the world are looking at getting into smaller aircraft, and mid-size aircraft, I believe, subsidizing their way into this marketplace to take those jobs and those opportunities to other countries around the world.
Embraer Air in Brazil is one that has had a fast expansion taking place in the small- and mid-size aircraft market, defying the market logic at the present time, that it has been a difficult marketplace. They have expanded the number of aircraft and they have expanded the number of different types of aircraft that they produce, all in a marketplace that has been under a great deal of difficulty in the last several years. I call on the administration to, No. 1, be supportive of this industry--I invite the President to come to Wichita--and, No. 2, to start looking at what other countries are doing to bid into this marketplace and to take these jobs from the United States by subsidizing these jobs with their foreign treasuries. That is illegal under the World Trade Organization. We need to be aggressive in our country in protecting this key export industry that is being targeted for attack by other countries around the world.
We will be putting forward more information on this as this develops further. I am going to be contacting the U.S. Trade Representative's office about looking into these practices of other countries. I meet regularly with people who lead various companies in the business aircraft marketplace and they are talking constantly about China looking at this, Brazil going into this market space--other countries lining up with different products to go after this home-grown, successful, now export-oriented business in the United States that connects the other 4,500 airports that do not have commercial service.
This is a big issue. I congratulate Wichita for its growth in exports, being one of the leading cities in the world--certainly in our country and in the world--in exports. I ask the administration to support this home-grown industry. I ask my colleagues to look at this as well.
I further point out when we look at military aircraft, certainly the big tanker contract that has been such a controversy around here, that we do not give those jobs to overseas companies such as Airbus that is bidding on the tanker contract but, rather, that those jobs be done here and not subsidized and bought by other countries around the world. Let's not let it happen in the large-scale commercial market. Let's not let it happen in the tanker business. Let's not let it happen in general aviation. These are high-wage, high-skill manufacturing jobs that we need in the United States, that we have in the United States, and we should not let them be stolen by practices overseas that are not legal under the World Trade Organization.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
