Public Statements
Brownback Comments on WTO Report that Airbus Received Illegal Subsidies
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 1, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

U.S. Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) today commented on the World Trade Organization's final ruling on Airbus and the illegal subsidies the company received from the European Union. The WTO ruled that the European Union illegally subsidized the development of the entire family of Airbus aircraft (A300 through A380), including the A330 which is the platform competing for next United States Air Force tanker.
"This should be the last nail in the coffin for Airbus' efforts on the tanker contract," stated Brownback. "The Pentagon must consider this ruling before awarding the contract."
The WTO panel report confirms that the Airbus A330, which is the airplane that was presented as a replacement for the KC-135 refueling tanker, is considered an illegally subsidized aircraft. The A330 aircraft received launch aid that covered between 60 and 90 percent of its development costs. The report confirms that these subsidies caused serious prejudice to the United States' interests and caused Boeing to suffer substantial lost sales and market share. Additionally, launch aid for the Airbus A380 was found to include $4 billion in prohibited export subsidies, which WTO rules require be withdrawn within 90 days.
Brownback continued, "We have known all along that Airbus is not competing fairly and should not be able to underbid on contracts by having Europe illegally subsidize their airplane design and production. This unfair situation has already had a devastating effect on our aviation industry and we should not allow foreign governments to distort the global aircraft marketplace with launch aid. This is true whether it is the Air Force tanker contract or future commercial aircraft, which is a market we should be able to expand based on this ruling. This is no longer rhetoric; the WTO has emphatically ruled that Airbus receives illegal subsidies and the Pentagon should take this ruling into account. The American tax payers deserve nothing less."
For more 40 years, the E.U. governments have pursued a targeted strategy to gain global leadership in the market for large commercial aircraft through massive government subsidies to Airbus. These subsidies include launch aid to develop new aircraft--such as no- or low-interest government loans repaid only if a program succeeds--debt forgiveness, equity infusion, and infrastructure and research & development support.
Airbus has received more than $178 billion in commercial value provided in the form of launch aid from the governments of France, Germany, Britain and Spain with the understanding that full repayment is required only in the event that Airbus airplanes are commercially successful.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=326144
