Public Statements
Governor Sam Brownback Takes Action to End the Economic "Border War"
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 15, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Sam Brownback announced he is taking action to end the Kansas-Missouri "Border War," and encouraged Missouri to do the same.
The Governor has directed Commerce Secretary Antonio Suave to significantly reduce the use of incentives that have contributed to the "Border War," effective on the date Missouri enacts legislation amending its Missouri Works program.
"Our focus should be on creating new jobs that help our states and the region grow, not on providing opportunities for businesses that routinely cross the border to access economic incentives" said Governor Brownback. "Kansas is, and will remain, an attractive state for business growth with our stable regulatory environment and tax policy."
The direction from the Governor affects the Kansas Counties of Wyandotte, Johnson, Leavenworth and Douglas; and Jackson, Clay, Cass, Platte and Ray counties in Missouri. These are the counties that experience the most cross-border business relocation.
The action requires both states to refrain from active recruitment of companies from the identified counties; creates new limitations on the use of state incentives in the border counties; and calls for an independent study to identify ways to also level the incentive playing field at the local level.
"This proposal is a critical first step in ending the "Border War' between our states," said Governor Brownback. "The Midwest has much to offer businesses with our skilled workforce, geographic location and unparalleled quality of life. I look forward to working together to attract businesses that create jobs and opportunity for Kansans and Missourians."
The direction to the Commerce Department will be withdrawn and nullified immediately if the Missouri General Assembly does not adopt appropriate legislation in its 2016 session to amend the Missouri Works incentive program to mirror the provisions in the Governor's proposal. The initial term of the agreement would be for one year.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2016/04/15/governor-sam-brownback-takes-action-to-end-the-economic-border-war
