Public Statements
Restoring American Financial Stability Act of 2010
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: May 24, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I wanted the clerk to read the full motion to instruct conferees so my colleagues could understand the simplicity and directness of this motion. It is a very simple motion to instruct conferees to recede to the House position in regard to auto dealers in the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The House considered this in committee, and two-thirds of the committee members--half the Democrats, all the Republicans--voted to exclude the retail auto dealers from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. That is the way they voted. It came up on the House floor, and it was defeated as far as to put the auto dealers in the regulatory process, so it was excluded in the House--full consideration at the committee; at the full House level, excluded.
What we are asking, now that this bill has passed, is in the motion to instruct our conferees, the Senate conferees, in going with the financial regulatory reform bill, to recede to the House position regarding the auto dealers.
I think this is a good motion to instruct conferees. I think it is something we ought to do. I think it is something that will be very helpful. I make this simple point to my colleagues: Under the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 100 percent of all auto loans will still be covered. If you vote for the Brownback instruction, if we recede to the House position, 100 percent of the auto loans will still be covered. We are saying in this, and the House position says: If you actually loan the money--if you are GMAC, if you are some other financiers up the street, you are under the CFPB. If you are simply the retail storefront, which is what the auto dealers are, you are not covered under the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. You are not covered if you are just the storefront arm of this, but 100 percent of the loans are covered.
If you are an auto dealer and you make the actual loan yourself and it is your money you are lending, you are covered under the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. If you are simply the storefront operation out here doing this, you are not covered.
The auto dealers are asking for this. They do not want the additional cost and burden of this regulation on them. They are the quintessential Main Street business throughout the country. There is not a single auto dealer on Wall Street--none of them, not one. You can go up there today and try to buy a car and you cannot get one.
These are Main Street businesses, and they took it on the chin last year. We lost, last year alone, 1,700 dealerships across America resulting in the loss of approximately 88,000 jobs. Why would we want to put a duplicative set of regulations on top of them that are already covered upstream and they have already had these sorts of losses and difficulties in a Main Street business?
We need people to create 88,000 jobs, not to eliminate or lose 88,000 jobs. Franchised auto dealers are the retail outlets. They are the storefronts that process the paperwork for various well-known brands with large financial arms. Under the House provision that my motion instructs us to recede to, these financial arms would still be regulated, but the dealers who process the paperwork would not.
Additionally, even if my motion is agreed to, auto dealers would still be regulated by the FTC and various State laws, so consumers would still have protections to ensure the truth in lending still applies.
In fact, I have a couple of pages here of regs--excuse me, of regulatory entities that auto dealers still apply to. I ask unanimous consent this list be printed at the conclusion of my comments.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. I want to also point out what typically happens. This is a letter I am going to read from the Dale Willey auto dealership in Kansas. Dale Willey, the auto dealership in Kansas, said this about the financing that happens. I am reading from this:
Each month we have 3 to 5 buyers who tell our financial service members--
There are three to five people coming in, telling our financial service managers:
if our dealership can match or beat their bank's or credit union's interest rate, they will then finance through our dealership. To match the buyer's offer of rate terms simply provides a convenience to our buyers. To offer a better term and/or at a better rate enhances the buyer's savings by doing business with our dealership.
In other words, this is a competitive situation that typically people go into.
I will read again from the letter:
We have buyers also who are unable to secure a loan through their normal bank, credit union or lender, and yet we are able to submit the buyer's application to several of our lenders with which we have agreements, discovering that one or more are willing to make these loans to this buyer. Not only does this provide a convenience to the buyer, but it truly allows the buyer to secure a better level and lower operating cost vehicle than provided by their older current vehicle.
This is a competitive situation. It also positions people so that sometimes they are able to get loans they could not get on their own.
I want to address as well another situation that has come up in this debate that people have raised: that this protection is needed for military personnel in particular. A couple of weeks ago the Senate adopted an amendment offered by Senator Reed of Rhode Island and Brown of Massachusetts that creates the Office of Service Member Affairs at the CFPB.
My motion that we are voting on today, instructs the current regulatory authorities to work with this office when they detect abuses by auto dealers. So we are saying, if you detect an abuse by auto dealers, then this should be worked on particularly by the CFPB and this office of servicemember affairs.
I recently received a letter from the Under Secretary of the Army for Personnel and Readiness, Clifford Stanley. In it he writes this:
DOD would welcome and encourage CFPA protection for servicemembers and their families with regard to unscrupulous automobile sales and financing practices, provided such protections would not limit access to legitimate products.
That is exactly what motion does. Military personnel would have strong protections by the CFPB but without the adverse effect of limiting their access to credit. If you want to protect the military and maintain all their options for buying a car, you should vote in favor of this motion.
I point out these matters because there has been a lot of discussion and debate going on about the auto dealers amendment throughout the proceedings of this entire bill, which has gone on for some period of time. This makes sense to do this the way the House did it. It makes sense for us to move forward with this motion to recede to the House position.
The House has established this position. They have thought it through, and 100 percent of auto loans will still be covered. It is just the auto dealership will not be the one that is covered, the upstream financer will, unless the auto dealership is loaning their own money, and then they will be covered.
If you are concerned about military personnel, there is a particular direction in here regarding military personnel. Again, any loans are covered. It is the upstream position that is covered, and it is where it should be. That is the actual person or group that is making the loan. That is the one that should be covered.
Instead of putting an additional burden on dealerships that have already lost lots of jobs, we are saying: No, let us recede to the House position.
I reserve the remainder of my time. I urge my colleagues to vote yes on the Brownback motion to recede to the House position.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, well, if this motion to instruct did what Senator Dodd had suggested, I would probably vote against it as well. It does not.
I appreciate my colleague from Connecticut, who is obviously a great persuader, does a great job, and whom I share a great friendship with and great admiration for and who has served this body very well.
The problem is, if we have three places sitting here--we have a community banker, we have a credit union, and we have an auto dealer--all three are still covered. They are all three still covered if they make the loan. If they originate, if they make the loan, they put the money out there, all three are covered.
What we are saying in this motion is, if it is your money that you are loaning, you are covered. But if you are simply writing paper or trying to help someone upstream and options for the person who is coming in and you are saying: We have option A, B or C, from this credit union, from that bank or from GMAC, whichever it may be, they are not covered.
The authors of the bill want to put belts and suspenders on auto financing. Why would we double regulate in this particular area when we are already going to have the cost and the burden of doing it? And on top of all that, we already have a set of regulations in this field.
My colleague talked about yo-yo and bait-and-switch financing. They are illegal at the State level now. State attorneys general are going after these people now, and they should, particularly if it targets military personnel. That person who walks into a dealership in my State or some other State will be covered by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. It is going to be at an upstream location, but it is covered. One hundred percent of them are covered. Why would we put this extra cost and expense on the retail operation that is not loaning the money? They are not doing this.
If my colleagues are concerned about this area, do this. If they are concerned about having overregulation and overreach by Washington, support my motion. The loan is still covered, and we are not having this double coverage of belts and suspenders on auto loans that is going to hurt the ability of people to get loans, and it is going to drive up the cost of auto financing. It is going to hurt Main Street businesses that we lost 1,700 of last year and that lost us 88,000 jobs. I thought this bill was targeted at Wall Street, not at Main Street where we didn't have this problem going on. We haven't had this problem within auto loans as far as causing the financial meltdown. The regulation is already there. The regulation will be there. This extra regulation is not needed.
I ask my colleagues to support Main Street on this one. Support the local auto dealers out there, those who are working with the community, trying to help the community thrive and survive, instead of putting a double dose of regulation on top of them that is going to hurt the business, hurt auto sales, hurt financing opportunities.
I urge support for the Brownback motion.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
