Public Statements
Restoring American Financial Stability Act of 2010--Motion to Proceed--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 27, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. I thank the Chair, and I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I thank my colleague from Connecticut, whom I think the world of. He is a wonderful family man, whom I saw out walking this morning. He is a great human being, a great Senator, and of great lineage. I am sorry to see Senator Dodd leaving.
I have one particular area of this bill about which I wish to raise a point. Auto dealers are in town today. We have a series of auto dealers from across the country who are here and they are deeply concerned about the consumer financial products piece of this particular legislation. They are concerned because it is going to hit them. I would point out to my colleagues about this that I have purchased a car--I presume everyone in this body has purchased a car--and probably a number of us on credit, although maybe not everybody. But nearly everyone has gone into a dealership and bought a new or used car and asked for financing on that new or used car and have gotten it from the local dealership. Ninety-four percent of those cars that are financed that way, that paper is actually from some relationship the dealership has upstream. It is from a bank, a major consumer auto lending entity or from somebody else who does the financing. The local dealership just has the paper there, and they are the ones that originate it. They sell the car and arrange for somebody else to do the financing. They don't do it--or 94 percent don't do that. Six percent of car dealerships do their own local financing.
I have an amendment that I will put forward, if we get a chance--or I would prefer this actually be built into the base bill--where the local auto dealership that doesn't loan their own money isn't required to comply with the consumer financial products requirement of this bill. It will add another level of regulation onto auto dealers that are already struggling to try to get cars to market so people can purchase and they can provide financing for individuals.
If we add another level of regulation, it will just mean more cost, and they are already regulated. This product would be regulated upstream already. The financial institutions that are writing the note and the paper are already regulated under this bill. Why would we do the double regulation in the bill on top of the local regulation they already have?
That is why the auto dealers are here in town today, saying they didn't cause the financial crisis, they are not banks, and they do not think they ought to be a part of this. They are quintessential Main Street auto dealers. They are part of the Main Street fabric. We have lost a lot of auto dealers across the country during this financial downturn. We spent $3 billion trying to support the auto industry and now we have this heavy-handed regulation that will cost auto sales. It doesn't seem to make sense that we would penalize Main Street for Wall Street's problems. They are small businesses, the auto dealers are, in cities and towns throughout the country. We should be talking about how we can support them and extend credit in the marketplace rather than regulate and tamping down on their business.
My amendment is simple. It keeps these new banking regulations from touching auto dealers that do not loan their own money. That is all it does. If they loan their own money, they are subject to it. If they do not loan their own money, if some other major bank, financial house or institution does it, that financial house or bank or institution is subject to the regulation. But the auto dealer that is simply there trying to get a car sold and providing this instrument that comes from somebody else, they are not regulated, so they do not have the extra cost. So it is not double regulation from the same bill.
If an auto dealer does lend that money, as I mentioned, they will be regulated. This amendment applies only to auto dealers that facilitate loans from larger financial companies. Why should we have to amend this? If I am hearing anything across my State--and I am traveling a lot across Kansas--people are fed up with heavy-handed, big government. They have had it up to their necks and beyond with heavy-handed, big government. Why would we do this on top of everything else?
These auto dealers are the retail outlets. They are the storefronts that process the paperwork for various well-known brands with large finance arms. Under my amendment, these finance arms would still be regulated, but the dealers that process the paperwork wouldn't. But it is still regulated upstream. The auto dealerships themselves have been crippled from sales this last year, crippled from the financial crisis we hit. We have been trying to help and support them. This is a break in the cardinal rule that if you want less of something, tax and regulate it. That is what this bill will do. We will have less auto dealerships if you are going to tax and regulate them. It doesn't make any sense.
Under my amendment, auto dealers would still be regulated by the FTC and various State laws, so consumers would still have protection to ensure that truth in lending still applies. So if you are concerned about auto dealers and what they are doing, the writing and the paper retailwise, they remain regulated by the FTC and various State laws and consumer protection laws that are currently in place. I think those are things that should remain in place, and they do remain in place. We don't need another level on top of that. Why do we need to create a duplicative regulation for auto dealers, where we regulate each dollar of each auto loan twice? This is what frustrates people so much.
I have people raise the concern about what happens outside military bases and auto loans outside military bases. We have several major military bases in the State of Kansas. We are very proud of our military bases and our military. They are saying: OK. We want to get at auto loans and dealers there. Well, they are regulated. They are currently regulated. They are currently regulated under the FTC and various State laws.
If somebody is concerned about a small auto dealer that sits right outside a military base and tries to get financing for military members and they do not like what the financing is, that is currently regulated. It is already in many States, where a State's attorney general can go at these right now. They know where they are located. It is not as if they are hiding and moving around. They are located right outside military bases. If you want to hit them and regulate them, go to the State attorney general, go to the State consumer products agency, go to the State consumer finance agencies and have them address it. Why on Earth, with the big financial problem we have had that was created by Wall Street and international traders, would you want to hammer the local auto dealers?
As I put this amendment forward, it was interesting to me that we had a number of groups say people who sell recreational vehicles are also interested in being brought into this amendment and being excluded or motorcycle financers or any number of groups because they are seeing the same problem. They are small businesspeople. They are going to be regulated by this enormous Federal entity that was targeted at Wall Street and, instead, as small businesses in their local communities, they are going to get hit. They are going to take the hammer, and they are not set up to handle it. They do not have huge staffs in these areas. They have small staffs to take care of this, and now we are going to put a big regulatory entity on top of them when it is already regulated upstream.
This makes no sense, and it will do no good. It will cost a lot more, it will make financing less available to individuals, and it will hurt these businesses. It will hurt car sales, it will hurt motorcycle sales, and it will hurt the economy for no good reason. I ask my colleagues to focus in on what is happening in this area of the consumer products and their financing. Do we want to hit auto dealers? I don't think so. I don't think that was the target of this bill. It certainly wasn't the cause of the financial crisis we had.
Why would we have to hit them? We don't. Listen to your local auto dealers. They are here in town today. Hear their story about what is taking place. Let's help the auto dealers, as we have been trying to do, and let's not hurt them with a heavyhanded regulation.
With that, I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
