Public Statements
Letter To Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
Letter
By: Mike Enzi Richard Burr Jeff Sessions III Kit Bond Lamar Alexander James DeMint Mike Crapo Jim Bunning David Vitter John McCain III James Risch John Ensign John Cornyn George Voinovich Richard Shelby Lisa Murkowski Mike Johanns Thad Cochran Kay Bailey Hutchison Sam Brownback Thomas Coburn Judd Gregg Johnny Isakson Bob Bennett Lindsey Graham Saxby Chambliss Mitch McConnell Pat Roberts Jon Kyl John Barrasso John Thune Susan Collins Jim Inhofe George LeMieux Olympia Snowe Chuck Grassley Orrin Hatch Dick Lugar Robert Corker Scott Brown Roger Wicker
Date: April 16, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Letter To Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
All 41 Republican Senators Call For "Bipartisan and Inclusive Approach' to Regulatory Reform
All 41 members of the U.S. Senate Republican Conference signed the following letter to Majority Leader Reid:
Dear Leader Reid:
We encourage you to take a bipartisan and inclusive approach, rather than the partisan path you chose on health care.
A bipartisan bill should address the damaging financial practices of big Wall Street firms and government-sponsored entities that led to unprecedented taxpayer bailouts and caused our government to take on enormous amounts of debt. We simply cannot ask the American taxpayer to continue to subsidize this "too big to fail" policy. We must ensure that Wall Street no longer believes or relies on Main Street to bail them out. Inaction is not an option. However, it is imperative that what we do does not worsen the current economic climate or codify the circumstances that led to the last financial crisis.
We are united in our opposition to the partisan legislation reported by the Senate Banking Committee. As currently constructed, this bill allows for endless taxpayer bailouts of Wall Street and establishes new and unlimited regulatory powers that will stifle small businesses and community banks.
This is a complex issue that could have unintended consequences on job growth, the ability of Americans and business owners to access credit, and the United States' role as a worldwide leader in innovation and capital formation. The consequences of this bill will reverberate across our economy for years to come.
We urge you to support the bipartisan negotiations by the Banking and Agriculture Committees. We are confident that the Senate can overcome political tensions and provide a bipartisan approach to financial reform this year.

Source: http://mcconnell.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?p=PressReleases&ContentRecord_id=1b160d1b-953e-4f10-a430-54e9f36f5e6d&ContentType_id=c19bc7a5-2bb9-4a73-b2ab-3c1b5191a72b&Group_id=0fd6ddca-6a05-4b26-8710-a0b7b59a8f1f
