Public Statements
Health Care
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 10, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. I appreciate my colleagues allowing me to join in this colloquy because it is incredibly important and I believe the American public believes it is incredibly important because, if for no other reason, they are looking at it and saying: We don't want this bill. We don't think this bill is the right way to go. We don't think this procedure is the right way. So they oppose it on process and they oppose it on product. And you don't have to believe me. Listen to these poll numbers: 68 percent say the President and the congressional Democrats should keep trying to work with Republicans to craft legislation.
By the way, that big, all-day-long meeting at Blair House to talk about this, where we put forward a series of ideas, virtually all of them were rejected--a bipartisan incremental compromise, which is much more the way the American public wants to go.
A Rasmussen poll says that 57 percent of the voters say the health care reform plans we are discussing in Congress will hurt the U.S. economy. Only 25 percent think it will actually help. And 66 percent believe the health care plan proposed by President Obama and congressional Democrats is likely to increase the Federal deficit. Do you know the reason they think that? Because it will. This is going to increase the Federal deficit.
On top of all that, there is a big intangible here. If this bill passes, the rest of the world is watching to see if the United States passes this big increase--an entitlement program--when we are running $1.5 trillion in deficit and have a $12 trillion debt that is 90 percent of the size of our total economy. They are watching and they are saying: If the United States does this now, they are not serious about getting their budget under control. They are going to start pulling dollars out of the U.S. economy and putting them in other places. It will make it harder for us to raise capital, it will increase interest rates, and it is going to hurt the U.S. economy. And that is a near-term thing that is going to happen because people are watching this.
I might note the ``Saturday Night Live'' routine where China's President, Hu Jintao, is lecturing President Obama about how he is going to get the budget under control by passing a big new entitlement program. I don't usually cite ``Saturday Night Live,'' but in this case it lands a little too close to home. And people are saying: Yes, this doesn't make any sense to me either. This is going to hurt.
The front page of the Wall Street Journal has an article about what Ireland is having to do to get its budget under control, Greece is a mess, and our deficit and debt is skyrocketing.
If we pass this, this is going to hurt us in the near term as far as the cost of raising the capital we need in this economy. It will hurt States that are really struggling as well. It is a bad idea at a bad time.
I am glad my colleagues let me join them, and I note that the doctor is in--the Senator from Wyoming--to help us dissect this bill as well.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. We were on the floor in December, the longest continuous session in the history of the Senate, 25 continuous days, and we were talking about this and my colleague from Nebraska and I were joined by our colleague from Utah, Senator Hatch, who has been around a long time and part of a lot of health care reform legislation. His point is, if you follow the normal order and work it through a committee and bipartisan process, almost every health care bill he has been a part of--and there have been a number of substantial ones--gets 75 votes in this body. People want to support health care reform on a good bill. They will support it. It will be bipartisan. We are all for health care. But now you have a bill that is going to be completely partisan, on one side, not supported by the American public, and then you are having to jimmy rig a process to try to figure out how we set this up to do it.
Even KENT CONRAD, the chairman of the Budget Committee, who is a Democrat, says:
Reconciliation cannot be used to pass comprehensive health care reform. It won't work. It won't work because it was never designed for that kind of significant legislation.
My experience is, if you try to do something that is not designed to do this, you are going to get a flawed product and flawed process that people are going to be mad about. It will hurt this body. I think it will be very harmful to this country to do this and it should not be done.
After all the time we spent in December, 25 continuous days in session, I think the American people spoke when they had a Massachusetts election and elected SCOTT BROWN. It was clearly about health care reform.
I know my colleague from Wyoming has been all over speaking about this on television, getting a lot of feedback from people. He probably is getting the same sort of feedback that I have, about don't do this. It wasn't designed to be done, this sort of health care reform, in a reconciliation process.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. I join my colleague from Mississippi. I would note that is the case, and why is it the Speaker is saying we have to pass the bill to see what is in it? They are going to hold it back until they break enough arms to get a majority vote and then pop it out and then there will be an hour's debate on one-sixth of the economy being changed. We saw that same procedure when Majority Leader Reid was crafting this bill behind closed doors and nobody knew what was in the bill and then popped it out when you have the deal, when you made enough deals, broken enough arms, then we can pass this. That is no way to have a process like this. That is no way to effect this big a piece of the economy that touches every American's life in the process.
I urge the Speaker not to do something like this. Listen to the American public and follow normal order. They could send this back to committee, to the Finance and the HELP Committees, work a bipartisan agreement on this, say we have to hit this number or that, let's do an incremental approach and come out with a bill that would have 75 votes. That is doable.
We put forward a whole bunch of ideas at the Blair House. Here are different things we would support. Put out a long day of discussion. That is the normal order that produces good legislation that will stand the test of time. This will not stand the test of time, and it is going to bankrupt the country.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
