Public Statements
Tax on Bonuses Received from Certain Tarp Recipients
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 10, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise in support of the FAA reauthorization bill that has been put forward by Senator Rockefeller and Senator Hutchison. Both have worked hard on this legislation. I have worked on this legislation for a number of years as well.
My general aviation industry is centered in Wichita KS. It has had a lot of difficulty lately with markets and the recession and problems overall, and it needs a bit of good news. This would be a bit of good news, having FAA reauthorization. This is an industry that is roughly $150 billion in size. It is located primarily in the United States. It has created over 1.3 million jobs. It is key. It goes across a broad array of disciplines. It is a high-tech manufacturing business that we are very good at. This is something we need to have.
Implementation of the NextGen technology for navigation and travel across the United States is in the bill. Also in the bill is maintaining inspection procedures that are important for the safety of aircraft, increased funding for essential air service for a State such as mine that has a need for essential air service in places where it is tough to get in and out of and the population pool is not large. It needs that to move forward. It expands passenger rights and provides increased Federal support for small airports.
I think it also important that this legislation does not include language imposing disproportionate and onerous user fees on the general aviation industry. This is something Senator Roberts and I have been concerned about for some period of time, that the general aviation industry would get stuck with a disproportionate share of the funding for the overall FAA infrastructure. That is not in the bill. If it comes back to this body from the House with that in the bill, it is going to be something I am going to fight strongly against.
The bill is a good bipartisan bill. It has been worked out. It certainly is not perfect. No bill is. It is something that has been worked out over a period of time, over a series of years, over a lot of interests. It is the way we ought to legislate and move forward.
I say as a cautionary tale again to my colleagues that if the bill comes back with provisions from the House that are problems for this body, it is going to stop the bill and it then is not going to happen.
My urgings to my colleagues here and in the House would be, let's keep with the primary design of what this bill has and not try to load it with other things that might be special projects for individuals who are going to kill the bill. I have concerns on any side, whether it is on my side or the other side, of provisions being added that would kill this bill that has been a hard fought, long legislative process for us to move forward. It is a bipartisan piece of legislation. It will create jobs. It will spur further development in our Nation's aviation sector, a sector that needs some help and support now. This bill does that.
I can see a lot of ways this bill could get damaged and hurt along the way. I am not opposed to putting amendments in that make sense and that can continue to move the bill on through the legislative process. I am opposed to those amendments that would kill it and that would substantially harm it when this is something that has been worked on a long time through several committees to get it moving forward.
For those reasons, I support it. I support it as it is. I think we ought to move forward with it and move forward with it with some speed to help this critical industry in our country, to support safety in flying in this country, to support this legislation.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
