Public Statements
Letter to United States Secretary of the Interior, Ken Salazar
Letter
By: Dennis Moore Sam Brownback Pat Roberts Lynn Jenkins
Date: March 2, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Today, U.S. Senators Pat Roberts (R-KS), Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Representatives Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) and Dennis Moore (D-KS) sent a letter to the United States Secretary of the Interior, Ken Salazar, regarding concerns at Haskell Indian Nations University.
"I have heard from many Kansans regarding the lack of leadership at Haskell and the Bureau of Indian Education (BIE)," Senator Roberts said. "In October, I forwarded a letter to the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) regarding troubling issues at Haskell. After speaking personally with Secretary Salazar, I am hopeful we can now get the answers to these serious questions. We must work to ensure Haskell students are getting the quality education they deserve."
Following, is the full text of the letter:
"We write to express deep concern regarding troubling issues at Haskell Indian Nations University (HINU) in Lawrence, Kansas, the Bureau of Indian Education and the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
"On October 26, 2009 Senator Pat Roberts forwarded a letter from HINU's former Vice President to the BIA Congressional Affairs office. The letter alleges mismanagement of personnel, ethics violations and questions the role of the Federation of Indian Service Employees union among several other items. To date, Senator Roberts has not received a response and other alarming reports from constituents continue to flood our offices. This lack of response to serious accusations is deeply disappointing.
"Last September, BIE detailed HINU President Linda Warner to Southwestern Indian Polytechnic Institute (SIPI) in Albuquerque, NM. Following this assignment, Dr. Warner was detailed to Oklahoma City, OK. While Dr. Warner retains the title of president at HINU, major administrative decisions have been made in her absence, such as the canceling of an accreditation visit for two new bachelor degree programs late last year. There appears to be no clear line of authority at HINU or at BIE. We have been unable to determine who is in charge. The resulting lack of leadership has caused chaos and confusion to the detriment of HINU employees and the students, who are our primary concern.
"We also have a duty to ensure that federal taxpayer dollars are spent wisely and efficiently. President Obama's FY 2011 Budget requests significant federal support for HINU and BIA. We need assurances that this funding will be used to provide quality academic opportunities and support services to HINU students that will prepare them to compete in today's challenging world.
"We look forward to working with you to ensure accountability and transparency at HINU, BIE and BIA."
Senator Roberts serves on the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions.

Source: http://roberts.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?p=PressReleases&ContentRecord_id=0e6f62bd-7641-44fe-96c4-5dbc2f33bb8c&ContentType_id=ae7a6475-a01f-4da5-aa94-0a98973de620&Group_id=d8ddb455-1e23-48dd-addd-949f9b6a4c1f
