Public Statements
Letter to The Honorable Gary Locke Secretary of Commerce
Letter
By: Susan Collins Jim Bunning Sherrod Brown Ben Cardin Barbara Mikulski Sam Brownback Carl Levin Arlen Specter Robert Byrd Chuck Schumer Russ Feingold Olympia Snowe Bob Casey, Jr. Lindsey Graham Debbie Stabenow
Date: Feb. 25, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Partisan Group of Senators Prods Obama Administration to Pursue Allegations that China's Currency Manipulation is Subsidy Harming U.S. Paper Industry-Case Could Open Door to Crackdown on Currency Manipulation
Today, a bipartisan group of 15 U.S. senators announced it is urging the U.S. Department of Commerce to finally move forward with an investigation of China's currency manipulation. Senators Charles E. Schumer (D-NY) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC), joined by 13 of their colleagues from both sides of the aisle, sent a letter urging Commerce Secretary Gary Locke to launch an investigation into the U.S. manufacturing industry's allegations that China's actions with respect to its currency constitute a countervailable subsidy. The letter comes after numerous claims by U.S. manufacturers that China subsidizes its export-oriented companies through currency practices that result in economic harm to U.S. companies forced to compete with subsidized Chinese imports.
The letter has been signed by Robert Byrd (D-WV), Carl Levin (D-MI), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Russ Feingold (D-WI), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Susan Collins (R-ME), Sam Brownback (R-KS), Jim Bunning (R-KY), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Bob Casey (D-PA) and Arlen Specter (D-PA). "There can be no doubt that China's policy of large-scale intervention in the exchange markets and the significant undervaluation of its currency acts as a subsidy to Chinese exports to the United States. We respectfully urge the Department to properly assess the most recent allegation that China's manipulation of its currency is a countervailable subsidy," the senators wrote.
The Commerce Department is tasked with investigating certain unfair trade practices, including foreign government subsidization of products exported to the United States. If Commerce determines that imported products are subsidized, and if the International Trade Commission finds that the U.S. industry making the like product is economically harmed by the subsidized imports, Commerce will order the imposition of additional duties on those imports. Subsidization is considered to be an unfair trade practice under World Trade Organization rules because it distorts trade, allowing foreign manufacturers to sell products in the U.S. market at artificially low, subsidized prices, thus undercutting and causing economic harm to domestic manufacturers.

Source:
