Public Statements
Senator Brownback, Congressman Brady Host Economic Summit : Warn That Current Taxing, Spending, Borrowing Is Fiscally Irresponsible
Statement
By: Sam Brownback Kevin Brady
Date: Feb. 23, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Senator Brownback, Congressman Brady Host Economic Summit

Warn That Current Taxing, Spending, Borrowing Is Fiscally Irresponsible
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) and U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), both leaders of the Joint Economic Committee, today hosted an economic summit to find solutions to successfully decrease government spending.
"Today's thorough presentations have provided myself, Senator Brownback and other members of Congress with new ideas on how to get America's economy back on the road to real economic prosperity," said Brady. "The summit confirmed for us that taxing, spending and borrowing is -- without a doubt -- the wrong way to get us to where we need to be.
"As we move forward, we will host similar events that will help us dig deeper into the more technical aspects of our economy in order to ensure that our economy remains the strongest in the world," added Brady who expressed hope that these summits will help lay the groundwork for Congressional action.
Brownback said, "Across the nation, Americans are facing economic hardships and are feeling discouraged. Congress needs to get serious and focus on finding solutions that will work to grow the economy. We need to enact policies that will create jobs, not increase taxes. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass legislation that will jump-start the economy."
Summit panelists included Nobel Prize winning economist Dr. Edward C. Prescott; former Office of Management and Budget Director James C. Miller; Carnegie Mellon University Professor of Political Economy Allan H. Meltzer; and Institute for Research into the Economics of Taxation President Stephen J. Entin. The panelists discussed ideas on how to control federal spending and reform the tax code.
Dr. Meltzer said, "This was a great thing to do today. From an economic standpoint, these issues are complex and need to be thought through. Republicans need a plan and today was a great first step in developing that plan."
Mr. Stephen Entin said, "I am glad to see that the Joint Economic Committee is raising issues that need to be raised. This is great, especially because you need to understand these complex issues before you put them into policy."
Dr. Miller said, "Its important for Congress to come to grips with what every American is frightened of, the federal budget."

Source: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/tx08_brady/2_23_10_Brady_Brownback_JEC_Conference.html
