Public Statements
Brownback, Cornyn Announce Legislation to Pave Way for Freedom, Democracy in Iran
Press Release
By: John Cornyn Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 11, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Brownback, Cornyn Announce Legislation to Pave Way for Freedom, Democracy in Iran
Bill would send message of support to Iranians, provide resources to help bring democracy to Iran
U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS) and John Cornyn (R-TX) today announced the introduction of legislation to support efforts by Iranian opposition groups to remove the abusive and destabilizing government regime in Tehran, which is headed by Supreme Leader Ali Hoseyni Khamenei and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. The bill would establish a program of direct assistance for the Iranian people and would help pave the way for a freely elected, open and democratic government in Iran. The Iran Democratic Transition Act would not only send a strong message of support to the Iranian people during this difficult time, it would also provide tangible resources needed to establish a democratic system in Iran in the near future.
Brownback said, "The biggest problem with Iran is not weapons or terrorism but the regime itself. This legislation would put the United States firmly and unequivocally on the side of the Iranian people. We must be prepared to stand behind Iranians who are ready to replace a regime that rules by terror with a government that is chosen by the Iranian people, respects human rights and does not pose a threat to world peace."
Cornyn said, "On the anniversary of the Iranian revolution, throngs of brave Iranians are taking to the streets, risking their lives to protest the radical, totalitarian regime ruling their nation. The people of Iran are clearly hungry for freedom, and America has a duty to stand behind them and support their cause. Their cause is just, and this is the right thing to do. This legislation will send a clear signal to the Iranian people that we support their efforts to end the current tyrannical regime, which fails to represent their ideals and democratic aspirations.
"For too long, the voices of forward-looking, freedom-loving Iranians have been muted through the regime's violence and intimidation. President Ahmadinejad, with the full support of the Supreme Leader, has made clear what he stands for. This regime's human rights abuses, relentless quest for nuclear weapons, and support for terrorism - including against American troops in Iraq and Afghanistan - must not be tolerated any longer. It continues to destabilize the Middle East and threaten international peace.
"Never has the cause of freedom in Iran been more urgent. In a free and democratic Iran, national leaders would never do what Ahmadinejad did today: celebrate the enrichment of uranium in defiance of the entire international community. I urge Majority Leader Reid and my other colleagues to quickly take up this legislation to help the Iranian people pave the way for freedom and democracy in Iran."
Highlights of the Iran Democratic Transition Act:
Findings: The bill describes the current Iranian regime's human rights abuses, clear support of terrorism, pursuit of nuclear weapons, and belligerent rhetoric regarding attacks on both Israel and the United States.
Declarations of Policy: The bill states that U.S. policy towards Iran should be:
* To fully and publicly support efforts of the Iranian people to oppose and remove the current regime and transition to a freely elected, open, and democratic government in Iran;
* To deny the current regime the ability to:
-Continue to oppress the people of Iran;
-Interfere with the internal affairs of its neighbors, including Iraq and Afghanistan;
-Finance or support terrorist organizations;
-Develop weapons of mass destruction and the associated delivery systems.
U.S. Assistance for Democratic Opposition Groups: The bill authorizes the President to support a transition to democracy in Iran by providing non-military assistance to Iranian democratic opposition organizations, as well as humanitarian assistance to victims of the current regime. Creation of Special Envoy for Democracy and Human Rights in Iran: The bill creates the position of "Special Envoy for Democracy and Human Rights in Iran," which would hold the rank of Ambassador, to coordinate U.S. efforts for the promotion and support of democracy and human rights in Iran.
Exploration of Regional Framework on Human Rights: The bill expresses the sense of Congress that the U.S. should explore the possibility of a multilateral and regional initiative to protect human rights, modeled after the Helsinki process established by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
Reports to Congress: The bill would require the President to submit two reports to Congress: 1) detailing a clear plan for implementation of this act, and 2) following the establishment of a transitional government in Iran, detailing a comprehensive plan for U.S. support of the Iranian people during the transition period.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=322191
