Public Statements
Senate Condemns Cyber Attack Against Google in China
Statement
By: Jon Kyl Ted Kaufman Arlen Specter Sam Brownback Jim Webb, Jr. John McCain III Russ Feingold Bob Casey, Jr. Joe Lieberman
Date: Feb. 3, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Senate Condemns Cyber Attack Against Google in China
The Senate on Tuesday evening unanimously passed a bipartisan resolution condemning recent cyber attacks launched against Google in China and reaffirming strong support for freedom of expression and press freedom around the world. In the case of the Google attack - where at least 34 other major companies were also reportedly targeted - evidence suggests the attackers' primary goal was to access Gmail accounts of journalists, human rights activists and dissidents.
The resolution, introduced by Senators Ted Kaufman (D-DE), Sam Brownback (R-KS), Bob Casey (D-PA), Jon Kyl (R-AZ), Russ Feingold (D-WI), Joseph Lieberman (I-CT), Jim Webb (D-VA), Arlen Specter (D-PA) and John McCain (R-AZ), calls on the Chinese government to conduct a thorough review of these cyber attacks, and to make the results of the investigation transparent. It also voices support for a recent initiative announced by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to encourage Internet freedom by promoting technology to circumvent electronic censorship and monitoring worldwide. Finally, it highlights the range of efforts within China to restrict press freedom and freedom of expression, especially on the Internet.
"The United States government should do everything it can to promote Internet freedom around the world; the Internet can be a valuable tool to spread ideas for people who live in an oppressed society. Unfortunately, the Chinese government is systematically censoring the online activities of its citizens. The current on-going situations in countries like Iran and China illustrate how the growth of Internet freedom could encourage peaceful political progress and strengthen our national security," said Senator Brownback.
"Last night, the Senate spoke in one voice, calling on the Chinese government to investigate and explain the recent cyber attacks and expressing serious concern about ongoing attempts by China and other countries to restrict press and Internet freedom," said Senator Kaufman. "This resolution reaffirms freedom of expression and the press as cornerstones of U.S. foreign policy, and we will continue to take measures to promote these fundamental freedoms and rights globally. Governments who use technology to silence their citizens or restrict the free flow of information should consider themselves on notice."
"Press and Internet freedom is more under pressure around the world - the treatment of Google in China is only the latest example of an increasingly closed environment for the Internet, bloggers and journalists," said Senator Casey. "This incident should serve as a wakeup call to the international community. I am glad that the U.S. has taken a renewed interest in Internet freedom and I look forward to working with the Administration on these issues."
"For decades, the United States has embraced, encouraged, and welcomed China's integration into the global economy, including online," said Senator Lieberman. "Unfortunately, recent reports about the behavior of the Chinese government in cyberspace are raising global doubts about its willingness to be a responsible stakeholder in our international system."
"It is important that the U.S. not stand idly as China infringes on the free flow of information. Tearing down Internet cyberwalls and condemning illegal cyber attacks are vital actions the US must take to enable freedom of thought, expression and the unimpeded flow of ideas and information," said Senator Specter.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=322054
