Public Statements
Brownback Introduces CARFA as Amendment to Debt Limit Increase Legislation
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 28, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

Says government spending must be brought under control
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback last night introduced the Commission on Accountability and Review of Federal Agencies legislation as an amendment to the Debt Limit Increase bill which is currently pending in the Senate. If passed, CARFA would address the urgent need to reduce federal government spending.
"It is time for the government to bring down costs and do away with wasteful, inefficient programs," said Brownback. "Congress must prioritize its spending and carefully review federal programs that are no longer useful; taxpayers have the right to expect that their tax dollars are being spent as efficiently as possible. In these tough economic times, people across the country are tightening their belts and asking why government isn't doing the same."
Brownback earlier this year introduced CARFA as a stand-alone bill. CARFA would create a bipartisan commission to review all federal programs and agencies, make recommendations to realign duplicative programs and eliminate programs that have outlived their usefulness or are ineffective. The recommendations would then be reported to Congress. A vote would be held to either accept or reject the recommendations as a whole. The commissioners would review roughly a quarter of all federal programs each year over a four-year period. At the end of each year, each set of recommendations would receive an up-or-down vote. After its fourth and final submission, the commission would terminate.
Brownback continued, "The national debt has passed a staggering $12,000,000,000,000: Congress must get on the path toward responsible spending. Enough is enough."
Brownback began to discuss CARFA in 1994, and first introduced the legislation in the 107th Congress.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=321788
