Public Statements
Increasing The Statutory Limit On The Public Debt--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 26, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

INCREASING THE STATUTORY LIMIT ON THE PUBLIC DEBT--Continued -- (Senate - January 26, 2010)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, as I understand, there are no further votes this evening, and there will not be votes tomorrow. We will have this up Thursday, and we will debate it then and vote on it. I will put in somewhat of a statement tonight and then talk about it further on Thursday.
This is a commission that has been in front of this body several times. We voted on it. It passed this body twice before in the budget debates. It is CARFA, the Commission on the Accountability and Review of Federal Agencies.
It is modeled exactly after the Base Realignment and Closure Commission, the BRAC, that has been so successful on closing military bases and consolidating assets and put the military in a better position. This is the same thing. It is to all of government. It has been voted on by this body twice before. It has passed this body. It is done in the budget agreement. It is time it became the law of the land.
That is the process whereby we can actually cut government spending. It is a simple process--eight members on the Commission, four appointed by this body, four appointed by the House. For any recommendation to move forward, it has to pass by six of eight members, so either party cannot dominate or determine it. It has to be six of eight. It will take one-fourth of the government each year for 4 years and review that fourth of the Federal Government and make recommendations for closure during that year's period of time.
The report for that year then is submitted to the appropriate committees of jurisdiction for a period of 30 days. They can review the report. They can hold hearings on the CARFA commission recommendations for a period of 30 days. They can look it over and see which ones they like, which ones they do not like, but they cannot amend it.
At the end of that 30 days, it is then subject to a privileged motion to come in front of this body so it has to be voted on by this body with a limit of 10 hours of debate prior to going to the motion, 10 hours of debate on the bill itself. It cannot be amended. Then it is an up-or-down vote, with a 50-vote threshold of passage. It is a privileged motion that comes in front of this body, with a majority vote for it to pass through this body.
This is the way we will get spending under control and done. This is an agreeable way. It is a way that has proven itself in the past. Now is the time we have to do this.
I wish to show one chart that is new out today. It is no new news, unfortunately. This one is new out today. This is the projection of our Federal debt as a percentage of GDP. That is the one to watch, the projection of the Federal debt as a percentage of GDP.
We can see what the January 2008 estimate of the Federal debt as a percentage of our economy was supposed to be. Here is the percent of the economy. We are pushing up 38 percent or so at this point in time. In January 2008, this starts bending back down and moves to 20 percent by 2020. Then we had the January 2009 estimate come in. We see there we were getting up to mid-50 percent, and then it was going to bow back down to 41 percent. That was last year's 2009 estimate.
This year, just out today--this is the estimate--2010 as a percent of the economy, we are looking at our Federal debt as being midsixties, 67 percent, and staying at that level for the debt as a percentage of the economy. These are terrible numbers. They are way too high. They are stifling the economy. It is a nonsustainable position, and it is something we have to fix.
Earlier today, we considered a commission that had both spending and taxes in it. The American public is not for more taxes. They think they are taxed out, and I believe they are too taxed. They should not be taxed more. They do want us to cut spending. There is no question about that. They want us to cut it prudently. They want us to cut in wasteful, duplicative areas. That is what they want to get at. They want core programs clearly taken care of. That is why we put it to a bipartisan commission of individuals to look at. The recommendation has to clear six of eight members so no party can control--four appointed by Republicans, four appointed by Democrats--examined by the committees and then put forward for a vote. This can work. This is what the public wants us to do. It is time to do it.
We have to start bending this down, the debt to GDP. This is dangerously high. It has not been this high since World War II. We cannot sustain it. We have to pull it back down. I would love us to start to cut spending and go through the committees and say we are going to cut here, we are going to cut there. We have not been able to do that under Republican or Democratic control of either branch of government. We have not been able to go at that on an individual basis.
This is a system that has worked in the past. This is a system that this body has approved in the past. It has been in budget agreements. We have not made it all the way through in the budget agreement, but Members in this body have voted on this system for controlling spending.
If people want to come back later and say: We want to look at other provisions or we want to add something back, they can do that in future conferences. But this gets that culling process going.
I wish to point out one issue to my colleagues about the problem of running high debt and its impact on the economy. If the Federal Government runs a high debt level, it has a drag on the economy. There is a recent study just released at an American Economics Association meeting. The title of the study is ``Growth in a Time of Debt.'' It said, according to the study, that the sharp runup in public sector debt will likely prove one of the endearing legacies of the 2009 financial crisis in the United States and elsewhere. The study looked at debt levels of 44 countries and included data over the last 200 years in order to get the most comprehensive picture possible, the picture of debt on economic growth.
What does this big lug do to the overall economy? Does it have an impact? They said, clearly, yes.
The conclusion is clear: Very high government debt, classified as 90 percent or more of gross domestic product, results in average growth rates a full 4 percent below countries with lower debt levels. Since annual growth rate and GDP is averaged considerably less than 4 percent over the last 10 years in the United States, carrying high national debt can mean the difference between a growing economy and a contracting economy.
After the recent binge of Federal spending, our Nation's gross debt could well surpass the 90 percent of GDP mark and go even above that, to the point that could be the lug on the economy that keeps us from growing and actually puts us in a contracting economy.
I urge my colleagues or members of the Senate staff to look at these studies and look at the impact of debt on economic growth. This could end up being the real lug of what happens during this period of time.
CARFA is a bipartisan mechanism that can work us out of this situation. It pushes at the places we actually can cut and need to cut. Everybody in this body believes, and I believe, there are clear places in the Federal Government we can cut. For one reason or another, they have become sacred cows and we have not been able to cut them. This is a process that has worked on military bases before.
I will talk more about this amendment when we vote on it on Thursday. I ask my colleagues, in the interim day, when we have a chance to look at some of these things, to examine this process. It is one they have seen before. I have proposed this bill for 10 years. They voted on it before, as I stated earlier. I urge them to look at this and think: Now is the time to do this. Maybe they had reservations about it in the past or thought: I don't think we want to go into that sort of mechanism now. But there is not another mechanism that works. This changes the mechanism for spending in a way that has worked in the past and, clearly, with these sort of debt numbers, the time has come to do it.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
