Public Statements
Brownback Joins Murkowski in Plans to Oppose Enactment of the EPA Endangerment Finding
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 21, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today expressed his support for Senator Murkowski's plans to offer legislation opposing the Environmental Protection Agency's recently announced "endangerment finding."
Senator Murkowski, the Ranking Member of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, spoke on the Senate floor today about her intentions to introduce a "resolution of disapproval", created under the Congressional Review Act, to prevent the EPA from enacting regulation that would allow it to regulate green house gas emissions.
"As I've stated before, overreaching regulations like the EPA's endangerment finding will cause irreparable damage to our national economy," said Brownback. "I support the Ranking Member's actions, and I will proudly co-sponsor this legislation once introduced. The Administration is attempting to promulgate regulations that will have the greatest negative effects on some of the most important sectors of our state economy. I've spoken to small refinery operators, farmers, cattle ranchers, and utilities and they are unanimous in their opposition to the EPA's proposal."
Brownback anticipates introduction of the resolution in January, an option that is available only after the EPA publishes its endangerment finding in the Federal Register. Under the Clean Air Act, publication of the endangerment finding would allow the EPA to regulate any source of green house gases that emits 250 tons of carbon per year. This would not only affect large emitters of green house gases, but it would also bring automobiles and many small businesses under the regulatory control of the federal government. The EPA has proposed a "tailoring rule" that would amend the CAA to regulate only those sources of green house gases that emit 25,000 tons of carbon per year. This proposal by the EPA to amend the law would undoubtedly fail to withstand legal challenges by industry and environmental groups alike.
Brownback continued, "While it's important to address the potential implications of a changing climate, the Administration is going about it the wrong way. Not only will this devastate the Kansas economy, but it will have no impact on lowering global temperatures. Congress and the Administration need to take a step back and find workable, common sense solutions to addressing this issue, and I can assure you, enactment of the endangerment finding is not a workable solution."

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=321057
