Public Statements
Brownback Warns EPA Plan to Bypass Congress on Greenhouse Emissions Will Cost Millions of Jobs
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 21, 2010
Location: Washington, DC

U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today came out against the decision by the Environmental Protection Agency to not wait for Congress to pass legislation and announce its plans regulate and tax green house gas emissions.
"The Administration has proposed to further burden our fragile economy with regulation and taxation, a step that will do little to nothing to reduce global temperatures," said Brownback. "Current analysis has estimated that, if implemented, regulation of green house gas emissions would result in national annual job losses exceeding 800,000, with some energy intensive industries losing more than 50 percent of jobs.
"Considering the unemployment rate is above 10%, I can't think of a worst time to consider implementing regulations that will have devastating financial impacts on all Americans, especially low income families who spend the most on essentials like food and energy costs. I have spoken with my constituents working in small oil refineries, public utilities in Kansas City, and feed lot operators in Southwest Kansas and they all have very real concerns that their jobs will be at stake should the EPA take this drastic step."
For cattle farmers in Kansas, green house gas regulation would be devastating. The United States Department of Agriculture has stated that even very small operations would meet the threshold. For example, dairy facilities with over 25 cows, beef cattle operations of over 50 cattle, swine operations with over 200 hogs, and farms with over 500 acres of corn would be affected. Also, The Farm Bureau has estimated that additional regulation of green house gases could result in increased taxes of $87.50 per animal. With cattlemen breaking even or losing money under current economic conditions, this additional tax would undoubtedly put many Kansas farmers and ranchers out of business.
Brownback continued, "Even members of the president's party are calling for the Administration to not overstep Congress. I urge the Obama Administration to take a step back and consider the implications this will have on our economy. Rest assured, I will work with my colleagues in the Senate to pursue options through the authorization and appropriation processes to make sure this regulation does not become a reality. We should work toward a cleaner future by investment and innovation, not taxes and regulations."

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=321059
