Public Statements
Native American Apology Resolution
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 21, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

NATIVE AMERICAN APOLOGY RESOLUTION -- (Senate - December 21, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I would also like to highlight a section of this conference report that means a great deal to many American Indian tribal leaders in this country, to several of my colleagues and to me personally, the Native American apology resolution.
I am very pleased to report that with the addition of this language in the defense appropriations conference report, we--the United States of America--will officially apologize for the past ill-conceived policies and maltreatment by the United States toward the Native peoples of this land.
With the passage of this language, we, as a Nation, will reaffirm our commitment toward healing our Nation's wounds rooted in a difficult past of Federal-tribal relations and work toward establishing better relationships rooted in reconciliation and forgiveness.
Native Americans have a vast and proud legacy on this continent. Long before 1776 and the establishment of the United States of America, native peoples inhabited this land and maintained a powerful physical and spiritual connection to it. In service to the Creator, Native peoples sowed the land, journeyed it, and protected it. The people from my State of Kansas have a similar strong attachment to the land.
Like many in my State, I was raised on the land. I grew up farming and caring for the land. I and many in my State established a connection to this land as well. We care for our Nation and the land of our forefathers so greatly that we too are willing to serve and protect it, as faithful stewards of the creation with which God has blessed us. I believe without a doubt citizens across this great Nation share this sentiment and know its unifying power. Americans have stood side by side for centuries to defend this land we love.
Both the Founding Fathers of the United States and the indigenous tribes that lived here were attached to this land. Both sought to steward and protect it. There were several instances of collegiality and cooperation between our forbears--for example, in Jamestown, VA, Plymouth, MA, and in aid to explorers Lewis and Clark.
Yet, sadly, since the formation of the American Republic, numerous conflicts have ensued between our government, the Federal Government, and many of these tribes, conflicts in which warriors on all sides fought courageously and which all sides suffered. Even from the earliest days of our Republic there existed a sentiment that honorable dealings and a peaceful coexistence were clearly preferable to bloodshed. Indeed, our predecessors in congress in 1787 stated in the northwest ordinance:
``The utmost good faith shall always be observed toward the Indians.''
Today we live up to this goal, today, we right a wrong that has been committed in this Nation.
This amendment extends a formal apology from the United States to tribal governments and Native peoples nationwide--something we have never done; something we should have done years and years ago.
Further, this resolution will not resolve the many challenges still facing Native Americans, nor will it authorize, support or settle any claims against the United States. It doesn't have anything to do with any property claims against the United States. That is specifically set aside and not in this bill.
What this amendment achieves is recognition, honor, and the importance of Native Americans to this land and to the United States in the past and today and offers an official apology for the poor and painful path the U.S. Government sometimes made in relation to our Native brothers and sisters by disregarding our solemn word to Native peoples. It recognizes the negative impact of numerous destructive Federal acts and policies on Native Americans and their culture, and it begins--begins--the effort of reconciliation.
Apologies are oftentimes difficult, but like treaties, go beyond mere words and usher in a true spirit of reconciling past differences and help to pave the way toward a united future--a future that transcends the individual but strives to reach into eternity. The notion of the creation of the ``Beloved Community'' that Dr. King spoke of ..... that my good friend representative JOHN LEWIS speaks of is very appropriate at this moment for this time. ``The end is reconciliation, the end is redemption, the end is the creation of the beloved community.'' This is our goal; this is my hope for our Nation united as one people.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
