Public Statements
Service Members Home Ownership Tax Act Of 2009--Resumed
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 15, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

SERVICE MEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009--Resumed -- (Senate - December 15, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for this opportunity to address the Lautenberg amendment and speak in favor of the Lautenberg amendment.
I oppose the base bill. I oppose the bill overall. I have spoken a number of times in opposition to the overall bill. It is way too expensive, it cuts Medicare, raises taxes, and inserts the funding of abortion, which is something we haven't looked at in 30 years. The Hyde language has not allowed funding of abortion, and instead this does and puts it in, and I think it will result in poorer health care for a number of Americans.
But the issue I rise on today is on the Lautenberg amendment, and in support of the Lautenberg amendment. This is an amendment we have seen in this body four times previously over the last 10 years. Each time the Lautenberg amendment has passed overwhelmingly, and that is because of the safety concerns for drugs coming into the United States.
I would note that Secretary Sebelius, Secretary of HHS--Health and Human Services--who before being named to this position was the Governor of the State of Kansas for 6 years, with whom I worked over the years, through her office has stated they cannot basically certify the safety of these drugs.
There is a letter that has been gone over in some depth and length from the Food and Drug Commissioner saying that it is going to be very difficult for them to certify the safety of these drugs. Yet what the Lautenberg amendment does is it says: OK, if you can certify safety, and this is going to reduce the price, then they can be admitted.
That seems to make sense. That is why 4 times over the last 10 years this body has passed the Lautenberg amendment, or an equivalent, and I think that is appropriate.
I would also note there is a huge industry in the United States--the pharmaceutical industry--that is quite concerned about the safety and efficacy of what this bill would do in not allowing the safety of the drugs if you don't pass a Lautenberg amendment. They are very concerned about that. And toward that regard, I will read pieces of a letter sent to me by Kansas Bio. It is the Kansas Biosciences Organization. They sent this letter to me saying:
On behalf of the members of Kansas Bio, please accept this letter in opposition to Senator Dorgan's drug importation amendment to the health care reform legislation which may be voted on by the Senate. We believe that the promotion of drug importation is an extremely risky endeavor which threatens the livelihood of one of Kansas' fastest growing bioscience industry sectors--the service providers to our Nation's and our world's drug development and delivery companies.
KansasBio is an industry organization representing over 150 bioscience companies, academic institutions, State affiliates, and related economic development organizations in the State of Kansas, throughout the Kansas City region. ..... Senator Dorgan's amendment opens up the risk of allowing foreign drugs that do not have FDA approval into the United States and thereby posing significant health and safety risks to the patients.
It is signed by the president and CEO, Angela Kreps, of KansasBio.
I am ranking member on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, and the Food and Drug Administration, so I am keenly interested in the committee structure in this issue.
In addition, the University of Kansas in my State, in addition to having the top-ranked basketball team in the country, has the top-ranked pharmaceutical school in the country. They are a part of KansasBio and concerned about the Dorgan amendment in place. That is why they support things like the Lautenberg amendment which assure two things: that you have safety and that any value in this proposal is passed along to the consumer.
The FDA has been tasked with the responsibility of safeguarding this country's prescription drug supply and has executed that responsibility, I believe, quite well. It would be unwise for this body, then, to not value their opinions in regard to this matter. The Lautenberg amendment counts on the FDA expertise and proven track record and permits legal importation of prescription drugs into the United States only if Secretary of Health and Human Services, Secretary Sebelius in this administration, as head of the FDA, can certify to Congress that prescription drug importation will do two things: No. 1, pose no additional risk to the public health and safety; and, No. 2, result in a significant reduction in the cost of covered products to the American consumer. The safety and cost savings certification amendment would restore this language.
The Lautenberg amendment does that. This Congress must require a safety and cost savings certification from the Secretary of HHS before opening the floodgates of drug importation. Requiring this certification is the responsible way to ensure that American citizens will be protected from potentially life-threatening counterfeit, contaminated, or diluted prescription drugs.
As I mentioned, the Senate has voted on this previously four times, each time overwhelmingly adopting something like the Lautenberg amendment. As many of my colleagues may remember, the safety and cost savings certification was first signed into law when the Senate passed the Medicine Equity and Drug Safety Act of 2000. During that debate, concerns were raised by many in this body that drug importation would expose Americans to counterfeit and polluted prescription drugs. To alleviate these well-documented fears, the Senate passed this second-degree amendment then unanimously.
To date, as noted earlier, no HHS Secretary has been able to certify that drug importation will not pose a significant health and safety threat. For those reasons, I support the Lautenberg amendment.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
