Public Statements
Departments Of Transportation And Housing And Urban Development, And Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010--Conference Report
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 12, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION AND HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010--CONFERENCE REPORT -- (Senate - December 12, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Before my colleague leaves the floor, I wish to ask him a question or two if he wouldn't mind. He has been involved in most of the major health issues that have passed this body in the last 15 years. What was the vote margin in the Senate on some of those bills, on the Hatch-Kennedy, Hatch-Waxman bills? How many votes, roughly? I am not asking you to pull that up from memory, and it may not be fair to do. As I recall, a number of people on both sides of the aisle ended up supporting those bills.
Mr. HATCH. On the CHIP bill I can't remember what the exact number was but I think it was between 70 or 80 votes. It was a bipartisan bill. In fact, on the Finance Committee when I brought it up only two Senators voted against it. It was like 19 to 2.
Mr. BROWNBACK. In the Finance Committee?
Mr. HATCH. Every Republican except two, and every Democrat voted for it.
Mr. BROWNBACK. And Hatch-Waxman? It is longer back.
Mr. HATCH. That was unanimous. If I recall correctly, I think it was done through a unanimous consent.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I believe you did a major health care bill with Senator Dodd from Connecticut.
Mr. HATCH. Yes.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Do you recall the split?
Mr. HATCH. They were all bipartisan. That is what gets me, because people know--people such as myself, such as the senior Senator from Kansas--we are willing to work on it with them. We know we can't get everything we want. Our colleagues have different viewpoints than we do. But tell me that I am wrong--I know you can't--that the HELP Committee bill was done solely between a few people at the White House and the Kennedy staff, and basically a few Democrats. That was it. No Republicans.
The House bill, I wish to ask the Senator, does he know of any Republican who was asked to participate in helping to develop that monstrosity they call the House bill?
Mr. BROWNBACK. If I could respond to my colleague, I do not know of any. I don't know of any who were even asked. I know of some who were told you can join this bill, or asked that--OK, can you join our bill but you don't have any input.
Mr. HATCH. After they came up with it, but how about the Reid bill? Does the Senator know if any Republicans were involved, able to participate in that bill, after the discussion between the White House and Senator Reid and a few Democrats?
Mr. BROWNBACK. None. I know of none.
Mr. HATCH. None were involved. After they get it they say we want to work with you. After they get it done in the ways that I don't think any Republican can support, then they will say, yes, we would like it to be bipartisan. Has the Senator seen any acceptance of amendments here on the floor?
Mr. BROWNBACK. I haven't seen any at all, and particularly when we tried to work in a bipartisan fashion to add Hyde language into the bill that was defeated, not accepted.
My point is something I have seen the Senator say in a quote, that a good health care bill should have 70 votes because it is major legislation that affects everybody in the United States. It has huge costs associated with it. So it is not something you do on a single-party basis, it is something you work extensively on over a long period of time.
I ask my colleague again, over how many years he worked with Senator Kennedy on getting the Hatch-Kennedy bill, or Waxman--my guess is those are lengthy pieces of negotiations that take a period of time to get something that has bipartisan support.
Mr. HATCH. That is right. One thing I appreciated very much about Senator Kennedy, as liberal as he was--he was the leading liberal lion in the Senate, in the whole Congress, in my opinion--he knew unless we could get together in a bipartisan way we could not get the job done. This involves one-sixth of the American economy; one-sixth. We are being told take it or leave it. That is what I call an arrogance of power.
I don't want to be mean to my colleagues, I think many of them are very sincere, but it is an arrogance of power to not deal with the other side and to not even talk to us about it until after you have done what you want to do. I have to say, this is the worst I have seen it in the whole 33 years I have been in the Senate.
Mr. BROWNBACK. If I could ask one more question before my colleague leaves--and also a comment that I like the Senator's tie, nice bright colors on a Saturday session.
Mr. HATCH. It is a western tie. I thought I would wear it out of loudness today.
Mr. BROWNBACK. What does the Senator think of getting--how many total votes could you get for a bipartisan health care bill along the lines of which a number of people on our side have discussed, where you expand access, you try to bend the cost curve down, you try to get more access to low-income individuals? Does the Senator think he could craft a bipartisan bill that could get well over 60 votes on health care reform?
Mr. HATCH. I believe we could craft a bill that would get almost 100 votes. I think we would at least get between 70 and 80 votes and probably more if we worked together to do it. I don't think there is any question we could do that.
Look, we all want prevention, we want maintenance, we all want to cover as many people as we possibly can, we all want to correct some of the deficiencies that are in these bills, we all want to take care of people with preexisting illnesses. I could go on and on. Those are things we could build upon in ways that would work.
This bill is not going to work very well. But we could build upon that, bipartisan-wise, and build a complete bill We Republicans would not get everything we want. But I think there are Democrats who believe we ought to use the principles of federalism, have 50 State laboratories out there, let them work on their own problems in accordance with their own demographics. I know Kansas is not New Jersey. Neither is Utah. And New Jersey is not Kansas or Utah, to pick three States. You can do that with any three States. But we know one thing, if we follow the principles of federalism--that is what we did in CHIP, and CHIP worked well by anybody's measure--if we follow the principles of federalism we would be able to look and pick and choose from the various States what works and what does not.
You would have the usually big Democratic States that probably wouldn't function no matter what you do. But even they would benefit. Even they would benefit from looking at the other States and saying will that work in our State. Frankly, that is what made this country great.
There are friends on the other side who do not agree with me on that but there are friends over there who do agree with me on that, as you can see, getting 70 or 80 votes on the CHIP bill. There were other bills we put through by unanimous consent, because people recognized they were well intentioned, well written, had bipartisan support and nobody wanted to vote against them.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I said I would only ask the Senator one more question, but I have one more. My question is you didn't do those bills on the fly where you were amending them, saying OK, we can't quite find 60, let's go back to a closed room and let's rebuild the bill. You built them over a long period of time. You did a good job of working the problems out together, and then you built it as it went along. You didn't say OK, let's do it on the fly, let's change this, let's change that. You build a solid piece of legislation and move it forward, not changing it at the 11th hour as we are seeing take place now.
Mr. HATCH. That is right. When Senator Kennedy and I did the CHIP bill, as an illustration, we had to go up and down this country giving speeches everywhere, building constituencies, working very hard together. It is no secret, in the end it was not everything he wanted. It wasn't everything I wanted either. He wanted the Federal Government in control of it. I wanted the States to be in control of it. But in the end I happen to know, as one of the dearest friends of Senator Kennedy, with all the differences we had--and we had plenty, we fought each other most of the time, but in the end he was as proud of that bill as any bill he passed or he worked on--even though it was put together in a way that brought a great number of Republicans on board.
Frankly, that can be done here. I have no doubt it could be done here. I look at the distinguished Senator in the chair. He is one of the brightest guys in the Senate. He has a lot of experience in this area. I personally believe the people such as the Senator from Rhode Island, the Senator from Kansas, myself--if we got together we could do things that our respective States would be proud of and would be pleased to work on--even though there would be some give and take, and that is what we need to do.
Look, I point out one more time, the HELP bill is totally Democratic, not one Republican, until they brought the bill to the committee. The House bill--totally Democratic, not one Republican was even asked to give input. And this bill, not one Republican. In fact, not many Democrats.
I made the point here a few minutes ago, most of the Democrats do not know what is in the bill that was submitted to the Congressional Budget Office. You heard the very competent minority--majority whip, the Senator from Illinois, say he did not know what was in the bill either. When the minority--excuse me, the majority; I have that in my mind, I think. If the majority whip didn't know, how in the world are we Republicans going to know? And how in the world are the rest of the Democrats going to know? These are things that worry me and bother me.
I believe they believed with President Obama's aura, with his strength in politics, with all of us wanting to help him and with their distinctive 60-person majority, that they could put over whatever they wanted to. This was their opportunity to go to a single-payer system--or at least to move the whole system much farther toward a single-payer system than it even is today.
These things bother me a great deal. Frankly, I hope we can get our colleagues to sit down and work with us. I think both sides would have to give. Both sides would have to get together. But at least one-sixth of the American economy would be treated with respect rather than one side saying take it or leave it.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I thank my colleague from Utah for that explanation and also for the years of service he has given, and particularly a lot of focus on health care issues. I haven't always agreed with my colleague from Utah. I have always found him, though, very sound in his thinking, very knowledgeable in his ways, in knowing how you do this, and particularly when you are talking about health care these are bipartisan issues in and of themselves and they need to be in this body.
He also talked about the principles of federalism, which I think we have deviated from in what we see from this bill. I wish to read from the Constitution, article I, section 8. That is the piece I wish to focus on here for a minute about the constitutional question involved in this health care bill. Article I, section 8 reads simply this way, that the Congress shall have--and then it lists a series of enumerated powers: power to ``regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian tribes.''
That is our ability to regulate commerce, with the foreign nations, among the several States, and with the Indian tribes. There are a number of people raising the question about whether you can constitutionally require everybody in the United States, by virtue of their citizenship or status in the United States, to have health insurance. I think it is highly questionable.
It appears to me from several legal scholars that this is unconstitutional for us to do. It is a major plank in the health care legislation that has been brought forward by the Democratic majority and I do not believe it is going to stand constitutional challenge. I want to develop that for my colleagues here today.
The Congressional Budget Office said this about the constitutional question here. They said forcing individuals to buy insurance would be `` ..... an unprecedented form of federal action.'' Those are big words in a time when we are seeing a lot of what I think are unprecedented Federal actions. Then going on to say, ``The Government has never required people to buy any good or service as a condition of lawful residence in the United States.''
You would be requiring, as a condition for lawful residence in the United States, the purchasing of a good or a service--in this case health insurance. As laudable as some people may look at that or say that is, that would be what is being required. The Congressional Budget Office does not know of any time where a person in the United States has been required to buy any good or service as a condition simply of lawful residence in the United States. I think it raises significant constitutional questions.
You have to remember, as everybody does, but I think we have to remind ourselves because too often we act as if we don't remember that the Federal Government is a constitutional government of limited powers.
From James Madison in the Federalist Papers, quoted often but it bears repeating because it is a foundational issue:
[I]n the first place it is to be remembered that the general government is not to be charged with the whole power of making and administering laws. Its jurisdiction is limited to certain enumerated objects.
Which is what I just read from in article I, section 8.
Chief Justice John Marshall, in the famous Marbury v. Madison case, stated:
The powers of the legislature are defined and limited; and that those limits may not be mistaken or forgotten, the Constitution is written.
We can't violate that. The Federal Government is limited to enumerated powers granted by the Constitution. The Founding Fathers who drafted and ratified the Constitution were unwavering in their desire to restrict the powers of States and limit the powers of Congress. To achieve their goal they created a system that splits State and Federal authority so that one government, Federal or State, does not maintain too much power over the liberty of the American people. Therefore, the Framers created a system with a legislature of limited and enumerated powers, the Congress, to enact laws which shall be necessary and proper for the execution of powers. One of those is the commerce clause I just read which grants Congress the authority to regulate commerce with foreign nations, among the several States, interstate commerce, and with Indian tribes.
Many have used the commerce clause to justify the implementation of this unconstitutional mandate. Those individuals often cite the case of Wicker v. Filburn, a 1942 case. The U.S. Supreme Court decision found that a law prohibiting a commercial farmer growing an additional acre of wheat to feed chickens beyond the limits imposed on wheat production mandated by the Federal Government was constitutional and fell under the enumerated powers granted by the commerce clause. Filburn was ordered to destroy his crops and pay a fine to the government for being too productive.
The Supreme Court, interpreting the Constitution's commerce clause, decided that Filburn's wheat growing activities reduced the amount of wheat he would buy for chicken feed on the open market and affected interstate commerce and, thus, could be regulated by the Federal Government. However, that Supreme Court decision, agree with it or not, still does not expand the powers of this body under the commerce clause to impose a monetary fine or penalty upon a citizen who fails to purchase or enter into a private contract for health insurance. That doesn't expand our authority under the commerce clause. It doesn't change the commerce clause. For us to require somebody to do something simply as a status of citizenship, the Congressional Research Service says:
Despite the breadth of powers exercised under the Commerce Clause, it is unclear whether the clause would provide a solid constitutional foundation for legislation containing a requirement to have health insurance. Whether such a requirement would be constitutional under the Commerce Clause is perhaps the most challenging question posed by such a proposal, as it is a novel issue whether Congress may use this clause to require an individual to purchase a good or a service.
To think that the Federal Government can compel any individual to purchase a commodity because that individual is alive and breathing is unconstitutional and is at least a novel issue that this $2.5 trillion proposal is built around. Should we be doing this major change in health care, $2.5 trillion in spending, 1/2 trillion in reduction in Medicare, 1/2 trillion raising in taxes off of a novel constitutional question involved in the inherent piece of it, that being the requirement for everybody to have health insurance? I think not. Along with all the other problems with it, I think it has an enormous constitutional question right in the middle of it. And what if you pull that out and the Supreme Court says, ultimately, you can't require that. Then you have done $2.5 trillion, $ 1/2 trillion in Medicare cuts, $ 1/2 trillion in tax increases, and your core piece is pulled out; it is unconstitutional. Then the whole house of cards falls apart.
Another popular argument for forcing citizens to purchase health insurance under penalty of law is that States require people to buy car insurance. This argument is not only constitutionally flawed but also an underwhelming argument that in many respects hardly deserves comment and adds little to the debate. It is recognized that States maintain inherent police powers to regulate behavior and enforce order within their borders to promote public welfare, security, health, and safety. This is a fundamental difference between the power of States and the enumerated powers of the national government, such as commerce between States and Indian tribes. This is a much broader granting of jurisdiction to the States.
State vehicle insurance laws are exactly that, laws implemented by States, and are generally derived from State constitutions and not the Federal Constitution under which this body operates. Furthermore, these laws require an individual who voluntarily participates in the use of an automobile to insure that vehicle. It is not a right of citizenship as a Kansan that you have to buy auto insurance. But if you want to operate a car on our roads, you have to have auto insurance. It isn't a requirement of citizenship.
We are requiring this as an article of citizenship. You have to have health insurance, a novel and enormously expansive role of the Federal Government.
The Federal mandate for the purchase of health insurance forces individuals to purchase a commodity not because they choose to participate in an economic or commercial activity such as what one would think would be covered under the commerce clause but forces an individual to purchase a product simply because that person exists. This mandate is an abuse of the power granted to this Congress by the Constitution.
Last night I spent some time developing another thought that I think is an important one for us to consider. It is one this body has spent some time over the last decade dealing with; that is, the removal of the marriage penalty from our Tax Code, which we haven't gotten very far in doing, but getting the marriage penalty out, the thought being that marriage is a good institution. It is a fabulous institution for the formation of family. It is something that has an enormous role in our culture and society and should be rewarded and should not be taxed.
The fundamental principle exists, if you want less of something, tax it; if you want more of something, subsidize it. In the Democratic health care bill there are marriage penalties on both low-income and upper income individuals that will reduce the incidence of marriage in this society, under the principle that if you are going to tax something, you will get less of it.
This bill has marriage penalty taxes in it. I want to go through a series of these, starting with the high cost plan tax, the Cadillac insurance plan. Married couples under this bill are hit hardest by the high cost plans tax. The number of single and married tax filers is equal, but married taxpayers pay more than twice as much as singles as a percent of new tax revenue in this bill.
So if you are married filing jointly, you will pay 62 percent--single filers, 25 percent--in this bill. Is that something we want to do? Do we want to say, if you are married, you will pay more of the tax? Most people would say: We want to encourage marriage and the formation of family around marriage. We should have these at least equal or maybe do a higher tax on the other end. But most would say let's have these be equal.
Instead, in this we have a huge increase in the amount of money married filers will have to pay as compared to taxes paid by single filers. Consequently, you encourage people to say: Let's not get married because we don't want to pay the increase in taxes.
The high cost plans tax, the Cadillac plans tax, will hit married couples' households far more severely than single filers. Even though the number of married filers and single filers is roughly equal, the high cost plans tax will impact the total tax bill of married couples much more severely: 25 percent of the revenue will be from single filers, 62 percent of the bill will go to married filers. One thing is certain, 62 percent of married couples' households don't make more than $250,000. So not only is this unfair to married households, it is a direct contradiction of the President's promise that you wouldn't pay more taxes if you were making below $250,000. In this case you do under the Cadillac insurance plan proposal or piece in this proposal.
I want to look at another chart on this subject. If we wanted to talk about factors that impact an individual's decision to enter the workforce or to invest in a business, an important factor is the marginal tax rate they will face on the next dollar they earn. Basically, it is a question of whether it is worth the effort and risk to work. What is my marginal tax? If I work longer and make another $100, how much do I get to keep? The marginal tax rate.
This is an especially important factor for low-income households, people who don't have much marginal income to work off of. They need every dollar they can get. So if you are going to tax their marginal rate, they are looking at this saying: I don't want to get in that category. I need to hold back from getting in that category.
We have tried to help the less economically fortunate with various types of support programs: TANF, food stamps, the earned-income tax credit, the additional child tax credit, to name a few. Low-income families already face high marginal tax rates as a result of the phaseout of their benefits and tax rates that mean the loss of benefits they get under TANF, food stamps, the earned-income tax credit, housing assistance, the welfare package we put together for low-income individuals. Low-income families already face high marginal tax rates as a result of the phaseout of their benefits. These phaseouts already impose significant barriers to marriage.
In other words, whenever you get a combined income of a low-income couple, you lose more benefits. Consequently, people don't get married because they look and say: I will lose my health benefits if I get married. I will lose my medical benefits, my housing benefits. I may lose food stamps. I will not get married.
Yet you look at the chances for children in that situation to get out of poverty, their best chance is to have a stable mom and dad and a stable marriage environment, providing for the comfort and support of those children. Our incentives are disincentives toward marriage in this way, and they are built even more significantly into this health care bill.
As an example, let's take two individuals at 150 percent of the poverty level. After the new subsidies proposed in this legislation are taken into account, these two individuals would pay $1,478 for their health insurance. But if they get married, their bill will increase to $2,308, a marriage penalty of $830, if you are at the 150 percent of poverty level or below. If you are at 150 percent of poverty or below, you don't have marginal income to mess around with. You need everything you have just to provide the basics. So if you are looking at this increase in the marriage penalty of $830, you are saying: We can't afford to get married.
Is that the signal we want to send from the Federal Government? No. Everybody in this body would say that.
Let's take a pair of individuals earning 250 percent of the poverty level. One has no children; the other has two children. Unmarried they will, after subsidies, pay $5,865 for their health coverage. If they decide to marry, they will face a penalty of $2,050.
Let's turn to the new Medicare tax that will go into effect in 2013. The tax will apply to wage and salary income as well as certain business income for individuals. The tax will apply to income of that type for above $200,000 for individuals and $250,000 for joint filers.
The penalty is obvious on its face. Let's take an example. Two unmarried individuals earn $200,000 each, and their total Medicare taxes would be $11,600. But if they get married, the penalty is $750. Or take two individuals, one making $150,000 and the other $200,000. Single, their Medicare taxes total $10,150; if they get married, they will pay an additional $500. This is on top of the marriage penalties that two earners face under current law. The marriage penalty is there. I don't think it is as significant as for the low-income individuals, but it is here as well.
My point is, why on Earth would that even be built into the base of the bill, particularly on the low-income couples? Why on Earth would you build in a marriage penalty on people who can't afford it? If combined income is over $250,000, you can afford another $500. I am willing to agree with that. But not this couple that is making at 150 percent of poverty or 250 percent of poverty, one with two kids. They can't afford that. Why on Earth would you build it into this? This is ridiculous that it be placed in the proposal. It makes no sense.
Creating and expanding on the penalties for marriage makes zero sense. Families are a critical determinant of the well-being of our society. Family structure also has a significant impact on economic well-being, on education, and the effect on the social fabric of this Nation is positive.
It is a fundamental law of economics that when you tax something, you get less of it. Why would we tax marriage, particularly for low-income individuals, when it is the best chance for those children involved with this couple to have a stable environment, if they will form a solid marriage unit? And we are going to tax it and discourage it. That is wrong. That is wrong as a policy matter.
There is a number of other problems I have had with this overall bill. This piece of it absolutely makes no sense to me, why we would do something like this. I urge my colleagues to vote against this bill, to take these sorts of things out, to take them out of the base law. Unfortunately, in the United States today, this is kind of repeating what already takes place in food stamps, what takes place in health benefits for low-income individuals right now. They cannot afford to get married or they lose their benefits. It is ridiculous. We ought to give people bonuses for getting married, not penalties for getting married. Now we are going to add to it by putting it in this health insurance bill. It is wrong and it is bad policy.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
