Public Statements
Transportation, Housing And Urban Development, And Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010--Conference Report--Resumed
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 11, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010--CONFERENCE REPORT--Resumed -- (Senate - December 11, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am delighted to follow my colleague from Utah. I am pleased he has raised these constitutional issues, which I think are significant to this bill. The idea that we could have a constitutional mandate to buy health insurance, to me, is highly questionable under our rights under the role of the Federal Government and under the Constitution. Senator Hatch has been on the Judiciary Committee for many years and he understands these issues very well.
We are now on our sixth iteration of the health care reform bill. This one talks about expanding Medicare, basically as one of the key components of solving the problem. Here is a quote from the Mayo Clinic I found, and others have also been cited. I found this interesting, succinct, and accurate:
Any plan to expand Medicare, which is the Government's largest public plan, beyond its current scope does not solve the Nation's health care crisis, but compounds it. It is also clear that an expansion of the price control of the Medicare payment system will not control overall Medicare spending or curb costs. This scenario follows the typical pattern for price control, reduced access, compromised quality, and increasing costs anyway. We need to address these problems, not perpetuate them through health reform legislation.
That was the Mayo Clinic. It is clearly not the way to go to solve the crisis or the problems. It probably hastens the day Medicare goes bankrupt, which is set to happen in 2017, 7 years away.
I want to talk about the possibility that this health care bill puts this very early piece of economic recovery that we are having at risk. The latest reports on unemployment provide some hope that our battered economy may be showing some tentative signs of economic recovery, as the job loss continues to slow. Most of this is based off of monetary policy. We are seeing some of this taking place.
Consumer confidence is still low. Unemployment hovers at 10 percent, and over 7 million jobs were lost since the beginning of the recession.
It should be clear that any potential recovery is incredibly fragile. That being the case, Congress and the administration should focus like a laser beam on policies that encourage economic growth and put Americans back to work. That seems to be obvious.
Instead, though, the administration and the Democratic-controlled Congress have taken up crucial months with a proposed revamping of our entire health care system that will cost nearly $2.5 trillion over the next 10 years, to be paid for by new taxes and employer mandates, and it will impose a grave risk to a sustained rebound of our Nation's economy. This hurts our economic recovery.
Not only that, but the Democratic health care bill includes some positively perverse incentives that would discourage hiring, work, saving, and even marriage. Again, it would discourage hiring, work, savings, and marriage. Higher taxes, more employer mandates, and disincentives to job creation, productivity, and family formation are hardly the prescription for the growth our economy so desperately needs right now.
Both the House and the Senate bills would, for instance, increase the already existing penalty on work faced by many low-income families who receive tax and in-kind benefits from government welfare programs. We already heard this. Health insurance subsidies in the legislation for individuals and families in poverty would tack on an additional 12 to 20 percent to marginal tax rates, which already approach 40 to 50 percent for families receiving a variety of benefits for those with low incomes. This would result in marginal tax rates of 50 to 60 percent for most affected families.
If working more hours or obtaining better paying jobs results in more than half of those additional earnings being taken away as a result of taxes or a reduction in benefits--if you are a low-income individual, you are working more, you are getting more money coming in, but your benefits from the government are reduced. So if you are taking 50 to 60 percent away in a reduction of benefits or in taxes, the incentive to work harder or to invest in an education is greatly reduced. That is obvious on its face. Yet it is in this bill.
This is not the only work disincentive in the bill. It is common for teenagers and college students to obtain jobs so they can have some spending money on their own or to help with their educational expenses. The Senate bill penalizes the families of these younger workers by including their wages in benefit eligibility calculations. For many low-to-moderate income families, the inclusion of their wages could mean a significant increase in their cost of health insurance or even in them losing thousands of dollars of health insurance subsidies altogether. That is in the bill.
And more harmful to the economy, potentially, are the incentives directed at employers. Both the House and Senate bills include temporary subsidies to small businesses to encourage them to offer employer-sponsored health insurance. As the number of employees increase or as salaries increase, the amount of the credit provided to the business decreases. The structure of this subsidy not only discourages employers from hiring new employees, but it also discourages them from increasing employees' salaries. We don't want those sorts of disincentives in any bill.
Ironically, the incentives in the bill would even work to encourage employers to drop health insurance coverage for individual employees or eliminate insurance coverage altogether. The Senate bill would cap employee contributions to insurance premiums at 9.8 percent of their income. If an employer offered a policy that required employees to pay more than this, the employee would be eligible to purchase insurance through the new ``health care exchanges.'' The employer would have to pay a fine. Since, in many cases, that fine is considerably less than the additional insurance costs the employer would incur if they retained coverage, many businesses concerned about the bottom line would be enticed by the bill to stop providing any health insurance coverage. So they are actually enticed here to drop health insurance coverage--another thing we don't want to see happen.
Furthermore, employers who offer flexible spending accounts or FSAs will be encouraged to stop providing these tax-free medical spending accounts for their employees. Under the Senate Democrats' bill, FSA contributions will be included in the total cost of employees' health insurance benefits for the purpose of calculating the proposed tax on high-cost health plans--the so-called Cadillac health care plans. Adding an FSA contribution could push the total cost of health benefits above the high-cost threshold for many workers, which will result in the employer being liable for a portion of the 40 percent high-cost plan's tax. As more and more plans become subject to the high-cost plan's tax, it will be in the employer's best interest to eliminate FSA offerings altogether. That is another disincentive we don't want to see happening.
The proposed legislation would also create new marriage penalties across the income spectrum. We have been working for some years to do away with the marriage penalty. Marriage is a good and solid institution that helps so much in this Nation. Yet it puts in a marriage penalty, penalizes people for getting married; it is built into this legislation. These penalties can be so large that, in some cases, couples would have to forgo marriage in order to avoid thousands of dollars in new taxes. The penalties are significant. Low- and moderate-income families often have limited savings as well. Given the already significant marriage penalties in low-income benefit programs, it seems ironic that the government would create yet another program that penalizes low-income individuals for getting married.
Currently, if they are on public assistance and they get married, their combined incomes often move a couple out of the support they receive for their families, whether it is health support, housing, or food support. By getting married, they often lose their benefits. Instead of taking them away, we ought to be helping them form solid families. That sort of disincentive is built into this health insurance plan as well, where you actually put in disincentives for low-income couples to get married. In other words, to be able to get the health insurance subsidy, they may have to forgo marriage. That is not the sort of incentive we want in the system and in the bill. We are trying to take it away in the welfare programs, but to add another piece to low and moderate-income couples is the wrong way for us to go.
That the Democratic health care legislation would set the United States on a path to a single-payer government-run health insurance system of the sort found in Europe and Canada is bad enough, but even more troubling is the fact that these proposals would create a series of perverse incentives ultimately harmful to workers, businesses, and the entire economy. The Senate must reject this poorly conceived, ruinously expensive scheme and get back to the business of helping our economy recover.
I have talked to many people across the United States and particularly in Kansas, many people who are deeply concerned about this economy and the perverse things coming out of Washington. While they might start considering investing in their small business, putting some income or something out to be able to grow and create jobs, people are holding back and saying: I don't know how many more taxes you will put on us or what the health insurance plan will look like. I don't know what cap and trade will do on raising energy costs.
They are holding back. These perverse economic signals, and the discussion of them in Washington, is perversely affecting the economy. It is hurting the economic recovery. If you put these pieces into place statutorily, you are hurting savings, hurting hiring, hurting marriage formation, and you will further hurt an already very tentative recovery from taking place.
This is a bad medicine for the economy. The idea that you would expand Medicare to take care of that is a terrible idea. You will be hurting a program that already is not financially solvent in the long term and is looking at something like $30 trillion of unfunded obligations already on its books. That alone, if you expand it back to age 55, plus the provider community--the American Medical Association and the American Hospital Association are opposed to this expansion of Medicare. They don't get full reimbursement of costs right now. With the talk about bringing it back to age 55, you will be sweeping a large number of people into Medicare, so you are sweeping in a lot of people who are already in private insurance plans. When they are pulled out of private insurance which pays at the full rate to the provider community, you are taking those resources away from the provider community, from doctors and hospitals. That is why you are seeing the American Medical Association and the American Hospital Association come out against this proposal on Medicare expansion. How on Earth would it ever be paid for, when the program is already not on a stable financial track?
The Federation of American Hospitals stated this:
The FAH is strongly opposed to this proposal. A Medicare buy-in would involve Medicare rates, would be controlled by CMS, and would crowd out older workers with private coverage and may choose early retirement as a result. Such a policy will further negatively impact hospitals.
In my rural State, in particular, it would have a huge negative impact on a number of the hospitals in my State.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
