Public Statements
Service Members Home Ownership Tax Act Of 2009--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 9, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

SERVICEMEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009--Continued -- (Senate - December 09, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, in the past few months this body has been forced to stand aside as Senator Reid and a few others crafted a 2,000-page bill behind closed doors, the one we are on right now. Unfortunately, the product that was resolved at the closed-door meetings--at least the one we have now, I don't know about a future one--still raises taxes by $ 1/2 trillion. Probably under any new bill that comes out you are going to have taxes going up $ 1/2 trillion, cut Medicare by $ 1/2 trillion, raise premiums on American families, fail to bend the cost curve down, and expand government's encroachment further and further into people's health care decisions.
What I want to go through is a series of charts about how inflation is going to end up being the tax collector's best friend in this overall plan and how the tax of inflation is going to be one of the key features of how the overall bill is paid for.
I hope most people remember when we had inflation. A lot of people maybe don't remember when we had significant inflation. It is a cruel tax. It is a very cruel tax on people on fixed income, a very cruel tax on people in low-income status because constantly the dollars you have stay pretty stable, and everything you are buying goes up. So inflation kills you. It kills you in the pocketbook and is one of the things we have to be concerned about, particularly with the amount of money that is out in the money supply today and the likelihood of this moving forward and how it is built in to pay for this huge expansion that we can't afford in this bill.
I am joining my colleagues today in speaking against the $500 billion in new taxes that are in the Democrats' proposal to levy on the American people and the job-creating small businesses this is going to be put on, in an attempt to pay for this big 2,000-page bill.
This monstrous bill is flawed economic policy. I will develop that point for you as well. It fails to lower health care premiums, fails to bend the cost curve down, and will further cripple the struggling economy with massive and burdensome tax increases.
This careless legislation reminds me of a cautionary tale that is still being played out in another part of the world. That is what happened in the early 1990s in Japan. Japan, a surging economic giant at the time, suffered a severe economic recession in the early 1990s, of which the effects are still lingering even today in Japan.
During Japan's ``lost decade,'' from 1991 to 2003, their gross national product grew a paltry 1.4 percent annually, creating a decade of stagflation--that is where you have a stagnant overall growth but inflation in the economy--and limited economic growth. Most economists believe that Japan's economic recession would not have lasted nearly as long as it did had it not been for one fatal error that the Japanese government made. In the late 1990s, as their economy was recovering and appearing to be pulling out of its economic slump--so the economy is just getting going, starting to pull out of the economic slump--the Japanese government made a catastrophic decision to raise taxes. The result was that this one decision aborted the strong recovery the Japanese economy was starting to experience and plunged it back further into an economic downturn that lasted for many more years, the hangover from which is still on them today.
What are we doing here today, discussing a $2.5 trillion government entitlement expansion that raises taxes $ 1/2 trillion, plays budget gimmicks with our $12 trillion deficit and raises health premiums and costs for all Americans in the middle of the country's economic recession? What are we even talking about, why are we doing it? That is what I get from the people back home. They say why are you talking about this while are we in this recession? Why are you talking about this with the health care situation the way it is, to raise the cost, raise the insurance premiums, cutting Medicare when Medicare needs more, not money taken out of it? Now is not the time, this is not the bill, and this is not the way the American people want to see their health care reformed. What the American people want is for this body to lower health care costs and induce an economic recovery that creates jobs, not kills them, and grows the American economy, not thwarts it.
The way to do that is not to raise taxes, as is evidenced by what happened in Japan. Increased mandates, increased regulations, and increased taxes are a recipe for disaster. It is a recipe that kills jobs. In fact, President Obama's chief economic advisor, Dr. Christina Romer, stated earlier this year that as many as 5.5 million jobs could be lost due to the Democrats' new tax proposal in this 2000-page government takeover of health care. Nothing can be worse at a time when the Nation is already experiencing a 10-percent unemployment, a 26-year high. This bill will impose $28 billion in new taxes on employers that will ultimately be paid by American workers in the form of reduced wages and lost jobs.
Under this burdensome legislation employees will face stunted wages and the loss of their benefits as their employers attempt to find ways to fund these newly imposed mandates. As small businesses struggle to keep their doors open, tough decisions will have to be made on whether to raise prices, cut wages, or let go workers in order to find the funds necessary to comply with the Federal mandates imposed in this bill.
Furthermore, this bill will kill jobs by penalizing small businesses who are looking to grow--and small businesses are the growth engine for the country. In this bill, firms with more than 50 workers that did not offer coverage would have to pay a penalty or a tax to the Federal Government for each full-time worker if any of their workers obtain subsidized coverage through the government-run exchange.
What businessman would decide to hire that 50th employee, knowing full well if he did that the government would penalize his business and slam him with a new costly tax? So now people try to stay under this limit rather than constantly looking to grow the business.
Furthermore, under certain circumstances, firms with relatively few employees and relatively low average wages would be eligible for tax credits to cover portions of their health insurance premiums. That is relatively few would be eligible.
I ask, what employer would decide to increase the number of employees or increase the amount of their wages if they stand to lose government handouts, supports, subsidies, or face an increased tax burden? They simply will not be willing to do it.
One of the most disturbing aspects of this legislation is the use of inflation
to fund it--the use of inflation, a hidden tax increase on working families, to fund it.
I am the ranking member on the Joint Economic Committee and we look at these aspects a great deal. The use of inflation is built into the base of this to fund it. We know the consumer, the individual taxpayer, pays all taxes. No matter how the government claims to assess those taxes, they are paid by individuals.
I have a couple of examples I want to show. First, I want to talk about: High-cost Plans Tax Hits the Middle Class. Let me talk about that. This is the tax on the so-called Cadillac health insurance plans.
We know that insurance policies and benefit plans will be altered to avoid that tax. In other words, if you get an insurance plan that is up above a certain level you get taxed on that higher end, that so-called Cadillac plan. So in all probability most groups will not provide this high-quality health care because they say you are going to get taxed on it.
Benefits that taxpayers with insurance currently receive on a pretax basis--right now they get it so the company is paying for it, is pretax to the individual--will gradually shift to after-tax benefits resulting in higher payroll and income taxes. So now that you have cut this Cadillac plan to get underneath it being taxed, and then the company says OK, we will pay you in wages or we will do this somewhat differently. Then you have to go around and supplement or have a lower quality of health insurance. You are going to have to pay for it with after-tax dollars. That will result in more taxes, but you don't get more benefits from this. This is a big tax hit on the middle class of people who are going to have to pay this as their higher income or their higher based insurance plans are taxed.
Here is what the Joint Committee on Taxation said about the distribution impact of the high-cost tax plans: Despite the President's promises the majority claims--91 percent of taxpayers will be affected by this tax earning under $200,000. The tax will hit married filers more severely than singles; 62 percent of the high-cost plans tax impact will fall on married filers compared to 25 percent on single filers. Why are we building the marriage penalty back into the insurance? We worked a long time in this body to get rid of key portions of the marriage penalty, saying we should not tax marriage, we should support this institution. It is being built back into this plan.
This bill also imposes an additional Medicare tax on wage and salary--or certain types of business incomes of single taxpayers with incomes above $200,000 and married taxpayers with incomes of more than $250,000. Right off the bat there is a new marriage penalty. People living together but unmarried making $150,000 each won't pay the tax. Two married people paying the same amount will. What is right about that?
Making matters worse, the thresholds are not indexed for inflation--no indexing for inflation. Inflation is a cruel tax and unfortunately in this situation it is not only going to be inflation, but you are going to be taxed, then, as you get inflated into these categories. From 2013 to 2019, the number of returns of people earning under $200,000 in today's dollars will rise from 75,000 to 345,000 under the current trajectory on inflation. We are making the tax man's best friend inflation. That is wrong. So you are going to move 75,000 to 345,000 for new tax revenue. Married couples will be hit hard, as I mentioned earlier. Then you are looking at inflation: 2013, 2015, 2017, 2019--the number of people growing into this taxable category affected by this Medicare tax that will increase in 2009 dollars from $75,000 to $345,000.
If you want to think about this, think about when the alternative minimum tax was first put in place. The alternative minimum tax was supposed to be on very wealthy individuals. That was all it was going to be on. But it was not indexed for inflation. Now you get whole swatches of people hit by it and this body regularly tries to change that or deal with it on a 1-year basis because it was not indexed for inflation. What you build into the base of this bill is, if you want to pay for the bill, you want inflation. So you get inflation and it hurts people on fixed incomes and you get more people taxed than you started off with. You didn't tell them about it at the outset.
This plan clearly should be indexed for inflation. We know that should take place. Yet this is where a major part of the money for the bill comes from--inflation. Is that something the Federal Government should be banking on, that we will get inflation to pay for this health care bill? I don't think the American public wants to see that taking place.
To put this in context, let's not just look at returns under $200,000, let's look at all returns and how this tax will spread. According to the Census Bureau estimates, between 2013 and 2019, the working-age population of the country will grow by 1.6 percent. Joint Tax estimates that the number of returns that will be affected by this tax will grow by 52.6 percent and revenue collected as a result of the tax will grow by more than 54 percent. Over time, the Reid bill Medicare tax isn't just for the wealthy. Comparing the increase in taxes with growth in the working-age population, this is how many more people will be impacted. Inflation becomes the tax man's key friend.
During Japan's lost decade, from 1991 to 2003, their gross national product grew a paltry 1.4 percent annually, creating a decade of stagflation and limited economic growth. It was because of policies such as this where you have inflation, where you have tax increases put in place. These are the things that caused that to take place. It should not be done.
I will just add as a final note, when I am talking with people back home, all the time they raise this health care bill. They talk about it constantly. If they are small businesspeople, they are talking about not doing anything until the political environment is more stable in their estimation, about how much taxes we are talking about, about how much regulation we will be talking about.
You have what is going on with a climate change debate and regulations in Copenhagen. That tells a lot of people in my area who are energy users and producers, don't do anything until this stabilizes. When you talk about tax increases or inflation being a part of this proposal, you have a bunch of people saying: Don't do anything. Just stay on the sideline. That is a prescription for no job growth. That is a prescription for killing jobs. You want people out there investing and creating jobs and opportunities. You want them to see a stable political environment where they are not worried about increasing taxes, not worried about increasing regulation but, rather, saying: This is a stable environment in which we can invest and grow. That is not what they are doing today. That is repeating the lesson the Japanese learned of raising taxes when you are coming out of a recession. It is harmful. It is the wrong economic strategy. It should not be a part of this bill.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
