Public Statements
Recognition of the Minority Leader
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 5, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER -- (Senate - December 05, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I wish to thank the ranking member from Iowa for his comments on the amendment.
I wish to speak on the Johanns motion and its effect on the State of Kansas and the underlying bill in particular. Cuts to home health agencies of $42 billion have a huge impact in my State, and I wish to urge my colleagues to support the Johanns amendment and restore that amount of money to the home health care agencies.
Years ago I did some work with the home health care agencies, and anybody who has been around them knows these groups don't operate on much of a profit margin. They are frequently not highly capitalized. They are high on people and people skills. They take care of folks in their homes. They do a great job of it. They take care of people where they want to be taken care of, which is in their homes and not in hospitals or extended stay facilities.
Home health care and hospice frequently work with people in some of the most difficult times in their lives, when they are facing those difficult, often final, illnesses and they want to do it at home. They don't want to be in the hospital. They want to be at home with family and friends around comfortable surroundings. In this underlying base bill, home health care is cut $42 billion from the people who need it the most and from agencies that need it the most and are in dire straits.
I have a chart up here which shows the impact on my State, particularly on home health care agencies. Roughly $240 million in cuts to home health care agencies in the State of Kansas will take place under this base bill. In this base bill, 64 percent of the home health agencies in Kansas will go broke by 2016, 64 percent by 2016. So just at the point in time where you have a lot of uptake and need for home health care for some people who are aging at that point in time, you are going to cut and you are going to cut this much, $240 million in my State, 64 percent of them go broke, and for what?
Supposedly, it is to save a bunch of money, right? Well, on top of this, the CMS Office of the Actuary recently pointed out that the drastic cut to home health care will not produce savings to the Medicare Program. According to OACT, the savings from permanent annual productivity adjustments are unrealistic.
Again, that just stands to reason; if you are going to force people out of their homes into a hospital for extended care because you are cutting home health care, you are not going to save money in that system. You are going to spend more money in that system. This is not going to work. It is going to hurt people overall, and it is going to be at a point in their lives when they would rather be at home than in the hospital.
I think these are cruel cuts. I think it is at a terrible time. That is just for home health care, that alone, and then with the hospice. I have a letter from the Kansas Home Care Association that I wish to ask unanimous consent of the Presiding Officer to have printed in the Record at the end of my statement.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
(See exhibit 1.)
Mr. BROWNBACK. They say in this sentence, among other things:
This will cause an increase in patients seeking care in more expensive institutions which will only cause more of a drain on State and Federal budgets.
It is projected that over 58 percent of Kansas home health agencies will operate at a negative margin in 2010. .....
I noted to you the number that is going to go broke by 2016. This isn't a far-off prospect. This is even next year, under the current setting. Then they are going to cut another $240 million from the Kansas ones that will cause even more of them to have great difficulty and financial trouble at this point in time.
I ask my colleagues to revisit this issue. Vote for the Johanns motion that supports home health care agencies. The Johanns motion is simple. It says: Look, restore this piece. Don't take these moneys from home health care agencies. For a number of us who represent a number of rural States, home health care is key. It can be expensive in a rural setting. They need the resources to be able to meet the needs of the seniors we have.
On top of that, in the overall cuts that are taking place are key and major cuts to Medicare Advantage programs. Referring to the chart, there will be a 63.7-percent cut to Medicare Advantage benefits that will affect more than 1 in 10 Kansas Medicare beneficiaries. A $1.5 billion cut to Kansas hospitals is taking place and an 11.8-percent cut in hospice payments. Home health care agencies often do hospice care as well. So this is a double cut for them.
Again, this is at a point in time in life where it is the most difficult. There is $124 million in cuts of skilled nursing facilities as well. This will force more people into that setting.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
