Public Statements
Brownback Participates in House Foreign Affairs Hearing on Administration's Sudan Policy
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 3, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Questions U.S. Envoy to Sudan; urges Administration to toughen policy on genocidal regime
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today participated in a House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health hearing at which the U.S. Special Envoy to Sudan testified about the Obama Administration's Sudan policy.
"I strongly oppose any policy that gives incentives and rewards to the genocidal regime headed by Sudanese President Bashir, an indicted war criminal," said Brownback. "Under the Bashir regime, the Khartoum government has committed two genocides; Sudan has become a haven for Al Qaeda; and the regime provides support for Joseph Kony's Lord's Resistance Army, a terrorist group operating in Central Africa."
Scott Gration, the U.S. Special Envoy to Sudan, today testified at the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa and Global Heath hearing on U.S. policy toward Sudan. The policy, outlined in October by the Obama Administration, offers a package of incentives to Sudan if it works to improve the situation in Darfur, but the Administration had not made public what these incentives are. Brownback continued, "Sudan is the first instance of the U.S. responding to an acknowledged genocide. The Bush Administration's response to the genocide did not achieve real results; it was strong on rhetoric but lacked a means of implementation. The Obama Administration's new policy will effectually allow the genocidal regime to trade some political and territorial concessions in exchange for measures, such as diplomatic recognition and the easing of sanctions. I strongly encourage the Obama Administration to reconsider its current policy and instead adopt one that that upholds the most basic principles of justice."
In the course of the six year genocide in Darfur, as many as 300,000 people have died; as many as three million have been forced to flee their homes. Five years ago, the United States Congress unanimously declared that the government of Sudan committed the crime of genocide, and the Bush Administration affirmed this determination; Bashir responded by expelling more than a dozen humanitarian groups from Darfur. In March of this year, the International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant for Bashir for war crimes and crimes against humanity. Bashir is the first sitting head of state sought for detention since the ICC's establishment in 2002.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=320415
