Public Statements
Service Members Home Ownership Tax Act Of 2009
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 3, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

SERVICE MEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009 -- (Senate - December 03, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I rise in support of the amendment of the Senator from Alaska, and I have talked with my good friend, the Senator from Maryland, Ms. Mikulski, about a side issue in this overall debate about what is included in the definition of preventive care. The Senator from Maryland stated in a colloquy that ``there are no abortion services included in the Mikulski amendment.'' She has stated that in colloquy.
I have trouble, however, because I believe a future bureaucracy could interpret it differently. So I asked my friend from Maryland if she would include clear legislative language in this saying simply:
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize the Secretary, or any other governmental or quasi-governmental entity, to define or classify abortion or abortion services as ``preventive care'' or as a ``preventive service.''
I think that clarifies the issue, and it would be my hope that my colleague from Maryland would include that in her language. It is not in there, even though there have been statements on the floor. But, as we all know as legislators, it is one thing to say something on the Senate floor, and it is one thing to have a colloquy, but it is far different to have it written in the base law. This is not in the base law.
So I would urge my colleague, the Senator from Maryland, to include this language. Absent that, I think there is too much room for a broader definition of what preventive care means; that it could include abortion services as well, and I would urge my colleagues to vote against the Mikulski amendment if that is the case.
On that ground, I think there are other issues involved, and that is why I think the approach of the Senator from Alaska is superior, while maintaining the doctor-patient privilege. I think this is a good debate for us to have, given these recent discussions. But absent this change, I think there is another issue that is involved that I would urge my colleagues to consider.
Madam President, I want to yield back to maintain some time for the Senator from Wyoming to be able to speak, so I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
