Public Statements
Letter to Chargé d'Affaires Angelos Pangratis, Acting Head of Delegation Delegation of the European Commission to the United States
Letter
By: Bill Nelson, Sr. Jon Kyl Lisa Murkowski Roland Burris James DeMint Mike Crapo Bob Menendez Orrin Hatch Kay Hagan Mike Enzi John Barrasso Kit Bond Amy Klobuchar George LeMieux Thomas Coburn Pat Roberts Kirsten Gillibrand Frank Lautenberg Thad Cochran Kay Bailey Hutchison Michael Bennet Ben Nelson Sherrod Brown Saxby Chambliss Richard Burr John Thune Dianne Feinstein Barbara Boxer Sam Brownback Ted Kaufman Johnny Isakson Jeanne Shaheen George Voinovich Richard Shelby Susan Collins Daniel Inouye Mary Landrieu Jim Bunning Judd Gregg Bob Bennett Al Franken Jeff Merkley Jim Webb, Jr. Ron Wyden Paul Kirk, Jr. David Vitter Dick Lugar Mark Begich Lindsey Graham Roger Wicker Chris Dodd Joe Lieberman Chuck Schumer James Risch John Ensign Mark Udall Debbie Stabenow John Kerry
Date: Nov. 24, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Letter to Chargé d'Affaires Angelos Pangratis, Acting Head of Delegation
Delegation of the European Commission to the United States
Kerry, Hatch Lead 59 Senators in Defending U.S. Business Abroad
Send Letter to European Commission Requesting Action on Oracle-Sun Merger

Today, Senators John Kerry (D-Mass.) and Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) led fifty-nine senators from both sides of the aisle in respectfully requesting that the European Commission (EC) complete its investigation of the Oracle-Sun merger clearance request as soon as possible.
The U.S. Department of Justice approved the plan in August, concluding the merger would not be anticompetitive.
"The deal between Oracle and Sun was announced in April and seven months have gone by without a resolution. Continued delay of the European Commission's decision on clearance threatens thousands of American jobs, so we felt compelled to ask for a speedy resolution," said Kerry. "The EC is within its sovereign rights to set the rules for operation in its market, but with our Department of Justice having made a compelling case that the merger does not pose a threat to competition, it is fair to ask the EC for the basis on which a delay on decision making is warranted and to make a decision one way or the other."
"I have become increasingly concerned about the growing body of evidence that foreign regulatory agencies are unfairly using their review processes to impede the business of American corporations," said Hatch. "This transaction has been thoroughly reviewed by the United States Department of Justice, which has decided to take no action. Therefore, I hope the EC will quickly conclude their investigation into this transaction."
The full text of the letter is below:
Chargé d'Affaires Angelos Pangratis
Acting Head of Delegation
Delegation of the European Commission to the United States
2300 M Street, NW
Washington, DC 20037
Dear Chargé d'Affaires Pangratis:
As fellow government officials committed to the principle that competition is the cornerstone of healthy economic growth, we would like to take this opportunity to share our thoughts with you as to the proposed acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. by Oracle Corporation. In addition, due to Sun Microsystems' deteriorating financial condition and the possible negative effect on employment of the company's workforce, we respectfully request the European Commission expedite the completion of its investigation into this transaction.
The United States Department of Justice, after an intensive investigation, closed its inquiry into this transaction without taking any action. In fact, the Justice Department did not find documentary evidence that this acquisition would harm competition. We recognize that the European Commission has a sovereign right to thoroughly investigate transactions where corporations utilize the European Union's marketplace. Further, it is our understanding the Commission is concerned about competition in the database software market. However, we have been informed by Sun Microsystems that their subsidiary, which competes in this specific market, generates only €17 million in revenue and that the same market has competitors with capitalizations of tens of billions of Euros.
Unfortunately, Sun Microsystems' financial position has become more precarious and the Commission's inquiry has continued. Some have raised concerns over the company's ability to continue to employ its thousands of workers. Accordingly, we respectfully request the European Commission complete its investigation of this transaction as quickly as possible.
Thank you for your attention to this matter.
Sincerely,
Senator John F. Kerry
Senator Orrin G. Hatch
Senator John Barrasso
Senator Mark Begich
Senator Michael F. Bennet
Senator Robert F. Bennett
Senator Christopher S. Bond
Senator Barbara Boxer
Senator Sherrod Brown
Senator Sam Brownback
Senator Jim Bunning
Senator Richard Burr
Senator Roland W. Burris
Senator Saxby Chambliss
Senator Tom Coburn
Senator Thad Cochran
Senator Susan M. Collins
Senator Mike Crapo
Senator Jim DeMint
Senator Christopher Dodd
Senator John Ensign
Senator Michael B. Enzi
Senator Dianne Feinstein
Senator Al Franken
Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand
Senator Lindsey Graham
Senator Judd Gregg
Senator Kay R. Hagan
Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison
Senator James M. Inhofe
Senator Dan Inouye
Senator Johnny Isakson
Senator Edward E. Kaufman
Senator Paul G. Kirk, Jr.
Senator Amy Klobuchar
Senator Jon Kyl
Senator Mary L. Landrieu
Senator Frank R. Lautenberg
Senator George S. LeMieux
Senator Joe Lieberman
Senator Richard G. Lugar
Senator Robert Menendez
Senator Jeff Merkley
Senator Lisa Murkowski
Senator Ben Nelson
Senator Bill Nelson
Senator James E. Risch
Senator Pat Roberts
Senator Charles E. Schumer
Senator Jeanne Shaheen
Senator Olympia J. Snowe
Senator Debbie Stabenow
Senator John Thune
Senator Mark Udall
Senator David Vitter
Senator George V. Voinovich
Senator Jim Webb
Senator Roger F. Wicker
Senator Ron Wyden

Source: http://kerry.senate.gov/cfm/record.cfm?id=320244
