Public Statements
Service Members Home Ownership Tax Act Of 2009--Motion To Proceed
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 20, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

SERVICE MEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009--MOTION TO PROCEED -- (Senate - November 20, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. ALEXANDER. It must be a little confusing to the American people. I mean, one day Senator Reid comes out and, a big hurrah, we are going to reduce the deficit and we are only going to spend $800 billion, and then the next day Republicans come out and say, No, when the program gets going, it is $2.5 trillion over 10 years. I wonder if I could say to the Senator from Georgia, while we have heard you talk about these projections, the senior Republican on the Joint Economic Committee has come to the floor, the Senator from Kansas.
How do you explain this to people in Kansas, Senator Brownback, who must be very confused by this back and forth?
Mr. BROWNBACK. I don't think they are particularly confused. I think they smell a rat in this and they know if you are going to add this big of a program, somebody is going to tax me somewhere here.
The interesting way this is actually scored in the bill is the government uses the old heavy hand of inflation. As we have heard, many economists have spoken in the past about how inflation is the most cruel tax of all, particularly for the people on a fixed income, because then the base dollars they have do not go as far as they used to. What is scored in this bill--and we have seen this time and time again--is what you have as an inflation factor that is not indexed. It is not indexed.
I wish to show these charts here to prove it. At the end of how this is scored, we will end up having people who have subsidized insurance when they start out, but that in the outyears in the scoring will be taxed for having subsidized insurance. So we will be both taxing them at the same time as we are subsidizing their insurance. And we are also--and I will show a chart here in a minute--taxing their insurance plan that we are subsidizing at the same time, and that is built into the base score. So then that is how you get to a CBO score that, presto chango, the budget is balanced; we are even producing a surplus. It is this cruelty of inflation.
People can remember back to the Jimmy Carter days with 10 percent inflation. They know what that did to them. Look at this. This is all in the CBO scoring. This is from the Joint Economic Committee staff who have been working through these calculations to see, How do you come up with adding a multitrillion-dollar entitlement program and come to a budget deficit-neutral facet to it? What we see here is surtax levels--and this is kind of a busy chart--but this red line is 100 percent of poverty in 2009 and 100 percent of poverty built out over 100 years, which is also part of the scoring system, and then the median income of married households. What you see is families receiving subsidies beginning to pay the surtax in the scoring of this. That is all due to the cruelty of inflation.
Mr. ALEXANDER. I wonder if I could ask the Senator from Kansas, haven't we heard this story somewhere before? As I remember, back in the late 1960s there was a so-called millionaires' tax. We were going after 155 very rich people in America who weren't paying any taxes and now we call it the alternative minimum tax, and if we don't fix it every year more and more people will end up paying this tax. I think last year there were 28 million Americans who would have had to pay the tax.
Mr. BROWNBACK. That is absolutely correct, and it is the same technique. This is the alternative minimum tax on steroids in the insurance industry and in the insurance field. It is the same thing. We fix it every year. That is why this is such a fraud. Do you really think we are going to tax people for their health insurance at the same time we are subsidizing their purchase of health insurance? That isn't going to happen, so those dollars aren't going to arrive. So where are those dollars going to come from? It will be from deficit and debt, or you are going to have this cruelty of inflation taking place.
The bill funds health care reform with increased Medicare taxes. We are going to see that taking place in this as well.
Here is the chart I like that I will show. It demonstrates how we are going to have these Chevrolet plans--you have heard of these health insurance plans. Let me put this chart up. We are going to tax the Cadillac plans, all right? Well, it turns out under this bill, the Chevy becomes a Cadillac. So you are going to tax the Cadillac when it is still a Chevy. That is because of inflation.
Most people know their health insurance premiums have been going up pretty consistently over time. Well, it turns out that the Chevy will metamorphose into a Cadillac and it gets taxed and that is in the CBO scoring of this bill, and that is how you come out with balancing the cost of the bill.
None of this is going to happen. You will have some sort of AMT-type fix that will take place on an annual basis, and at the end of the day you get a big debt and deficit you are going to have with it or horribly cruel high levels of inflation or maybe both.
Mr. CHAMBLISS. I would ask the Senator from Kansas if he would yield for a question. The question is: The Senator from Kansas and I were elected to Congress in the same year. This is our 15th year, I believe, of serving. You have been over here longer than any of us have, and you were involved in State government as well.
Have you ever seen a Federal program that was projected to be at X number of dollars of expenditure which came in on time and on budget?
Mr. BROWNBACK. No, I haven't seen that take place.
Mr. CHAMBLISS. Do you think that when Senator Reid comes down here and says this bill is going to cost $849 billion over 10 years, that is a correct figure for a massive reform of health care?
Mr. BROWNBACK. No, and I don't know that there would be 5 percent of the public in my State who would believe that, because their experience tells them differently. Their experience tells them: Look, I know you guys make these great promises and everything, but I also know the further out you make this promise, the less reliable your data, and I have seen that whenever the government gets into things, it always costs a lot more and it seems as though our debt and deficit always keeps growing and it is way too big.
What is troubling is that this is built into the base of how we get to the numbers of getting this as a budget-neutral matter. This isn't going to happen. On top of all of that, you say we are going to save $400 billion in Medicare. We have now voted four times for the so-called doctor fix, which was a slight reduction in Medicare spending for providers, and I voted for it three times, to fix it, on an annual basis. Do you possibly think--possibly think--that the Congress is going to cut Medicare $400 billion, that people are going to come back here and say, You can't do that, you are going to be ruining Medicare and that Congress will fix it? I said this to Treasury Secretary Geithner yesterday: Our experience has never been to do something like that. So where does the money go? It goes right on the deficit and the debt and you are going to add to that $12 trillion estimate. We are hemorrhaging Federal money and, at the same time, the global community is saying, you have to get your fiscal house in order.
We just had our President over in China, hat in hand, with our bankers saying, OK, we think human rights is pretty important, but we need that loan. What we are going to see take place, because this is a fiscally irresponsible package, I think we are going to see the international community saying words are one thing but action is what talks, and we are going to start pulling capital out of the U.S. marketplace. It is going to drive up interest rates, it is going to drive up inflation.
So maybe this scenario happens, but it is cruelly done through inflation, and it is not fair to the American public.
Mr. ALEXANDER. I wonder if I might ask Senator Isakson from Georgia, we talked a little bit about his experience as a small businessman. Senator Brownback has talked about taxes and how they are going to go up. According to the Republican Budget Committee analysis, the new taxes in this bill that we have on our desks would be about $850 billion over a 10-year period of time. Senator Isakson has been a small businessperson. Some of those taxes would be on you. Who is going to pay the taxes?
Mr. ISAKSON. My customer. The thing is, business is the collector of taxes for the government. Government imposes a fee, a fine, a cost to business, and it rolls into the base of what that business has to pay to produce its product and it is upon that which they make a profit. So this business of taxing business, they are getting business to collect a tax from the ultimate consumer. That is all it is.
I want to throw something else in. I appreciate Senator Brownback very much. I was in Georgia a few weeks ago, Albany, near where Senator Chambliss raised his family, at a Rotary Club. I was asked by a fellow: You keep talking about a trillion. How much is that? I babbled and fumbled. Have you ever tried to explain that number and quantify that? It is a huge number. We are talking about $2.5 trillion in the first full 10 years. I got so frustrated that I got on the calculator to figure out an analogy as to how much it is. I decided, I wonder how many years would go by for a trillion seconds to pass. I got on the calculator and worked it out. It is 31,709 years for a trillion seconds to go by. That gives you some proportion of the volume of dollars we are talking about in taxes and costs and, as the Senator said so rightly, debt. That is a lot of money, and the American taxpayer ultimately is on the bill for every dime of it.
Mr. CHAMBLISS. I ask my colleague from Georgia, we talked about this, and he has had extensive experience at the State level with respect to Medicaid. Take our State--and I think we are representative of all 50 States. We have a Medicaid Program now that provides for coverage or eligibility at 100 percent of the poverty level. This bill takes that to 133 percent of the poverty level. Talk for a minute about the impact of going from 100 to 133 percent to cover some of those uninsured I referred to earlier. What is the impact on our State?
Mr. ISAKSON. Right now, Georgia's current year budget for the cost of Medicaid is $2.15 billion, or about 12 percent of the State appropriations. This bill, as currently configured, raises that eligibility by 33 percent. But the Feds hold harmless the States for the first 3 years of that increase, and then it is a 90/10 split for the next 7 years, and then it is silent. To give everybody the benefit of the doubt, say States only have to pay 10 percent more. That is one-quarter of $1 billion more in Georgia--from $2.15 billion to $2.4 billion in the State budget.
We all know what is going to happen--what happened with the original Medicaid program. The State will eventually have to pay the full 35 percent match, which would mean that over time, at the end of the 10 years, using today's numbers without inflation, Medicaid costs in Georgia for about 12 percent of the population would go from $2.15 billion to $3.4 billion a year for Medicaid.
Mr. CHAMBLISS. Whether it is paid by the Federal Government after that 3 years or by the State of Georgia, whose pocket will it come out of?
Mr. ISAKSON. The taxpayers of the United States of America.
Mr. ALEXANDER. As we were discussing earlier, it could be paid out of the pockets of the 18 million or 20 million students who go to, for instance, the University of Kansas and Kansas State. We began this discussion by pointing out that California raised tuition yesterday 32 percent for its students. They are pointing fingers at each other, but they should be pointing at us for not reining in Medicaid because over time that is the biggest reason.
Mr. BROWNBACK. In my State of Kansas, a huge budget debate is going on about where we are going to come up with the shortfall this year in the State budget. People can save in some places, but you have to do this on Medicaid. It ends up, in all probability, that a disproportionate share will come out of the schools for the schoolchildren. Is that what we at the Federal level want to see take place? No. That is one of the reasons I am voting against this bill. You are dictating a State budget. Initially the Feds are putting in the full amount, but I have seen this before too. You start with the Federal Government wiggling the carrot, saying: Take a bite. You can do it. Then once you get hooked, you say: OK, we are going to reel it in now, and you will pay more of it. It will be the Federal Government dictating the State budget, putting it into Medicaid and taking it away from schools. That is what will take place. That is what is happening in my State now.
It is not fair to do that. It is not right for us to do that. Most of the people across Kansas think this whole issue is fiscal insanity--literally fiscal insanity--what we are looking at doing with that level of debt, $12 trillion a year. With my State having the level of debt it has, making this requirement--a multi-trillion-dollar entitlement expansion when the Federal Government is hemorrhaging money, as well as State governments--is fiscal insanity. The world community is saying: Get your fiscal house in order. This makes no sense.
Mr. CHAMBLISS. I don't think we can overstate what the Senator has said. Not only is the Federal Government looking at the largest deficit we have ever seen in the history of our country--just this past year, $1.3 trillion--but every State is having the same problem. That deficit is trickling down.
In Georgia, for example, we have one county that has run into these education reductions that Senator Alexander is talking about, which universities are facing. That one school system reduced the days the children are going to school from 5 to 4 days to save the cost of buses running and other bills, for heating and whatnot, for that extra day. That is not what we need to be doing as Americans. We need to figure out a way to struggle through this.
Instead of struggling through it, we are now in the toughest times we have ever seen, as Senator Brownback said, we are adding these huge taxes that will stifle the small business community on top of the debt that we have seen created in this country just in the past 12 months.
Mr. ALEXANDER. I have a question I will ask any of the Senators who want to comment. Someone asked me yesterday: Where is all this opposition to these health care bills coming from? We have seen the Gallup poll and the Pew poll. These are not Republican Polls. They are well-respected polls in this country that are showing that independent voters, by 2 to 1, say they don't want this bill.
I have been in and out of politics for many years. I have never had as many people stop me on the street or in the airport or wherever, and say, ``Please don't do this.'' Somebody asked me yesterday: Why is there that much opposition?
My answer was--and this is what I would appreciate comments on--this is not just about health care. This is, as President Obama said one time, a proxy for a national debate about the role of government in Washington and in everyday American life. This is about the stimulus package, about the Washington takeover of car companies. This is about the growing debt; this is about the takeover of student loans; this is about every Washington takeover, and every increase in debt. That is what this debate is about. I think that is why we are seeing such intensive opposition. I wonder if you have any reflection?
Mr. BROWNBACK. I certainly think it is. What I observe, too, is people coming up to me in large numbers and very passionately saying they are both mad and scared. They are mad about this taking place, and they are scared it is going to actually happen to them. They feel like, how can this happen to them in this country? They look at that huge debt and at our President over in China talking as if he is going to see the banker, and they don't like it. This isn't their country the way they want it to be. They want our country to be fiscally sound instead of going to beg hat-in-hand to the ``banker'' in a foreign country. Then you are going to add another big entitlement on top of that? They are saying: Don't ask me, the taxpayer, for more money because I don't have it. They are mad and scared about this. It is very disconcerting for people in the country.
Mr. ISAKSON. I agree with Senator Brownback. I guess I could sum it up in four phrases. There will be less access, seniors fear, because of cuts in Medicare. They will have less access. There will be higher costs because of the bending of the way in which they calculate premiums and the additional taxes. Everybody knows that will be a higher cost. There is a great fear of rationing, which is a component part of almost every plan to get from where we are to where they want to take us.
Lastly, I hear a lot from young people who are considering a medical career either in research or in applied medicine. They fear that medicine will not be the practice in this country in the future that it has been in the past. If that is true, if they leave and go to other fields, we will have less innovation and research and development and, in the end, less quality health care for the American people.
Mr. CHAMBLISS. These are not people who are on the extreme right or extreme left who are bombarding us with phone calls, e-mails, and letters as all of us get on airplanes, as I did Monday. I had people come up as I walked through the airport, and as I was on the airplane, and when I got off the airplane, saying: Please stop this bill. Don't pass this foolish bill that you all are talking about up there now. It is amazing, the type of folks who will come up and say that.
I have two quick anecdotes I would like to read. One is a letter I got from a doctor. It reads:
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. ALEXANDER. I am afraid our time is almost up.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Yes, our President got lectured by the Chinese regulator about our financial system. This is unbelievable. This exacerbates it, if we pass this bill.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
