Public Statements
Letter to The Honorable Robert Gates, Secretary of Defense - Acquisition of LAAR Aircraft
Letter
By: Todd Tiahrt Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 16, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Brownback, Tiahrt Send Letter to Secretary Gates Seeking Answers on Acquisition of LAAR Aircraft
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback and Congressman Todd Tiahrt yesterday sent a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates regarding the possible acquisition of Light Attack and Armed Reconnaissance aircraft.
Following is full text of the letter:
"Dear Secretary Gates:
Recent reports suggest that the United States and Brazil are negotiating an agreement that would include U.S. acquisition of at least 100 Super Tucano aircraft made by Brazil-based Embraer. We write to voice our strong and unequivocal objection to any such agreement.
We contend that an agreement with Brazil involving U.S. acquisition of Super Tucano aircraft is inappropriate for several reasons.
First, such an agreement would supersede, or at least pre-judge, an ongoing Air Force review of platforms which may be capable of performing a Light Attack and Armed Reconnaissance (LAAR) mission.
Earlier this year, the Air Force initiated a formal Analysis of Alternatives (AOA) to review aircraft that might be able to perform an LAAR mission. We were informed that this review, in turn, would inform the Air Force budget request for FY2011. We fully support the Air Force's careful study of this capability, and we believe that an agreement to purchase light attack aircraft from a foreign country would undermine the integrity and value of this effort.
Furthermore, the United States Government has made a substantial investment in the development of a U.S.-produced LAAR platform, the Hawker-Beechcraft AT-6B. For the Government to now refuse to allow this U.S. manufacturer to even compete for the LAAR or any similar contract will certainly draw strong objections from Congress and the American people.
Second, an international agreement like this would contravene the language included in both the Senate and House Appropriations Committees' reports to accompany the FY10 Defense Appropriations bill. Page 6 of the Senate report includes the following:
The Committee is also aware that the Quadrennial Defense Review may help inform the fiscal year 2011 budget decisions on [light attack aircraft]. The Committee expects that any fiscal year 2011 request for light attack aircraft funding will be based on validated requirements, a documented concept of operations, and capabilities demonstrations that have been coordinated across the military services.
The Committee also encourages the Department to conduct a full and open competition for the lease or purchase of light attack aircraft. The reported agreement between the United States and Brazil clearly would not have the benefit of QDR analysis, nor would it permit the military services to develop valid requirements and demonstrate required capabilities. In addition, it would eliminate the possibility of a full and open competition to produce an LAAR aircraft by sole sourcing LAAR production to a foreign company. This would demean the integrity of the acquisition process and violate the trust the American public has placed in the Department of Defense.
Third, and most important, the reported agreement would harm U.S. companies and workers, as well as weaken the industrial-base and stifle innovation. In this current aviation manufacturing crisis, it would be unconscionable for the Department to take any steps towards procuring or leasing a foreign aircraft when a U.S.-made option is readily available for any competition that may result from the AOA.
In light of these concerns, please provide thorough answers to the following questions: Has the U.S. had, or does it intend to have, any discussions with Brazil regarding the lease or purchase of the Embraer Super Tucano? If so, what authority would the U.S. use to acquire the foreign-produced Super Tucano? What effect would such an agreement have on the Air Force assessment of LAAR requirements and capabilities?
Does the Department of Defense intend to conduct a free and open competition to procure a LAAR aircraft that ensures American companies can compete and win?
What would be the impact to the U.S. industrial base for a foreign competitor instead of a U.S. manufacturer to secure this contract for a LAAR aircraft?
Finally, we invite you to join us in Wichita to examine the AT-6B aircraft and production line. This would give you an opportunity to meet the dedicated aircraft workers and see first-hand the capability this aircraft will provide the warfighter.
Thank you for your attention to this matter."

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=319952
