Public Statements
Brownback, Other Senators Introduce Jerusalem Embassy Relocation Act
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 9, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Legislation would relocate American embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem
U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Jon Kyl (R-AZ), John Cornyn (R-TX), Joe Lieberman (I-CT), David Vitter (R-LA), and Jim Bunning (R-KY) today introduced the Jerusalem Embassy Relocation Act, legislation which would relocate the American embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
Brownback said, "This week I spoke to the Jerusalem Conference about the need for introducing this important piece of legislation at a time when Israel faces so many existential threats. The city of Jerusalem has more than 3,000 years of historical, religious, and cultural significance for the Jewish people. Israel is a staunch democratic friend and ally of America and it is long overdue for America to recognize the sovereign right of Israel to choose Jerusalem as its capital city."
Inhofe said, "I am pleased to join Senator Brownback in co-sponsoring this legislation that would pave the way for the U.S. Embassy in Israel to be relocated to Jerusalem. For political reasons, our embassy is currently located in Tel Aviv instead of the in the nation's capital city. Israel is our strongest ally in the region, and a true friend of democracy. As with other nations around the world, we should locate our embassy in the same city as their seat of government, Jerusalem."
Cornyn said, "It is long past due for the U.S. Embassy to be relocated to Jerusalem. The United States has no greater friend in the Middle East than Israel, and it's important that we recognize their national capital and its significance by moving our Embassy there."
Vitter said, "Our embassies throughout the world are located in the host country's capital city and it should be no different in Israel. As one of our closest allies in the war against terror, Israel and America enjoy a unique relationship. Moving our embassy to Jerusalem would serve as a long-overdue sign of our friendship and respect."
Bunning said, "Jerusalem is a holy city that brings together both Christians and Jews. I believe Israelis have the right to make Jerusalem their Capital and America should recognize that by housing our embassy there."
Jerusalem has been the capital of the Jewish people for 3,000 years, and has served as the seat of the State of Israel's government, parliament, and Supreme Court since 1950. Israel remains the only democratic country in which the United States does not place its embassy in, nor does it recognize, the city designated as the capital by the host country.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=319950
