Public Statements
Statements On Introduced Bills And Joint Resolutions
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 5, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Statements On Introduced Bills And Joint Resolutions
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Jerusalem Embassy Relocation Act of 2009. My colleagues and I have sponsored this important piece of legislation in order to pave the way for the United States to correct a longstanding and--I believe--dangerous deficiency in our diplomatic relations and foreign policy. For too long, our embassy in Israel has been located in a different city than Jerusalem, which is the capital of Israel according to longstanding Israeli and American law and practice. The time has come to remove the barriers that have encouraged this state of affairs to continue, and that is precisely what this legislation will do, by repealing the waiver included in the Jerusalem Embassy Act of 1995 that has been abused by the Executive Branch for 14 years.
Jerusalem is the spiritual center of the Jewish faith. First conquered by King David more than 3000 years ago, there has always been a Jewish presence there, a fact attested to by incalculable archaeological evidence. Although at various times the Jewish people lost sovereignty in the land of Israel--to the Babylonians, Greeks, Romans, Byzantines, Ottomans, British--Jerusalem has never served as the capital of any other political or religious entity in history. In every year during the nearly two thousand year exile in 70 A.D., Jews around the world concluded their Passover seder with the phrase, ``Next Year in Jerusalem.'' Despite the depths of despair to which the Jewish people descended throughout their long exile, Jerusalem always remained at the center of Jewish religious life.
Since 1950, just two years after the miraculous rebirth of the State of Israel, Jerusalem has served as Israel's capital. The seat of Parliament, Prime Minister's residence, and Supreme Court, all reside there, in addition to numerous ministries and government buildings. American officials conduct business with Israeli officials in Jerusalem, in de facto recognition of the status of the city. The Jerusalem Embassy Act of 1995, passed into law by an overwhelming vote of Congress, stated unequivocally as a matter of United States policy that ``Jerusalem should be recognized as the capital of the State of Israel,'' and ``the United States Embassy in Israel should be established in Jerusalem no later than May 31, 1999.
This is our policy, yet for some reason our embassy remains in Tel Aviv. This is despite the fact that the government of Israel many times has declared Jerusalem to be the eternal and undivided capital of Israel, a policy reflected in American law. Such a state of affairs constitutes an ongoing affront to the people of Israel who, under international law, have the sovereign right to choose the location of their capital. It also harms the interests of American citizens living in Israel, who face procedural and substantive harm as a result of the confusing diplomatic structure that has arisen in place of a Jerusalem embassy.
The failure of the State Department to relocate the embassy is not only inconvenient and inefficient, but also is dangerous. The State Department's refusal to acknowledge clear U.S. law and policy radicalizes Israel's opponents by creating the false hope that the U.S. would support the division of Jerusalem. Were the embassy to be moved to Jerusalem, and Israel's capital respected in both American law and in practice, then Palestinians and Arab governments would have no choice but to accept the unchanging reality of Jerusalem, which is that Israel, regardless of the political party or government in power, will not move its capital away from this city.
I and my fellow sponsors of this legislation recognize that the Executive Branch generally has discretion over diplomatic arrangements. However, when a waiver included for the limited purpose of national security becomes perfunctory and contradicts the clear will of the Congress, the time has come to reevaluate the wisdom of such a waiver. This bill simply restores the statutory effect of the Jerusalem Embassy Act, updating the timeline of fiscal years required for action, but without the waiver.
I urge my colleagues to support this necessary and appropriate legislation.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
