Public Statements
Statements On Introduced Bills And Joint Resolutions
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Nov. 3, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Statements On Introduced Bills And Joint Resolutions
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, Today I introduce an important piece of legislation that would provide a real boost to our economy at little, if any, expense to taxpayers. The bill I introduce would offer bonus depreciation on the purchase of noncommercial general aviation aircraft in 2010 or 2011.
America is the world leader in general aviation manufacturing, a sector in which we truly have no peer. General aviation is an essential and critical part of our Nation's transportation infrastructure for many individuals and businesses, for whom time is of the absolute essence. Further, general aviation is a vital component of our economy, supporting over 1.2 million jobs and providing $150 billion in economic activity. It is one of the few remaining American manufacturing industries that still provide a significant trade surplus for the U.S., generating over $5.9 billion in exports of domestically manufactured planes in 2008 alone.
However, this sector is particularly susceptible to economic downturns. Many individuals and companies will delay or even cancel the purchase of an aircraft in a bad economy even though they may have a present need for a new aircraft.
We see this reflected in our general aviation sector where during the first half of 2009, we witnessed declines of 58 percent in piston engine aircraft sales; 37 percent in jet engine aircraft sales; and 13 percent in turboprop aircraft sales. At the same time, use of business jets has declined 12 percent over the past year, and the number of used aircraft on the global market stands at a historic high.
Cumulatively, general aviation companies have had to lay off 19,000 American workers, and this includes 11,500 alone in Wichita, KS. Over the past year, total employment of general aviation companies has declined by almost 14 percent. This is even more alarming when you consider that the U.S. Department of Labor aerospace workforce multiplier is three. For every general aviation worker on an aircraft, there are three jobs outside the immediate company that are created, whether manufacturing, engineering, supply or support. So, for this many general aviation workers to have been laid-off has much further reaching consequences in terms of the number of people and families that are adversely impacted.
The legislation that I propose today is a proven approach to spur general aviation aircraft orders with minimal affect on the Federal budget. My approach to this issue is an approach that has resulted in real jobs. During the 2003-2004 economic downturn, I worked to have general aviation bonus depreciation included in legislation that emerged from the Senate Finance Committee. That provision is credited with spurring over $2 billion in new general aviation aircraft sales, and it is credited with saving or sustaining thousands of jobs. Also, another consideration that makes this approach a real no-brainer is that, in the past, the Joint Tax Committee reported the provision to have a negligible impact on Federal tax revenues over the 10-year budget window. This is because, while tax revenue is reduced in the near-term, revenues rebound to higher levels in the second half of the 10-year window as no deprecation is being taken in the later years of the period.
Acting on this proposal now is important. The Blue Chip Economic Indicators consensus forecast expect unemployment to rise above 10 percent and to remain above the 3rd quarter 2009 level of 9.6 percent at least though the end of 2010, so we are looking at uncertain economic growth and high unemployment for several more quarters. A proposal like the one that I am putting forward is likely to encourage individuals and businesses to go ahead and act now on placing orders rather than waiting. For the Congress to act on this bonus depreciation legislation now would have a positive effect on getting our economic engines moving again and can play a part in helping facilitate a broader economic recovery, as it would hopefully again help to save and sustain jobs as well as returning jobs to those who have lost them as a result of the recession.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
