Public Statements
Sens. Brownback, Roberts, Inhofe, And Rep. Jenkins: Authority For Treece Buyout Headed To President's Desk
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 30, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Sens. Brownback, Roberts, Inhofe, And Rep. Jenkins: Authority For Treece Buyout Headed To President's Desk
U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS), Pat Roberts (R-KS), and U.S. Representative Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) announced that Congress has approved legislation, to be signed into law by President Obama, to provide the Environmental Protection Agency the authority to buyout Treece, Kansas. The legislation will allow the EPA to protect and improve the lives of residents living with the daily threat of contamination and health related risks from long abandoned lead and zinc mining should a federal buyout be initiated.
Senator James Inhofe (R-OK), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, Senators Brownback and Roberts' amendment was included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Interior Appropriations Conference Report approved yesterday by both chambers. The bill now heads to the President's desk where it is expected to be signed into law by Saturday.
"I'm glad that Congress is taking action to begin the process of relocation for the residents of Treece, who have experienced a lot of hardship," Brownback said. "While a victory, today's legislation is only the first step in a very long process. I will continue to work to ensure the rest of the process goes smoothly."
"With this important first step, I look forward to working with Administrator Jackson and her team on a long term solution for residents of Treece," Roberts said. "I applaud the EPA for going the extra mile, sending representatives to the area to listen to residents firsthand, and then understanding their special hardships. Together, I think we can now give these folks a little hope."
"I am pleased to have worked with my colleagues from Kansas to clear the way so that residents of Treece are properly taken care of," Senator Inhofe said. "Now that this bill is on the way to the President's desk, the residents of Treece are a step closer to relocation assistance similar to what I worked to secure for the residents of Tar Creek in my home state of Oklahoma."
"Providing Treece residents with the assistance they need has taken a team effort to get to this point in," Rep. Jenkins said. "After years of unsuccessful attempts, I am pleased we were able to successfully lay the legislative foundation for a buyout to commence."
In August, Administrator Jackson honored Senator Roberts' request and immediately sent key officials to Treece including: Mathy Stanislaus, Assistant Administrator for the Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response, Bob Sussman, Senior Policy Counsel to the Administrator, and William Rice, Acting Region 7 Administrator. Representative Lynn Jenkins hosted officials through the town and held a town listening session where residents could relay their concerns.
Following this visit, in September, EPA began blood-lead level and air quality testing at the request of residents.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=319512
