Public Statements
Letter to His Excellency Le Cong Phung, Ambassador of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, to the United States
Letter
By: Patrick Leahy Byron Dorgan Arlen Specter Thad Cochran Barbara Boxer Jon Kyl Sherrod Brown Ben Cardin Sam Brownback Evan Bayh Mike Johanns
Date: Oct. 23, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Leahy and Boxer Lead Bipartisan Group of Senators Urging Vietnam to Release Father Ly from Prison
U.S. Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today led a bipartisan group of Senators in calling on the government of Vietnam to release Father Thadeus Nguyen Van Ly from prison.
Father Ly, a Catholic Priest and human rights advocate, was arrested on February 18, 2007 at his parish in Hue. Shortly thereafter, on March 30, 2007, Father Ly was sentenced to eight years in prison and five years of house arrest for peacefully practicing his faith, expressing his political opinions, and associating with others who shared those opinions.
The Senators' letter to the Ambassador to Vietnam follows:
October 23, 2009
His Excellency Le Cong Phung
Ambassador of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
to the United States
1233 20th Street NW, Suite 400
Washington, DC 20036
Dear Mr. Ambassador:
Thank you for your letter concerning the arrest of Father Thadeus Nguyen Van Ly. We appreciate having the views of your government. However, we remain concerned that Father Ly has been imprisoned because of his political and religious activities. When a Vietnamese citizen is arrested for peacefully expressing political opinions and sentenced to jail without being allowed a fair trial, it would appear to violate Vietnam's Constitution and various international human rights treaties and covenants to which Vietnam is a party.
Only four months before the arrest of 63-year-old Father Ly, the United States took a step toward improving diplomatic ties between our countries by lifting the designation of Vietnam as a "Country of Particular Concern (CPC)"-- a term reserved for governments that commit serious and ongoing violations of religious freedom. But in light of Vietnam's refusal to release Father Ly and others detained for their religious activities or religious freedom advocacy, there are now an increasing number of voices in Washington calling for Vietnam to be re-designated as a CPC.
At a time when the U.S. is working to try to bring our two countries closer together by supporting humanitarian and economic development programs, as well as to strengthen the capacity of Vietnam's judiciary, we fear Father Ly's continued detention will be an impediment to progress.
Making this situation all the more urgent is the news that Father Ly suffered a stroke in prison on July 12, 2009 and is being held in solitary confinement. Under these circumstances and in consideration of the negative health consequences of his ongoing detention, we urge your government to either pardon Father Ly in accordance with your constitution or otherwise arrange for his release on medical parole.
Sincerely,
Patrick J. Leahy
Barbara Boxer
Sam Brownback
Arlen Specter
Thad Cochran
Byron L. Dorgan
Jon Kyl
Benjamin L. Cardin
Richard J. Durbin
Mike Johanns
Sherrod Brown
Evan Bayh

Source: http://boxer.senate.gov/news/releases/record.cfm?id=319305
