Public Statements
Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2010--Conference Report--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 20, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010--CONFERENCE REPORT--Continued -- (Senate - October 20, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak on this bill, on a particular issue of interest to my State and I think to the country on a new National Bio-Agriculture facility to research new diseases and problems that can come in on animal health. In this particular bill, Senator Roberts and I have been working for some period of time to get funding for this facility to go forward. This was a national competition that took place for the location of the NBA facility. A number of States competed for it. It was determined that Kansas would be the primary location for this to occur. The initial funding of $32 million is in this conference report. I am delighted that the National Bio-Agriculture facility, to be located in Kansas, is getting its initial funding.
As one of the responsible acts of this body, the fullest amount of the funding for this will not come until the Plum Island facility is sold. When that is sold, then that money is to go to build this facility that will research a number of different, difficult diseases in the animal health industry--foot-and-mouth disease and a number of other ones are to be researched. The facility has to be built safely so the containment facility, its initial design, is a metal structure on top of a concrete structure on top of another concrete structure in which the animals and the pathogens will be contained.
To make sure this structure is safe, the facility design will be reviewed by the Department of Homeland Security and the DHS review will also be reviewed by the National Academy of Sciences, so it is an additional review on top of a review process. That may seem like redundancy to a lot of people, but there has been a lot of concern about moving FMD research into the mainland from Plum Island off of New York.
I think it is prudent for us to do this research. I think it is important for us to research cures in this area. I think it is also prudent for us to make sure that the facility is well built and one from which we can be certain these pathogens will not be released.
The passage of this final bill is a huge step in locating this NBA facility in Kansas, providing additional funding for this. I believe there is no better place than in Kansas to do this research. I am not just saying that because it is my State--although that is a big part of it--but 30 percent of the animal health industry globally is located within 100 miles of Kansas City. It is a place where there is a lot of this research taking place. The scientists are already there, the companies are already developing these products to take care of animal health problems. They are there and we can build on that success at a national level.
I am delighted to see this moving forward in a responsible fashion. This is the initial piece. The bigger piece comes after the sale of Plum Island, which is appropriate. I am hopeful my colleagues will see fit to doing that this next year.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
