Public Statements
Making Appropriations For Agriculture, Rural Development, Food And Drug Administration And Related Agencies Programs For The Fiscal Year Ending September 30, 2010--Conference Report
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 8, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

MAKING APPROPRIATIONS FOR AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION AND RELATED AGENCIES PROGRAMS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30, 2010--CONFERENCE REPORT -- (Senate - October 08, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleague, Senator Kohl, who chairs this committee. This is the first year for me to be ranking member. He has been a delight to work with.
A number of issues are addressed in this bill. The centerpiece is the agriculture industry. It is of key importance. It is interesting to note, in this economic downturn we are in, that the agriculture industry has had a great deal of difficulty, although it has been one of the stronger industry sections we have had during this period. That is in no small part because of the strength of the industry, the willingness of people to work, to invest aggressively, to work hard, and to pay attention to details.
For us to support the research entities underneath it--a lot of that is in this bill. So we are researching aggressively what we can do to produce things efficiently, effectively, that the marketplace wants. It is a great export industry. It is one that provides a lot of exports out of my State, out of the State of the chairman, and the States of other Senators. That research is important. That is what is in the bill, the research and development industry. That is the primary piece of it. It is not the total, but it is a key part.
Looking into the future, I can see that places we need to go are in things that will require the research for us to be able to move forward, things such as cellulosic ethanol where people are excited about doing the grain-based ethanol. We need to have a stream from cellulosic ethanol so we can produce more of our energy needs domestically and renewably. That also goes into the energy field, but it is a key part of agriculture. It also grows jobs in rural areas where it is pretty hard at times to grow jobs. People go to more concentrated regions and places, but we need them in rural areas. If we can invest and if we can show ways people can invest and make money in rural areas, going into food and fiber and fuels and pharmaceutical products, these are things that can really work for us and for our people and around the world. I am pleased to work with Chairman Kohl on that. He has worked on this many years. This has been my first year as ranking member.
In particular, I would like to note two areas we made key investments in that are important for the country and to save people's lives. One is in the food and drug piece of this bill. The FDA is also appropriated in this bill.
One of those areas is rare and neglected diseases. There is language included in this bill that creates two groups within FDA to examine the agency's approach to rare and neglected diseases in the developing world and here.
Unfortunately, a number of people in the United States get diseases that maybe only 100,000 people get. That sounds like a big number, and it is a big number, but to a drug company looking at making an investment and then being able to develop a cure, it is looking for a much larger marketplace.
What we are asking in this bill is, are there ways within the FDA, for a rare disease or neglected disease, for us to cut down the cost process to develop a new drug? Otherwise, we are not getting any research into how we take care of diseases for somebody who is one of 50,000 who get it, and there is nothing going on research-wise to help them. I had a lady in my office this morning who had a disease in this category. She was basically told by her physician when she got diagnosed: You should get your affairs in order. That is not an acceptable answer, particularly as a policymaker.
We have two groups in here looking at rare or neglected diseases and how do we cut the cost of developing that drug so that a pharmaceutical company or others could say: This doesn't affect a lot of people, but my entry cost is lower, so I will look at this, I will go into this field. Our hope is we can stimulate some research in this country.
Then neglected diseases around the world that can affect huge numbers of people--the World Health Organization says that more than a billion people, nearly one in every six persons worldwide is affected by at least one of the neglected diseases. This isn't a small category, but they happen to be in countries that don't have high per capita income. So again a company looks at this and says: There are a lot of people affected, but there is no income level here, so I can't go into it. Well-known examples include malaria, tuberculosis, and cholera. They disproportionately affect low-income populations in developing countries. We are going at this issue too.
I can't think of a better place for us to invest more policy-wise than helping to save people's lives. People tend to like you more when you help save their lives. This affects a broad cross-section of people around the world. And we have the marketplace, the technology to work on it, if we can cut the cost down. These two really track together, and they are very important for us to save lives. I always consider it a great day if we can save a person's life by some policy move we are making that may make things work better. These are a couple of them.
Another area the chairman and I have been working on is the issue of food aid. Here, I have had a lot of disappointment in the fact that we put a lot of money in food aid and then not a lot of it hits the target. For every dollar we put in food aid, 60 percent is eaten up by transportation and administration. So 40 percent gets to the person who actually needs it.
A lot of these are food aid situations where it costs a lot to get the food there. Going into the interior in Sudan, it just costs a lot to get there, there is no question. But still I have to think we can do this better. We are starting to look at that but also pilot projects to help develop new food aid products and to develop micronutrient-fortified foods for infant through schoolage children, pregnant or nursing mothers. We haven't developed a new food aid product in over 20 years. The last one was a corn-soybean blend which is a good product. But I know the chairman and I don't eat the way we did 20 years ago. You kind of understand the body moves a little differently.
This area of micronutrients is the area that most researchers believe that if the world would invest in it, it is the highest yield category for us to save and positively affect the most lives, an investment in micronutrients. It may be a corn-and-soybean blend, but it also has vitamin additives put into it for that infant, that nursing mother, that person with AIDS or malaria. We have invested a lot to try to save the person with AIDS or malaria, but now they really can't get better because they don't have the nutrition in their body they need. We get that into the system.
I am excited about these steps and pilot projects, what we might be able to find out in these categories and do to save lives. These are well-spent funds.
It is tough economic times for us as a country. These are critical issues for us. I am always looking at ways we can hold the budget numbers down because I think we really have to get our budget under control. These are ones that have been good and wise investments. They are important places for us to work in.
I am appreciative of being able to work on these particular projects. As we move forward, looking at next year, I hope we can sharpen the pencil even more in areas that may have been a high priority in the past but they should not be now, for us to look at ways we can control and get our budget down. And then you move that money either into paying down the deficit so the deficit is much lower or you say: If we are going to put things in higher investment areas, we move them from low-investment to high-investment regions, and that we would emphasize ourselves and work in the committee to see what areas are there that we should be taking money out of to put into higher need categories or to put back against the deficit that is just running way too high for us as a country.
We all know that. This deficit is way too high. It is nonsustainable. We need to sharpen our pencil every bit we can in these committees to do our part. I hope we can really spend some time this next year, even as we line up for the appropriations process, holding hearings on what are low-priority areas, what we can cut out of this budget. We tend to mostly focus on new ideas, new programs, and those are good and important, but in these budgetary times, we have to spend some time asking: What is it we could do without? That would be important for us to do.
It has been a pleasure to work with the chairman. I urge colleagues to vote for the conference report and to send it on to the President.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
