Public Statements
Hearing Of The Senate Committee On Banking, Housing, And Urban Affairs- Minimizing Potential Threats From Iran: Administration Perspectives on Economic Sanctions And Other US Policy Options
Statement
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 6, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Thank you, Senator Dodd, and Senator Shelby. I am grateful for the
opportunity to testify today before this distinguished Committee regarding
the grave threats we face from the regime in Tehran, and how Congress can,
and must, confront these threats.

This Committee plays a critical role in shaping our nation's Iran policy, and I
thank the Chairman and Ranking Member for holding this hearing and for
being willing to move forward with legislation that would impose meaningful
sanctions on the Iranian regime.
Iran is the leading state sponsor of terrorism worldwide, the foremost
exporter of extremist ideology, and the primary source of instability in the
Middle East. The regime's leaders have brutally oppressed their own citizens,
and have threatened to commit genocide against the State of Israel, the
region's only full‐fledged liberal democracy. The regime's radicalism and
brutality not only harms our interests and threatens our national security, but
also challenges our moral obligations.
It simply would be unconscionable to allow the mullahs to acquire nuclear
weapons. Were they to achieve this goal, they would possess a trump card to
ensure the continuation, and augmentation, of all of these dangerous and
destabilizing actions.
We must do everything in our legislative power to prevent this from
occurring.

This means crafting robust and effective sanctions that pull the plug on the
regime's ability to pursue nuclear enrichment, support international
terrorism, and oppress the Iranian people. Our goal must be to make it so that
pursuing these hostile actions would be existentially threatening to the
regime itself.
To that end, divestment can play a key role in any sanctions proposal that this
Committee will consider. Divestment is part of a broad political and economic
strategy to force the Iranian regime to reevaluate its dangerous and
oppressive policies.
But the benefits of divestment extend beyond its effect on the targeted regime.
Divestment also is a wise financial decision. As a major study last year
indicated, companies with links to regimes that violate human rights make
poor investments. Not only that, but divestment serves as a way of fulfilling
our minimum moral obligation towards the victims of oppression from brutal
regimes, like that in Tehran.
Divestment is not the sharpest diplomatic tool, but nor is it ineffective.
Indeed, as we know from the successful movement against apartheid in South
Africa, divestment can play a key role in a government's decision making,
especially if that government depends on large amounts of foreign investment
for economic stability.
Less than two years ago, this Committee passed Sudan divestment legislation
that was ultimately signed into law by President Bush. In that divestment
model, the federal government authorized states and local governments to
divest their pension funds from companies that were effectively subsidizing
the genocide in Darfur.
Following that lead, several states have already passed divestment laws
targeting Iran. But in doing so without explicit federal authority, these
legislatures have opened up their divestment laws to potential constitutional
challenges under the doctrine of federal preemption on matters of foreign

affairs. Moreover, the fund managers that seek to carry out divestment could
be subject to legal action, reducing the incentive and efficacy of the measure.
It is for these reasons that earlier this year Senator Casey and I introduced the
Iran Sanctions Enabling Act, S.1065, which authorizes states and local
governments to divest from companies that invest in Iran's energy sector, and
provides safe harbor for fund managers that divest according to the bill's
guidelines. At this time, S.1065 has 32 bipartisan cosponsors, and a
companion bill has already passed through committee in the House. And lest
any of my colleagues worry about where our President stands on this, you can
rest easy. In the last Congress, then‐Senator Obama and I introduced almost
this very same bill. At that time, Senator Obama said this:
"The Iranian government uses the billions of dollars it earns from its oil
and gas industry to build its nuclear program and to fund terrorist
groups that export its militaristic and radical ideology to Iraq and
throughout the Middle East. Pressuring companies to cut their financial
ties with Iran is critical to ensuring that sanctions have their intended
result. All Americans can play a role in pressuring companies to cut
their ties with the Iranian regime, a state sponsor of terror that is a
threat to our allies in the region and international security, as a means
of convincing Iran to fundamentally change its policies."
Senator Barack Obama, May 15, 2007

I could not have said it better than the President. In that spirit, and in the
context of the Chairman and Ranking Member's intention to markup
comprehensive Iran sanctions legislation, I urge this committee to include the
Brownback‐Casey divestment bill in the final package.

One final word on sanctions: enforcing sanctions is as important as legislating
them. American products often end up in Iran in spite of our sanctions, often
because we are not able to deter third parties from re‐exporting U.S. origin
items to Iranian companies.

I hope that we can provide a small increase to the budget for export
enforcement during this week's floor consideration of the FY10 Commerce
Justice Science appropriations bill. And, I look forward to working with the
administration and my Senate colleagues to ensure that we have the means to
enforce both existing sanctions and any additional sanctions that may emerge
from this panel and ultimately be signed into law.
I wish to make one other point today about our duty and ability to confront
the threats from Iran, and that is that we must not view sanctions as the only
tool at our disposal. We cannot ignore the power of promoting liberty and
confronting the violation of human rights, wherever it occurs.
When it comes to foreign policy in general, I believe that human rights should
be the first of our concerns and the last of our concessions, not the other way
around. My belief stems from a recognition of the inextricable link between a
regime's domestic repression and its aggression abroad.
We must make human rights the cornerstone of our Iran policy. For too many
years, the suffering of the Iranian people--the executions, the arbitrary
imprisonments, the religious repression, and the suffocating censorship--has
taken a backseat to everything else. The Iranian people are our natural ally,
and we have let them get crushed under the weight of the mullahs' theocracy.
Instead of perpetuating this shortsighted policy, we should broaden our scope
and raise the profile of Iranian human rights in every statement, every
diplomatic meeting, and at every international forum, both public and private.
The message should be simple and clear: We cannot continue to look the
other way as the Iranian people are starved of their basic human rights and
freedoms.
This approach makes good policy sense. Leaders of oppressive regimes
disdain criticism because it pushes back against the fiction of success they
peddle to the masses. As the fiction crumbles, their grip on power dissolves.
Like in the Polish Solidarity movement, the defiance of the people eventually
cracked the defiance of the government.

In previous sessions of Congress, I have introduced legislation requiring the
President to appoint a special envoy for human rights in Iran, and I would
hope that the members of this distinguished Committee would join me in
introducing a similar measure in the near future.
We must also focus our efforts on promoting the freedom of information,
specifically Internet freedom.
In the past few months, one of the key battles inside Iran has taken place on
the Internet--on blogs, on Facebook, and on Twitter--as Iranians struggle to
tell their story while the regime fights back with the instruments of
censorship.
One thing is clear: while physical brutality will always be the tool of
oppressors, twenty‐first century authoritarianism has already been defined by
the lengths to which autocrats will go to limit online access to information.
The Iranian dictatorship, like the Chinese Communist Party, the Burmese
junta, and the Castro regime, derives a large share of its power through media
suppression and rigorous Internet censorship.
These dictators not only shield their populations from their own brutality, but
also block information about the basic freedoms enjoyed by millions
worldwide.
As individual information exchanges become effortless through wireless
communication, authoritarian regimes must devote ever more resources to
maintain their electronic wall.
We must ensure that Iranians, and all closed society residents for that matter,
have free and open access to the Internet. This is the surest, and most cost‐
effective, way to jumpstart liberty. To that end, I would urge the members of
this panel to support funding in the State and Foreign Operations
Appropriations bill that would go towards technology that allows residents of
closed societies to break through the stifling firewalls and access open
information.

We must also ensure that Radio Farda remains a key source of information for
the Iranian people by supporting additional reporters and transmission
capacity, and providing Farda with the technical means to overcome the
regime's jamming efforts. The surrogate broadcasts provided through Radio
Farda worked very well even when the regime tried to block the free flow of
information during the street demonstrations earlier this year.
Indeed, the more Iranians understand the nature of their regime, the more
effective will be the sanctions this Committee prepares, and the more power
Iranians will have to determine their own future.
And this, in turn, will transform Iran from one of the lead sources of global
instability to a prosperous nation once more, in the great Persian tradition of
innovation, justice and magnanimity.
I thank you again for giving me the opportunity to testify at this important
hearing.

Source: http://banking.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=Files.View&FileStore_id=d56419fb-c2a6-4d16-b8ea-686b58b3eef6
