Public Statements
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2010
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 1, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010 -- (Senate - October 01, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
AMENDMENT NO. 2598
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, it is tough to follow that act, but I ask unanimous consent that the pending amendment be set aside and call up amendment No. 2598 and ask for its immediate consideration.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, this is an amendment for which the cosponsors include the chairman of the committee and the chairman of the Indian Affairs Committee, Senator Dorgan, as well. It is an amendment that has been cleared through the authorizing committee a multiple of times and it has been cleared through this body previously and we have cleared it on both sides of the aisle.
With the passage of this amendment, we officially apologize for the past ill-conceived policies by the U.S. Government toward the Native Peoples of this land and reaffirm our commitment toward healing our Nation's wounds and working toward establishing better relationships rooted in reconciliation.
Apologies are often times difficult, but like treaties, go beyond mere words and usher in a true spirit of reconciling past difficulties and help to pave the way toward a united future. Perhaps Dr. King said it best when he stated, "The end is reconciliation, the end is redemption, the end is the creation of the beloved community.'' This is our goal, with this resolution today.
Native Americans have a vast and proud legacy on this continent. Long before 1776 and the establishment of the United States of America, Native peoples inhabited this land and maintained a powerful physical and spiritual connection to it. In service to the Creator, Native peoples sowed the land, journeyed it, and protected it. The people from my State of Kansas have a similar strong attachment to the land.
Like many in my State, I was raised on the land. I grew up farming and caring for the land. I and many in my State established a connection to this land as well. We care for our Nation and the land of our forefathers so greatly that we too are willing to serve and protect it, as faithful stewards of the creation with which God has blessed us. I believe without a doubt citizens across this great Nation share this sentiment and know its unifying power. Americans have stood side by side for centuries to defend this land we love.
Both the Founding Fathers of the United States and the indigenous tribes that lived here were attached to this land. Both sought to steward and protect it. There were several instances of collegiality and cooperation between our forbears--for example, in Jamestown, VA, Plymouth, MA, and in aid to explorers Lewis and Clark. Yet, sadly, since the formation of the American Republic, numerous conflicts have ensued between our Government, the Federal Government, and many of these tribes, conflicts in which warriors on all sides fought courageously and which all sides suffered. Even from the earliest days of our Republic there existed a sentiment that honorable dealings and a peaceful coexistence were clearly preferable to bloodshed. Indeed, our predecessors in Congress in 1787 stated in the Northwest Ordinance:
``The utmost good faith shall always be observed toward the Indians.''
Today we live up to this goal, today we right a wrong that has been committed in this nation.
Many treaties were made between the U.S. Government and Native peoples, but treaties are far more than just words on a page. Treaties represent our word, and they represent our bond. Unfortunately, again, too often the United States did not uphold its responsibilities as stated in its covenants with Native tribes.
I have read all of the treaties in my State between the tribes and the Federal Government that apply to Kansas. They generally came in tranches of three. First, there would be a big land grant to the tribe. Then there would be a much smaller one associated with some equipment and livestock, and then a much smaller one after that.
Too often, our Government broke its solemn oath to Native Americans. For too long, relations between the United States and Native people of this land have been in disrepair. For too much of our history, Federal tribal relations have been marked by broken treaties, mistreatment, and dishonorable dealings.
This amendment extends a formal apology from the United States to Tribal Governments and Native peoples nationwide--something we have never done; something we should have done years and years ago.
Further, this resolution will not resolve the many challenges still facing Native Americans, nor will it authorize, support or settle any claims against the United States. It doesn't have anything to do with any property claims against the United States. That is specifically set aside and not in this bill. What this amendment does do is recognize and honor the importance of Native Americans to this land and to the United States in the past and today and offers an official apology for the poor and painful path the U.S. Government sometimes made in relation to our Native brothers and sisters by disregarding our solemn word to Native peoples. It recognizes the negative impact of numerous destructive Federal acts and policies on Native Americans and their culture, and it begins--begins--the effort of reconciliation.
President Ronald Reagan spoke of the importance of reconciliation many times throughout his Presidency. In a 1984 speech to mark the 40th anniversary of the day when the Allied armies joined in battle to free the European Continent from the grip of the Axis powers, Reagan implored the United States and Europe to ``prepare to reach out in the spirit of reconciliation.''
I do not pretend that this apology is a panacea, but perhaps it signals the beginning of the end of division and a faint first light and first fruits of reconciliation and the creation of beloved community Dr. King so eloquently described.
This is an apology and a resolution of reconciliation. It is a step toward healing the wounds that have divided our country for so long--a potential foundation for a new era of positive relations between tribal governments and the Federal Government.
It is time, as I have stated, for us to heal our land of division, all divisions,
and bring us together and I am proud that today we are closer to that goal.
Madam President, I understand the amendment has been cleared, and I ask unanimous consent for its immediate adoption.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
