Public Statements
Brownback Sees Progress in Air Force's Draft RFP
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 24, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Looks forward to working with DoD to further improve fairness and balance in selection process
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today commented on a Defense Department briefing on revised guidelines for replacing the Air Force refueling tanker. The new draft request for proposals expected to be released tomorrow begins the latest round of tanker competition. The earlier competition was nullified after problems identified by the Government Accountability Office.
"This competition looks to be clearer and cleaner than last time, but additional work is needed to clarify the draft request for proposals," said Brownback. "Today's initial briefing showed that the Defense Department has made a good faith effort to correct some of the deficiencies of the previous tanker competition, including some clarification on where and when proposals will receive extra credit." Last year, GAO found that the Air Force misevaluated several factors in the proposals submitted by the competing companies and recommended a new competition. The United States Air Force is seeking to replace more than 500 Eisenhower-era KC-135s. The service is expected to award a contract for 179 new tankers next summer. This week, the Air Force will release revised guidelines for a new tanker competition.
Brownback continued, "That said, this proposal is not perfect. I am very concerned that it does not incorporate the effects of illegal European aircraft subsidies as confirmed by the World Trade Organization. I am also concerned that it does not sufficiently consider the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.S. International Trafficking in Arms Regulations. These omissions will leave the Air Force and the Defense Department open to further criticism of the tanker selection process.
"In addition, I am pleased that the Department will be more deliberate in evaluating life cycle costs and military construction costs; however, I would like to see more information on the proposed price adjustment system when the RFP is released. I hope to gain better insight on this and other issues during the upcoming comment period.
"I look forward to working with the Department of Defense to improve on the draft request for proposals over the next two months so that the final version preserves a level playing field that generates the best platform for our warfighters."

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=318228
