Public Statements
Health Care
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 24, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

HEALTH CARE -- (Senate - September 24, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. I certainly have. I appreciate the Senator from Tennessee leading this discussion and also asking that question. As a former Governor, he has dealt with these issues. He knows that when Washington dictates something--or too often Washington will dangle a little bit of money out here and say: We would like the State to do this, and here is a little money to get it started. Then 3 years in the program, 5 years in the program, the money is pulled away at the Federal level and the State is left with trying to fund this.
It is on two levels that I get it at the State level: No. 1, trying to drive so many more people into Medicaid; that is, by raising the amount of coverage of people in Medicaid, it then gets a big price tag with it--at the Federal level initially and at the State level as well--and State budgets are really strapped right now. I was just talking with some State legislators yesterday, and they are looking at a multiple hundreds of millions of dollars hole next year--that alone, without adding additional Medicaid requirements from the Federal Government on top of that. It is clearly a huge problem for them if you are going to add a cost at a time when they don't have the funds.
The Federal Government, much of it, is saying: We are going to pay for it initially, and the proposals under Baucus are to pay for most of it initially, but I don't think there is any question that then, over time, the State is going to have to assume a bigger role of that, and that is going to be up to State responsibility.
Mr. ALEXANDER. I believe the National Governors Association chairman, of Vermont, said that all Democratic Governors as well as all Republican Governors said: Don't shift it to us. If you want to expand Medicaid from Washington, pay for it from Washington.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Pay for it and pay for it completely. But this is also a more pernicious piece of this, and that is we have 40 percent of our physicians in Kansas saying they are not taking more Medicaid patients. That is 40 percent now. Now you are talking about expanding Medicaid, the number of people in Medicaid, when 40 percent of your doctors are saying: We aren't taking them. You are saying: Why won't the doctors take it? It is not that they don't want to have Medicaid patients, but it is the reimbursement ratios they get. Listen to these numbers from MedPAC saying that Medicare provider reimbursement rates are about 80 percent of private insurance. So private insurance, and then 80 percent of that is Medicare, and then Medicaid is 72 percent of Medicare. So you are cutting it back even further, to the point that physicians are saying: I just can't afford to take more.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Medicaid is the largest government program we have today, bigger than Medicare; it has low-income Americans in every State. I believe the Baucus proposal plans to add about 11 million more low-income Americans to this plan that 40 percent of doctors will not see patients for?
Mr. BROWNBACK. They won't see them. Now what you are doing is driving people into a system that is a very low reimbursement system, that physicians are, almost half, saying: We won't take any more.
My concern here is that you are going to drive people in this system where you are not going to be able to get health care; they are not going to be able to get health care at all because of these reimbursement rates, because of the reimbursement rates physicians are having under Medicaid.
So I think that is a deadly piece of this overall proposal. It is the cost to the States, and then it is also that you are driving people into an area where providers are fleeing and heading out of.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I think to put it in Kansas-type terms, if you are talking about taking savings from Medicare to start a whole new health care entitlement program, that is like writing a big fat check on a completely overdrawn bank account to buy a new car.
You are going: Now, well, who would do something like that? When you are saying: Well, that is what the Federal Government is looking at doing in this proposal that Senator Baucus has put forward.
Medicare is not sustainable. It is not fiscally sound. You are going to write an overdraft check on that to start a whole new program that you do not have the wherewithal to do, that most Americans do not want to see you do because they want to see you fix the current program and get it on a sustainable basis.
It does not make sense. It is out of the stream of thought of the American public. We ought to back up, stop, and go at this in incremental changes, to get costs down and more people covered, that do not drive costs up, that do not do a big federal takeover of the system.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
