Public Statements
Brownback, Roberts, Inhofe and Rep. Jenkins Announce Senate Approves Amendment to Provide EPA Authority to Buyout Treece
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 24, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS), Pat Roberts (R-KS), James Inhofe (R-OK) and U.S. Representative Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) today announced the U.S. Senate has approved an amendment to provide the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) the authority to buyout Treece, Kansas, to protect and improve the lives of residents living with the daily threat of contamination and health related risks from long abandoned lead and zinc mining.
"The people of Treece are living in an unsafe environment lacking basic services," Senator Brownback said. "Past generations worked hard to mine ores used in building war-time munitions and those mining activities have created sink holes and contaminated soil to the point that Treece is no longer habitable.
The residents of Treece have served America in the past; now it is time for us to help them relocate." Senator Roberts, Senator Brownback and Senator Inhofe, introduced the amendment that was accepted by voice vote to the Fiscal Year 2010 Interior Appropriations Bill. Senate passage of the Interior bill is expected later today.
"These folks have no other way out of this dangerous situation," Roberts said. "I am pleased the Senate has approved this necessary step in order to create a framework for a potential buyout. I look forward to working with the EPA to try and address the special hardship facing these residents."
Senator Inhofe, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, successfully obtained a federal buyout for the town of Picher, Oklahoma, just across the state line from Treece. Senator Inhofe said, "I'm pleased to be able to work with Senators Roberts and Brownback and with Congresswoman Jenkins to not only write a provision to extend the same kind of resident assistance to Treece which residents in Picher and Cardin have received, but work to pass that language in the Senate Interior appropriations bill. I will continue to work with my friends to ensure this provision is included in the final legislation presented to the President."
"Helping Treece's residents secure the buyout they've been seeking for years has been a priority of mine since coming to Congress in January," Rep. Jenkins said. A century of mining left behind dangerous living conditions, and I'm glad we are one step closer to providing the residents of Treece the assistance they need. Until the buyout becomes a reality, I will continue working with Senators Roberts and Brownback and also Senator Inhofe, the EPA as well the folks of Treece to make sure it is successful." In August, EPA sent key officials to Treece including: Mathy Stanislaus, Assistant Administrator for the Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response, Bob Sussman, Senior Policy Counsel to the Administrator, and William Rice, Acting Region 7 Administrator. Representative Lynn Jenkins hosted officials through the town and held a town listening session where residents could relay their concerns.
Following this visit in September, EPA began blood and air quality testing at the request of residents.
The Interior Appropriations Bill must now go to a conference committee to resolve differences in the House of Representatives and Senate versions of the bill. The conference report must then be approved by both chambers before it heads to the President's desk to be signed into law.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=318266
