Public Statements
Transportation, Housing And Urban Development, And Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 15, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010--Continued -- (Senate - September 15, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak as in morning business. I ask unanimous consent to speak as in morning business for up to 10 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
WTO AIRBUS INTERIM RULING
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, this issue is actually one that is related to the bill but it is not on point, so that is why I asked for that permission.
Earlier this month, the World Trade Organization issued an interim ruling that the European Union's ``launch aid'' to Airbus is illegal. I say this is relating to the bill because a major transportation issue for us in the United States is the building of major aircraft, of aircraft to be able to transport individuals. What we have seen taking place over the last 15 years is Airbus subsidizing their way into the commercial aviation market and taking market share from Boeing and driving McDonnell-Douglas and other competitors out of the field altogether.
Earlier this month, about 2 weeks ago, the World Trade Organization issued a major finding that the European Union was doing illegal launch aid as a subsidy and it was harming U.S. participants in this marketplace. This ruling is a big one for the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, which has been pursuing this case for years. U.S. trade policy regarding the aerospace industry has been remarkably consistent for years and across several administrations.
The United States has always contended that the launch aid which the EU provides to Airbus to develop new aircraft constitutes an illegal trade practice. Airbus's dishonest behavior has had a devastating effect on the commercial aviation industry in the United States. Launch aid gives Airbus access to billions in government funds which it could never afford to borrow on commercial terms. This free money directly harms the United States and our competitors in these fields. As the USTR pointed out in a 2006 submission to the World Trade Organization, launch aid helped force Lockheed and McDonnell-Douglas from the large commercial aircraft market. It forced them out of the field because of government subsidy by Europe.
Launch aid has also contributed to a loss of 19 percent of Boeing's market share. Imagine two of your main competitors are forced out of the field, Lockheed and McDonnell-Douglas, and you lose 19 percent of market share, because of a European subsidization in this field. This has harmed the United States substantially, in a big way, and this is a huge ruling for us.
This WTO interim ruling is a big win for the United States and U.S. companies that have had to deal with dishonest behavior by Airbus over the years--or at least it should be a big win. For years the Department of Defense has said it cannot consider foreign subsidies when it holds a competition for defense procurements. In particular, DOD has said it would not consider launch aid last year when it evaluated the cost of the Airbus proposal to build a new aerial refueling tanker for the Air Force.
So here we have a case, supported by administrations, Republican and Democrat, over several years against Airbus that comes out in our favor from the WTO, and the next big bid this may come into effect in is in the military bidding of this tanker, the $40 billion U.S. Department of Defense tanker bid. The Department of Defense is saying we cannot consider the issue of launch aid.
I think that is wrong. I think it is wrongheaded. I think it is harmful and I think it is at cross purposes for our government, where one end of the government, the U.S. Trade Representative office, sues Airbus for subsidization and the other end, the Department of Defense, says we don't care, and if you give us a cheaper aircraft that way, that is fine. That is at cross purposes, and I think clearly what we should listen to is what the WTO has said, that this launch aid is illegal and it should not be allowed to use it to subsidize a military bid in this country by a foreign competitor.
Last year the Air Force chose Airbus to build the tanker because the cost seemed very low. But now we know that the Airbus pricetag covered up development costs that were illegally subsidized by the EU, and we have that from a World Trade Organization interim ruling.
The Department of Defense, I believe, has an obligation to listen to the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative when designing a new tanker competition. Defense procurement should be coordinated with our trade policy. If the WTO agrees with arguments made by the U.S. Trade Representative, why should the Department of Defense, our Department of Defense, be allowed to object? We cannot afford to have the Pentagon undermining our Trade Representative and our trade policy negotiating position at the World Trade Organization. We have seen how launch aid to Airbus distorts the commercial aircraft market, driving two major U.S. competitors out of the field and cutting back
Boeing's share of the marketplace by nearly 20 percent. The WTO ruling should keep us from relearning that lesson in the military marketplace as well. Defense contracts should never stack the deck against American companies, particularly when the WTO foreign companies are engaged in illegal trade practices.
Everyone agrees that the Air Force needs new tankers. In this current fleet of tankers, many of the planes are already over 50 years old, and when they are finally replaced some of them will be 80 years old and will still be out there flying. They need to be replaced. Tankers are a vital platform for the Air Force and for all of our Armed Forces. They enable the rest of our forces to deploy across the world. Taxpayers have a right to expect a new tanker competition will have a level playing field, particularly for U.S. entrants.
We should not ask taxpayers to ignore the illegal trade practices of companies vying to build a new tanker and we should not ask taxpayers to outsource this crucial capability to a foreign company offering unrealistic, bought-down-by-the-Government-subsidy bargain basement prices, subsidization from the French Government, from the German Government, to get a U.S. military contract that puts our workers out of jobs.
I call on the Secretary of Defense to ensure the new tanker competition accounts for the recent ruling from the World Trade Organization. DOD should factor the value of launch aid subsidies into the cost estimates for any tanker proposal Airbus might submit. This is the only fair way to account for the way Airbus manipulates the aircraft market and has done so successfully in the commercial aviation field to the great detriment of the United States.
I call on the President to ensure Federal procurements are coordinated with U.S. trade policy. This kind of coordination should be a no-brainer. Our trade policy should not be undermined from within and our procurement policies should reflect our trade priorities.
This is a key issue. It is a key issue up in front of the military. It is a key economic development issue for this country. It is a key contract, a $40 billion military contract. It should be won fairly and squarely by a U.S. company, not by a subsidized European group.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
