Public Statements
Remembering Senator Edward M. Kennedy
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 10, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

REMEMBERING SENATOR EDWARD M. KENNEDY -- (Senate - September 10, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I rise to add my voice to those who have already paid tribute to our friend and colleague, the late Senator Ted Kennedy, who passed away this last month after a courageous battle with cancer.
He was quite an institution. I came into this body in a seat held by an individual who was quite an institution as well. Bob Dole was in this seat. So I know that when people look to the person who follows after Ted Kennedy, you just can't replace an individual like that who was such a towering figure in this body, was the lion of the Senate, as many have noted, and certainly deserved that topic and that accolade.
While Senator Kennedy and I did not see eye to eye on most political issues, I admired him greatly as a colleague and certainly as a dedicated public servant. Ted Kennedy fought for what he believed and did so with passion and conviction and incomparable ability. When he was your opponent on an issue, you knew you had a fight on your hands, and when he was on your side, you knew you had an advocate who worked hard and effectively.
His skills as a legislator were unmatched. I think really what was at the core of that was he really enjoyed working with other people. He had built relationships across the aisle with individuals, so that he could personally go to other individuals with that relationship he had built. Even though there were huge disagreements on policy issues on many other fronts, he had the personal relationships. To him, I think, in many cases, it was a lot more about the person rather than policy. I think that is a good lesson for many of us to learn. He mastered the legislative process, became one of the most effective Members of this body and that this body has ever known. One
of the keys of his effectiveness was his tenacity and perseverance and attending to, in many cases, the unglamorous details and the sometimes tedious work that goes into crafting and passing a bill.
He also understood that getting things done as a politician means compromise. He had a great sense of when to fight on principle and when to reach out to the other side and arrive at an agreement in order to advance the cause for which he was fighting. I think you can probably look back over the last decade or 15 years of this body and no major piece of legislation passed without Ted Kennedy's fingerprints somewhere around or on that piece of legislation.
Despite our political differences, I always found him to be professional, courteous, thoughtful, and a caring individual. He was always looking for ways to find common ground and had a wonderful ability to win others over to his side with that charm, Irish wit, his fellowship, and gregarious nature. And once he made an agreement, you could depend on him to be true to his word and honor in public an agreement he had made in private.
Over the years, I had the opportunity to work on several legislative issues with Senator Kennedy. As many testified, he was the best ally one could ever hope for.
Most recently we worked together to pass the Prenatally and Postnatally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act, a pro-life piece of legislation. When I would travel around the country saying that Ted Kennedy and I had introduced a pro-life piece of legislation together, many people would be quite startled. I would explain what this was. It was a piece of legislation that would encourage people, once they had a diagnosis that their child had Down Syndrome in utero, not to abort the child but instead to have the child, put together an adoption registry of individuals who were willing to adopt children with Down Syndrome. We have this terrible plague in the country where 90 percent of our children who are diagnosed with Down Syndrome never get here; they are aborted.
In our office we went to the disability community. We went to his sister Eunice and talked with her about it. And I went to Ted. I remember how effective his sister Eunice would be on lobbying Ted on this piece of legislation. Just this past year, when we were able to move things forward with it, I met with Eunice. She was obviously getting more difficult and failing of health at that point. She said: Is Teddy being helpful? Is Teddy working with you and helping? I would say: Yes, he is, but you can always help us more and push him more. And she did. What an effective team that was on providing help for those especially with mental disabilities, even on this pro-life piece of legislation that I hope will result in more people getting here who have disabilities so that they are not killed in utero but instead that they get here and, if people can't handle that issue in their families, that they put them up for adoption. We have adoption registries ready to go for people who want to adopt a child who may have more difficulties. Working together we were able to find common ground on protecting the dignity of these precious Americans by providing parents who receive a pre- or postnatal diagnosis of genetic disability with resources, information, and a network of support.
I am so pleased to know Senator Kennedy lived to see this bill passed and signed into law. It stands as an example of how we can find common ground to advance the interests of all Americans in spite of differences. This body truly will not be the same place without Ted Kennedy, without his rhetoric and his strong voice, his abilities as a legislator.
My thoughts and prayers go out to him and his family and friends.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
