Public Statements
Tribute To Senator Mel Martinez
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 9, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

TRIBUTE TO SENATOR MEL MARTINEZ -- (Senate - September 09, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I too join my colleagues in recognizing MEL MARTINEZ and his great contribution to this body and his friendship. I think most of those things have been said.
One of the things I learned from a leader in the Senator's State was a saying that he gave to me that: We get into trouble when we look at people as problems and not as people. I have thought about that for a long time, because you can go back in our history, and generally when we have looked at people as problems and not people, that is when we have gotten into trouble. When you look at various situations we have had, and even the immigration debate would be one: Well, this is a problem. No, this is a person. Or you can look at our debate on abortion in this country and say: Well, we have got a problem here. No, we have a person here.
The consistency of what I have seen in MEL's policy position has been very much, no, this is a person. It is not just a person, this is a great person, and not just a great person, this is an unusual individual. He celebrates that with everyone. That is a beautiful thing to do and it is a beautiful thing to have, and it is a beautiful thing to see, because then that carries over into his friendships, so whenever he is talking with someone else, it may be a colleague or another individual, normally you are sitting there and you are going: Okay, I need to get something done through this person. But I do not usually find that in a conversation with MEL. Normally what I find is: Well, yes, I need to get something done, but what I am interested in is you and what you are thinking and who you are. And this is not an opportunity for me to get something, this is an opportunity for me to celebrate another beautiful soul who is standing right there and staring at me and talking to me, and I have this unique opportunity to engage them.
How much better we all are when we look at people as people and not as problems or as opportunities or as obstacles to get through. That is where I find what he embodies does in this way he works. I am going to miss you, MEL. We are going to miss you an awful lot. We appreciate you. I appreciate the lessons you have taught me by the way you live and by the way you serve. God bless you.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
