Public Statements
Letter to Lisa Jackson, EPA Administrator
Letter
By: Lynn Jenkins Jim Inhofe Sam Brownback Pat Roberts
Date: Aug. 24, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Senators Roberts, Brownback, Inhofe & Rep. Jenkins Call for EPA to Spend Returned Stimulus Funds in Treece
U.S. Senators Pat Roberts (R-KS), Sam Brownback (R-KS), Jim Inhofe (R-OK) and 2nd District U.S. Representative Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) called for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to spend returned stimulus funds on a buyout for the residents of Treece, Kansas .
The members sent a letter to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson regarding unspent stimulus funding that may be returned to the EPA to be used on other Superfund projects. Representative Jenkins hosted EPA officials on a tour of Treece at Senator Roberts' invitation.
The letter was signed by U.S. Senator Jim Inhofe, the ranking member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works. Senator Inhofe successfully obtained a federal buyout for the town of Picher, Oklahoma , just across the state line from Treece.
The following is the text of the letter:
“Through news reports we understand that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will be the recipient of over $3 million of returned Superfund funding. The Wyckoff-Eagle Harbor Superfund site received $5 million in funds on April 16, 2009 to speed up the cleanup of the site. In an August 14 article in the Kitsap Sun newspaper, EPA Superfund project manager Cami Grandinetti said the agency's inability to arrive at an agreement with the Washington state Department of Ecology meant that $3 million had to be returned to EPA so that the funds could be spent at other sites.
“If EPA does in fact decide to reallocate the $3 million in Superfund funds we would request that EPA consider reallocating the funds to the Cherokee County National Priorities List Site. Specifically, the money would be used for relocation assistance in Treece, Kansas. The properties in Treece are in danger of being destroyed and the health of the occupants are at risk due to the risks posed by the Cherokee County National Priorities Site.
“We appreciate your timely consideration of our request.”

Source: http://roberts.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressRoom.PressReleases&ContentRecord_id=4e2ab1af-802a-23ad-43cb-31328a2a1221&Region_id=&Issue_id=
