Public Statements
Leavenworth Selected for Veterans Affairs Patient Account Center
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 10, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

Leavenworth Selected for Veterans Affairs Patient Account Center
Center Will Bring 400 Jobs to Leavenworth
U.S. Senators Sam Brownback and Pat Roberts, U.S. Representatives Lynn Jenkins, Jerry Moran and Todd Tiahrt today announced the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs has selected Leavenworth's Dwight D. Eisenhower VA Medical Center Campus to be the new home of a VA Consolidated Patient Account Center for the central plains region, bringing 400 jobs to the area.
Patient Account Centers handle billing, insurance verification, accounts receivable management, and cash management at seven regional centers. The center will be housed in buildings listed on the National Historic Register, further preserving the history and architecture of the Eisenhower campus.
Brownback said, "The citizens of Leavenworth have an outstanding tradition of providing quality services to the members of our nation's military, past and present. Adding the VA Central Plains Consolidated Patient Account Center to the VA grounds in Leavenworth will help ensure that tradition continues to thrive." "Leavenworth is the ideal place for this center. We have the buildings, a welcoming community and a proud history of service to our nation's veterans. Not only will the center find a great home on this historic campus, it brings good paying jobs and helps to support the local economy during these tough times, " Roberts said.
Jenkins said, "This is great and well-deserved news for the Leavenworth community. It's a great honor representing Fort Leavenworth and to see first-hand the ways in which they support our men and women in uniform. This will be yet another opportunity for them to demonstrate their commitment to serving our nation's heroes. The work done at this new center will be vital for our veterans and a great economic asset for this community." "I applaud the VA's decision as a welcome boost for Leavenworth's economy and a victory for improved veterans' health care management," said Congressman Jerry Moran, Member of the Veterans Affairs Committee. "During a recent conversation I had with the VA Chief of Staff, I shared why Leavenworth is a perfect fit for the center. The new center will not only create hundreds of quality jobs for northeast Kansas, it will also preserve structures significant to our country's history. VA officials who evaluated the Leavenworth VA campus observed the great potential it offers and indeed made the right decision."
Tiahrt said, "There is no better location for the Consolidated Patient Account Center than Fort Leavenworth. Bringing this patient accounting center to our state is a good move for our veterans, our VA system and the Leavenworth community." In February, Senators Roberts and Brownback sent a letter in support of Leavenworth to Michael Kussman, the Under Secretary for Veterans Health at the Veterans Health Administration. In May, Congresswoman Jenkins also sent a letter in support of Leavenworth to The Honorable Eric H. Shinseki, Secretary of Veterans Affairs. In July, following a visit to the Leavenworth VA campus with community leaders, Moran spoke with the VA Chief of Staff, John Gingrich, about the merits of selecting Leavenworth.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=316966
