Public Statements
Governor Sam Brownback Orders Termination of Planned Parenthood From Kansas Medicaid and Kancare Programs
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 13, 2016
Location: Unknown

Governor Sam Brownback, in his State of the State address, directed Kansas Department of Health and Environment Secretary Susan Mosier, M.D., MBA, FACS to ensure no taxpayer money goes to Planned Parenthood through the Kansas Medicaid program.
The letter directs Dr. Mosier to take all necessary steps to terminate Planned Parenthood of Kansas and Mid-Missouri and any other individual providers affiliated with Planned Parenthood, following the provision of appropriate notice to those providers.
Statement from Governor Sam Brownback:
"Planned Parenthood's trafficking of baby body parts is antithetical to our belief in human dignity. No longer will we send the money of hard-working Kansans to fund an industry that disrespects life and violates the moral conscience of our people."
Statement from Lt. Governor Dr. Jeff Colyer:
"The medical needs of Kansas women will continue to be met by providers in the Medicaid and KanCare network. Planned Parenthood is attempting to mislead and frighten women into believing their health care services will suffer. This is not true."
Statement from KDHE Secretary Dr. Susan Mosier, M.D., MBA, FACS
"Based on the Governor's direction to terminate Planned Parenthood of Kansas and Mid-Missouri as a KanCare provider, KDHE will issue an intent to terminate letter. This letter will initiate the process to formally terminate Planned Parenthood as a KanCare provider."
The termination process is defined by K.A.R 30-5-60(c):
Prior to the termination of a provider from the program, the provider shall be sent a written notification by the agency of the proposed termination and the reasons. The notice shall state whether payment liability to the provider has been suspended pending further proceedings. The notice shall further advise the provider that an appearance before the section may be permitted at a specified time, not less than five days nor more than 15 days from the date the notice is mailed to or served upon the provider. At the appearance the provider may present any relevant evidence and have an opportunity to be heard on the question of continuing eligibility in the program. All evidence presented, including that of the provider, shall be considered by the agency. If the decision is to terminate, a written order of termination shall be issued, setting forth the effective date of the termination and the basic underlying facts supporting the order.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2016/01/13/governor-sam-brownback-orders-termination-of-planned-parenthood-from-kansas-medicaid-and-kancare-programs
