Public Statements
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 4, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


AGRUCULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010--Continued -- (Senate - August 04, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I inform my colleagues, we are trying to get to a final conclusion on this bill. It is an important bill, but also a number of Members want to speak on the Sotomayor nomination to the Supreme Court. The attempt is to get this bill moving forward. I think we are close to a final UC to get to passage of this bill.
I wish to comment before we move into that sequence about the importance of the agriculture industry. It is a key issue in my State, and it is a key issue in Wisconsin, the State of the leader of this subcommittee. It is an industry that has done better than a number of others have been doing during this recessionary time period. It is one that is a good performer for us on exports. We have one of the best exporting models, as far as business in agriculture, in this country. Because it is very competitive, it has a lot of capital intensity to it, a lot of intellectual brain power put behind it, both at the public and private level.
It is one of those models in which we compete and do well globally. We are also aggressive in our trade policy to push for free trade, but if other countries are going to subsidize, we will back up our guys and say: If you subsidize your agricultural industry, then we are going to do it to fight you back on it. We don't take any guff around the world. We want a free-trade world, but if you are going to attack us, we are going to respond. If you have missiles, we have missiles, and we are going to do it. That model has worked well to create a very competitive, very growth-oriented, very export-oriented business that is globally competitive, high technology, and one I think that is moving well into the future.
We have a lot of things going on in agriculture, and a number of them are funded in this bill. We want to see the industry expand in the energy business. A lot of us are very supportive of ethanol. Some are saying: I am for it, but I want the next generation of ethanol. We are funding that, as far as getting into cellulosic ethanol.
We are looking at other types of fuels. One that is interesting for some people is on algae production into a diesel type of fuel. We are doing something on wind because wind is what generally blows across the Plains in your State, Mr. President, my State and a number of others and harvesting that in such a way that we can get it to other markets--the electric markets--and add a cost-competitive rate so it is not one that drives it up.
All of this does take a lot of effort. I want to acknowledge that some colleagues on my side are saying: I am not satisfied with this bill; I don't like some of the items in this bill. I say to them: I agree. There are provisions in this bill I don't like. But it is part of us getting a process to move an Agriculture appropriations bill through, something we have not been able to get through on the floor for over 3 years in a stand-alone type of bill, on a very important industry that is globally competitive, that has been a good one for us in this recessionary time period we are in.
I note we have a lot of problems with this bill, but I also say I think we have a lot we are doing right with it and looking forward into the future of what we can do to be very supportive.
I note a couple of things that are going on that are important for us as a country in agriculture on which we can get some crosscurrents.
Norman Borlaug, an agronomist from Texas A&M, is known as the father of the green revolution that brought a lot of the new technology to feed the world. This has been over a career. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1970 for his contributions to the green revolution.
I mention him because he is a key person in looking to the future of how the world is fed and fed at a good level. He notes it is important for us to do things in an environmentally sensitive and environmentally sound way but that we also need to fund high-yield, disease-resistant wheat varieties. We need to be able to use plant genetics that are in some places around the world. Some are saying: We don't like your alterations on plant genetics. We need to be able to do this. To feed a hungry world, we are going to have to use agricultural pesticides, insecticides, and fertilizer, and that gets into crosscurrents. They say: I want all the agricultural production, but I don't want these inputs brought into it. We don't have a model for that to work yet.
It is important we support organic food markets and organic food production, but we cannot go that way fully. It is the sort of thing we cannot feed a hungry world on on a cost-competitive basis, a globally competitive industry, if you say we are going to pull out all these tools that have made the green revolution work.
I think it is also important that we fund into the next generation of genetics and technology in this area. I was interested in one of my travels across Kansas. Last year, we had a time where some of my corn farmers could not plant for a couple days, and it was not because it was wet. It was because the satellite went down. Their global positioning system on their corn planter would not work, so they could not plant their corn because the satellite was down. I am going: Well, that is an interesting excuse. I haven't heard that one before. But it wasn't an excuse. It was a fact of life. To plant these crops and do the best job--and they apply just the right amount of fertilizer to that soil and that crop in that specific location will take--it takes a global positioning satellite that has had the data read into it and fed back. That is how high tech the industry is.
I don't want us to move away from that level of technology and input; otherwise, I think we are going to lose our edge.
We also have some developments in the environmental field that I think are interesting. We have people in Kansas and other places around the country who are working on things such as green concrete. You ask: What would that be? It is concrete that has soy oil brought into it to help it be an environmentally sound, renewable type of process. They already are making the foam matting in the seat in your car out of soybeans. So when you sit in a new Mustang--in particular, I know that car for sure--the foam rubber is made out of soybeans. I guess if you get caught in a Colorado blizzard and don't have anything to eat for a week or two, you can eat the seat.
I don't think it is edible.
But my point is, that, again, is an investment in the technology we are putting in this Agriculture appropriations bill to make new things that will work.
This bill is an increase in funding. I don't like that because I think we should not be doing those sorts of funding increases. A major portion of that is the WIC Program. When we get into a recession, we get more and more people needing food. They are not able to pay for it themselves, and the government steps up. That is the problem when we have a recession--government costs go up, government receipts go down, and you get caught in this trap.
One of the reasons why I think a program such as Cash for Clunkers is interesting is because it stimulates the economy, not the government. It gets that economy rolling, which is 80 percent of us balancing the budget. It is getting the economy moving. We have to restrain our spending and do a better job of that.
I think we also need to be a lot more targeting of our programs. Programs such as the WIC Program and this Agriculture appropriations bill are a consequence of a bad economy. I don't like it, but I think the key for us is to be an economic stimulus and not a government stimulus.
On the whole, while I think we have problems with this bill, I like the overall trend of what we are doing in the agricultural industry. I like what the chairman has focused on in this bill.
On top of these items, I note for my colleagues, we put a special effort on the food aid program and getting the food aid program updated. To me, the needs of those who are in very difficult circumstances in refugee camps and different places around the world--we spend too much on transportation and administration on food aid. Nearly 60 percent goes into those two. That number has to come down. But we need to get more food on the target because, in many cases, we are what stands between that person and starvation and death. It is the food aid, the generous food aid of the American people, that flows through this appropriations bill that does that.
The Food and Drug Administration is also in this bill, and that is part of the increase. The development and the increasing need for different types of drugs are addressed in this bill as well.
We have to get more innovative on FDA. I would like to see us in the neglected disease categories find more truncated procedures that approve drugs that have narrower, smaller marketplaces. That is in this bill.
While I believe there are a number of things negative about this bill, I think the chairman has put together an overall good bill. I am glad we are getting to the point where we can move this one on through, conference it, and bring it back separately, as well so we can recognize this very important industry. It is important in my State and it is important in the States of all the Members, and we should do this separately instead of rolling it together in some sort of omnibus bill like we too often have done.
I believe we are getting close to getting to a final UC. That would be my hope so we can move this bill forward.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Amendment No. 2276.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, with the Sanders amendment being the issue now, I will raise to my colleagues a point of order.
I understand the difficulty the dairy industry is in. We have dairy industry in Kansas, and it is an important business. Certainly, prices are difficult and they are having trouble.
However, the Sanders amendment would provide the Farm Service Agency with an additional $350 million. Unfortunately, even if we could agree that additional funding was necessary, the amendment was put in such a way that it cannot work; it is not drafted appropriately. There is no mechanism to move the funding from the FSA salaries and expenses account to the Dairy Product Price Support Program.
For these reasons, regrettably, I cannot support the amendment. The pending amendment, No. 2276, offered by the Senator from Vermont, increases spending by $350 million. This additional spending would cause the underlying bill to exceed the subcommittee's section 302(b) allocation.
Therefore, I raise a point of order against the amendment pursuant to section 302(f) of the Congressional Budget Act.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I would like to also thank the Senator from Iowa for his comments. I agree with Chairman Kohl and Senator Harkin on this need and will work hard towards accomplishing this goal in conference. The recent H1N1 scare also illustrates the dangers of zoonotic diseases to the human and animal populations. If we know how to stop these diseases soon after they are diagnosed, we can help stop the spread of the disease in animals, and possibly the transmission to humans. The reverse is also true; the H1N1 scare also taught us that humans can also pass diseases to the animals. The more knowledge that can be discovered about emerging animal diseases, the more likely it is that we can address them before they become a significant problem. Ongoing funding provided for the NADC will be vitally important in protecting human and animal health.
Emerging animal diseases, like the H1N1 virus, can have a devastating impact on animal agriculture in the form of reduced exports and slaughter of infected herds and flocks. Additional ongoing resources provided in this bill will make sure the livestock industry is in a safe and secure place.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
FOOD AND AGRICULTURE POLICY INSTITUTE
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I would like to raise an issue that has been brought to my attention by the Senator from Georgia, Mr. Isakson. The Senator was mistakenly credited with having requested funding for the Food and Agriculture Policy Research Institute in Senate Report 111-39. I want to assure him that this will be corrected during the conference negotiations on the Agriculture appropriations bill.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I, too, want to take a moment to thank my colleague Senator Kohl who has worked on this for some period of time. I thought this was one of the smoothest appropriations bill we have had flow through the floor. I congratulate our colleague and particularly his work and that of the staff to make this happen: Galen Fountain, Jessica Frederick on his staff, Bob Ross, Dianne Nellor; on mine, Fitz Elder, Stacy McBride, Katie Toskey, and then Riley Scott and Melanie Benning were also key on it.
There is an item about which I have some consternation at the end where we broke the 302(b) allocation. My hope is in conference we can get that worked back down because clearly we have a huge budget crisis on our hands and we have to hit these numbers. I know it was an important issue to the chairman on dairy funding and that is an important issue; particularly if you are from Wisconsin, that is an important issue. It is my hope we can work that down.
I do think it shows a lot of support and strength when you have a major bipartisan vote on this bill at the end. My hope is that is the way we will operate in the body, in a bipartisan way so we can move things through for the good of the country.
We are in the minority, obviously, but there is no reason we cannot work these issues together as much as we possibly can. Senator Kohl was excellent to work with. I appreciate that chance to do it.
I look forward to us getting this through on a stand-alone basis, not rolled together in an omnibus package if at all possible. I think it is an important package, one we should be able to do that with. I think we have the ability to get that done.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
