Public Statements
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 31, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010 -- (Senate - July 31, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I urge my colleagues, particularly on my side of the aisle, to get their amendments and bring them forward, bring them forward this morning. It would be my hope we could get this bill done on Monday, early evening, so we can move to the Sotomayor discussion and debate on the floor. I think most Members want to speak about Sotomayor, so it is going to take a lot of time next week, being the last week before we go on break. I hope we could start that as fast as possible and we could move through this bill expeditiously.
We worked very closely with the majority. I think we have a good bill. It certainly is not perfect; no bill is. But it is one for which we have done a lot of work, and I do not see the issues outstanding here to the degree that I think it would merit us putting off the discussion and debate on Sotomayor. So I am hopeful we can get those amendments coming forward.
AMENDMENT NO. 2229 TO AMENDMENT NO. 1908
Mr. President, I have discussed with the majority about bringing up an amendment to deal with the issue of neglected and rare diseases. The FDA funding is in this bill, and we have negotiated an amendment with the proper authorizing committee. So with that, I ask unanimous consent to set aside the pending amendment, to call up amendment No. 2229, and ask for its immediate consideration.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, the clerk will report.
The assistant legislative clerk read as follows:
The Senator from Kansas [Mr. Brownback] proposes an amendment numbered 2229 to amendment No. 1908.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President and colleagues, this amendment goes at a critical problem in the world and one we hold the key to answering. There is a lot of work that needs to be done on disease treatment and drug development. Unfortunately, what we have seen taking place is that the cost of developing a pharmaceutical product to treat particular diseases continues to go up and up and up into, in some cases, billions of dollars to develop a particular drug for a treatment for individuals.
When you are looking at disease categories, now that we are getting into finer and finer groups, you may have a group of, say, 50,000 people who have a particular disease, or for a neglected disease that is in a Third World country, you can have millions, even more than that, who are affected by a disease, but there is not a large marketplace to support the research that is necessary to develop a cure.
What we have put forward in this amendment is a review process to try to establish a new system for neglected and rare diseases so that drug delivery can proceed, and it can proceed on an expedited basis and reduce the cost of doing it, so we can start to develop drug treatments for rare diseases and neglected diseases that happen in poorer parts of the world where the economy does not support that level of research.
The amendment establishes two review groups within the Food and Drug Administration that would recommend solutions for the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of both rare diseases and neglected diseases of the developing world.
According to the World Health Organization, more than 1 billion people--nearly one of every six people worldwide--are affected by at least one neglected disease. We have a billion people who are in this category of having a disease for which there is little to no research being done.
Examples of well-known neglected diseases include malaria, tuberculosis, and cholera. Africa certainly bears the brunt of this, as nearly 90 percent of the world's neglected diseases afflict people in this continent.
While this is the target category, it is my hope that what this will lead to is us developing systems and ways where we can reduce the cost and the time for drug delivery and development so we can use that in this country. We can use that on rare diseases where you do not have the population pool to support as much of the research.
Neglected diseases claim roughly 500,000 lives each year. They disproportionately affect very low-income populations in developing countries. Unfortunately, less than 1 percent of the roughly 1,400 drugs registered between 1975 and 1999 treated such diseases--1 percent of them.
Streamlining the FDA review process to treat these diseases is not only in our country's national interest, but it is consistent with our longstanding tradition of caring for those who are less fortunate around the world.
I might point out that as to the public opinion standing of the United States, the continent where we have the highest public opinion standing of the population is not even North America, it is Africa, where we are helping people with the PEPFAR program, with malaria, with food, and people like you if you are helping them stay alive. This continues in that, so it is good foreign policy as well and also helps us in drug delivery and development for our rare diseases.
This amendment also addresses rare diseases or those diseases for which little market exists since so few patients are affected. If this happens to be a person in your family, you do not care how many people are affected, you are affected, and you want somebody to be developing cures for it.
Rare diseases can be especially lethal since few treatments may exist for individual patients and time is not on their side.
For these reasons, I strongly urge my colleagues to support this amendment No. 2229, which would allow experts to identify ways we can improve the Food and Drug Administration's ability to review treatments for rare and neglected diseases.
We worked carefully on this proposal with a number of individuals, including Dr. Francis Collins, who is nominated to be the head of NIH and who had the Human Genome Project, one of the great scientific breakthroughs of the last 25 years; as well as with former FDA officials and a number of people interested and concerned about what is taking place here; about the expanded cost of developing drugs and the smaller economic category that they have to hit in. I think this is in the best traditions of the United States and is very helpful to us as a country to address.
I and my colleagues have traveled to some of the Third World areas. We know malaria hits 60 percent of the children in Sub-Saharan Africa--60 percent. Tuberculosis as well is rampant. We have other diseases that we haven't thought of here for a long time--sleeping sickness, river blindness--that affect a large cross-section of individuals with little to no effort going into it. To the degree we can help will be a massive good that we do. It is my fundamental belief that we are blessed to be a blessing, and this country has been blessed. We certainly have our difficulties; no question about that, but here is an area where we can help and it helps us too.
I hope my colleagues will see fit to support this amendment. I will ask at the proper time that it be supported and that we vote on it.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, while we are waiting on Members to come and present their amendments, I want to talk about something associated with agriculture in my State. It is an issue that will probably come up after the August break, and that is energy legislation. Energy, in our State, is inextricably linked to agriculture, where it is a big energy-using industry but also one that derives a lot of income for agriculture.
The industry itself moved from a food and fiber industry to a food, fiber, and fuels industry, with ethanol and biodiesel and increasingly--this is a bit of a sidebar but a connection--wind energy. Wind energy, in many of the rural areas of our State, is providing income to those regions.
I want to talk about the energy policy of this country, particularly as it is associated with agriculture. We need to look at the agricultural industry and what it can produce for a domestic fuel need. I am hopeful we can, over time, up the ethanol standard from 10 percent to a higher mixed blend. I would like to see us get to 15, 20 percent in the current vehicle fleet. I think this is doable and the technology is there and it is not harmful to anybody or any of the automobiles in the automobile industry.
A number of us signed a letter asking that fuel blend be upped and also that the refineries be held harmless in any up mixture of blending that might be considered. A number of refineries are sensitive about the MTBE problem, when they were pushed by Congress to put in MTBE, and later were held responsible for difficulties associated with that. I think we ought to hold the refinery industry harmless but allow the mixture to go up from 10 percent.
In my State, a number of ethanol plants have been built. They are cost effective and they continue to operate well. It is a dual-commodity business, where we are looking at the commodity price of oil and the commodity price of corn. We can do very well financially, but if they move against us, we can do poorly. We have the capacity to move the blend up to the 15 or 20 percent level.
It is my hope that down the road that will be something of consideration. That has been a big piece of the agricultural policy in this country--something that has been supported in the Agriculture appropriations bill, to increase research on ethanol and make the next generation out of cellulose or make everything a cellulosic stream, along with a grain stream of ethanol in the same ethanol plant, so we can mix those methods of making ethanol. That is an important endeavor that we can do.
On the Energy bill, there is a renewable energy standard put in it and not the cap-and-trade bill. I urge my colleagues, let's work on renewable energy where we can get good, strong bipartisan support and not a cap-and-trade system where it is going to hurt a number of States that are high energy using and producing States--particularly like my own State or others in the Midwest that are very dependent upon energy. This is a major tax on us. It taxes our electrical production that is coal based. Our State is in the 60 to 70 percent electric production. If we are taxing that, we are taxing people's utility bills. If we go with a renewable energy standard, we can seed and develop the growth of the wind energy business throughout a lot of the country, or biomass, which is helpful to agriculture, and not raise utility rates and not do it by taxing and regulating but, rather, by innovation and investment.
Earlier this week, I met with a number of people from the wind energy business, and they were saying we have had a good run, but it is not going very well now with this economy and without a renewable energy standard. The one we put forward in the Energy Committee has a 15-percent renewable energy standard; 4 percent of that can be met by conservation and 11 percent by renewable production, biomass, wind, and even things such as algae biofuel production, which is very much in the experimental stage, but it is a developing technology.
If we can consider that and do the renewable energy standard portfolio, separate and distinct, and not blend it with cap and trade, I think we can come forward with a good, bipartisan bill that moves us forward off of our energy reliance on foreign fuels and into a cleaner environment. The tax and regulatory structure of a cap-and-trade system would be very harmful on a State such as mine.
Senator Bingaman chairs the Energy Committee. He did a markup over a period of 4 weeks that was one of the most impressive markups I have seen, where he worked with everybody to get this bill together on a renewable energy standard. We came out with a bipartisan energy bill on a renewable energy standard. Not everybody got what they wanted; nobody ever does, but it was bipartisan, and it wasn't a cap-and-trade bill, which really sends the bells off for a lot of high energy using States. That is doable, and it is what we ought to do rather than what the House did on cap-and-trade legislation, which passed by the thinnest of margins.
It was basically done completely on Democratic votes, without Republican votes; whereas, the renewable energy standard we passed had a mixture of Republican and Democratic votes and even some Democrats voted against the bill in committee. It is a bipartisan process and one that we can move forward with--not to mention other things.
I just met with a refinery group doing petroleum products--pavement and other things--in the United States. They look to get hit with cap-and-trade legislation--to the point they will be driven out of business. But we are still going to need asphalt in this country.
They are saying: Do you know where it is going to come from? It will come from China and India; they will make the asphalt. Big plants are being planned and built there in anticipation that we will do cap-and-trade legislation and they won't. Their CO 2 emissions are not counted and ours will be and they will sell us the product. That completely defeats the purpose of any type of CO 2 mitigation--just driving the industry overseas. It is going to be more polluting there than here, and the CO 2 emissions that go into the atmosphere affect everybody. It is a bad idea for us to cause that to happen in our own legislation.
Industries are planning on doing that now, just building and moving the industries to China and importing the products back to the United States. That hurts us. That hurts our people, our job formation, and it doesn't help the environment. We have another way. We have a way, through this renewable energy standard, that can actually work.
I ask, as we consider the Agriculture bill and others, that we keep an eye on energy because it is one of the key cost drivers within the industry. It is also one of the key possibilities for us to grow it in the future and grow it for our country. That is why we put some provisions in this Agriculture appropriations bill that are supporting the energy industry in agriculture. But personally--and I know others have different opinions on this--I ask that we don't then hurt it with legislation later on that is not complementary toward it.
Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
