Public Statements
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 30, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010 -- (Senate - July 30, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I wish to first thank my colleague for the work he has done on this bill. Senator Kohl and his staff have done an excellent job in putting together a responsible, good, and important bill, and I am delighted to be a part of it and a part of the process. It has been a great group to work with.
The Appropriations Committee, unlike a lot of other committees in the Congress, most of the time has to work in a bipartisan fashion, and that is a good thing. Senator Kohl and his staff have been very good for us to work with, and I think because of that we have what I believe is a solid bill and one for which we are going to be able to get strong and broad support.
Mr. President, this is the first time the agriculture appropriations bill has been on the floor of the Senate for a number of years. I think that is too
bad, but I think it is also good we are finally getting it here. The 2006 Ag appropriations bill was the last Ag appropriations bill to be on the floor of the Senate. I think it is a good development that it is here, that it will be pending. I think it also bodes well for us to be able to consider this as a separate and stand-alone bill in the final process so we don't have to put it together with a whole bunch of other appropriations bills, which, to me, is the way the process should work. It is a good way to work, and it is my hope we will be able to have a separate agriculture appropriations bill that will make it the whole way through the process.
I look forward to the debate, and I wish to encourage Members now, this evening, to come to the floor and offer amendments so we can consider this expeditiously but fully. I understand from the majority leader that we want to consider a travel and tourism bill and then the Sotomayor vote and consideration next week. I hope we could get through this bill in an expeditious manner so we could get to the Sotomayor discussion; I believe most of our colleagues will want to speak about Judge Sotomayor being considered for the Supreme Court. Whether you are for or against her, people want to be heard. To have as much time as possible for that next week, it will be important we be expeditious on this Ag appropriations bill.
Overall, the budget for food aid in the bill has increased to levels that will allow us to depend less on emergency supplemental appropriations bills that are not scored, and I think it is important we have a regular scoring process and not just do this on an emergency basis. I think that is an important improvement in this bill. By funding food aid at historical levels in the regular appropriations process, USDA and USAID will have more certainty about program resources so they can make better decisions about which situations they are able and need to commit food to.
A number of my colleagues have been to refugee camps in different parts of the world, and they have seen this food in action. It is important and it saves people's lives, and these are important food aid programs.
While I believe this is a valuable step, I am even more encouraged by the creation of two pilot programs that we have initiated in this bill. The chairman has worked on it and we have worked on it in our office. Specifically, in the area of food aid, we have created two pilot programs. The first is a nutrition fortification pilot program to develop and field test new and improved micronutrient fortified food products designed to meet the energy and nutritional needs of school-aged children, pregnant women, nursing mothers, infants, and children under 5 who are served by the McGovern-Dole Food for Education Program.
This is a program where we supply food to a number of very difficult situations in countries with poor economies around the world that is given as a school lunch. So it draws students in to go to school, and then it is a lunch for them. It has been a very successful program in both getting nutritional requirements met for children and in getting the educational needs met.
What we are talking about in this pilot program is a narrower section of it where a number of scientists around the world have said the most important thing we could fund--that any country actually could fund--to improve the health of the most people would be micronutrients in the Third World and developing countries that are having difficulty, so the children develop their mental capacity, better eyesight, and their overall health capacity.
This is a relatively low-cost, high-yield, high-benefit program. It saves lives, makes lives more productive, and it makes the United States a lot more popular around the world when we are helping people and saving lives. That is one of the pilot programs.
The second is a new food aid product development pilot program. It has been nearly 30 years since the last type of food aid was developed. Thirty years ago, we developed a corn soy blend that is used in many refugee camps and in difficult situations for individuals around the world who can't get enough food. Thirty years ago, we developed an innovative product called corn soy blend, but nutritional understanding has changed in that period of time. What we are looking at is a new wave of food aid products and can we do it better. That is in this pilot program.
A number of people working on AIDS around the world, PEPFAR funding particularly in Africa, are saying the big problem with AIDS recipients is they are getting the antiretroviral drugs, and they are using those, but their body is weakened because they do not have their nutritional needs being met. This is to target in on what can we do to make sure those vulnerable populations are getting the nutritional needs they have.
I am excited about this because I think these are the sorts of things we can do that don't cost much. Indeed, my view would be that we don't, in the future, add to the food aid program but we make it a higher nutrient program and we target it in better ways so we can get more out of this. That is the way we should be working.
If young children have access to proper nutrition, the benefits will follow them the rest of their lives. We all know that. That is what we are trying to do with these pilot programs.
Finally, the bill requires the USDA and USAID to scrutinize how the food aid programs function without seeking to change the basic structure of the Food for Peace or McGovern-Dole Food Aid. We will use the data the Secretary and the administrator provide to the subcommittee to make sure these programs are operating as effectively as possible.
I would have preferred a hard upper limit on transportation costs myself, but I recognize there are many strongly held opinions on this matter. My hope is that all parties can agree we should strive to make these programs more efficient because greater efficiency means more people will be fed.
I have cited, for several of my colleagues, an area of great concern to me, in that 60 percent of our food aid dollar presently goes for transportation or administration. Over a majority of it goes for transportation and administration. It seems to me we ought to be able to get that to a tighter position. We have worked with the chairman on this. Everybody is concerned that we try to stretch our food aid dollars and get as much food to starving people as possible.
I greatly appreciate the courtesies Chairman Kohl and his staff have shown me in my first year as ranking member. Chairman Kohl has been at this for several years and he has done a very good job.
Specifically, I thank Galen Fountain, Jessica Frederick, Dianne Nellor, and Bob Ross for their efforts on this bill and the consideration they have shown my staff. I look forward to working through the process on the floor and moving to conference.
I would urge my colleagues, again, to start getting their amendments pending because I think the more expeditious we can be, the more time we will have to consider the amendments and then also to get to the nomination of Judge Sotomayor, which I anticipate most of the body will want to speak on, and that is going to take a long time to get through.
It is a good bill, and I am looking forward to us working through the amendments to make it a better bill through the process.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
