Public Statements
Commending Women Airforce Pilots
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 22, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


COMMENDING WOMEN AIRFORCE PILOTS -- (Senate - July 22, 2009)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, today I am honored to recognize an exceptional group of women who served in World War II. When their country needed them, they answered the call and chartered a bold new course for women in the military. Sixty-seven years ago, over 1,000 courageous women became the first in United States history trained to fly an American military aircraft. These women are known as the Women Airforce Service Pilots, the WASPs. Today we offer them our sincere admiration and deepest thanks.
These women came to be known as the ``Fly Girls.'' They were patriots, they were pioneers, but above all they were pilots. They flew the same planes as their male counterparts, learned the same skills, and served the same country. They were among the first to fly the B-26 Martin Marauder and the B-29 Super Fortress. The Fly Girls, however, served as civilians rather than as members of the Armed Forces. Civilian status prevented the Fly Girls from being recognized with their military counterparts. And the 38 brave women who died during their service were not honored with flag-draped caskets, nor could their families hang gold stars in their windows.
Today we pause to recognize these women and their families with an honor that is long overdue and much deserved. I am proud to have been a cosponsor of S. 614, which authorized the awarding of the Congressional Gold Medal to the Women Airforce Service Pilots of World War II. This bill sailed through Congress in 3 months and on July 1, 2009, President Barack Obama signed Public Law 111-40, granting the highest civilian award to this deserving group of women.
I am particularly proud of the Kansas women who served in this unique military force. Today we honor all those Kansas WASPs who have gone before us and recognize the two surviving Kansas WASPs, Meriem Anderson of Eureka, KS, and Marjorie Rees of Prairie Village, KS.
The WASPs have never asked for our praise. When Rees was asked how she felt about being overlooked for so many years she simply responded, ``We didn't resent that we were ignored so long. We've thought for years how very lucky we were to fly those wonderful airplanes.'' Her words express a quiet heroism, and remind us that the noblest act of sacrifice is the one that expects nothing in return. The accomplishments of these women, and the manner in which they have continued to conduct their lives, is a testament to their remarkable character. The thanks and recognition we offer them today pales in comparison to the gift they have given us--freedom.
Their strength has inspired many other women to also look to the skies. MAJ Gina Sabric, an F-16 fighter pilot, voiced her appreciation to the WASPs when she said, ``Women in aviation has definitely been a stepping-stone progression, one that the WASPs started. Without them, it would have been a longer, tougher road. They set the stage for the rest of us to be able to continue what they started.''
On behalf of myself, the State of Kansas, and the people of this great country, I wish to express my sincerest thanks to all of the WASPs for their brave and patriotic service in World War II. We are truly a grateful Nation.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
