Public Statements
National Defense Authorization Act For Fiscal Year 2010--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 22, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--Continued -- (Senate - July 22, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, thank you very much. I appreciate the chance to debate this issue with my colleague, the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts.
I find it very interesting to hear the statement that the sanctions are working. I am trying to think of how they are working at all. They are working to prevent North Korea from detonating another nuclear weapon? That did not quite work. We got another one of those. They are working to prevent them from launching more missiles? Well, that one did not quite work. They are working to prevent North Korea from taking Americans hostage? Well, that one did not quite work.
I am trying to think how these sanctions are working. And if they are so great on an international basis, why aren't we doing them on a domestic basis, for us toward North Korea? I am having difficulty. Maybe they are working for us to prevent North Korea from associating with the military junta in Myanmar. Wait a minute, that was in the news yesterday, that North Korea is working to provide the military junta in Myanmar with weapons and possibly nuclear weapons that the Secretary of State, Secretary Clinton, is talking about now happening. Well, maybe it prevented--well, I guess it did not quite prevent that.
I am trying to figure out how the sanctions have worked at all. I thought it was a mistake when the Bush administration delisted them from the terrorist list in a negotiation of the six-party talks and said: OK, we will do this, and they do that, and then ended up doing nothing and, indeed, stepped up what they are doing more and more.
It seems to me very strange to suggest that the sanctions are working. I respect my colleague from Massachusetts. He is a strong chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. I do not see where they have worked at all. I would ask my colleagues to examine: Do they believe that the sanctions to date have worked toward North Korea from the United States? And when you examine the factual setting here, you have to go: I don't think so. I don't think these have happened.
Plus, I am very concerned that the administration now is taking the tack of discussing an additional set of incentives to the North Korean regime to try to get them from proliferating further. This is an interesting, hot-off-the-press article from yesterday: ``Obama Administration Preparing Incentives Package for North Korea.''
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the Record after my full statement.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Reading from this article:
The Obama administration is consulting with allies on a new "comprehensive package'' of incentives--
Not sanctions; incentives--aimed at persuading North Korea to abandon its nuclear programs, senior U.S. officials confirmed Tuesday.
The officials, who were traveling with Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in Thailand, told reporters that the package is only in its early stages and will not be offered to North Korea unless and until the allies sign off on it. Pyongyang would also have to first take specific, concrete and ``irreversible'' steps to begin destroying its arsenal of nuclear weapons.
This is the third round of us giving incentives to North Korea not to develop nuclear weapons. It has not worked in the past. It is not going to work now. Why on Earth would we do something like this?
The Kerry amendment calls for a study. Studies are fine. But it actually delays the study that the State Department has already promised to me: that by the end of this month they will have a study out as to whether they are proliferating further weapons, that they should be listed as a terrorist state.
The Kerry amendment says: 30 days after the enactment of this bill. Even if the bill gets through the floor this week, it has to go to conference, and it has to come back in front of this body. You are looking, probably, at October, maybe early November, that this actually comes back--this law--and then 30 days after that the report has to be issued. So we are looking at somewhere, maybe November, December, for the report taking place, when the State Department has already told me they will have their report out by the end of July. So this is actually slowing down the process, if we adopt this amendment.
And it calls for a report. I am sure Pyongyang is very concerned about this report. But I do not think it is going to change any of the behavior that is taking place. If we do not have a strong answer, as a matter of fact, it is probably going to urge them to do something even further.
My colleagues are saying: Well, OK, you are being irresponsible in this statement on this narrow category of whether they are doing anything with Hezbollah. It is a bipartisan amendment that I put forward with Senator Bayh, who wanted that provision in it.
There is a current CRS report that talks about North Korea supporting Hezbollah, building bunkers, and supporting and helping that out. That is a current factual setting, and my colleague on the other side of the aisle, Senator Bayh, has asked and pushed that this be in the overall bill.
I would ask my colleagues to look at this interesting definition of ``international terrorism,'' as shown on this chart. This is a definition that is in U.S. statute on international terrorism. It appears to be written for North Korea and North Korea in mind.
It defines the term under (1)(A), and then under (B)--these are in the alternative--(B) ``appear to be intended''--the actions of ``international terrorism'' ``appear to be intended to intimidate or coerce a civilian population''--that is what North Korea does and Kim Jong Il's regime does--``to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion''--that is the flying of missiles over Japan, that is the intimidation toward South Korea or the United States--``to affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination, or kidnapping''--they have done kidnappings of Japanese citizens--``to affect the conduct of a government''--clearly trying to affect our conduct--(C) ``occur primarily outside the territorial jurisdiction of the United States.'' This is what North Korea is doing.
I would further point out to my colleagues that this is a sense of the Senate. As to the Kerry amendment, with all due respect toward Senator Kerry, this is asking the administration to do a report and asking and directing the administration to take some steps. Ours is a sense of the Senate as to what the Senate thinks, and it is saying that the Senate believes North Korea should be relisted as a state sponsor of terrorism.
I would ask my colleagues, in a commonsense review of what North Korea has done recently: Don't you think they qualify or, if they do not, what country in the world would qualify as a state sponsor of terrorism if North Korea does not, with what it has done, what it has done personally, what it has conducted with other countries, with Syria, with Myanmar, with these other rogue groups?
It is a sense of the Senate to state we believe North Korea is a state sponsor of terrorism. It is bipartisan with Senator Bayh and myself. It has a number of cosponsors on it. It actually would be productive for us to say to North Korea, in a public way, we believe they are acting like state sponsors of terrorism. I believe it would be actually counterproductive if this body were to say we think it should be studied and a report issued. That is not going to be the sort of strong action that would be understood at all by the government in Pyongyang at this point in time.
With that, I would urge my colleagues to look at the Brownback-Bayh amendment, to support it on its very sensible grounds--it is a sense of the Senate--and to vote for the amendment.
With that, Mr. President, I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of our time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, has the Senator from Kansas detected any change in North Korean behavior since the imposition of sanctions by the United Nations?
Mr. BROWNBACK. Yes. They have taken more provocative actions rather than less provocative actions since the imposition of the U.S. sanctions, if not more.
Mr. McCAIN. Including launching missiles on the Fourth of July.
Mr. BROWNBACK. It is a strange day they would pick, the Fourth of July, but they did.
Mr. McCAIN. Isn't it true that there is evidence that North Koreans were involved in the construction of a nuclear facility in Syria which the Israelis felt was enough of a threat to their national security that they destroyed it?
Mr. BROWNBACK. Absolutely, abundant evidence, and it was amazing how quiet the world community was for a long period of time, because I guess they didn't want it known that the North Koreans did built that facility or that it was in Syria.
Mr. McCAIN. Isn't it true that there is a published news report that North Korea and Iran have worked together in the development of nuclear weapons and nuclear technology, and if Iran acquires that capability, it certainly ratchets up the tensions between Iran and Israel?
Mr. BROWNBACK. Published reports, and the missile technology the Iranians use is built off of the No-dong system of the North Koreans.
Mr. McCAIN. The latest information in the last few days is that there is cooperation between North Korea and Myanmar, better known to some of us as Burma, one of the real rogue nations of the world.
Mr. BROWNBACK. There is.
Mr. McCAIN. So if that North Korean ship, which was shadowed for a period of time by the U.S. Navy, had gone into port in Myanmar, do you think there is any likelihood the Government of Myanmar would have complied with the U.N. resolution that required that ship to be inspected by ``port authorities''?
Mr. BROWNBACK. Myanmar has not cooperated with anything the United Nations has directed to date. I don't know why they would cooperate with anything such as that.
Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator. Of course, maybe North Korea, when we look at it with a very fine definition of terrorism--from the recent Washington Post article about 200,000 people in the most horrible prison conditions in the world perhaps would argue that we should do whatever we can--short, obviously, of any military action--to try to see that the North Korean regime acts at least in some civilized fashion.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I think they should.
Mr. President, I would point out, if I could, to my colleagues as well--if I could have the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Kansas is recognized.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I am frustrated on this topic. I would presume the chairman--I know the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee is frustrated, along with the chairman of the Armed Services Committee. I have worked too long with the refugees and the people in the gulag and people trying to get out of North Korea for us to now back up and say: OK, we want a report. These folks are dying. They are in a gulag the likes of which was in the Soviet era. This has been published and it is all available to us and we want a report. I understand people don't want to go this far, but this is very frustrating. If you were in one of those situations--and people track what comes out of the Senate, just as in the Soviet gulag they tracked what came out of here then--it would be like saying to them: Well, we are not that concerned about you; whereas, if we take strong action such as what I am saying, it does give them hope. That is what I am asking us to do. I think it is very responsible, and it is a sense of the Senate, what we are asking them to do. That is what is at the root of this.
The chairman of the Armed Services Committee says: Well, they were delisted by the last administration. And they certainly were, but they were not removed from that list because they stopped sponsoring terrorism. The regime was delisted in order to entice them to dismantle their weapons of mass destruction program. It was a six-party talk negotiation, and that didn't work, just as the prior negotiations on weapons of mass destruction didn't work. Why should we continue the problem if that is the case?
Mr. KERRY. Would the Senator yield for a question?
Mr. BROWNBACK. I am happy to yield for a question.
Mr. KERRY. Is the Senator suggesting that the President of the United States in his letter of certification misinformed the American people and the Senate?
Mr. BROWNBACK. What I am suggesting is that this was part of a negotiation and that they have wide latitude. In fact, if I may continue my answer for my colleague who has asked a very pertinent question on this issue and who is very familiar with the six-party talks, as I am partially, somewhat familiar with the six-party talks, these have been talks going on for a long period of time. The North Koreans hate being listed as a state sponsor of terrorism. Their big push was to be delisted. The administration has broad authority. It has broad abilities to be able to interpret this, and they said: OK, we are going to be able to do this, and we will find some room in here to interpret it this way, in exchange for you guys stopping your weapons of mass destruction, which did not happen.
I am saying that what we should do now is not continue with that mistake. What I am saying we should do now is, let's call a spade a spade in this situation. This is a terrorist nation. The Senator from Massachusetts knows that. He knows what is taking place and what they are doing. They are one of the lead sponsors of terrorist activities in arming, bad, rogue regimes around the world, and the Senator knows that. What we should do is call that what it is in this Senate and not call for just a report.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
AMENDMENT NO. 1597
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, there will be 2 minutes of debate equally divided prior to a vote in relation to amendment No. 1597, offered by the Senator from Kansas. Who yields time?
The Senator from Kansas.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I ask for an ``aye'' vote on this amendment even if people voted for the Kerry amendment. It was critically important during the Soviet gulag days that the people in the gulags knew we cared and that we were focused on them. If we vote to say we are going to issue a report, that is fine. But it doesn't say much to people in a gulag. If we vote to say it is the sense of the Senate that North Korea is a state sponsor of terrorism, it is a strong message. It gives hope to people who don't have hope today.
Who in this body doubts that North Korea is a state sponsor of terrorism? With nuclear weapons, missiles being launched, a connection with Myanmar--with all these things taking place today, who can doubt that they are a terrorist country?
I urge my colleagues, even those who supported the Kerry amendment, to also vote for this one to send the message that North Korea is a state sponsor of terrorism and to send a message of hope to those in the North Korean gulags.
I yield back my time.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
