Public Statements
National Defense Authorization Act For Fiscal Year 2010
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 16, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010 -- (Senate - July 16, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I certainly concur with the statement of my colleague from South Dakota as to what he is saying about the health insurance issue and the need to do it right rather than fast. I think it is critically important.
I would like to bring to the body's attention something that was on the front page of the Washington Post today. It is an article about ``Who Will Succeed Kim Jong Il?'' and the point being: Here is a country that has recently tested missiles that can reach Hawaii, that has recently tested a nuclear device. He is gravely ill. Some are reporting he has pancreatic cancer. We don't know for sure what he has. But the question is, Who will succeed Kim Jong Il? And what does that mean to the United States? And what are we doing about it?
In our office, we are working on a piece of legislation to try to start some planning on our part as to what we should be doing if the leader in North Korea falls and if the state fails in North Korea, which is a very real possibility: that the overall state apparatus in North Korea will fail, that you will have hundreds of thousands, possibly millions, of people seeking to flee that country or--in a grip of searching for food--moving around to try to find food, that nuclear weapons will not be well watched, and the missile capacity that is there--all in a state that is failing and may fall altogether.
The reason I point this out is, we are on the Defense authorization bill. It is a very important piece of legislation. It is a key piece of legislation. It is a piece of legislation we pass every year because it is so important to the future of this country and so important to the defense of this country.
Here is a moment where we are looking at a potential nuclear threat, missile threat, to the United States and we ought to take up this issue and we ought to deal with the Defense authorization bill and, instead, we are on hate crimes legislation. The majority party has 60 votes to be able to move to that on another piece of legislation and should if they want to bring that up. But why here? And why are we eating up a couple days to do this on this bill, when we have these sorts of threats staring us right in the face?
I am going to put forward an amendment on the Defense authorization bill asking that we relist North Korea as a terrorist country. I think we ought to look at going at their financial instruments. I think we clearly need to be planning for the failure of this state, and we ought to be looking, as a humanitarian issue, at the failure of this state. I think we ought to be looking, as a security issue, at the failure of this state.
If North Korea falls, are we rushing in to try to secure the nuclear sites? Is South Korea? Is China? Is everybody in some sort of agreement as to what takes place to secure these nuclear sites?
What are we doing on humanitarian issues for 20 million people, many of whom will be starving during that period of time--where a number of them are starving now in North Korea?
This is a very present and pressing issue and instead we are on hate crimes legislation.
As a nation, we will not tolerate violent crime, and I am appalled by news stories of individuals being assaulted or even killed because of their ethnicity, their beliefs, who they are. I am appalled by violence done to those who choose any sort of lifestyle they may choose. I believe we must send a strong message through our law enforcement and judicial system that such attacks would bring the full force of law upon those who commit such terrible acts.
I do appreciate the good will and sincerity of those who wish to expand hate crimes legislation. However, I do not believe such legislation in this body from the Federal Government is the answer. I do not think that is something we should be doing on a Department of Defense authorization bill when we are facing such key strategic threats internationally and we have forces in the field in Iraq and in Afghanistan today. This is not the place. This is not the time.
First, I believe that the severity of a crime should be based upon actions committed. If a violent crime is committed, then the perpetrator should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Every violent crime ought to be treated as severe, regardless of why it was committed. Every life has value, and every murder is an egregious crime.
Our law enforcement and judicial system should be focused on holding individuals accountable for what they do, not what they think, feel or believe. During the passage of the Statute for Establishing Religious Freedom in 1785, James Madison expressed, ``extinguished for ever the ambitious hope of making laws for the human mind.'' He clearly opposed any law that punished the thoughts or motives of people. Laws already exist to punish crimes themselves.
The Matthew Shepard, hate crimes bill authorizes the prosecution of a crime motivated by actually or perceived race, color, religion national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability of the victim. This is another example in which a thought or belief becomes an element of prosecuting crime.
Second, I oppose this bill because I believe it would usurp the power and jurisdiction of the States. It violates constitutional federalism by asserting Federal law enforcement power to police local conduct over which the Constitution has reserved sole authority to the 50 States. No matter how upset Americans and politicians might be about certain criminal behavior, every criminal offense and every authorization of criminal enforcement power should be restricted by the explicit principles of the Constitution as well as our long-established criminal law precedents.
Currently, 45 States, as well as the District of Columbia, have hate crime laws. Many of these State laws carry heavier penalties than those proposed in this hate crimes bill. During the Judiciary Committee's hearing on hate crimes, Secretary Holder was asked to prove that there is evidence that hate crimes cases are not receiving proper prosecution and sentencing at the State level. He was unable to produce any.
Even members of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, the commission of the U.S. Federal Government charged with the responsibility for investigating, reporting on, and making recommendations concerning civil rights issues that face the Nation, oppose this bill. Their concern is that this law will allow Federal officials to reprosecute defendants who have already been acquitted by State juries.
Third, all crime victims deserve equal protection under the law. This is granted to them under the 14th amendment. Hate crime laws create a multilevel system of justice in which some crime victims' cases are prosecuted more severely than others.
Recently during the hate crimes debate in the House of Representatives, amendments to add military personnel, pregnant women, the elderly, and the homeless to the list of protected classes were all defeated. It is wrong to attempt to set up the law to favor one class of Americans over another.
Fourth, during the Judiciary hearing on hate crimes, Michael Lieberman of the Anti-Defamation League, when referring to hate crimes, said that ``these are selective prosecutions.'' We have also heard a lot of talk about wanting the Federal Government to send a message about the severity of hate crimes. I cannot endorse the idea that criminal law should be selective or be used to send a message. Its purpose is to prosecute criminal action, not to make selective statements.
Finally, I oppose this bill because I am concerned that it could be used to prosecute against religious leaders and organizations for speaking out against acts they find morally unacceptable. Hate crime laws have already been used in foreign countries to silence people of faith who speak their opinion on homosexuality that is derived from their faith.
The other side continues to insist that this bill does not prosecute speech, only criminal actions. Yet there is great concern within religious communities that the Federal Government could prosecute their leaders and members criminally based on their speech or other protected activity. This is a chilling threat to the first amendment right to free speech for people of faith and freedom of religion. I urge my colleagues to vote against this amendment.
I wish to point out and say to my colleagues, particularly the chairman who is on the floor, my hope is, once we get past hate crimes, we will remain on the Department of Defense authorization and take up the issue of North Korea. I know some may say: Well, that is not germane to the Department of Defense bill. I think it is a lot closer than what we are on right now. I would hope we would bring up this issue because of the clear and present problems we are facing on this issue.
I know the chairman of this committee knows this issue very well. I have worked with him on this issue previously. So we have now a bipartisan bill to relist them as a terrorist country that we are bringing forward. I met with our nominee to be Ambassador to China today, saying we should begin planning with the Chinese Government today for the failure of the North Korea state taking place in this successionist order.
The North Koreans are acting peculiarly, even by North Korean standards, with all the missiles they have launched, the nuclear weapons they have put in play, the things they have stated lately. They are normally provocative, but this is an all-out scale of provocation that is taking place now.
It would be my hope we could bring this up and at least start to address what clearly is opening to be a major problem. Whether the Obama administration wants to address it now or the Senate wants to address it now, we may not have a choice. If he is facing pancreatic cancer and there is a successionist battle taking place in a nuclear-armed missile country of North Korea and us having 25,000, 27,000 troops just south in South Korea, we may not have a choice. We need to get this addressed. So I would hope the chairman of the committee could take this up at that proper time.
I appreciate this chance and to be able to put this statement into the Record. I think it is prudent for us to start to address some things that are right on and in front of us rather than this hate crimes legislation that does not apply to the Department of Defense bill.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, there is soon to be an announced agreement. In that there will be an amendment I am putting forward to protect free speech. I hope all my colleagues would join me in supporting the amendment I am putting forward on the hate crimes bill. I think it is very important that we protect free speech. It has been one of the things my colleagues who support the hate crimes legislation are saying: Look, we are protective of free speech. We are protective of religious expression.
If that is the case, I hope they will vote for the amendment I am putting forward.
I think it is important we be very clear on the protection of free speech and religious protection as protected in the first amendment in this bill as a way for it to be clear these things are to be protected. I want to read the amendment I am putting forward. It is a paragraph long, and I think by reading it, it will help explain some of this to my colleagues:
Nothing in this section or an amendment made by this section shall be construed or applied in a manner that infringes any rights under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, or substantially burdens any exercise of religion (regardless of whether compelled by, or central to, a system of religious belief), speech, expression, association, if such exercise of religion, speech, expression, or association was not intended to--(1) plan or prepare for an act of physical violence; or (2) incite an imminent act of physical violence against another.
There is some lawyerese in that, but what it says is you have free speech unless it is intended to plan or prepare for an act of physical violence or incite an imminent act of physical violence against another.
In other words, if you are saying this to try to incite people to physical violence or an imminent act of physical violence, that is not protected. But everything else is free speech and may be seen by some as religious expression.
What we are trying to do is narrow this, tying it into the actual act that takes place and not be an act that intimidates people's expression of their ideas or expression of their religious convictions that they may hold.
I hope my colleagues will look at this and say, yes, that is what we mean to do, and not to sort of have a chilling effect on all free speech, all free expression, on all free expression within a religious organization or group that may have some differing views.
Frankly, I don't think, if we have a bill that intimidates or chills first amendment free speech or religious expression, that it is going to stand constitutional challenge. That is why I am putting forward this amendment.
The current language of this bill attempts to project the free exercise of religion solely to a first amendment constitutional framework. I think this is problematic because the Supreme Court has severely limited those first amendment rights, particularly regarding free religious expression as a result of a decision in an Employment Division, Department of Human Resources of Oregon v. Smith. It was a Ninth Circuit Court opinion.
The Congress, after that opinion was issued, was quick to recognize the damage done to religious freedom in Smith and in response passed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. This act serves as a framework created by Congress to protect religious free speech in other contexts. That is what this amendment is taking from, this bill that has already passed this Congress by a wide margin, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act.
My amendment adopts language from that bill in contrast to the free exercise jurisprudence of the Supreme Court. Courts have noted that the congressionally created Religious Freedom Restoration Act model possesses clarity and ease of construction. In fact, numerous claims that were unsuccessful under the first exercise clause jurisprudence of the Supreme Court have either prevailed or were entitled to remand for more favorable review under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. My amendment seeks to protect religious motivated speech but it protects speech.
What it says is, if you are in a narrow category of where you are intending this speech to cause somebody bodily harm, then you are not protected, and you should not be protected. But, if otherwise, you are exercising your right of free speech or religious association, you are entitled to the protection under the Constitution.
It would be my hope that my colleagues would look at this amendment and they would say that what we are putting forward is an amendment which has passed this body previously, passed this body in a strong bipartisan vote, is one that we want to stick with--that definition and not this broader one that can be interpreted as limiting first amendment freedom of expression or religious association.
That is a simple amendment I have put forward. I ask my colleagues to look at the amendment itself. It is one paragraph long. I ask they support this amendment.
I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I call up my amendment No. 1610 and ask that it be brought before the body.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, this is part of the agreement we had for votes on side-by-sides.
What this amendment does is put forward and into this bill language that this body has already passed by a vote of 97 to 3. It is language that was in the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. It is to protect individuals' religious freedom, their freedom of expression. It has passed this body overwhelmingly. It narrows the definition and it says that if you intend to incite somebody to do physical harm to another individual, that is not protected speech. If you plan to prepare for an act of physical violence or incite an imminent act of physical violence against another, it is not protected, that is not protected speech; otherwise, you have free speech and the right to free speech expression and religious freedom expression.
It is important that we have a very clear definition--a narrow definition but a very clear definition--of what is protected and what is not protected speech in this very critical area of first amendment rights and limitations we are putting in here.
It is a very short amendment, a very important amendment on the hate crimes legislation. I ask my colleagues for their support again, as many of my colleagues have already voted for it in an overwhelming number.
I thank my colleagues for their review of this amendment. I hope they can vote for it.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, once this amendment of the Senator from Kansas is disposed of, I will then offer an amendment. My amendment would preserve the first amendment protections in the hate crimes bill and add language to clarify that nothing in this act diminishes the protections of the first amendment. Of course, we could not pass a bill, as I am sure the Senator from Kansas knows, Congress could not pass legislation that would diminish the protections of the first amendment, the first amendment being in the Constitution, the first amendment protecting our right to practice whatever religion we want or none if we want and protecting our right of free speech.
At the appropriate time, I will have an amendment which would preserve first amendment protections in the hate crimes bill and add language to clarify that nothing in this act diminishes the protections of the first amendment. I would assume the Senator from Kansas would have no objection to that.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Kansas.
Mr. BROWNBACK. I certainly don't have an objection to an amendment being brought up. I would note that this is a very important area we are treading on, limitation of people's free speech and religious association they have. What I am offering is language that has passed this body by a large margin before, 97 to 3. I hope to see the language the Senator from Vermont is putting forward. If it is the language that is currently in the bill, this is quite untested language in a very limited area. I read his language to be quite expansive. I think it would be questionable, going into constitutional territory. But the bigger point on this being that I believe my colleagues who want to pass the hate speech legislation have been saying all along this does not limit somebody's right of free speech. It doesn't limit anybody's right of religious expression, if they have different views. It is just about a violent act and association that would reflect hate. So what I have done in two sentences is say let's be specific about that rather than very general about that in its interpretation or leaving that to the court.
If I have the language correct that he is putting forward in reinstating this, I really hope my colleagues would look at both of these and say they do want a very narrow, specific definition put forward.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
I thank my colleagues, and I thank the chairman of the Armed Services Committee for his comment on this issue.
I guess the conferees will have to deal with a difficult issue outside the jurisdiction of the committee, particularly on something like hate crimes, which I really have great question as to why on Earth we would do this on a DOD authorization bill.
But I would like to point out that my colleague, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, has been in that committee for a long period of time, and he knows these issues very well. What his amendment puts forward is something that will be interpreted then by the courts. It will have to be interpreted by the courts, and it has broader language.
What I am putting forward is very specific language that puts a clear intent of the Congress not to limit certain types of speech but to limit speech that is associated with physical harm or the incitement of physical harm. That seems to me to be clearly appropriate for us to do, probably a better thing to do on the hate crimes legislation--for us to be very specific and narrow in this area where we are treading into first amendment religious expression areas.
I would like to read my language, if I could, to my colleague. It says--and this is the operative part of this--``if such exercise of religion, speech, expression, or association was not intended to''--so it protects every area except what is ``not intended to plan or prepare for an act of physical violence; or incite an imminent act of physical violence against another.''
So we are trying to get into the category and the area, and a lot of people are very concerned about this, about being able to have their rights for religious expression and freedom. I think this is a much tighter focus. I believe my colleague would agree, as a lawyer----
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
AMENDMENT NO. 1610
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The pending question is the amendment of the Senator from Kansas.
The Senator from Kansas is recognized.
Mr. BROWNBACK. The language we put in the Religious Freedom Restoration Act passed this body 97 to 3. This language is much more targeted, so it doesn't leave it all to the interpretation of the court. It expresses what this body has previously expressed. I think it is important that we put this forward. It says that if you are speaking and intending to incite physical violence or imminent threat, that is not protected speech. But otherwise you have protected speech. It puts a much finer definition on it that is important for this legislation.
I urge my colleagues to vote for this amendment.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
