Public Statements
Brownback Joins Defense Appropriations Subcommittee
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 19, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Joins Defense Appropriations Subcommittee
Will work to help Riley, Leavenworth, Forbes, McConnell, Reserve and Guard facilities
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today joined the Defense Subcommittee of the full Senate Appropriations Committee.
"Kansas has always strongly supported our nation's military and I look forward to working even more to support the military facilities and support structures throughout the state," said Brownback. "The missions at the four military installations in Kansas as well as the Reserve and Guard facilities across the state have expanded recently to meet the needs of the modern warfighter. Along with these expanded roles are increased needs for infrastructure, training, and equipment."
Brownback continued, "This new committee assignment will give Kansas more of a voice regarding detainee policy, aerial refueling tankers, and the airborne laser missile defense system. And we can do more to improve quality of life for our troops and support them and their families as they return from combat deployments. I also look forward to discussions on funding for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq."
Brownback has served on the Appropriations Committee since 2002 and currently serves as the ranking member on the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration. He is also a member of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs; Transportation, Housing and Urban Development; State Department and Foreign Operations; and Homeland Security.
Beyond the Appropriations Committee, Brownback also serves on the following committees: Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Ranking Republican, Water and Power Subcommittee Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee Aging Committee Joint Economic Committee Ranking Republican Senator Helsinki Commission Ranking Republican Senator

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=314782
