Public Statements
North Korea
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 4, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


NORTH KOREA -- (Senate - June 04, 2009)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I rise to speak briefly about North Korea and what is taking place there. To put some of this in context, I think everybody knows--around the country and the world--what North Korea is doing today. Two Americans are on trial, in a crazy setting. They have a missile on a pad that can reach the United States. They have tested another nuclear device. They have tested previously a nuclear device. They are in the throes of some sort of possible change within the regime. It is a very unstable, very provocative situation in North Korea.
I raise all that because at the end of the Bush administration, they took North Korea off the terrorism list, and they did it as a way to try to negotiate, to try to get them into the six-party talks to do more things and to work with us and with the world community.
Since that period, the North Korean Government has taken the exact opposite tack. Instead of working with us, they have done everything they can to provoke us even further. President Bush, when he took North Korea off the terrorism list, said:
We will trust you only to the extent that you fulfill your promises ..... If North Korea makes the wrong choices, the United States ..... will act accordingly.
That was President Bush. He is, obviously, not President any longer. At that point in time, many of us objected to taking North Korea off the terrorism list, but he went ahead and did it anyway. Then Candidate Obama said, at roughly that same period:
Sanctions are a critical part of our leverage to pressure [North Korea] to act. They should only be lifted based on North Korean performance. If the North Koreans do not meet their obligations, we should move quickly to reimpose sanctions that have been waived, and consider new restrictions going forward.
Since President Bush said that, since Candidate Obama said that, here is what the North Korean regime has done. I mentioned some of these, but I will go into detail. They have: launched a multistage ballistic missile over Japan; kidnapped and imprisoned two American journalists; pulled out of the six-party talks, vowing never to return; kicked out international nuclear inspectors and American monitors; restarted their nuclear facilities; renounced the 50-year armistice with South Korea; detonated a second illegal nuclear bomb; launched additional short-range missiles; are about to launch a long-range missile capable of reaching the United States; and, at this very moment, are calling the detained American journalists, Laura Ling and Euna Lee, before a North Korean court, if you could even call it that possibly, to answer for supposed crimes of illegal entry into North Korea and unexplained hostile acts. The two could face years in a North Korean labor camp. That is what has taken place since those statements.
We want to put forward an amendment on this bill or on some future bill--but I would like to do it and we should do it on this bill--to label North Korea a terrorist state again, like President Bush said we should, if they don't act right; like Candidate Obama said we should, if they don't fulfill their obligations. We think the administration should do this now, should relist them as a terrorist state. We think it would be an important vote and statement by this body if we would say the North Korean Government is a terrorist government because it is. It is one of the lead armers to provide armament to rogue regimes and individuals around the world. Some of my colleagues may have seen the story this week about a North Korean general who was one of the lead counterfeiters in the world of United States one hundred dollar bills. They were very good quality, done on state machinery I have no doubt. He is one of the lead counterfeiters around the world.
Why, then, the State Department would say earlier today that they don't think this ``meets the test'' is beyond me. I think this body should vote and send a very clear signal that we believe the North Korean regime should be listed as a terrorist state and a terrorist sponsor. It has taken an incredible list of provocative acts. The Obama administration has said: Let's get the U.N. to issue sanctions against them.
Let's get the United States to do our sanctions against them for what they are doing. All this amendment does that I want to vote on is have the administration place North Korea back on the terrorism list, where it rightly deserves to be and should have been all along. Of course, the amendment does allow the President to waive the requirement of relisting so long as he certifies that certain conditions have taken place, that they have met their obligations, which they clearly are not going to.
I think it is wrong for this body not to be clear on this toward North Korea. It is wrong for this country not to be clear toward North Korea of what we believe of their provocative actions, that we will not stand by and say: Yes, you can keep doing this; yes, you can keep launching missiles; yes, you can keep detonating nuclear devices, and we will not do anything. We should be clear we are going to act. These are wrong and provocative actions, and they deserve the minimum response this is. That is why I would like to get a vote on this amendment. I would hope I would get a unanimous vote by my colleagues to relist them as a terrorist state. I would hope we could get that up on this bill. We are in negotiations now with the majority leader about this. It is time to vote. It is time to send this at least minimal message to the North Korean Government that these actions cannot stand without some response from the United States. I hope we could get a vote up on this.
I urge the majority leader and those working on coming up with an agreement to go to the next bill to allow us to vote on this North Korean amendment to provide these sanctions.
I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
