Public Statements
Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act--Motion to Proceed--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: June 2, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

FAMILY SMOKING PREVENTION AND TOBACCO CONTROL ACT--MOTION TO PROCEED--Continued -- (Senate - June 02, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am delighted to join my colleague from Michigan in support of this bill. This is the right way forward. She has outlined most of the provisions, and I will add a few points, if I may.
It is a humbling time for auto manufacturers globally. She went through the figures for all auto manufacturers, and there has been a huge falloff in the market. As the global credit crisis has impacted the world, maybe the industry hit the most has been automobile manufacturing on a global basis. We saw the numbers in the United States. One of the ways other countries have responded is with what they call scrappage programs. We have heard it referred to in different terms but several countries have looked at doing a type of scrappage program. It has been very successful. I was looking at the numbers. In March, Germany, France, and China saw increases in car sales--all three did scrappage programs--of 40 percent, 8 percent, and 8 percent, respectively.
During the same period of time, the United States and the United Kingdom did not have scrappage programs, and we saw declines in car sales of 37 percent here and 30 percent in Great Britain. That is the difference these programs are making on a global basis because the credit crisis has hit this industry the most. A lot of things one has to buy on a regular basis. We have to buy gasoline, food, shoes for the kids. But often, for a lot of people, they look at their car or pickup, and they say: I am not sure what is going to take place. I will hold off on this one. So they hold off and the sales tank. That is what has taken place.
People say: I am not sure what is going to take place; therefore, I am going to hold off.
I have a brother who is a veterinarian who was saying to me the other day--he has an old pickup in his business. He is doing just fine in his business. He said: I am just going to wait a while. I said: No. This is the time we need you in the marketplace. This gets him back to the marketplace. It has been proven effective in other countries to get people back in the marketplace. It has worked in other places. We now see that the United Kingdom--that did not do the scrappage program--has enacted their own scrappage program. That is another reason why I think we should do that one here.
There is another point, and I think it is an important one to make. It is often very difficult to find ways to support manufacturing without breaking international trade rules because we have a number of international trade rules that restrict what governments can do to help a particular industry.
As to the World Trade Organization, this is a legal and consistent way for us to help automobile manufacturing without breaking any trade rules. That is important because we cannot be getting into some sort of trade sanctioning or there being offsets to it. This one is consistent with that.
Another thing I think is very important--and my colleague from Michigan was very good to talk about this--this is a balanced approach that helps the environment, helps the economy, and helps our energy sector as well with us being more efficient with energy.
I think as we move forward with concerns about CO 2, concerns about the environment, concerns about the economy, concerns about domestic energy production and the need for domestic energy production, we have to balance the three Es: energy, the environment, and the economy. This bill does that. So here you are stimulating the economy, reducing your energy demand, and improving your environment--all at the same time.
And this bill--and this, to me, as a fiscal conservative, is the key point--also uses funds that have already been appropriated. There is no new money on this bill. These funds have been appropriated. They are going to be reprogrammed. I believe they will be reprogrammed. We are being told by the Obama administration that if this passes, this will be implemented with reprogrammed funds. So those funds--having already been approved by the Congress--would be used in a more effective way for a consumer-driven economic stimulus that helps the local dealerships, that helps the car manufacturers, that helps the environment, that helps our energy dependency in a very positive way.
It has worked around the world. It will work in the United States. It will get people such as my brother back in the showroom, I hope. I am certainly going to push him to do that, as all of us will. We have seen an unprecedented falloff in car sales. It helps in a State such as mine where there are a lot of work trucks being used. This voucher program is targeted for use and utility by businesses that use trucks, and they can use that on this one as well. It works, and it helps out there.
For all those reasons, I urge my colleagues to support this bill. It is balanced. We have worked a long time on it.
Senator Stabenow recognized her staff member. I have had Landon Fulmer in my office working for some period of time on this issue to get it to where it would work. It would be simple, it would be direct, it would hit, and it would hit quickly. He has worked to do that, as her staff has. I think we have got a good product here, and it is not any new appropriated money.
I would say particularly to my colleagues on my side that I am very concerned about where our deficit and debt is going. This is no new appropriated money to do this, which I think is key.
For those reasons, I urge the backing of this bill.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
