Public Statements
Brownback, Durbin, Feingold Introduce Congo Conflict Minerals Act
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 24, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback, Durbin, Feingold Introduce Congo Conflict Minerals Act
U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS), Dick Durbin (D-IL), and Russ Feingold (D-WI) last night introduced the Congo Conflict Minerals Act of 2009.
Brownback said, "Metals derived from inhumanely mined minerals go into electronic products used by millions of Americans. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, many people - especially women and children - are victimized by armed groups who are trying to make a profit from mining 'conflict minerals.' The legislation introduced today brings accountability and transparency to the supply chain of minerals used in the manufacturing of many electronic devices. I hope the legislation will help save lives."
Durbin said, "Without knowing it, tens of millions of people in the United States may be putting money in the pockets of some of the worst human rights violators in the world, simply by using a cell phone or laptop computer. We ought to do all we can to make sure that the products we use and the minerals we import, in no way support those who violate human rights abroad."
Feingold said, ""When I traveled to eastern Congo, I saw firsthand the grave suffering of people who have lived through a decade of conflict and humanitarian crisis. This conflict, which has killed more than five million people, is fueled in part by the exploitation and unregulated trade of certain minerals used in cell phones, PDAs and other electronic devices Americans use every day. Profits from these minerals have been used to finance illegal armed groups that commit horrific human rights abuses. By passing this bill, we can shine a light on the mining and trading of these minerals, and help companies that produce these everyday devices to take responsibility for their suppliers. Just like the diamond trade, we must work toward a conflict-free mining economy."
The Congo Conflict Minerals Act calls on the United States to support multilateral efforts to investigate, monitor, and stop activities involving natural resources that contribute to illegally armed groups and human rights violations in eastern Congo. The bill also would require that the State Department closely monitor the financing of armed groups in mineral-rich areas of eastern Congo. Under the legislation, U.S.-registered companies selling products using columbite-tantalite, cassiterite, or wolframite, or derivatives of these minerals, would be required to annually disclose to the Securities and Exchange Commission the country of origin of those minerals. If the country is DR Congo or neighboring countries, the company would need to disclose the mine of origin.
Over the last decade, eastern Democratic Republic of Congo has been devastated by civil war, widespread human rights abuses and a humanitarian crisis that has resulted in the deaths of an estimated 5.4 million people. Eastern Congo is rich in lucrative natural resources including cassiterite (tin), columbite-tantalite or coltan (tantalum), wolframite (tungsten), and gold. Metals derived from these minerals are used in common technological products, including mobile phones, laptops, and digital cameras.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=311956
