Public Statements
Fox News "On the Record" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 17, 2009
Location: Unknown


Fox News "On the Record" - Transcript
FOX NEWS CHANNEL "ON THE RECORD" INTERVIEW WITH SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS)
INTERVIEWER: GRETA VAN SUSTEREN
SUBJECT: MISCHARACTERIZATIONS OF VETERANS IN HOMELAND SECURITY REPORT
Copyright ©2009 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Carina Nyberg at cnyberg@fednews.com or call 1-202-216-2706.
MS. VAN SUSTEREN: Well, seven U.S. senators are taking on Homeland Security Chief Janet Napolitano. The senators are furious about a recent DHS memo that said veterans returning from war could become right-wing extremists. The memo says, in part, "The Department of Homeland Security assesses that right-wing extremists will attempt to recruit and radicalize returning veterans in order to exploit their skills and knowledge derived from military training and combat. The willingness of a small percentage of military personnel to join extremist groups during the 1990s because they were disgruntled, disillusioned or suffering from the psychological effects of war is being replicated today."
Secretary Napolitano apologized for this memo on "Fox & Friends."
SEC. NAPOLITANO: (From videotape.) Veterans read is as an accusation. It is -- an apology is -- the last thing we want to do is offend or castigate all veterans. To the contrary, let's meet and clear the air. If there's one part of that report I would rewrite in the word-smithing, Washington-ease that goes on after the fact, it would be that footnote.
MS. VAN SUSTEREN: Is that apology good enough? Senator Sam Brownback joins us live. He's one of the seven senators who signed a letter to Secretary Napolitano.
Senator, what do you want? You've written the Department of Homeland Security Cabinet office of Janet Napolitano. What do you want?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, a couple of things. Number one, I just found the whole report offensive, particularly as it goes at such a key group that has served the country and done so much in the form of veterans. I found it amazing when I first heard about it that they would even mention and suggest something like that. So number one, clearly, the DHS just completely walking away from this report and saying, veterans are a key, good group of members of our society and also people that are in other groups that they, you know, were castigating as well, people that are pro-life activists, for one.
Second, and I think this is very important, Greta, that we get this, is, what is the metric that was used to determine that these are groups that ought to be looked at in the first place? I think we need to dig inside of DHS's operation and see, what is it that they came up with that surfaced this type of report? And we need to see that metric.
MS. VAN SUSTEREN: You know, I look at it a little differently, I guess, than most people, or at least the people I've talked to. I think what's terrifying about it is this. It's not the horrible insult to veterans, and they certainly don't deserve that. You know, we should honor them but not insult them. But according to at least one report, the DHS said that it was released by mistake without being fully vetted by people within DHS. My thought is, if you can't even get it straight about releasing a report and vetting it, why should I feel safe you can protect us from terrorism if you can't even do it with a stupid report?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, that would raise a competency issue for sure. But I was at three of the tea parties. I know you were at one and there was a number of patriotic Americans there very concerned about the direction of the country. But one of the key things that was also raised was this report. And it seemed to feed into this overall notion that this government really doesn't care and is after us and is being very intrusive and is being very offensive. And I really hope that the Department of Homeland Security and Janet Napolitano really comes out and says, we walk away from this and we disassociate ourselves from a metric that would produce this type of result.
MS. VAN SUSTEREN: Well, then, the other flipside is just how crazy this metric is. They released a report earlier that said some environmentalists would also likewise be radicalized and do this horrible terrorism, or I guess suspicion. It's the same sort of metric. But the other sort of distressing thing to me, besides the fact that I worry that they really aren't detailed enough to protect us from terrorism when they came and, you know, fact-checked a report, is the whole notion that somebody is wasting his time sitting around thinking this up, just sitting around. Are we really using resources like sitting around and thinking like, well, I bet one vet in the millions that come home? Let's see, there was Timothy McVeigh, so let's now indict all the vets as being suspicious. I mean, what kind of knucklehead is sitting around doing that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I think it's a person that doesn't have a particular good appreciation of America. I know a number of veterans. And almost everybody that I see in a uniform, I thank them for serving the country. And what a report like this does is I don't think it appreciates the patriotism.
MS. VAN SUSTEREN: But that's the insult part. And I really am appalled and insulted, I'm with you on that. But I think it's far deeper than that. These are the people who are assigned to protecting us. And you know, I feel terrible that they insult the vets or insult lawful environmentalists, lawful vets. I hate that . But more than that, I think, oh, my God, these are the people that are protecting us? This is how they're spending their time, coming up with these crazy notions that maybe we ought to fear some vets out there?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I agree with that. I think that's part of finding out what the metric was that they're looking at. And why are they so far afield on something like this when they ought to be looking at areas that are true problems and true difficulties for our country? And I think that's a legitimate way to frame the issue. And that's why I think it's important for us to get the metric of what it is that they're looking at. I think the report clearly was a waste of time. It was offensive to a number of people, but we need to get at the root of what produced a report like this.
MS. VAN SUSTEREN: And I assume that you expect a response back from the head of the Homeland Security, Janet Napolitano?
SEN. BROWNBACK: We do. Senator David Vitter originated the letter, a number of us joined on with him. And we're going to pursue this to find that out because this really is heading us in a wrong direction. And I think it's something that we need and owe to the rest of the country to find out how something like this could surface this way.
MS. VAN SUSTEREN: Senator, thank you, sir.
END.

Source: http://www.fnsg.com/transcript.htm?id=20090417t7916&nquery=&query=brownback&from=
