Public Statements
Brownback Dismayed by Plan to Cancel Second Airborne Laser Aircraft Program
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 7, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Dismayed by Plan to Cancel Second Airborne Laser Aircraft Program
Says in light of North Korean missile launch, now is not the time to halt ABL
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today commented on Defense Secretary Robert Gates's announcement that the Obama Administration will cancel plans for a second Airborne Laser aircraft and instead will convert the program to a purely research and development effort.
"I strongly disagree with the Administration's plans for the Airborne Laser and will work to overturn this decision," said Brownback. "While there are always ways to improve weapons systems, we do not need to wait to conduct significant additional research to prove ABL's value. The ABL will conduct a full shoot down test later this year. If the test is successful, we should invest in ABL and get it into the field as soon as possible."
During a press conference on Monday, Secretary Gates and Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General James Cartwright both cited boost phase defense as the area of US missile defense most in need of improvement. Gates indicated that the Airborne Laser would be converted into a solely research and development program.
Brownback continued, "The Defense Secretary and the Vice Chairman both understand the importance of destroying a ballistic missile in its boost phase, so it is puzzling that they would recommend halting the most promising boost phase defense capability under development. The ABL is our nation's premier effort to employ a directed energy capability and an integral part of our multilayered missile defense architecture. If we are serious about boost phase defenses, we need to speed up the ABL program, not slow it down. As we saw over the weekend, North Korea and other states wielding ballistic missiles will not give us the luxury of time."

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=311250
