Public Statements
MSNBC Interview - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 7, 2009
Location: Unknown


MSNBC Interview - Transcript
MSNBC INTERVIEW WITH SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS)
SUBJECTS: IRAQ, NORTH KOREA INTERVIEWER: NORAH O'DONNELL
Copyright ©2009 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Carina Nyberg at cnyberg@fednews.com or call 1-202-216-2706.
MS. O'DONNELL: President Obama today addressed hundreds of troops gathered at Camp Victory in Baghdad. It's the big story we're covering today. His praise for their performance and his plans to bring them home were greeted with huge cheers.
PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA (From video.): You have given Iraq the opportunity to stand on its own as a democratic country. That is an extraordinary achievement, and for that, you have the thanks of the American people.
MS. O'DONNELL: Republican Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas joins us now live, and Senator, thanks so much for joining us.
Given those huge cheers --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Happy to join you.
MS. O'DONNELL: Thank you, and given those huge cheers from our troops over there about the Iraqis taking responsibility for their country, why do you oppose the president's timeline?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I don't oppose the president being in Iraq. I don't oppose his proposal overall. We've got a signed agreement now with the Iraqis to be able to have them take over, for us to pull our troops back. I think that's a good idea.
MS. O'DONNELL: Well, one of the things you do oppose is the president's choice to be ambassador to Iraq, Chris Hill. Why is that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, we had a real problem in dealing with him in North Korean relations, the six-party talks that were taking place. I worked with him extensively there. He was dishonest with me in those negotiations. He didn't include the human rights negotiator for us and I think those things are a failure on his part and he shouldn't be given the biggest assignment we have if he failed on that one.
MS. O'DONNELL: Let me ask you, too, Senator, about something we have heard the former House Speaker Newt Gingrich say recently. He says the U.S. is less safe because of the Obama administration's actions. Let me read to you exactly what he said. He said, quote, "Dick Cheney is clearly right in saying that between the court decisions about terrorists and the administration's actions, the United States is running a greater risk of being attacked than we were under President Bush."
Do you agree with Dick Cheney and Newt Gingrich that the U.S. is less safe today under President Obama?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I don't know how one could really say that one way or the other. I don't know what's going to happen in the future. I don't think they know what's going to happen in the future.
I think it is important that on situations like what's taken place in North Korea today where you had this missile launch, I think, we have to have aggressive and clear statements and action and that that will put us in a safer position in the future if we take those aggressive positions now. If we have weak responses, I think, we could be in more difficulty and have more probing take place by other countries in the future.
MS. O'DONNELL: I know, Senator, on North Korea, you're going to announce some very tough legislation when Congress reconvenes that would include --
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes.
MS. O'DONNELL: New restrictions on North Korea, once again, labeling them a terrorist organization. But I do want to ask you specifically about that because whether Dick Cheney and Newt Gingrich are right on that? Are they wrong to say, I mean, that's some pretty tough language, some pretty alarmist language to say we're less safe now under President Obama.
Are you saying you're not willing to say that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yeah, I'm saying that I'm not willing to say that, but I think if you have weak responses from this point on forward, I think you could put us in a weaker position and that's why it's so key how the president responds to North Korea and its provocative action that's taken place.
MS. O'DONNELL: And the U.N. is not going to be tough enough to go that route?
SEN. BROWNBACK: What do you think?
MS. O'DONNELL: Well, I think the U.N. is probably not going to act. Yeah.
SEN. BROWNBACK: They're not. If the United States doesn't act, it probably is going to happen. That's why we have to put our own sanctions back into place. These are sanctions that were lifted under the Bush presidency and that we've got to put those back in place for this missile launch that was a very provocative action and that's something we can do on a unilateral basis, and I think we ought to do that.
MS. O'DONNELL: All right. Senator Sam Brownback, a Republican of Kansas. Senator, good to see you. Thank you for joining us.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Happy to join you, Norah.
END.

Source: http://www.fnsg.com/transcript.htm?id=20090407t6935&nquery=&query=brownback
