Public Statements
Brownback Condemns North Korea and Calls for Sanctions and Stepped-up ABL Program
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 5, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Condemns North Korea and Calls for Sanctions and Stepped-up ABL Program
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today condemned the North Korean regime after they launched a ballistic missile Sunday morning which passed over Japan and fell into the Pacific Ocean in clear violation of international agreement.
"With this latest illegal missile launch, this administration now must decide whether hostile actions have real consequences. Rather than only seeking more UN sanctions that failed to stop this launch in the first place, the administration instead should return North Korea to the terrorism list, tighten financial sanctions, and commit publicly and forcefully to addressing the abysmal state of North Korean human rights. The Six Party Talks were based on the principle of action for action, and now is the time to respond with real action."
Brownback also called on continued development in missile defense programs including the Airborne Laser, which the Obama Administration has considered de-funding. Two weeks ago, Brownback along with Senators Roberts and Thune sent a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates to urge full funding in the FY10 budget of the Airborne Laser program.
Brownback continued, "North Korea has underscored the continuing threat from ballistic missiles. We can and must deter this kind of behavior through strong investment in the Airborne Laser and other missile defense programs. To cut our missile defense programs, including the ABL, would send precisely the wrong signal and leave us with a potential vulnerability. I hope that recent reports that the administration is contemplating such cuts prove inaccurate."
The North Korean regime remains one of the worst human rights abusers in the world, responsible for millions of deaths caused by famine, forced labor, and political executions. There are estimated to be up to 200,000 political prisoners in forced labor camps throughout North Korea.
On Friday, Brownback said, "If the North Korean regime proceeds with this ballistic missile launch, in clear violation of UN Security Council Resolution 1718, the Obama Administration should immediately re-impose U.S. sanctions that were lifted during the course of the Six Party Talks, including designating North Korea a terrorist state."

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=311143
