Public Statements
Congressional Budget for the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2010
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: April 1, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010 -- (Senate - April 01, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
AMENDMENT NO. 840
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I will be calling up amendment No. 840 tomorrow. It is an amendment I put forward before. It is an amendment that passed this body last year in the budget debate. We talked about it. I think it is one of the things we need to do to try to be efficient with Government programs, and effective, and to make sure that if we have waste, fraud, and abuse or duplicative programs, they get eliminated.
I draw the attention of my colleagues to a report card. I don't know if they know this, but the Federal Government itself does a report card on itself as to whether its programs are meeting the design of the programs they put forward, are meeting the criteria of the program that was put forward by the Congress, and then this is scored by the Federal Government itself and it gets a report card.
I am not very pleased to note to my colleagues and to the public that the Federal Government, giving itself a grade on this card--if you did it in A, B, C, D, you would see that the Federal Government's GPA is 1.14. A 1.14 GPA is what the Federal Government has for its own programs, whether they pass or fail this test of whether the program is duplicative, whether the program has accomplished its purpose, whether the program is effective at all.
You can go down through here and you can see--the State Department actually has the highest score that the Government grades for its programs that were reviewed, whether they are hitting the targets the program was designed to do--the highest score. They get a C-plus. You see down here we have the Labor Department, HUD, Education, all with failing scores, and D-minuses at EPA, Homeland Security; a D at Interior, HHS, Agriculture, and Justice.
This is a bad report card. It is never seen as having much significance because nothing happens at the end of the report card, unlike when I was going to school or when my kids now are in school. There is a consequence to not getting a good grade, and you try to improve it. On this one, there is kind of no consequence to it: OK. We got an F. So what? Because there is no consequence.
What I want to do is put a consequence into a Federal program failing to meet its target. And that is this amendment. It is called the Commission on Budgetary Accountability and Review of Federal Agencies; it is called CARFA. It would basically create a commission. Every 4 years, each Federal program would be reviewed. That program would be scored. If the program receives an F, it would be put in the groups of Federal programs that all get failing scores and then be required to be voted on by this body, by the House, whether the program is continued or not. So all the bundled 500 programs--however many there are--those that fail, we would have to vote whether to continue those programs or discontinue those programs altogether, no amendment, limited time period for debate, deal or no deal. Do we eliminate the wasteful programs that have failed? Do we keep them?
This is a process we have done on military bases--it has worked--on consolidating bases to ones from lower priority to higher priority ones. It has not cut military spending, but it has made it more efficient and effective.
That is what we should at least be looking at in the Federal Government, to make the Federal programs more efficient and more effective. That is what this amendment would do.
I had a group of college students in today. They were talking about the need to be able to do work programs abroad, study-abroad programs, all which I think are great. They say it has a price tag of about $3 billion. Look at the deficit we are looking at. That is just way too high. But what if you said: OK, that is a good idea, or, we want to declare war on cancer--that is one I think we ought to uptick on this, saying we want to get a country where within a decade there are no longer deaths by cancer in the United States. If you decide to take care of yourself, the right treatments, this is treated as a chronic disease, not as a death sentence. That is something worth investing in.
Typically, what we do here is say: OK, let's just put it in the stack and we will see if we can get at it. It goes along with all the other programs, even though these programs are failing, and we just try to add it on. What if we said we are going to take out the failing programs within these agencies we are going to eliminate them and take that money and put it on higher priority programs like a war on cancer, like maybe it is work experience abroad. I don't know if that is it or maybe it is green jobs and new energy, a big energy project. We want to get more energy production from the United States. Great, let's eliminate those that have not worked and take that money and spend it on programs that are higher priority.
Maybe these are programs that have accomplished their purposes. We don't need them anymore. It is a novel notion that maybe the Federal Government started a program and it actually accomplished its purposes and we don't need it anymore, so we should move on past it. Yet the way the budget process so often works, the appropriations process works, once it gets in, it never leaves. It just continues on and on rather than us reappraising it or saying is it really meeting the need or is it not meeting the need. This is the way we get at waste, fraud, and abuse, duplication, and programs that have accomplished their purposes.
Everybody here in this body would declare themselves against waste, fraud, and abuse in the Federal Government and say we are going to get to the bottom of this program and we are going to make sure it is efficient and effective. We have heard that from President Obama. Frankly, we hear it from every President who gets into office, that they are going to get at the bottom of this and they are going to make sure these programs are working, efficient and working. Yet the Federal Government, giving itself its own scorecard after President after President said this--and we have a 1.14 grade average, most of the programs failing to be able to do that--they say: Well, so? What are you going to do about it? We are going to continue to get our funding next year anyway.
This is conservative Presidents, this is liberal Presidents who come in. We are always going to create and make a better system and we are going to stop this wastefulness, and it just doesn't happen. This would get added by putting a procedure in place, a required procedure that would cause these programs to be effective or face the consequences. This is sensible, bipartisan, good-government, an efficient way to move forward. It will work, and it is something we need to do.
In closing, I ask that my colleagues would look at this program, and if we get it passed again this year--not strip it out in the conference report, that we would actually do something like this--it would send a notice of credibility to the American public that we are actually going to go at programs, and if they don't work, we are actually going to pull them out. Right now, the public does not believe we will do that. This creates a mechanism, a culling process that we eliminate those, and we could have some credibility with the public that we are going to eliminate programs that don't work, that have waste, fraud, and abuse within them. We have had good bipartisan support of this idea and this proposal in the past. I hope we could have it again in this budget proposal.
Overall on the budget, I still think we are going seriously the wrong way. I did a townhall meeting, tele-townhall meeting last night in my State, talking about the budget. People are not satisfied at all with this process. They think there is way too much deficit spending in it. They think it is failing to hit the mark. They are very upset about a lot of the payouts for big entities. They are saying: What about us? Who is taking care of us? They look at those deficit numbers and the tax increases that are probably going to come behind them, and they just don't like it. They do not agree with it, and they do not think that is a way to move forward as a country; that what we ought to do is really get our house in order.
I am pleased to see people putting forward other options for how they can deal with the budget and with the deficit. I urge my colleagues to vote against this one, and let's start over. Let's get one where we can have bipartisan agreement. Let's get one that cuts back on that deficit. Let's get one that doesn't raise taxes on Americans. Let's get one that can really help us move forward in this crisis we are in today rather than this one that is highly partisan, deficit oriented, tax increase oriented, and is not supported by the vast majority of the American public.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
