Public Statements
Congressional Budget for the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2010--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 31, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--Continued -- (Senate - March 31, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I wish to speak on the economics of this issue and talk about it from the Joint Economic Committee perspective, as I am ranking member on that committee. There are a lot of problems within this budget as far as what it does to the overall economy, and I think we are going to see some of it as we go through a few of these charts.
The problem I see overall and one of the things we have to watch the most, as far as its impact on the overall economy, is what the percent of the Federal Government is of the overall economy. The problem with this budget and the deficits and the financing that takes place in future years is we are going to start moving this government from being roughly and normally somewhere below 20 percent of the economy as far as intake--the taking of taxes--to somewhere north of there, probably around 23 percent. We normally average around 18 percent of the economy being taken by the Federal Government in taxes. This budget moves us, over a period of years, to 23 percent. That is completely unsustainable. It is harmful. We have been somewhere close to that. We haven't been that high. We have been somewhere close to that in the past. Whenever we have been, it has had significantly bad economic consequences for our overall economy.
That is just the take. I am afraid what we have going on is too much a philosophy of ``spend it and the taxes will come,'' so that we go ahead and spend this money into the economy and taxes will build up and increase so that over a period of years we spend it in deficit form and start financing the taxes, so we edge up that percentage from 18 percent of what the Federal Government takes to 23 percent over a period of years, while we get people hooked to the spending early on and say, isn't this a great program? We have spent it on school buildings, and on this program, and on that program. Don't you love that? Isn't that great? Yes. We have to build the taxes up now to pay for it. We get a wholly unsustainable situation for the Federal economy. And that is not anything about the State or local share of it, which adds to it, and then people are working half of the year for the Government and not working enough of the year for themselves. That doesn't work.
I hope we can back up, philosophically, for a little bit and think where we want to be as a government. I think it is important that we look at it. Thomas Jefferson, in the first inaugural address he gave--he is one of the greatest minds ever to be in this country and one of the great public policy thinkers. He said this:
A wise and frugal government, which shall restrain men from injuring one another, which shall leave them otherwise free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government. .....
So it is the limited focus of Government that everybody recognizes, which Jefferson said it should be, one of our country's great minds. It is this limited view of Government and a maximum view of personal responsibility and opportunity that has produced this vibrant, active, growth-oriented country for 200-plus years. Do we want to move away from that to an economy that is much more stagnant, more Government driven, rather than individual driven? Certainly we need to do things in particular areas, such as in the financial market structure, no question about that. But do you want to fundamentally move away from this idea Jefferson spoke of regarding what Government is to be about: ``A wise and frugal government, which shall restrain men from injuring one another, which shall leave them otherwise free to regulate their own pursuit of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government. .....''
Jefferson then warned about the perils of excess taxation, excess spending, and excess debt, all three of which are present in this budget. He warned that ``We must not let our rulers load us with perpetual debt.'' We are getting close to that with this budget. ``We must make our selection between economic and liberty or profusion and servitude.'' He was saying, look, we either move forward as a free economy or there is going to be servitude in the process. His warning was that big Government, with its excessive spending and taxation, inevitably strips its citizens of their liberties. Yet here we are today, heeding the notion ``spend and the money will come.'' Spend it and people will attach it to a government program, and the taxes will flow thereafter. It doesn't comport with what Jefferson said. It won't work.
I believe it is a fatal error to assume that higher spending today will generate higher future tax revenues. The proposed budget amounts to an ever-increasing size of Government, and at some point we will have to face up to the massive Government we have created through massive tax increases, which will chip away at economic growth and threaten the principles of freedom and the pursuit of happiness on which our Nation was founded and has thus far prospered.
On top of this, you have this demographic nightmare coming of the full-scale retirement of the baby boomer generation. So you are upscaling your Government spending and your taxes, and then you are going to have a bunch of people getting into the retirement system, getting Medicare, Social Security, all of which they have paid for and earned, but adding more to the growth of government, more to the demand for more tax increases, and taking away more from the liberty of individuals.
More than any budget debate during the time I have been in Congress, this debate isn't simply about the spending priorities of the next 5 years; it is a debate about what kind of economy we will leave not just to the next generation but generations to come. It is a debate about whether we believe that what made America great will keep America great. It is a philosophical debate. It is about the proper role of Government. Do we believe that the strength of America lies in its Government and its political leaders or that the strength of America lies with the American people? That is a fundamental question. Is it better for the Government to decide who runs GM or is it better for GM to decide who runs it?
Do we believe that the best opportunity to rebuild this economy is a free enterprise system that encourages investment, encourages entrepreneurs to start new businesses, and empowers our citizens to pursue their dreams and aspirations or do we believe the Government should act as head of a household, determining what is in the best interest of our families? How we answer that question will determine if we begin the inexorable slide toward an America where the Government tells you how much you can earn or who will be deemed ``acceptable'' to run the Nation's enterprises. How we answer that question will determine whether we are willing to accept mediocrity and condemn future generations to an America with fewer economic liberties and opportunities. Make no mistake, as our economic liberties disappear, not just our children but our grandchildren and their children will see their political liberties slip further away. Government will become the master of the people, not their servant.
Unfortunately, the spending, taxes, and debt contained in the budget outline submitted by the President and the one reported by the Budget Committee represent a statement that Government knows best, and that we should trust in Government before we trust in a free people.
I will talk about the budget suggested by the President and reported by the Budget Committee interchangeably because they are essentially the same. The only true differences come from the use of budget gimmicks and sleights of hand that attempt to make this budget look more ``responsible'' than the one the President has put forward. They are almost identical. I have a chart that points that out where they are on discretionary outlays and total outlays. They are the same.
The American people deserve an honest discussion of the budget and the spending and taxes it contemplates. They deserve to know that the policies contemplated by this budget will add more to the national debt over the next 10 years than in all the years from the founding of this Nation until 2008. In fact, according to CBO's estimates, the publicly held debt of the United States will triple over the next 10 years under this budget.
It is not simply the dollar amount of the debt that should concern us, it is the size of the publicly held debt in relation to the size of the economy. According to CBO's estimate, the publicly held debt will rise to more than 82 percent of GDP by 2019. That is a level seen only once in our Nation's history--in the extraordinary time of World War II. Yet this comparably massive-sized deficit will come with a significant reduction in defense spending. We did that spending in World War II to pay for war. This has a cut in defense spending.
As bad as these numbers are, I am concerned that the situation this budget will put us in is likely to be worse, not better, to the overall economy. Not only were the economic assumptions used by the President overly optimistic, I am concerned that those used by the CBO in creating the baseline are too optimistic.
I want to talk about this chart. We talk too much about taxes and too much spending, and it goes too much in debt. This tells a lot of that situation. You can see about debt held by the public as a percent of GDP. This is the average--about 35 percent for a long period of time. You can see that at times, we dipped below that at different points, and then you can see what happens in 2008 and that this shoots up in a dramatic way--not to pay for war. What that debt number shoots up to is dramatic.
The point is that this is "spend it and the taxes will come.'' What are you going to do if you cannot sustain the amount of debt? You are going to raise taxes to pay for that.
While CBO projects a larger decline in GDP during fiscal year 2009 than the blue chip consensus, CBO projects a brighter outlook going forward through 2015. CBO also projects lower inflation, interest rates, and unemployment than the private forecasters. I don't think that is probably likely assumptions to actually happen. For instance, these different assumptions result in significantly higher deficits than forecast by the administration. You can see on the chart of the Obama budget deficit what is projected. These are budget deficits under blue chip assumptions. Even that big number of deficit increases probably--it masks the true picture, which is much worse than that. It results in about $2 trillion more in publicly held debt by 2019 than projected by the administration. You can see these dollar numbers. You can see the side bar being trillions instead of billions and millions. You can see it goes from $8 trillion up to nearly $18 trillion. That is the likely scenario, actually, versus what the Obama administration is saying, around $15 billion, which it would be by 2019. That is $2 trillion more.
This budget spends too much. There are many important priorities that may have to be delayed. It is no different than what American families do when things get difficult. They figure out what the priorities are and they go with it.
Suggesting that the new administration's budget reflects a ``new era of responsibility'' is like bestowing claims of prudence and reliability on the mortgage brokers who contributed to the housing bubble and ensuing economic crisis by carelessly selling unscrupulous and inferior loans. It is neither responsible budget nor fair nor efficient to use the current economic crisis as a means to expand Government spending to unsustainable levels financed entirely through deficit spending and ultimately higher taxes on individuals. The Government is effectively charging its excessive consumption to the taxpayers' credit card, except that the beneficiaries of that consumption will not be the ones who pay off the debt. Rather, today's young workers and future generations will bear the burden of this Government's undisciplined spending. We are essentially forcing upon our young workers, our children, and grandchildren a massive credit card debt--if you can imagine that--resulting from our inability to live within our means. Would any of us do that to our children? Of course not. But that is what this budget does.
This budget contemplates permanently increasing the size of Government to unsustainable levels--especially when you consider the demographic-driven entitlement tsunami that is waiting to overwhelm the American economy. Under this budget, Federal spending as a percentage of GDP will be 28 percent of GDP in this fiscal year. Only 3 times since 1930 has the Government spent a greater share of the Nation's domestic output--1943, 1944, and 1945.
More disturbing than this year's spending is the escalating spending that this budget entails. Even if you give the President and the Budget Committee the benefit of the doubt for this fiscal year, since much of that money has already been appropriated, spending as a percent of GDP will average 23.7 percent over the 2010 to 2019 period. We will average a greater percentage of GDP over those years than we have spent in any single year, except the 1942 to 1945 timeframe. So you have a permanent growth in Government spending, not paying for war, paying for the excesses in our spending that we want to do.
We are going to have to pay that at some point or, more correctly, our children and grandchildren will. I have asked the staff to put together a quick estimate of how high marginal tax rates might have to rise if we are going to balance these budgets. You cannot sustain this amount of debt, and you have spent it, and ``there is nothing so permanent as a temporary Government program,'' as President Ronald Reagan observed. So you have started these on a temporary basis. They are going to balloon up and people get attached. So now you have to raise taxes to pay for it, because you cannot sustain that level of debt.
Here are the answers they came up with: projected tax rates that will have to go up, particularly on our top brackets because the President is saying we are going to tax the top brackets to do that. We are looking at a 65-, 69-percent marginal tax rate.
We have been there before as a country. We have had marginal tax rates up this high. It has never worked. It was economically stagnant for us as a country. People did not invest money, and basically the Government took this money and gave it to the Government instead of having it in productive sectors in the economy. We were looking at rates of 65, 69 percent.
Who is going to work and pay taxes at that rate? People working say: This is not worth it to me. We have been here before. This is a failed policy model. We have done this before. It has failed. We do not want to go back to that failed policy of the past.
Then there is the talk that we will do cap and trade, we will have an energy tax that will help pay for some of these programs. Consumers might not pay it directly, but they will certainly pay it at a rate of more than $3,000 per American family with an energy tax. The cost of living will rise, American industry will become less competitive, unemployment will rise, and the American people will suffer. We do not want that.
Particularly troubling was the suggestion of the majority leader that this is the right time to start health care reform and the same old Government game, trying to tell people: Look at this wonderful thing Government is providing you, and you are going to get it for free.
The reality of economics is that individuals pay corporate taxes in the form of higher taxes. That is simply a fact of life.
Equally troubling is the administration's desire to tax corporations that ship jobs overseas. It is nice rhetoric, but the policy is exactly opposite the one we should be pursuing. We should be pursuing incentives for multinational corporations to repatriate their earnings from abroad. One estimate put the amount of capital that could be repatriated if we instituted a 1-year tax rate of 5 percent on repatriated earnings. We could bring back as much as $500 billion into the U.S. economy.
Instead, the administration is going exactly the other way. We are going to raise these taxes, and instead of bringing that money home, we are going to
drive it overseas. That is what is going to take place. That is what has happened to date.
Over the last several years, many of us have tried working on another issue and put a great deal of effort into eliminating the so-called marriage penalty. I am concerned that the President's proposal and this budget will serve to create economic disincentives for family formation.
I have another chart to show this situation of the rate increases on increasing the marriage penalty that is going to take place under the President's proposed budget. A marriage penalty already exists in present law, and it gets worse under these policies.
The marriage penalty will nearly double in this particular wage earner's case from $2,900 to nearly $5,000. Is that the policy signal we want to send; that if you are going to get married, we are going to double your taxes? That is not a wise way for us to go, and our families are already stressed out the way it is now.
I know the President is calling for limiting deductions for higher income taxpayers. What no one on the other side of the aisle is saying, however, is that these limitations are a backdoor method of expanding the reach and scope of the alternative minimum tax.
Our economy cannot afford the kind of taxation that this budget is requiring in the future. The all-time high for the Government's take in revenue is 20.9 percent. That is the all-time high of the percentage we have taken of the economy, 20.9 percent. That has occurred twice; again, once during World War II and in 2000. The postwar average is 17.9 percent. Normally, we are taking under 18 percent of the economy, and that is high.
Since the spending under this budget and the President's budget is permanent, revenues will have to rise and be sustained at a level of 6 percent of GDP higher than the historical average in order to bring the budget into balance. That is a share of GDP, more than a third higher than the historic average. The historic average is 18 percent. This is going to be 23 percent. We have never been that high before. It is not sustainable. It is harmful to the economy. If you think the economy is in tough shape now, wait until you see the stagnation, the inflation, the unemployment this budget proposal will bring us at 23 percent taxation rates for the overall economy.
This is a bold new vision for America. Yet it is a vision that tries to deny the fundamental laws of economics. It is the same denial of risk on the part of financial institutions that put people in houses they could not afford and encouraged them to run up massive amounts of credit card and other consumer debt and led those sophisticated institutions to take on massive amounts of leverage that even the smallest of losses could not survive.
We are in the situation we are in because of excessive spending by Government and excessive risk-taking by institutions that were allowed to become too big to fail. It is time to face the facts. Too big has failed. This economy simply cannot afford this budget. The American people cannot afford this budget. Future generations cannot afford this budget. This budget asks the American people to buy into a Ponzi scheme based on the promise of returns that we will never be able to pay, while we divert massive sums in an attempt to socially reengineer the economy and the Nation.
Let us heed Thomas Jefferson's warning that I read at the outset and refuse to go down a road that enslaves our descendants for generations to come in the shackles of a mountain of debt, high taxes, and a government that has destroyed any vestige of economic freedom.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
