Public Statements
American Red Cross Month
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 31, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


AMERICAN RED CROSS MONTH -- (Senate - March 31, 2009)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, ``America the Beautiful'' is perhaps one of the most moving anthems that captures the very essence of our Nation. In the fourth verse, Miss Katherine Lee Bates wrote, ``O beautiful for patriot dream that sees beyond the years, thine alabaster cities gleam Undimmed by human tears! America! America! God shed his grace on thee and crown thy good with brotherhood from sea to shining sea!'' From the inception of our Nation, the strength of America has been our unwavering sense of honor, an unshakable belief that we are all created equal ``under God'' and our unrestrained sense of global humanity.
This is the embodiment of the American Red Cross and of the vision articulated by Clara Barton, founder of this wonderful organization that has helped countless individuals in times of crisis whether comforting a wounded soldier during battle, assisting those who are recovering from a natural disaster, or administering life-saving blood to a sick patient. It is indeed the legacy of this organization to go and serve those in most need--even to the endangerment of the volunteer. Clara Barton once elaborated on importance of service to others, ``I may be compelled to face danger, but never fear it, and while our soldiers can stand and fight, I can stand and feed and nurse them.'' Though the focus of the Red Cross has grown over the years the tenacity to help those in need and who face grave danger has never wavered.
Since 1943, every President of the United States has proclaimed March as American Red Cross Month and in turn, the organization uses this month to promote the services provided to the public each and every day. Communities depend on the Red Cross in times of need and the Red Cross depends on the support of the public to achieve its mission.
I am pleased to join with the Red Cross and highlight the courageous work that this organization accomplishes year after year and celebrate March as American Red Cross Month. As one of the best known humanitarian organizations, the Red Cross has been at the forefront of providing aid to soldiers during times of war and peace and helping individuals and families prevent, prepare for and respond to large and small scale disasters for more than 127 years.
I am very pleased of the work that the Kansas Red Cross has achieved over the years and am especially delighted to highlight the work of the Kansas Capital Area Chapter for their involvement in the creation of the ``Holiday Mail for Heroes.'' This program is a partnership between the Red Cross, Pitney Bowes, and the American people. Holiday Mail for Heroes distributes holiday cards to military veterans and active duty personnel throughout the world. This past year, over 1 million cards were received and sorted by hundreds of Red Cross volunteers. Pitney Bowes boxed and shipped them to different distribution sites--the Kansas Capital Area Chapter being one of them--and I am proud to report, shipped more than 1,000 cards.
In addition, to the focus on veterans, the Red Cross also provides programs that promote health and safety services as well. These vital services help to save lives and strengthen communities through education, training and products that enable people to prevent, prepare for and respond to disasters and other life-threatening emergencies. I know that I am profoundly grateful for the services that the Red Cross has given to my state during our times of challenges with natural disasters.
Last year alone, more than 5 million people took advantage of such educational opportunities, attending Red Cross first aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation--CPR--and automated external defibrillation--AED--training classes. I know that I am profoundly grateful for the services that the Red Cross has given to my State during our times of challenges with natural disasters.
Other educational programs and services include Aquatics, such as basic swimming lessons, lifeguarding and water safety, care-giving, and HIV/AIDS education.
The American Red Cross has been able to provide services because of the tireless and dedicated work of volunteers, often known as ``Red Crossers.'' Many of these ``Red Crossers'' have been involved in their communities for 10, 20 or even 80 years.
Mr. President, it is very fitting that we celebrate March as American Red Cross Month and continue to advance the principles of this very essential organization.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
