Public Statements
National Service Reauthorization Act--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 25, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


NATIONAL SERVICE REAUTHORIZATION ACT--Continued -- (Senate - March 25, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
NOMINATION OF CHRISTOPHER HILL
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for the opportunity to speak now on a critical issue that is facing us. There are a number of nominations coming before this body. We need to move forward on a lot of these nominations and move forward aggressively. There is one I wish to talk about with my colleagues, one about which I am deeply concerned. We held a hearing today on the nominee for the ambassadorship to Iraq.
Christopher Hill has been nominated to serve as Ambassador to Iraq. This is our most important diplomatic post in that region, arguably the most important diplomatic post to the United States in the world today. While it is important we have an Ambassador in place as soon as possible, what is most important is that we get the right person in place.
The next Ambassador to Iraq faces a daunting array of issues, such as preserving Iraq's fragile security, the drawdown of our troops, Arab-Kurdish tensions, oil distribution, and Iranian aggression, to mention a few.
Quite simply, the stakes could not be higher for the administration to find the right person to conduct our diplomacy in Baghdad and that region.
In providing our advice and consent to the President, our duty is to ensure that his nominee for this most sensitive and complicated post will not only carry out faithfully the policies of the administration but also will implement the laws of this country.
Moreover, the nominee should have a strong track record of diplomacy, forthrightness, professionalism, and achievement to bolster his or her credibility with the American people, with the Iraqi people, and the numerous regional actors.
And in this respect, Mr. President, I regretfully say that I do not believe Ambassadors Hill's career in the Foreign Service reflects the needs we have for this position in Iraq or this country. I think his record and his actions fall short of the qualifications we need. I want to articulate why I believe that, and therefore I will be objecting to his nomination as we move forward.
Let me begin by saying that I do not deny that Chris Hill is an experienced negotiator. He negotiated Bosnia in the 1990s and then negotiated North Korea for some period of time. But negotiation is only one component of diplomacy. In addition to being able to converse with foreign actors, we also expect our diplomats to respect the chain of command, to work closely with colleagues in the State Department, the Department of Defense, and all other relevant agencies, and we expect our Ambassadors to respect the laws of the United States expressed by statute and through proper oversight. But in his role as Assistant Secretary of East Asia and Pacific Affairs, as well as head of the U.S. delegation to the six-party talks, too often Ambassador Hill found that key officials and the law got in the way of his agenda. He found that sidelining those officials and ignoring congressional will was expedient, if not acceptable. I regret to have to say that. Such behavior establishes a precedent that can only hamper his efforts to coordinate the immensely complicated U.S. Government effort in Iraq, and that brings me to the focus of my concerns and the specific dealings I had--and extensive they were--on human rights in North Korea, where these troubling aspects of Chris Hill's diplomatic conduct all come together.
I have a picture next to me here that is a very lamentable one from North Korea. It is a kindergarten in North Korea, and you can see the starving children who are there. This was during the late 1990s when there was starvation taking place in North Korea, and the North Korean Government was not asking for assistance or support and the people were dying of starvation. The human rights situation is deplorable in North Korea. I believe it is the worst in the world, and that is saying something given some of the other actors that exist.
Let me start by reminding my colleagues of all of this--the situation in North Korea. North Korea is ruled by a totalitarian regime rigidly controlled by a single dictator, Kim Jong Il. Human rights in North Korea do not exist. The state regulates all aspects of individual life, from food ration, to speech, to employment, to travel, and even to thought. Under Kim Jong Il's watch, millions of North Korean citizens have perished from starvation, while thousands of others have died during imprisonment in the regime's extensive political system and gulags.
I will show a picture here of the location of one of the prison camps--or a number of prison camps in Russia. I have given a speech, and I have pointed this out. Google Earth has made witnesses of us all. Now you can see these on Google Earth.
North Korean defectors have testified about the conditions in these camps. Prisoners face torture, hard labor, starvation, forced abortion, infanticide, public executions, chemical and medical experimentation on prisoners, and gas chambers. They experience detention without judicial process, and family members of dissenters, including children and the elderly, are also shipped to the gulag as part of the policy of guilt by association. It is thought that over 400,000 people have died in the gulags over the years, and currently there are 200,000 North Korean prisoners in the gulag system.
I want to read to you an account from the Washington Post about the only known living escapee from a North Korean gulag, and Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have the full article printed in the Record.
There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as follows:
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, here is the quote I want to read from the article about Shin Dong-Hyuk:
..... his finger was cut off as punishment for accidentally dropping a sewing machine in the factory of the camp where he was held. He bears scars from the torture of being, essentially, roasted over a charcoal fire. When he was 14, he watched as his mother was hanged and his brother shot to death, ostensibly for trying to escape. In a memoir, he writes of the `lucky day' when he found, in a pile of cow dung, three kernels of corn that he was able to wash off and eat.
This was from the full piece from the Washington Post that I have had printed in the Record.
Here is an aerial picture of what one of the camps looks like. This is camp 18--and you can get these off Google Earth--and the execution site within this camp. Imagine if during World War II and the Holocaust we had these kinds of pictures and this sort of knowledge. Would we say we want to really do something about this or would we not? I think all of us would say: Well, absolutely. We would want to be very vocal about this. We would want to be addressing this issue if we knew it took place. Well, this is happening today. It happened during Chris Hill's watch in that position, it happened during the six-party talks, and he didn't address it and he didn't work on it.
The desperate situation has caused tens of thousands of North Koreans to risk their lives and their families' lives to flee across the border into China, seeking food, shelter, and livelihood. But the Chinese Government blocks international access and aid to these refugees, leaving them helplessly exposed to severe exploitation, particularly in the form of sex trafficking. The refugees also face repatriation if caught by Chinese authorities, which for most of them means automatic imprisonment, torture, or execution once returned to North Korean officials.
As Holocaust-survivor and Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel said, the North Korean regime ``..... is responsible for one of the most egregious human rights and humanitarian disasters in the world today.''
I want to quickly show two satellite photos showing the prison barracks of two camps, one in North Korea and the other in Auschwitz. Now, my point is not to say these situations are the same--they are not--but, rather, that there are similarities, and people should know this kind of evil still exists in the world today. I want people to look at this prison situation. This is one of the camps--and again, this is from Google Earth--one of the prison camps in North Korea. Then I want to hold up here as well a picture of Auschwitz. I ask people to look at the similarity of these situations and of these settings. I know when I first saw this, I thought, this is really eerie, that these look alike this much. Now, I am not saying these are the same situations. What I am saying is we continue to have this evil in the world. We continue to have thousands of people killed in a gulag system in 2009. This continues to happen in the world.
Mr. President, as you may recall, the Congress sought to address this horrifying situation back in 2004 with the North Korean Human Rights Act. This was passed and signed into law in October of that year. The Senate even passed that bill by unanimous consent--a proud day in the history of this body as we strengthened the moral fibers of this Nation. The purpose of that law, as defined in its introduction, was to promote respect for and protection of fundamental human rights in North Korea; to promote a more durable humanitarian solution to the plight of North Korean refugees; to promote increased monitoring, access, and transparency in the provision of humanitarian assistance inside North Korea; and to promote the free flow of information into and out of North Korea.
Let me also read aloud the very first section of title I of that act. It says this:
It is the sense of Congress that the human rights of North Koreans should remain a key element in future negotiations between the United States, North Korea, and other concerned parties in Northeast Asia.
So this is a statement to the six-party talks--to our negotiators--that human rights should remain a key element in future negotiations. This was in 2004. Mr. President, 4 1/2 years have transpired since the passage of this legislation. During that time, the issue of North Korean human rights quite simply has been subordinated, ignored, cast aside, and indeed swept under the carpet, in complete contradiction of the law of this country and against our Nation's most basic moral obligations and against the witnesses that we are that it is taking place even as we see it.
In all the bluster and dealmaking over the past few years, our negotiators have failed to exert any serious effort to address this dire issue. In fact, the situation has only worsened, according to any independent benchmark. And the individual responsible for this account during this period of time is Ambassador Chris Hill, who, according to the Washington Post Editorial Board, displayed a ``stunning lack of urgency'' to deal with human rights and, according to the Washington Times, ``deliberately minimized focus on the bleak human rights record.'' This is the nominee to be the Ambassador to Iraq--the most important account for us, I believe, in the world.
The cochair of the Congressional Human Rights Caucus, Frank Wolf, agreed, stating in a recent letter to Hill that he is concerned with Hill's ``marginalization and utter neglect of human rights.''
Just 1 year ago, Chris Hill himself said the following, asked about the human rights situation in North Korea:
Each country, including our own, needs to improve its human rights record.
In the face of the most horrific and ongoing human rights catastrophe in the world and instructed by Federal statute to address it, Ambassador Hill instead saw fit to associate the record of Kim Jong Il with that of the United States of America.
Some have said that the policies implemented by Ambassador Hill were merely the articulation of the Bush administration, but this is not the case. I spoke several times directly with President Bush about North Korean human rights. I know his passion for it and his real commitment to addressing the issue. He proudly signed the North Korean Human Rights Act and then again its reauthorization last year. He appointed a good, qualified man in Jay Lefkowitz as the Special Envoy for North Korean Human Rights. But somewhere between the Oval Office and the six-party negotiation room, the message got lost. On this, we have strong evidence that the broken link was Ambassador Hill.
First, at his nomination hearing this very morning, Ambassador Hill admitted that on at least one occasion he exceeded his instructions by meeting bilaterally with the North Korean Government. This went against the clear public position of the President. He explained this by saying he had to ``call an audible.'' This was in testimony this morning. But to others, this looks like a freelancing diplomat. When it comes to working in a country with neighbors such as Iran and Syria, the stakes are too high to have diplomacy run anywhere other than by the Secretary of State and the President.
We also know from a number of sources that Ambassador Hill used his position to sideline key officials in the administration who were charged with addressing the human rights situation in North Korea. One of these individuals was Jay Lefkowitz, who struggled during his entire tenure as Special Envoy for Human Rights in North Korea to gain tracks and support for his efforts among the East Asian Bureau and the team led by Hill.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record a letter I sent, and was sent back in answer by Jay Lefkowitz today, where we asked him if was he ever invited to the six-party talks--ever.
There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as follows:
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, this is what Mr. Lefkowitz says in his response to my letter:
Dear Senator Brownback: At no point during my tenure as Special Envoy for Human Rights in North Korea, either before or after July 31, 2008, did Chris Hill or anyone acting on his behalf invite me to participate in any Six Party Talks.
This is the Special Envoy for Human Rights to North Korea.
Another key official cut out of the loop by Hill was former Ambassador to Japan, Tom Schieffer. The Washington Post reported in 2007 that Ambassador Schieffer received assurances from the administration that he could tell the Japanese Government that North Korea would not come off the terrorism list until the abduction issue that was central to the Japanese had been resolved. But Ambassador Schieffer found out later that Chris Hill had cut a deal ignoring that pledge and, without advance notice or information from Ambassador Hill, had to backtrack--our Ambassador to Japan--and try to mollify our stalwart ally, Japan, whose Government felt upset and betrayed.
Finally, at least one senior intelligence officer has said Ambassador Hill sidetracked and bypassed procedures designed to inform the intelligence community of the substance of his discussions with the North Koreans.
Such conduct in the course of negotiations should give serious pause to those concerned about the sensitivity of diplomacy in Iraq and in the Middle East at this time.
In addition to this undiplomatic conduct with respect to his executive branch colleagues, Ambassador Hill has a disturbing track record of evasiveness, and I believe dishonesty, in dealing with Congress. In statements made for the record in congressional testimony, Ambassador Hill made promises that he did not, could not, or had no intention to keep.
Regarding the prospect of normalization with North Korea, Ambassador Hill assured a skeptical House Foreign Affairs Committee in February 2007 that improvement in human rights would be part of any deal struck with North Koreans. But 1 year later, Ambassador Hill indicated to a reporter that normalization could proceed before such things took place. He stated:
Obviously we have continued differences with North Korea, but we can do that in the context of two states that have diplomatic relations.
On the issue of human rights last year, before the Senate Armed Services Committee, I asked Ambassador Hill whether he would invite the Special Envoy for Human Rights to all future negotiation sessions. His answer, and I quote it directly:
I would be happy to invite him to all future negotiating sessions with North Korea.
That answer was given without qualifiers.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have the relevant portion of that committee transcript from July 31, 2008, printed in the Record.
There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as follows:
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I already entered the note I received from the Special Envoy saying he was never invited, but there is another case--one I know is of great concern to the ranking member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen--where Chris Hill told a reporter that he had no recollection of receiving a letter from and had provided no response to the spouse of Rev. Kim Dong-Shik, a U.S. permanent resident and father of a U.S. citizen, who was kidnapped in North Korea in 2000.
Yet a photo obtained by the media showed Mr. Hill receiving this from the Congresswoman herself.
On the issue of nuclear disarmament, Ambassador Hill also misled Congress. During his February 2007 testimony, Hill insisted that North Korea must disclose ``all'' of its nuclear programs, and specified that ``All means all, and this means the highly enriched uranium program as well.''
But when the North Koreans' belated declaration of nuclear activity did not even mention their uranium program, even when there were reports that the documents themselves that they gave us had traces of uranium on them, Ambassador Hill still insisted on rewarding the North Korean regime with delistment from the terrorism list.
On dealing with proliferation, later that year before the House subcommittee, Ambassador Hill said:
Clearly, we cannot be reaching a nuclear agreement with North Korea if at the same time they are proliferating. It is not acceptable.
Yet only months later, Hill reached just such an agreement before Congress had a chance to answer key questions about North Korea's alleged nuclear proliferation to Syria, taking place during Hill's own negotiations.
What all this shows is a disturbing pattern by Ambassador Hill to tell Congress one thing, and then do another.
Congressional testimony is not a formality. It is not a venue for executive officials to parrot what Members of Congress want to hear--regardless of whether such parroting reflects reality.
Rather, congressional hearings provide a means to reassure the American people that their tax dollars are being spent wisely, and their interests are being preserved.
In this case, we had a right to know that the tens of millions of dollars worth of heavy fuel oil sent to Kim Jong Il, and the other serious concessions Ambassador Hill was handing over, were at least going to improve our national security, if not help end the oppression of the North Korean people.
And in that respect, I would like to address the substance of Ambassador Hill's deals with the North Korean regime. The record can be summarized by stating the concessions that both sides obtained through the negotiations.
First, Ambassador Hill is credited with a victory in bringing the North Koreans back to the table in 2005. But in doing so, he admits to exceeding his instructions to avoid bilateral talks with the regime.
Second, Hill oversaw and managed a complicated process that involved Russia, China, South Korea, and Japan, in addition to the U.S. and the DPRK.
Neither of these gains in process provided us with concrete evidence of progress on denuclearization, despite the fact that the North Koreans traded them for substantial material gain from our side.
Ambassador Hill did obtain a declaration of nuclear activities from the regime. But as noted earlier, this declaration was half a year overdue and so incomplete as to render it useless. The declaration provided no confirmation of the number of bombs that were made, no admission or information on the uranium program, and nothing on proliferation. It was a radioactive set of documents of dubious worth.
Additionally, Ambassador Hill was able to get the DPRK to implode the cooling tower at Yongbyon. But according to many analysts, the step was mostly a symbolic gesture in that North Korea is still able to run its plutonium reactor, just with more environmental consequences.
In exchange for these minimal gains in process and symbolism, the concessions we forked over were substantial. Tens of millions of dollars worth of heavy fuel oil were shipped over to supply the regime with ``energy assistance,'' ostensibly so that it could continue to carry out its policies of belligerence and oppression.
Congress was asked to pass legislation waiving Glenn amendment sanctions against North Korea. These sanctions were designed to prohibit assistance to states that detonate illegal nuclear weapons, and were automatically triggered when DPRK tested a nuclear bomb in 2006. We gave them a pass on that.
We delisted the DPRK from the list of state sponsors of terror, despite their failure to account for the Japanese abductees and U.S. permanent resident Reverend Kim Dong-Shik, not to mention their failure to even slightly diminish the terror they inflict upon the North Korean people.
We removed sanctions pursuant to the Trading with the Enemy Act, and facilitated the transfer of money to the regime that otherwise should have been confiscated by the Treasury Department under financial regulations for nuclear proliferators.
We looked the other way on the role that the DPRK played in constructing a nuclear reactor in Syria, choosing instead to plow ahead with the negotiations.
What is worse, after we gave up so much leverage, the DPRK is now just as hostile and dangerous as ever. Next week the regime plans on launching a ballistic missile over Japan that could reach the outskirts of the United States, a provocative act of the gravest significance.
And to push the limits of our tolerance even further, on March 17, North Korean border guards abducted two American journalists--Laura Ling and Euna Lee--and reports indicate that since their capture they have been subjected to ``intense interrogation.''
Taken all together, this is an unfortunate legacy for Ambassador Hill. Broken commitments to Congress, freelancing diplomacy, disregarding human rights, and giving up key leverage to the DPRK in exchange for insubstantial gestures.
Such things have harmed our national security and ignored our moral obligations, a legacy ill-suited for the next Chief of Mission to Iraq.
I will conclude not with my own words, but with the words of Rabbi Abraham Cooper, associate dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, who wrote a piece for the Korea Times last month, which I will ask to be included in the Record.
By exclusively pursuing the nuclear tail around the six-party table, we have contributed to the horrible suffering of the people of North Korea and degraded the United States' long-standing commitment to fundamental human rights.
Like the inmates of the Soviet Gulag or the Nazi concentration camps of the 1930s, about 200,000 to 300,000 hapless victims in North Korean camps wait for help. Our silence to these and other outrages is perhaps Pyongyang's greatest victory to date. We want them to dispose of fearsome weapons--they want our silence. And too often, we have acquiesced.''
Mr. President, I do not acquiesce to this nomination.
I now ask unanimous consent the full article by Rabbi Abraham Cooper be printed in the Record.
There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as follows:
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
