Public Statements
Press Conference with Senator Robert Bennett (R-UT); Senator Christopher "Kit" Bond (R-MO); Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS)
Press Conference
By: Bob Bennett Kit Bond Sam Brownback
Date: March 19, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

PRESS CONFERENCE WITH SENATOR ROBERT BENNETT (R-UT); SENATOR CHRISTOPHER "KIT" BOND (R-MO); SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS)
SUBJECT: TAXING OF CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS
Copyright ©2009 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Carina Nyberg at cnyberg@fednews.com or call 1-202-216-2706.
SEN. BENNETT: Good afternoon, everyone. We're here to point out a provision in the budget proposal that you may not have noticed, and if you haven't, you should have. And this is the provision that will eliminate tax deductions for charitable contributions.
As I reacted to that, I want to tell you a story. My son was having a debate with his high school civics teacher. This was a civics teacher of long ago, now retired, but the two of them have stayed together. And the one is a flaming liberal and the other is a (high-back ?) conservative. You can guess which one is which on your own.
And in the course of the conversation, my son raised the issue about the increase in taxes on anyone who earns over $250,000 a year as being a job killer. And the high school civics teacher said, "Jim, you don't earn $250,000 a year, so you don't need to worry about it." To which my son replied, "I work for a non-for-profit charitable organization, and they won't get the money that they would otherwise get, because they exist on charitable contributions made by people who earn $250,000 a year. It will affect me."
Well, you take that reality -- and that is a reality -- and then add to it the fact that people who are now making the bulk of our charitable contributions will not only have to pay more taxes on their tax bill, they will not be able to deduct the taxes on the contributions that they make. And you'll see an enormous impact on those organizations across the country that deal with -- that survive on charitable contributions. The estimate is that it will cut charitable contributions by at least $9 billion.
In my home state of Utah, where the unemployment rate is still very enviable compared to the national rate, they're already seeing increases at the food bank and the charitable organizations that take care of people, the homeless and the needy, because, they say, our charitable contributions are down.
In the economy, people simply don't have as much disposable income as they used to have, and as a consequence, they're making fewer charitable contributions. Now they will be discouraged from making even those charitable contributions, as a result of the action on the part of the administration if it, in fact, passes.
This is about as misplaced as we can put our priorities, to say we want to stimulate the economy and we want to take care of people who are in trouble, but we want to punish those who, out of their own generosity, would like to help take care of people with trouble.
Maybe this is a determination to say that individuals should not be involved in helping their neighbors; it's entirely a function of government. We don't think it's entirely a function of government. We go back to the days of de Tocqueville, who said one of the unique things about Americans was their willingness to give, to organize in neighborhood organizations and local organizations and to be charitable and helpful to those in need without a prod from government.
In the Obama proposal, we're seeing an attempt to turn that unique American virtue into a historical relic. We think it should remain strong and powerful as a historical reality going forward into the future.
I'm joined here by two Missourians and a Kansan, and I will step aside and let them fight it out as to which one comes forward in these days of March madness.
SEN. BOND: Seniority does have some benefits. And I appreciate being here with my colleagues to talk with you about the convoluted system that they have for limiting deductions on charitable contributions.
This past weekend I traveled around the state holding roundtables, talking with people who would be affected. I've talked to Missourians who have been hit hard, workers who've lost their job, parents finding it hard to put food on the table, pay for doctors' visits or school clothes for their kids. And I'm finding a lot of these people are turning to not-for-profit organizations.
And clearly, the charities in our states serve as a very vital safety net for people who are on hard times. But the charities told me that they are already struggling to meet the growing needs because their workload has gone up.
And food banks, homeless shelters and churches are facing an uphill climb, as private donations shrink; unfortunately, one more area where the president's budget would make jobs of even -- of charities even more difficult, exposing more families to hunger and homelessness.
This plan to increase taxes on charitable contributions would threaten their ability to raise funds at a time when their clients most need it. One of the clearest-cut statements came from Peggy Kirkpatrick, who runs the Central Missouri Food Bank in Columbia, Missouri. She said it best. She said, "These critical organizations are serving on the front lines of need. We should be standing with them, not making their jobs more challenging."
SEN. BROWNBACK: I guess I'm going to split the Missourians here. The last thing we need in a recession year is to make it harder for charities to raise money. They're having a hard enough time. They're contacting people who are saying, you know, "Look, I've lost this much money this year. Job prospects are not good." And the last thing you want to do is make it harder for charities to raise money in a recession year. This tax increase, if it goes through, will make it harder for charities to raise money in a recession year and thereafter. It's bad policy. It's a bad idea. It will have bad consequences.
My own state of Kansas, one of the people at the United Way in Wichita said this -- virtually the same thing -- the last thing we need in Wichita in this recession year is something that's going to hurt charitable giving by eliminating or reducing the tax deduction. That's pretty straightforward. And it's pretty straightforward for these charities. They are looking at a significant falloff already in contributions. And you raise the taxes on individuals that are giving these deductions -- or that are giving these charities -- to these charities -- and it's going to make it harder.
We're going to -- we have a greater need, and we're going to have less funds coming in to them. I think it's a very bad idea within this budget. I think it's a very bad idea at this time. I'm going to fight against it. I know our caucus is going to fight against it.
This budget taxes too much. And this is one of the areas where it has a double-whammy of raising taxes and hurting contributions at the same time. It needs to be changed.
REP. BLUNT: For the four years before I came to Congress, I was a university president. And university presidents raise a lot of money -- at least they raise a lot -- they want to raise a lot of money. And they need to raise a significant amount of money.
I just suggest that those people in the administration that are saying, "Well, people don't give to charitable institutions for tax purposes," in all likelihood have never raised any money, or they would know better than that. Now, that actually may be true for a percentage, or even a significant percentage, of people that give. Let's assume that that's true for 60 percent of the people that give money to charities, to churches, to not-for-profits of various kinds. What about the other 40 percent?
I don't know any single charity, I don't know any university, I don't know any private school, I don't know any church that says, well, really we only need about 60 percent of the money that comes in. And the 40 percent that comes in, because of some tax reason, we're really fine without that.
Of course, that's not right. You could have a big argument about this. But you're not going to have that argument with anybody who has ever raised a significant amount of money. As you're writing this story, just call people who raise money and say, does this ever come up? How often does it come up?
I'd suggest to you that if the answer is, it ever comes up, that makes it a problem. In fact, five or six years ago, we did the Charitable Giving Act. Harold Ford, Jr., and I had that bill on the House side.
One of the areas where we opened up, for the first-time giving, was to give out of IRAs without tax consequences. And hundreds of millions of dollars were given, during that open window, out of IRAs, because there were no negative tax consequences.
In fact, even though I would have opened that totally and not had a cap on it, we had to accept a cap of $100,000. Virtually none of those gifts were bigger than $100,000.
Now, why is that? Because tax policy does matter. And if you diminish the current tax deductibility to charities, you will impact the money that goes to charities. And even if you use the lowest possible number, like the administration says, well, it might be 1.5 percent.
I think 1.5 percent of the money given to charities is about $4.5 billion. That's four times the budget of St. Jude's Hospital. It's 30 times the budget of Catholic Charities in St. Louis. It's a lot of money to anybody.
Particularly as my friends have pointed out here, this is a time where the need is up already for charities. And maybe that's just a university like I used to run, where the need is up for more tuition assistance. Maybe it's somebody who's feeding families. But the need is up. Contributions are down.
And only an administration that believes that government is a better solution than church and charity would make it harder for church and charity, in times like these, to raise the money that they need, to do the work that they're doing. And so you know, we're prepared to engage in this debate.
I think everybody in America who has raised money has concern about this area. And as Senator Bennett said, America from the very first was a country where people came together and tried to solve their problems in this way.
And so there are lots of Americans who know what it means to give to church, to give to synagogue, to give to mosque, to give to charity. And they're going to be concerned about this. And the people who are going to be most concerned are the people that try to make those institutions work in a way that serves the mission of that particular group, so.
SEN. BENNETT: Questions.
Yes, sir.
Q (Off mike) -- health care or cap-and-trade or maybe student loans.
And one that -- (off mike) -- internally among them is that they can't bring you guys to the table without some sort of method to do so, being reconciliation. And I guess, what would you guys say to that idea, that you guys would not come to the table without reconciliation?
SEN. BOND: I think Judd Gregg, our leader on the Budget Committee, said it well: In this post-partisan time of Barack Obama, we're seeing a little Chicago politics. They steamroller those who disagree with them -- and then I guess in Chicago they coat them in cement and drop them in the river. This is not a good way to begin a bipartisan discussion of these truly serious issues.
I think everybody wants to curb greenhouse gases. We want to do it in a way that doesn't kill jobs. If you -- if that's what he wants to accomplish, let's work together. Otherwise, we're going to have a real battle royale. And if they do these things the same way they did the stimulus bill, I think there is going to be a similar outrage across America. We see it in Missouri, and man, they are right.
SEN. BENNETT: The late Pat Moynihan told Hillary Clinton back in the early '90s, if it doesn't pass with 70 votes, it doesn't pass. And he wasn't talking reconciliation. He wasn't talking cloture. He was talking public support. And Mrs. Clinton has now pretty much conceded that writing health care in the basement of the White House and then springing it on everybody without talking to any Republican was one of the biggest mistakes she made. If you want comprehensive health-care reform, you don't try to ram it through on reconciliation.
Q Have you guys given them any sort of promises or any sort of --
SEN. BENNETT: I refer you to the Wyden/Bennett bill, the Healthy Americans Act, cosponsors on both sides, open for business.
SEN. : Yes?
Q President Obama said his door is open to suggestions from your side. Have any of you contacted the White House on the subject of the today, the charitable deductions?
SEN. : I have. I've talked to the White House about it. We've talked to our legislative folks about it and written op-eds about it that they've got copies of. It's -- if -- we'v asked them to -- where do you get your estimates that this won't have impact, and there's not much of a response to that.
SEN. BOND: I'm looking -- do we know -- have we seen the White House representative in the Senate? Does anybody know -- have you seem them?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I've seen one come by with one of the nominees. That's all I've seen --
SEN. BOND: I'm anxious to meet one.
SEN. BROWNBACK: There's Claire McCaskill's former chief of staff. I don't know if he's moonlighting or --
SEN. : (Laughs.)
SEN. BENNETT: Any other questions?
STAFF: Thank you all.
SEN. BENNETT: Thank you very much.
SEN. BOND: Thanks.
END.

Source: http://www.fnsg.com/transcript.htm?id=20090319t2612&nquery=&query=brownback
