Public Statements
Nomination of Thomas John Perrelli to be Associate Attorney General
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 12, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


NOMINATION OF THOMAS JOHN PERRELLI TO BE ASSOCIATE ATTORNEY GENERAL -- (Senate - March 12, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the case of Mr. Perrelli, nominated to be Associate Attorney General. I rise to speak in opposition to the nomination. I will not be long, but I think there is an important policy issue that needs to be discussed.
I would be prepared to yield back time after that point in time. I do not know if we have other people who desire to speak, so Members could move on about their busy day.
I do think we have an important discussion here. I have no doubt of the qualifications of Mr. Perrelli to be Associate Attorney General. I think from what the chairman has stated--and I have no reason to dispute what the chairman has stated about the qualifications of Mr. Perrelli. I think they are good. I do not ascribe bad motives whatsoever to him or anybody. But I think there is a very important policy discussion that needs to take place here, with an opportunity to vote, before we put this individual third in command of the Justice Department, to oversee management of the Department's day-to-day operations, including formulating departmental policies.
Concerns have been raised with regard to Mr. Perrelli's nomination to be Associate Attorney General primarily due to his pro bono representation of Terri Schiavo's husband, Michael Schiavo, in his effort to allow the starvation to take place, and the dehydration, of his wife. The death that took place several years ago captured the discussion and the thoughts in the country about issues about the quality of life and whether we protect life that is in a diminished qualitative state. It was a tough discussion. It was a tough debate. I was here and involved with it, as were a number of other individuals. It was one that went back and forth for some period of time. Terri Schiavo, as I might remind a number of individuals, was in a very difficult mental condition. Her husband was desiring to withhold food and water from Terri Schiavo.
The family members of Terri Schiavo: No, we should not do this. We should allow her to continue to live. Food, water--provide those items to her.
It pulled back and forth on people. And the fundamental root question involved in it is, Do we put a subjective value on human life or is all human life sacred, per se, in an objective sense? Because it is human life, is it sacred, per se, or is there some sort of threshold issue we should be considering on whether we protect human life to the degree fully that we can and certainly on the issues of providing food and water? That was kind of the policy discussion and that was the conundrum we were in as a country because people could see both sides of this issue and say: Gosh, she is in a difficult spot as an individual. Her husband says: Let's withhold food and water. The family says: No. And the country was brought into the discussion, the debate, as was this body.
Mr. Perrelli was pro bono, representing for free, Michael Schiavo, in this case, who was the primary proponent to withhold food and water for Terri Schiavo. I think before we put a person who took that position--he did this for free--into the No. 3 position at the Justice Department of the United States, we should discuss that because people are policy and what they view and what they stand for does find its way into policy apparatus for the United States of America. And this is a key issue for us.
I want to put it very clearly. While there is a lot of emotion surrounding this, there is a fundamental policy question, as I mentioned a bit earlier, about this, and that is the basic issue of, do we view human life sacred, per se, or does the dignity that we treat individuals with depend on their physical or mental status as human beings? And we shouldn't get around the starkness of that debate. It is a stark debate, but it is an important one, and I think clearly we should err on the side of saying: If this is a human person, then they are regarded as fully human with all human rights regardless of any sort of diminished physical or mental capacity they might have. To hold differently than that would be for us to say that some people are more equal than others, that some have more rights--or some have fewer rights than other individuals do. And we have been in that sort of policy discussion before, and we have always regretted it. We are at our best when we are standing for the weakest people amongst us, with the most diminished, with the most difficulty. These are the ones we want to stand for the most.
One of the proud moments for me here in our body was to work a bill with Senator Kennedy on helping to get more Down's Syndrome children here born alive because right now about 90 percent of them are killed in utero. We worked on a way to have an adoption registry and an effort to recognize that these are valuable people and we should not say that because of their difficulty here, they should be regarded as less human. That is not a position that upholds the nature and traditions and ideals of the United States of America.
If a subjective judgment of qualify of life is what determines the value of an individual or the protections accorded to that individual, this has enormous implications for all of us, both for the way we conduct our own lives and the way we order our society. If we have a fundamental mandate to protect the most vulnerable amongst us, not just those who have social or political influence or those who are regarded as productive, a reordering of our priorities and our laws becomes necessary.
Ultimately, the debate over Terri Schiavo was not one about States rights or medical ethics or end-of-life decisions; it was about whether we measure life by a subjective or an objective test. That is the fundamental debate point here. Is it a subjective determination? If you hit enough of these criteria, you are given full human rights? If you have a few of these, too few of these, you are not given full human rights? Or is it an objective test? You are a human, of the species, you have full human rights in all situations, and you are certainly entitled to food and water even if are you in a difficult mental condition.
I believe this is a very important debate, and now we are seeing more of the country enter into it, end-of-life issues on the sacredness of human life: Does it exist at the end of life or not? Do we have these objective or subjective tests?
Mr. Perrelli--by all accounts a good lawyer--comes out on one point of view. He comes out on the point of view that we can look at these in subjective ways, representing the client in this who looked at a subjective quality-of-life case. Of all of the qualified lawyers in the United States--and there are many brilliant lawyers in the United States--why would we insist upon putting in as the No. 3 lawyer at the Justice Department one who has a point of view that is so stark on this and so against the view of most Americans, who would view all human life objectively as being beautiful, as being sacred, as being something worthy of protection? Now, as people are policy, you put someone into the No. 3 position at the Justice Department who holds a very radical point of view on this, of all of the qualified lawyers that are across the United States. The signal that sends across the society is, OK, there is a shift taking place here: we are not going to focus on human life as objectively sacred, we are going to view it as subjectively needing to meet criteria to protect.
That may be seen as too stark, but that was the stark question that was put forward in the Terri Schiavo case, and that was the stark question this nominee decidedly went to one side on. He could have stayed out of it, could have not been involved whatsoever. But he didn't. He freely and ``freely'' got involved in this case on one side in a radical direction that I believe is wrong for the country to take.
It will be clearly possible that cases involving euthanasia or other end-of-life issues may come before the Federal courts during his tenure in office. With cases in Oregon, the State of Washington, probably being considered in other States, it is highly likely, actually, that these cases will come forward. I am deeply concerned that Mr. Perrelli's view of this, while so decidedly on one side of it, will not be an objective observer or enforcer of current U.S. law. I think that is a step back for us protecting and defending the sanctity of basic human life.
This is something I think all of us in our own heart of hearts absolutely agree, that human life is sacred, it is sacred at all stages, and it is sacred in all places. But now we are presented with a policy choice in a person. I would hope that people, as they would look at this, would say that is not a direction we should be going, that is not a direction we should be tilting in this country as we deal with these end-of-life issues coming at a very rapid pace in front of legislative bodies at the State level, and I believe they will come here, and I believe they will enter their way into the courts.
For all of these reasons, I really don't believe we should go this route. I will be voting against Mr. Perrelli even though I believe him to be a qualified individual because of the stark position, the negative position he has taken, the subjective view he has expressed with his advocacy of the view of human life in this very important position.
I will retain the balance of the time in case other issues are raised, if there are other issues that are raised. If there are not other issues that are raised, I do not know if we have other people to speak on our side. I would be willing to yield back. But if other debate points are raised, then I would like to have a few minutes to respond.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that all debate time on the Perrelli nomination be yielded back and that the provisions of the previous order governing this nomination remain in effect.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. BROWNBACK. I object in that I want to raise one additional point. And I do believe we should have a recorded vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard. The Senator from Kansas is recognized.
Mr. BROWNBACK. The additional point I would raise on this is that my colleague points to the Florida Supreme Court. I note that half of the Democrats in this body who returned to vote on the Terri Schiavo case voted in favor of Terri Schiavo's family. I think there was a clear view on this, and that is my point, when you get a radical position put forward that looks at this in a subjective sense.
With that, Mr. President, I would be willing to yield back time. I do want a recorded vote to take place.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
