Public Statements
Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: March 10, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

OMNIBUS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009--CONTINUED -- (Senate - March 10, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise today to address a provision in the statement to accompany the fiscal year 2009 Omnibus appropriations bill that seeks to address a critical issue in our country, the rising rate of childhood obesity. Over the last several years, Senator Harkin and I have worked jointly to address this issue.
During this time, we have focused our efforts on bringing together the different sectors in our society that are equipped to address this crucial issue for our Nation's children. It is my firm belief, that there is not just one solution to reducing the rates of childhood obesity but this should be a collective effort.
To that end, I am encouraged that there are those in the food and beverage industry, the advertising industry and media industry that have taken voluntary steps to address this issue.
I am pleased that the Ad Council has also worked to address childhood obesity as well with donated multimedia efforts since October 2005 that have equaled $170 million. This initiative includes creative partnerships with NFL, Qubo, an NBC-owned children's network, and the U.S. Olympics.
It is my firm belief that the best option to address this issue is not by rushing into government regulation but by working together to address this issue within our spirit of a free-market society--and that is the intention behind this language that directs the Federal Trade Commission to create a working group among the Food and Drug Administration, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Secretary of Agriculture. I also hope that as this working group convenes they will first study the Better Business Bureau's Children's Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative, and determine whether initiatives such as these would suffice to address this crucial issue, before they implement the remainder of the directive. And, consistent with the current focus of self-regulatory initiatives, I think it would be more appropriate to limit the scope of the working group activities to children under the age of 12.
I have found that oftentimes the best results are rooted in industry-led reforms and it is my intention that this working group will keep this intent in mind as they study and develop ways in which to address foods marketed to our children. For example, in July 2007 and again in September 2008, the Grocery Manufacturers Association commissioned studies of U.S. advertising trends through Georgetown Economic Services. These studies have shown that as food and beverage marketers have shifted the mix of products advertised to children, not only are children today seeing fewer food, beverage and restaurant ads on television, they are seeing far fewer ads for soft drinks, cookies, snacks and candy, while being exposed to more ads for soups, juices, fruits, and vegetables and water than they were in 2004.
I truly believe that with everyone coming together around a free market principled approach that we will have more expedient and effective results for our children.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
