Public Statements
Stimulus Package
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 12, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


STIMULUS PACKAGE -- (Senate - February 12, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I want to join my colleagues and discuss the spending package that will be back in front of us--the $800 billion but, with interest, probably $1.2 trillion, which will be in the package, and it will all be borrowed--every cent of it. We don't have that money presently. So we are going to be borrowing it to do this.
A couple of things strike me. One, we learned last fall--and there is an old saying that is true in government and certainly with individuals as well, which is ``haste makes waste.'' I grew up with that saying. People say, look, if you hurry at this and you don't get it right, you are going to have to do it again. We saw that last fall with TARP. We put in $750 billion because they said we have to do it now and we have to do it fast. But at the end of the day, that haste made waste. The Treasury Department went pillar to post, saying we are going to do this or we are going to do that, and they ended up spending the money. Now we are looking at TARP II and the banks still need help. I have a lot of people back home saying: What happened to the first hundreds of billions of dollars you gave the banks? Haste makes waste. We saw it then.
There is no reason for us to rush to get this wrong on the stimulus package. Yes, we need a stimulus package. My State needs a stimulus package. This country needs it. We need a stimulus package, not a spending bill. If we slow down a little bit--I think we should refer this back to the Committees on Finance and the Appropriations and put a requirement on it that every dollar spent must yield at least $1.50 in economic activity over and above what is spent.
We should make it a stimulus bill, not a spending bill. We have not done that. We are hastily putting this forward. I believe, tragically, we will be wastefully putting it out. There will be a number of programs that can use the funds, I have no doubt about that. But if the target is to get this economy off its knees and moving forward, we have to hit that target and not a multiple set of targets, and not a set of spending targets that are not stimulative in nature.
There is another saying that President Reagan was fond of using, and it was that there is nothing so permanent as a temporary Government program. That was his experience and it has been mine as well. Once something gets started, it is hard to stop, because it gets a constituency built up around it, and people build up their expectations and infrastructure around it. When you go to eliminate it once it has started, it is like, wait a minute, now this has a multiplier impact on a broader cross-section of individuals. That is why there is nothing so permanent as a temporary Government program.
I think that is probably why some people are looking at starting things under the guise of stimulus that are, in actuality, starting new Federal spending programs with the hope that infrastructure builds up around it and in future years, when it goes to be cut, people will say you cannot do this because it will have this multiplier impact. That is the history of the Federal Government and its growth.
According to a CBO analysis, if most of the new spending programs enacted under the proposed stimulus were to become long-term spending programs--and that is our history and what we have seen in the past--the cost of the stimulus package would rise to $2.5 trillion over the next decade, and $3.3 trillion if you include interest payments on that debt. We are borrowing every cent. You are looking at long-term spending in the $3.3 trillion category. If you do and you look at a rough outline of this, you are going to move the Federal Government from about 20 percent of the economy, which it has been, up to 25 and possibly 30 percent of the economy. At what time do you come to the tipping point? And that is before you add in the baby boomers retiring and the increased costs in Medicare, and when that baby boomer generation is retired and using the Government programs instead of paying into them. You will get to a tipping point where people cannot afford the tax structure that is needed underneath that. That is not wise for us to do.
In this stimulus bill, we will take the Federal debt in private hands relative to our gross domestic product from below 40 percent of GDP to move it well over 60 percent of GDP. So that will be like saying I have a job and I make $100,000 a year, and I borrowed $40,000 that I am paying on, and now I am going to jump it to $60,000. You are looking at that in this soft economy and saying, is that a smart thing to do? Most people would say, no, that is not the right thing to do. You want to try to stimulate things, not harm them.
Finally is this thought: I don't believe that hastily constructed bills such as this one being sold as stimulative is a plan to help our economy weather this recession. It strikes me as a highly leveraged, speculative bet on larger Government and massive long-term spending as a cure to our economic woes. We have seen what the aftermath of highly leveraged speculative bets can bring. That is what we have gotten into in the first place, where you have had highly speculative leveraged events taking place in the housing market and expanding into credit card use, into automobile loans. A number of homes were bought with 100 or 110 percent borrowing, and they thought the appreciation would pay for that. Those were completely leveraged events. That doesn't bring economic prosperity; it brings bubbles. I don't think you are even going to see that with this one. You are going to see long-term costs. We are going to see speculative debt with the Government using our children as leverage. Is that the way we want to go?
Clearly, the people in my State believe no, and they believe we need a stimulus package, and that we need to work together on a bipartisan package. We should take it through the regular order, through the Appropriations Committee and the Finance Committee, and hold hearings on it, look at what actually works, set a criteria on this. When we had this very rapid, hastily put together TARP legislation--and everybody is mad about that now--we didn't hold hearings on it. We did it quickly and in closed sessions. Out pops the package, and now we are back at it. I think we will be back at this one also if we don't do what we need to do. But only our ammo box will be empty. We are not going to have anything in it, because haste makes waste. We rush out there trying to get it done and we don't work the process and work together on it. We are not going to hit the target and that will be sad for the American public.
I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
