Public Statements
MSNBC Interview - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 6, 2009
Location: Unknown


MSNBC Interview - Transcript
MSNBC INTERVIEW WITH SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS)
SUBJECT: ECONOMIC STIMULUS PACKAGE INTERVIEWER:
Copyright ©2009 by Federal News Service, Inc., Ste. 500, 1000 Vermont Ave, Washington, DC 20005 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, Inc. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Internet Service at www.fednews.com, please email Carina Nyberg at cnyberg@fednews.com or call 1-202-216-2706.
MS. WITT: In less than an hour, those senators will be joining their Democratic colleagues back on the floor. They're trying to call it an economic recovery bill. Now, today's talks come after lots of theatrics on the Senate floor on Thursday, the lawmakers bringing out colorful charts, they're waving the bill around, even ripping it apart. Not all the lawmakers though were impressed by the show.
SENATOR BARBARA BOXER (D-CA) (From video.): I find it really rather amazing that the senator is holding up a bill, holding up a bill, theatrical. Did you ever do that when George Bush was president and he sent down a bill twice as big as that? Did he ever do that? Because you can do that that's theatrics. You can do that.
SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC) (From video.): I will put my ability to speak my mind to my party up against anybody, including you, senator.
MS. WITT: Well, Kansas Republican Senator Sam Brownback joins me now.
So senator, good morning to you, sir.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Good morning.
MS. WITT: The president calling out the Republicans last night, saying it was the GOP policies that put us in this economic trouble in the first place, in other words, he said I got here and this is what I inherited. I want to play a part of what the president said.
PRESIDENT OBAMA (From video.): And so when you hear these attacks deriding something of such obvious importance as this, you have to ask yourself, are these folks serious? So I'm calling on all the members of Congress, Democrats and Republicans, House and Senate, to rise to this moment.
MS. WITT: All right, sir. Let's talk about both the theatrics on the floor yesterday and the president's tone. What are your thoughts?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, my thoughts are all this was clearly avoidable. If we had just simply followed a normal process of involving both parties in this draft of the bill. I'm on the Appropriations Committee. I got the bill 24 hours ahead of the markup. We had an hour and 40 minute markup and they said this is the deal and that's what it's going to be, whereas if we had really engaged this sort of post-partisan era and said, okay, we have a problem and this is a huge problem and we have a jobless rate -- numbers out today, another nearly 600,000 jobs lost. Let's work together to build this. This would have come together with 75 to 80 votes, but if you exclude one party or the other, this is what's going to happen.
MS. WITT: All right. Here are some things that you've said in specifics about the plan and why you won't be backing it in its current form, calling it a, quote, "old-fashioned grab bag spending bill." Here are some of the provisions at the heart of the debate, $400 million for prevention of STDs, $34 million for remodeling the Commerce Department, $25 million to fix recreation trails, all of these huge sums of money, however, when you talk about the billions and billions, it is less than half of one percent of the total cost of the bill.
So are Senate Republicans mixing the overall big picture here?
SEN. BROWNBACK: You've got a spending bill of nearly $450 billion that is a huge amount. The Democrats have, in essence, created another fiscal year between '09 and '10 and plopped a full year spending down and in a whole bunch of areas. You cite a few that are particularly bad examples, but there's a whole ton of them, that's the problem, it's not a stimulus bill, it's a spending bill and what we really need is stimulus to the economy and we could do it.
We could sit down and we could work this process together and we could build this bill and you could get 75-80 votes, but if you're going to start out at just a bipartisan bill and this is what they want to spend it on, you're going to have people upset about it.
MS. WITT: And what is that you're waiting for today that you think might move the ball forward? Is it the alleged, perhaps $100 billion in potential cuts from the Nelson-Collins provisions that may be coming in there? Do you know what that might be made up of, cutting $100 billion from where?
SEN. BROWNBACK: It's from all over because you've got nearly $450 billion you can cut from; it's not particularly hard at all. I just look through them and I think I'll agree with all of those cuts. But at the end of the day, you still don't end up with a stimulus bill, you end up with a smaller spending bill and what we need to do, I think, really, is send it back to the Appropriations and Finance Committees for a two week time period, short, but we're in this mess for some period of time and we have basically a $1 trillion bullet we're getting ready to shoot and if we miss the target, we don't have another bullet that big.
We really have to get this one right as a stimulus and not a spending package.
MS. WITT: Okay. Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas. Senator, thanks so much for your time.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
END.

Source: http://www.fnsg.com/transcript.htm?id=20090206t2081&nquery=&query=brownback
