Public Statements
Brownback Helps Pass Car Tax Cut
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 4, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

BROWNBACK HELPS PASS CAR TAX CUT
Amendment to stimulus bill will ease financial burden of buying new car
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded passage of the Mikulski/Brownback Amendment to the stimulus bill. The amendment will grant tax breaks for sales/excise taxes associated with buying and financing a new car.
"In the current economic climate, Americans are wary of making any major purchases," said Brownback. "The car tax deduction amendment will make the purchase of a new car more affordable and encourage more people to buy a car. This in turn will help the car dealerships who have been hurt by the economic crisis. Car dealerships are crucial businesses across my home state of Kansas, and this amendment will help their businesses during this difficult time."
Under the amendment, adopted last night to the stimulus bill currently being debated in the Senate, for any new passenger car, minivan or light truck purchased in 2009, the purchaser would receive a federal tax deduction for any sales/excise taxes paid at sale and any interest paid for the life of an auto loan. The tax deduction applies to individuals earning less than $125,000 annually or to joint-filers earning less than $250,000 annually.
Brownback continued, "Since more than 95% of all new cars are at least partially financed, this amendment will provide a huge incentive for people who need a new car to buy one this year. Under this plan, the average American family that purchases a $25,000 vehicle would save $1,500 in taxes for the life of the loan repayment period. This is direct stimulus into a sector of the economy that touches every community in the country. It's also important to note that the passage of this amendment proves it is still possible to pass bi-partisan, common-sense tax cuts which will stimulate the economy. I'm hopeful that my colleagues in the House keep this amendment in the final bill."

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=307681
