Public Statements
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Feb. 3, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009--Continued -- (Senate - February 03, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak in favor of the Mikulski-Brownback amendment in the limited amount of time we have.
There has been a lot of criticism on the overall bill from my side of the aisle. A lot of it is merited. I really do think this has been put together far too hurriedly, and it would be much better to follow the business of having committee hearings. In the Appropriations Committee, we had no hearings on this bill, and now we are moving forward with a $1 trillion bill. I don't think that makes much sense. I don't think it is wise. I don't think, looking at the economic problems we are looking at that could extend over a period of time, that it is wise to spend $1 trillion without having really thought about it.
Be that as it may, the amendment I am talking about and supporting with Senator Mikulski from Maryland is one of the sort of targeted pieces of the legislation that I believe really could deliver lead on the target, and that is why I am cosponsoring this amendment.
It would seem that one of the key things that has been emblematic of this recession we are in is the lack of purchasing of durable goods; i.e., things such as cars have just fallen off precipitously, and therefore the jobs supporting that industry have fallen off precipitously. Here is the situation, what we are seeing.
This very simple amendment would make interest payments on car loans and sales excise taxes on cars tax deductible for new cars purchased this year. So you make that interest payment tax deductible, the excise taxes tax deductible, just this year. On an average car selling for $25,000, this provision would save the purchaser about $1,500. That is the proverbial lead on the target, talking to the consumer and saying: If you are in the market for a car, you ought to do it this year because you have a one-time benefit of $1,500, which is significant, which is going to help you. We think this is an amendment which will actually end up moving car sales, helping that industry, helping the automobile manufacturers and the whole industry of dealerships move us forward.
This is the sort of spending we need to see taking place because the lack of economic activity is profound and widespread. We have seen it particularly in the auto industry, and the auto industry is spread out amongst a number of States. My State has a major GM plant and suppliers in it as well. They are not selling any cars. You can't operate a place very long that way.
This is a very targeted, time-specific provision. The provisions we have talked about need to be temporary, targeted, and really hit the measures, and this one does all of that.
I wish to also point out that in this amendment--I know some people on the Finance Committee are looking at it and saying this is not something, perhaps, that we have supported or put forward. I would ask people in this body to just look around at their own States and the car sales and the businesses they have and the auto plants they have and see if this is something that can really help those auto plants move forward and get some sales.
So I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.
I reserve the remainder of the time for my colleague who has put forward this amendment if she desires to speak any further for it while we have that time.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
