Public Statements
Brownback, Casey Introduce Resolution Urging China to Honor International Human Rights Commitments
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 28, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


BROWNBACK, CASEY INTRODUCE RESOLUTION URGING CHINA TO HONOR INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITMENTS
U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Bob Casey (D-PA) today introduced a resolution calling on China to honor its international human rights commitments, commending the Chinese citizens who have signed the recently issued Charter 08 petition, and calling on the new administration to maintain a strong human rights dialogue with China.
Brownback said, "Hundreds of Chinese citizens are speaking out and demanding basic human rights by signing the Charter 08 petition; they should know they have the support of America and free citizens around the world. As Americans we enjoy many rights, and we should be willing to support those in China who are fighting for the same freedoms. By co-sponsoring this resolution, we also call on the Chinese government to cease its persecution of the signers of the Charter 08 petition, and all people."
Casey said, "The Charter 08 movement is an inspired effort by Chinese citizens from all walks of life calling for greater human rights and democratic reforms consistent with China's domestic laws and international commitments. I urge Beijing to halt all efforts to intimidate and harass the leaders of Charter 08 and free those who have been detained, including Liu Xiaobo."
December 10, 2008, marked the 60th anniversary since the signing of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. On this date, over 300 Chinese citizens representing various backgrounds both inside and outside of government signed a public declaration entitled Charter 08, a 19-point plan calling for greater rights and political reform in China, increased liberties, democracy, religious freedom and the rule of law.
The resolution introduced today specifically highlights China's own commitments to protecting human rights internationally through the United Nations and domestically through its own constitution, calls on the Chinese government to release anyone detained because of their involvement with the Charter 08 movement, and emphasizes the importance of engaging China on human rights issues by continuing the U.S.-China Human Rights Dialogue and resisting pressure to replace this dialogue with a weaker alternative.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=307427
