Public Statements
Brownback, Roberts, Tiahrt Urge DHS to Reconsider Proposed Regulations on General Aviation Industry
Press Release
By: Todd Tiahrt Pat Roberts Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 26, 2009
Location: Washington, DC

BROWNBACK, ROBERTS, TIAHRT URGE DHS TO RECONSIDER PROPOSED REGULATIONS ON GENERAL AVIATION INDUSTRY
Sent letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Napolitano
U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Representative Todd Tiahrt (R-KS) are calling on the Department of Homeland Security to work closely with the general aviation industry before imposing new regulations on the industry.
Senator Brownback said, "I think it would be beneficial for both the general aviation industry and the TSA to work together to develop a plan to ensure that every American is safe on board a plane but that does not unnecessarily harm the general aviation industry. I'm proud that my home state of Kansasis a leader in the general aviation industry, and I would be dismayed if the industry had to shoulder an undue economic burden. I am hopeful to meet soon with the head of TSA to more fully discuss the economic impact to the general aviation industry of any rule changes."
Senator Roberts said, "General aviation understands their role in keeping our nation safe and is willing to do their part. At the same time, the government must recognize that commercial aviation security practices will not fit the general aviation model. I'm hopeful TSA will work with the industry to identify workable safety processes."
Congressman Tiahrt said, "TSA must take a long, hard look at the negative impact these proposed rules will have on America 's businesses and the general aviation industry. Kansasis already undergoing a hard hit due to the downturn in the economy. The last thing workers and aviation manufacturers need is more bureaucratic mandates that would cripple the industry. We should find solutions to keep our homeland safe without jeopardizing workers' job security."
Brownback, Roberts and Tiahrt on Friday sent a letter to DHS Secretary Janet Napolitano; full text of the letter follows:
"We are writing to strongly encourage you to reconsider the Large Aircraft Security Program (LASP).
"As you know, the general aviation industry is vital to the economic stability of Kansas and our nation. By employing over 1.2 million people and contributing more than $150 billion to the U.S.economy, this industry is clearly a bright spot during the troubling economic times. However, general aviation is not immune to the pains of our current financial situation. Major manufacturers such as Cessna and Hawker Beechcraft have had to cut jobs recently because of a decline in new orders.
"Unfortunately, the Transportation Security Administration's (TSA) Notice of Proposed Rule Making (NPRM) for the LASP puts this economic engine at further risk. We are concerned that adoption of many of the proposed measures by TSA would create significant operational burdens to many of America's businesses that rely on general aviation aircraft to do business across the state, country or world. Without changes to the current NPRM, the TSA proposal could make it nearly impossible for some aircraft to operate at all.
"Eighty-five percent of business aviation is made up of small and mid-size businesses that are often located in smaller communities and rural areas. Many would be overwhelmed by costs associated with over burdensome regulatory requirements. Businesses large and small depend upon general aviation aircraft for timely, cost effective transportation. At the same time, general aviation users understand and appreciate the importance of protecting our homeland. It is in their best interests to provide safe and secure transportation services for their customers in cooperation with federal regulators. But in doing so, the federal government must recognize the inherent differences between security procedures designed for commercial aircraft and those necessary for general aircraft. Therefore, we request that TSA work closely with the general aviation industry as you craft security policies and procedures that affect these users.
"We thank you for your leadership and for considering this urgent request."

Source: http://roberts.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressRoom.PressReleases&ContentRecord_id=148f8f4f-802a-23ad-4516-cef9d17f7314&Region_id=&Issue_id=
