Public Statements
Brownback Responds to Obama Executive Order
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 22, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


BROWNBACK RESPONDS TO OBAMA EXECUTIVE ORDER
Enemy Combatants should not be moved to Fort Leavenworth
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today responded to President Obama's executive order calling for the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay to be closed within one year. Yesterday, Brownback, along with Senators Bond and Roberts, introduced the Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility Safe Closure Act of 2009 requiring the president to provide Congress with notice and a feasibility study relating to moving detainees.
"Kansas is no place for enemy combatants or terrorists," said Brownback. "I think Guantanamo Bay is a good place to house detainees while they are adjudicated, but with the decision to move enemy combatants, we must ensure the administration takes the time to make sure it's done right and that the many tough questions are answered before taking action."
The bill requires the President to give Congress 90 days notice before taking any action to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay or transferring enemy combatants to other facilities. It also requires that any notification shall include a feasibility study. The study must include specifics as to: space available; comingling; security personnel requirements; upgrade costs of current facilities compared to building a new facility; proximity to private land, civilian populations, and other military activities or base missions; an assessment of on-site facilities such as medical care, firefighters, and space for legal proceedings; and alternative sites such as facilities recently closed through BRAC or international options.
Brownback continued, "We cannot afford to make snap decisions about detainee policy, and the American people should be able to judge any policy changes for themselves. Housing detainees at Fort Leavenworth is unwise and unsafe. The base is not equipped to handle the transfer of Guantanamo detainees and there is still no answer on how to avoid comingling prisoners and detainees, which is against the law."
Last week, Brownback again invited then President-Elect Obama to join him for a tour of Fort Leavenworth to see first hand why it is not an acceptable option. Brownback has repeatedly stated that Fort Leavenworth is not an appropriate location to house enemy combatants and has suggested that if the holding facility at Guantanamo Bay is closed, a new facility should be built, designed specifically to handle detainees. He has also expressed that Fort Leavenworth is not a suitable location for enemy combatants because the disciplinary barracks are primarily a medium security facility; the base is primarily focused in training officers at the Command General Staff College; the proximity of the base to a community airport, farms and the surrounding community; and the lack of medical facilities on site, which would require transporting combatants through town to be treated in community hospitals.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=307161
