Public Statements
MSNBC - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 22, 2009
Location: Unknown


MSNBC INTERVIEW WITH SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS)
SUBJECT: GUANTANAMO BAY INTERVIEWER: CONTESSA BREWER
MS. BREWER: Some lawmakers are already raising concerns that detainees could end up being transferred to prisons here in the United States.
Kansas Republican Senator Sam Brownback has introduced legislation requiring 90 days notice before closing the prison, as well as a study on what happens next. And Senator Brownback joins me now.
Senator, good to have you today.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Pleasure to join you.
MS. BREWER: I said here that the president is expected to sign those executive orders today. So it appears that's going to happen before your legislation is acted on.
What does that mean for what you're hoping to accomplish?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, the legislation isn't targeted at his effort to close Guantanamo Bay, even though I think there's questions about that. What it's directed at is that if they go to move the detainees and their administration has stated that the order to close Guantanamo Bay is separate from the issue of moving them, I'm saying if they move them, let's have an open process. Let's involve people. Let's involve the Congress. Let's involve Europe and see if Europe wants to take some of these detainees as well and then have a 90 day open process where we can be involved in this movement.
MS. BREWER: I know that critics have said that Guantanamo Bay's military prison stands as sort of an anti-Statue of Liberty. It represents to other countries and to foreigners around the globe something that America should not represent.
Do you agree?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I agree that its gotten an image. I don't know that that's all completely deserved and I think a number of countries that have been so critical of Guantanamo Bay should probably step up and offer to take some of the detainees.
We've got a very difficult situation here. A number of these detainees have been caught, released and caught again on the battlefield and they go after American soldiers and they're seeking to kill us.
This is a very dangerous population, and one of the sites that's being looked at is in my state, Fort Leavenworth, which is primarily an educational institution, not primarily a prison facility, particularly for housing these detainees, the terrorists.
MS. BREWER: I know that The Associated Press backs up those numbers. They got the study from the Pentagon under the Bush administration, saying an increasing number of detainees who were released were back out on the battlefield fighting against American troops. That being said, if Guantanamo Bay closes down, there will have to be another place to house these detainees. Fort Leavenworth in your home state has been mentioned as a possibility.
How would you stand on that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Absolutely opposed. The community is opposed. The base is opposed. And we have there at any one time as I mentioned, it's an educational facility. We have students from 90 different countries there right now, and already the students that are there from Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia have said that they will leave if the detainees are brought there because they don't believe the detainees should be held in the first place and now you're going to put them at the same place that you're training the military officers for these Muslim countries and they're saying, we're gone.
This really hurts the mission of Fort Leavenworth and it hurts our long-term relationship with these countries.
MS. BREWER: There's bound to be more discussion about the closing of this prison and what happens to the folks who are being held there.
Senator Brownback, I appreciate you joining us today.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Pleasure to join you.
END.

Source: http://www.fnsg.com/transcript.htm?id=20090122t7354&nquery=&query=brownback
