Public Statements
Disapproval of Obligations Under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008--Continued
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 15, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


DISAPPROVAL OF OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008--Continued -- (Senate - January 15, 2009)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am rising to speak in favor of the disapproval resolution. I think we should disapprove the use of the TARP funds, and I will outline why to my colleagues and point out the reasons and give a little bit of history on this as well.
I think it is interesting the Treasury Department came here on Saturday, September 22, and said: We have to do this. We have to have $700 billion to save the financial institutions across the United States. We have to do it, and we have to do it now. There were zero hearings on the $700 billion. Now, normally, around here you would not spend $7 million, let alone $7 billion or $70 billion, without a hearing. We did $700 billion without a hearing, and in a rush and in a push and people saying: We have to do this now or we risk going into a Great Depression.
This bill passed. Now, my phone was ringing during that period of time. My guess is the Presiding Officer's phone was ringing during that period of time. Kansans were hot and mad and upset and strongly opposed. I think at one point in time we had 2,000 calls against and 40 for the bill. There was strong opposition. They do not like the idea of giving the money to the people who made the mistakes and did the wrongdoing in the first place, and it was our taxpayer money. Then, what is in the bill--the initial bill was a 30-page bill.
Now, it expanded some after that, but we did not have a hearing process. We did not have a review process. It was: We have to do this; we have to do this now, period. It went on through the Congress, and it passed. We had two tranches: the first $350 billion and a second $350 billion, which I argued at the time as well, the second $350 billion should require an affirmative vote of Congress. I mean, this is $350 billion we are talking about. Instead, all we could get was this disapproval process which the President can veto. Then it has to come back here for a two-thirds vote. So you, in essence, have to get two-thirds of the Congress to disapprove. Nonetheless, I think we should disapprove this proposal, this bill, this additional $350 billion in funding.
Now, if the initial proposal was OK, look, we have to have it, we have to have it now to support and to keep the financial institutions going and properly functioning in the country--that money has been spent and the financial institutions are operating. Certainly, there is a lot of distress, but they are operating and they are operating effectively.
So the idea that you have to do it and you have to do it now to maintain a fiscal financial system operating is no longer there. That is one reason.
The second one: We ought to spend some time thinking about this and whether we want to do this because this has ended up being a rather large slush fund. It has been moving from various targets. Initially it was said this was going to be used to buy troubled assets. Then that seemed like it was going to take too long, so it was put into stock, into financial institutions to strengthen their bottom line.
So there was no real target given, and it was moved and sloshed around. Even on auto bailout, at the end of the day, do we want that loose of a design model on $350 billion? I would have to argue then, as I do now, no.
We don't want that loose of a situation.
Then there is the matter of oversight on this particular issue. We have an oversight panel that has reported that Treasury has ``failed to address a number of questions asked by the panel itself,'' our panel, the congressional panel, in its first report. I don't see enough transparency in the manner in which TARP is being executed, and I certainly don't see enough in terms of what contingency plans Treasury has in mind to use these additional funds to grant carte blanche spending of $350 billion that could range from troubled assets, stock in banks, an auto bailout. And if that is your initial model of where you can spend it, then where else could we spend the additional $350 billion? Is this on credit card bailouts, on student loans, on another industry? It looks as though we don't know.
Quoting from the oversight panel, they were saying that this money, as I mentioned earlier, has failed to address a number of the concerns that were previously raised. Indeed, if anything, I think it could be argued that the haphazard manner in which these funds were spent has increased the financial stress and has injected uncertainty into a financial system and an economy already gripped by fear. Almost the very uncertainty and the moving back and forth said to the broader economy and to the global community: We don't know what we need to do. It helped to spread fear rather than to calm the market situation.
We need to have a calm discussion about this $350 billion. It is very difficult for me to go back home and say to my constituents: We approved an additional $350 billion and we are not exactly sure where it is going to be spent, when they were flaming mad about this being approved in the first place.
While additional TARP funding is not necessarily $350 billion of Government spending, I am not convinced it represents a well planned and executed investment for taxpayers. Many will say this is an investment, not spending. I am not sure this has been well designed or thought through of what the investment is. Indeed, it seems as though it changes by the day. The Congressional Oversight Panel says it still does not know what banks are doing with TARP money already used. So here is our own oversight panel saying that we don't know for sure what the banks are doing with the TARP money they have already gotten, and we are going to approve another $350 billion.
Without transparency about funding already committed to TARP and with only vague notions about how additional TARP funding would be used, I cannot vote to allow additional TARP funds to be released. Without more transparency and information on plans with a potentially large taxpayer cost, I do not see the merits in allowing additional TARP funds to move forward.
Those are not simply my thoughts. If you pick up the phone in my office, if you travel across my State--and I would say across much of the country--that is the sentiment you are going to get, that this just is not well planned. It is a lot of money, and we ought to calm down and take more prudent approaches, take the simple steps of holding committee hearings, looking at what sorts of distressed industries may come up, looking in depth at where the TARP funding has already been spent and what it is doing, and get answers to those simple, direct, but very important questions before we launch into another $350 billion. I think if the people in this body would listen to their constituents back home, they would say: Absolutely, don't just approve this. Let's take more time now.
The financial institutions people, as far as the situation that was existing last fall, are saying: This is getting much better than what it was at that point. Let's take our time to do it right. I am not saying that there isn't stress in the system. There still is. But it isn't the situation it was last fall. Our constituents demand that more information be known.
I hope we can do that and take our time to get this right and get the oversight right and get the answers to simple, direct, but very important questions.
I yield the floor.
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
