Public Statements
Brownback Asks for Clarification for Thrift Stores and Consignment Shops
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Jan. 9, 2009
Location: Washington, DC


BROWNBACK ASKS FOR CLARIFICATION FOR THRIFT STORES AND CONSIGNMENT SHOPS
New safety law may cause unintended burden on resellers, charities and small businesses
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today asked the Consumer Product Safety Commission to further clarify a memo that was sent out yesterday detailing the effects of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act on thrift stores, charities, consignment shops, and small businesses.
"My office has been tracking this for some time and are very concerned that charity operations and small businesses would be adversely affected which was never the intent of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act," said Brownback. "We very much need to protect children from dangerous toys and products with lead, and we can do that effectively without jeopardizing the Salvation Army, Goodwill, entrepreneurs or consignment shops."
The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act was passed in light of serious safety issues with toys made in China containing lead and other unacceptable contaminants. However, the law was of concern to resellers and charities that distribute donated items along with small businesses and home businesses. The Consumer Product Safety Commission did clarify that purveyors of second-hand materials did not need to certify the products, but left vague issues relating to liability.
Brownback continued, "I am pleased that the Consumer Product Safety Commission releases a statement yesterday stating that resellers are not required to certify product safety, but there are still questions that need to be answered. I have asked the CPSC to further clarify the expectations and liabilities of resellers and have expressed a deep concern that we do not unwittingly hurt small businesses in Kansas or organizations that only aim to help people."

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/public/press/record.cfm?id=306549
