Public Statements
Brownback Tours Fort Leavenworth
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Dec. 5, 2008
Location: Washington, DC

Says that facility cannot handle relocated Guantanamo detainees
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback yesterday toured the base around the Disciplinary Barracks at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. Brownback was joined by Leavenworth Mayor Lisa Weakly and other state and local officials in raising concerns about recent suggestions that enemy combatants be relocated to Fort Leavenworth.
"Physically and legally it does not work to relocate military combatants to Fort Leavenworth," said Brownback. "I encourage representatives of President-elect Obama's Transition Team to visit Fort Leavenworth because I think they will reach the conclusion that Fort Leavenworth simply is not a viable option to house relocated Guantanamo detainees."
Brownback's tour comes in light of recent suggestions from the President-Elect's Transition Team that military combatants currently being held at Guantanamo Bay be relocated to Fort Leavenworth. Brownback has previously toured the facilities at Fort Leavenworth and, in consultation with officials at the Defense Department, has concluded Fort Leavenworth is not equipped to handle those currently held at Guantanamo Bay.
Brownback continued, "Fort Leavenworth right now is primarily an educational base. It is not primarily a military security base, and it would be foolhardy if people tried to change the primary mission of the base."
Brownback has repeatedly stated that Fort Leavenworth is not a suitable location for enemy combatants because the disciplinary barracks are primarily a medium security facility, the base is primarily focused in training officers at the Command General Staff College, the proximity of the base to a community airport, farms and the surrounding community, and the lack of medical facilities on site, which would require transporting combatants through town to be treated in community hospitals. Senators Brownback and Roberts of Kansas sent a letter to all Senate colleagues detailing the reasons Fort Leavenworth is an unacceptable option.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=305489
