Public Statements
MSNBC - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 31, 2008
Location: Unknown

MSNBC - Transcript
MS. O'DONNELL: Senator Sam Brownback is a Republican from Kansas. And he is supporting McCain for president and joins us now.
Senator, good to see you. Thanks so much for joining us.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes, pleasure to join you. I'm sorry we couldn't get a studio lined up to do this.
MS. O'DONNELL: Yeah, I apologize for that.
We know that John McCain is on a bus tour through Ohio today. And later today, he is going to be joined by California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger at an evening rally.
We do have some new battleground polls out, from the National Journal, which show in Ohio, Obama up seven; in Virginia, Obama up four; Colorado, Obama up four; North Carolina, up four and Florida, up one point.
Just how difficult is the electoral landscape and the map out there for John McCain, as we're in these final days of the campaign?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I was just on a conference call, where our numbers in North Carolina had us up two. I was in Iowa over the weekend, with Sarah Palin last weekend, and we were down six. But Bush was down five with three days to go and wins it by one.
I -- I think the trendlines have been moving solidly McCain's way overall. And my hope is, is that we can catch this at the wire. We've trailed a lot during the campaign. But you know, our ideas are really catching onboard. And I think people are really concerned about where Senator Obama wants to take us, when he has a liberal House and Senate to go along with -- with his policies.
MS. O'DONNELL: Mmhm.
We do have a new New York Times/CBS poll, a national poll, that shows it at 11 points. McCain's advisers have said before, in my conversations with them, that if it were a four-point race nationally, they believe they've got a shot.
These polls still show double digits for Barack Obama nationally and also the new New York Times/CBS poll, that 59 percent do not believe that Governor Palin is prepared to be vice president.
Has Governor Palin been a drag on the ticket?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Oh, no. I don't think so.
You look at the rally -- she was just up in Pennsylvania -- side- by-side with Joe Biden, I think, she drew about 15,000, and he drew about 800. And I think, you know, her qualifications are better than those of Barack Obama's.
So I think if you look at the comparison there back and forth, you look at it and you say that there's not much. But I've been out on the campaign trail a lot. And I think it's really the ideas that are the key parts. It's taxes. Are you for increased taxes or less taxes? Spending: Are you for more or a freeze?
MS. O'DONNELL: Mmhm.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Judges have really been a big issue. Do you want judges that look at the Constitution as a living document or strict constructionists? And I find, and you talk about the issues with people, people really do move to John McCain. And I think that's what you're seeing taking place now, with some of these polls closing.
MS. O'DONNELL: What do you make of the Obama campaign announcing today that they are going to start airing some ads in some pretty ruby red states including North Dakota, Georgia and even McCain's home state of Arizona?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, they've got a lot of money to burn. You know, he went back on his pledge, on campaign finances, that he would take public financing and limit his spending. He's been able to have a lot of money to burn. And so it doesn't surprise me that -- that he would do that.
I still think if -- you know, voters, at the end of the day, they can be, you know, maybe persuaded by some of the advertising. But at the end of the day, you know, they get it, that this is really a strong-left move to the country, if Obama's elected with a liberal leadership in the House and the Senate. And you know, most people are reacting negative to that, saying, "That's not the way I want to go."
The country's a center-right country. And that's really the path that they would rather -- rather be on.
MS. O'DONNELL: That's really interesting, Senator Sam Brownback. And thank you so much for joining us.
I think there's going to be a lot of discussion about where the country is politically on election night -- whether it's a center- right country, whether it's a center-left country -- given where this electoral map shakes itself out, and given the amount of money that Barack Obama has spent in this campaign.
Senator, you're great to join us. Thanks so much.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes. Thank you.

Source: http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/3719710/
