Public Statements
Ethopia
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Oct. 2, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


ETHOPIA -- (Senate - October 02, 2008)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I would like to voice my support for the difficult work that Ethiopia is doing on the battlefield of the war on terror in the Horn of Africa. Ethiopia is a country of great importance to the United States, and is located in what some have called one of the roughest neighborhoods in the world. As one of our strongest allies in this complicated region, Ethiopia has shown promise in meeting both economic and security challenges.
Although Ethiopia remains one of the poorest countries in the world, it is developing a market-based economy which has experienced an impressive 10 percent annual growth since 2003. In addition, the Government of Ethiopia, in close collaboration with regional and international health organizations, has achieved some success in addressing global public health concerns, including the fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
The US-Ethiopia bilateral relationship is strong and enduring. Ethiopia is a vital partner of the United States in the fight against terrorism, promoting regional stability and combating violent extremism. As a growing democracy, Ethiopia shares with the United States a common commitment to promoting freedom and human dignity.
With respect to Ethiopia's involvement in Somalia, it is important to understand that the U.S., U.N., E.U., and A.U., all have urged Ethiopia to remain in Somalia until replacement forces arrive or a stable government is formed. Ethiopian government officials have stated that while the Government of Ethiopia is anxious to remove their forces at the earliest possible time, it has delayed the withdrawal of troops from Somalia, at great political and economic cost, until replacement troops arrive to ensure the stability of Somalia's Transitional Federal Government.
Unfortunately, while several nations have pledged to send replacement troops under the auspices of the African Union, only a small fraction of those pledged have actually arrived. I am grateful that Ethiopia remains committed to securing stability and peace in Somalia, and hope that the full African Union contingent arrives soon to enable the safe withdrawal of Ethiopian forces.
Ethiopia faces a host of ongoing challenges both at home and abroad, and merits our support and assistance. I urge my colleagues to join me in recognizing the progress made by this Ethiopia in promoting the health and welfare of its people, and assisting in the war on terror in the Horn of Africa.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
