Public Statements
Brownback Co-Hosts Hearing on Childhood Obesity
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 23, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Co-Hosts Hearing on Childhood Obesity
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today at a Senate hearing addressed the need for increased voluntary partnership among corporations, non-profit organizations and government agencies to combat the rising rates of childhood obesity.
"With members from so many sectors voluntarily working together, I am hopeful we will see a reduction in the rates of childhood obesity," said Brownback. "Across the nation, our children's health is at risk due to the alarming increase in overweight and obese young people. Leaders from all industries must act responsibly and find plausible solutions that will turn around this unhealthy trend."
In the past 30 years, childhood obesity rates have risen nearly 300 percent, from 5% in the mid 1970s to over 17% in 2004. For children ages 2 years old to 5 years old, the obesity rate rose from 5% to 13.9% and for adolescents ages 12 years old to 19 years old, the rate rose from 5% to 17.4%. The Federal Trade Commission recently reported that in 2006, $1.6 billion dollars was spent on food and beverage advertising to children. The same report found that 76% of ads during children's programming were for unhealthy junk food or fast food.
Brownback continued, "Despite voluntary initiatives, we still face a serious and dangerous problem that must be addressed. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, almost 60 percent of overweight children had at least one cardiovascular disease risk factor while 25 percent of overweight children had two or more risk factors. Unfortunately, for the first time ever, we may raise a generation of children who will have a shorter life-span than their parents. We can and should do better."
The joint committee hearing was held today by the Appropriations Subcommittees on Financial Services and Labor/HHS. Testifying at the hearing were representatives from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Communications Commission, the Institute of Medicine, Kraft Foods, MTV Network, Kids and Family Group (Nickelodeon), and Children NOW.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=303405
