Public Statements
Brownback Comments on Tax Extenders Bill
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 19, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Comments on Tax Extenders Bill
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today on the Senate floor commented on the Tax Extenders bill, and its production tax credit provision, which is currently pending in the Senate.
"I am pleased to see a proposal for a renewal of the production tax credit for wind energy in the Tax Extender bill," said Brownback. "However, we should be careful when considering how to pay for these credits. The Senate must continue to work toward helping America balance the three E's - energy, environment and economy - in a fiscally responsible way."
The $17 billion energy portion of the Tax Extender bill is to be paid for primarily by tax freezes and adjustments to other sectors of the energy industry, primarily the refining sector. This bill will alter current law, and freeze a manufacturing tax deduction at 6%, instead of current law which would raise it to 9% in 2010, for the sale and exchange of oil, natural gas or other primary refined products. For many small- and medium-size refiners this represents a drastic change to their mid-term economic planning. The Senate in the next week or two may also consider several energy production bills, but it's unlikely any of the bills will have the 60 votes needed to pass. Each of these pending bills includes some new off-shore oil drilling. Brownback continued, "I'm very enthusiastic about wind and renewable energy, but I'm also concerned that we're hurting the energy refining industry at a time when hurricanes are taking refineries off-line and at a time when consumers are paying way too much at the pump. I want to make sure none of these bills are robbing Peter to pay Paul, and that we are doing what we can to capitalize on Kansas wind generation." America annually sends about $500 billion overseas for oil. Estimates indicate that there are more than 112 billion barrels of technically recoverable oil in America. ANWR has between 10 and 18 million barrels of oil available under 2000 acres, along with another 45 billion barrels available in the offshore and deepwater areas of the Gulf of Mexico.
Senate Republicans have introduced a bill that will allow states to explore for 14 billion barrels of oil on the Atlantic and Pacific Outer Continental Shelf. This bill also would repeal the moratorium on exploration for Western oil shale, which has the potential to produce 800 billion to 2 trillion barrels of oil equivalent.

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=303265
