Public Statements
Fox News " Fox & Friends" - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 18, 2008
Location: Unknown

Fox News " Fox & Friends" - Transcript
MR. KILMEADE: Joining us right now, Senator Claire McCaskill, who thinks Barak Obama is that man; and Senator Sam Brownback thinks Senator McCain's that man.
So far the American people, Senator Brownback, are starting to agree with Senator Obama on this -- if you're to believe the tracking polls. Why?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I don't know, because when you look at the fundamentals of the issues, I think you have to consider where each of them is on taxes and on energy -- two of the key components of what we can work on in the federal government.
John McCain's for cutting taxes and he's for drilling so we can get more energy production here. Barack Obama's opposition on those. And I think maybe it's just more of us getting the issue out and getting the information out of where each candidate is on the core issues.
MR. KILMEADE: Senator McCaskill, is raising taxes the best way out of this market mess?
SEN. MCCASKILL: No. But here's what a big fallacy that people keep saying, even though it's not true: Barack Obama is going to cut taxes. His plan, overall, is a tax cut. And Allan Greenspan called John McCain out on his plan last week saying how unsound it was.
Keep in mind here: We cut taxes for the very wealthy with George Bush; we deregulated everything and look at the mess we're in! We've lost 600,000 jobs since January!
MR. KILMEADE: Senator Sam Brownback --
SEN. MCCASKILL: -- doing the same thing over and over again!
MR. KILMEADE: Thank you, Senator McCaskill.
Senator Brownback, is it your understanding that Barack Obama will cut taxes?
SEN. BROWNBACK: On some and raise taxes on others.
And in this sort of economy, in particular where we are now in this difficult economy, you don't want to raise taxes. The last thing you want to do in this economy is raise taxes!
And the other key piece of it that we've got to keep our eye on is energy. It is such a big consumer of people's personal income --
MR. KILMEADE: Exactly.
SEN. BROWNBACK: -- we've got to get those energy prices down.
MR. KILMEADE: It's actually dropping, but you're talking about taxing dividends as well as the capital gains tax.
Stay right there, both of you, if you will. We want to debate other topics as well.
(Commercial break.)
MR. DOOCY: All right. We're so lucky! We've got two U.S. senators right now with us: Senator Claire McCaskill, national co- chair for Barack Obama; and Senator Sam Brownback, the senator from my home state of Kansas.
Senator McCaskill, let me ask you about this: Everybody's worried about the economy right now. And both sides are saying we can fix things. Back in 2005, John McCain was a co-sponsor of the Federal Housing Reform Act of 2005, where he was talking about Fannie and Freddie needed to be fixed. Eventually, it died in committee, but at least he's on record trying to fix things.
Since Barack Obama really doesn't have any executive experience, what in his record would give Americans hope that he would know what he's doing regarding the economy?
SEN. MCCASKILL: A consistent position that regulation is important. You've got John McCain -- frankly, I'm dizzy trying to follow John McCain at this point. You know, he brags one day that he is somebody who wants to deregulate everything, get government out of the way. The next day, he says, I want to regulate. I'm confused!
MR. DOOCY: Senator -- sure.
Let me just -- well, you know, Barack Obama could actually clarify things, because when asked about AIG, whether or not he was for the bailout, his spokesman said, we're not going to take a position on that.
So as president, you've got to take a side: are you for the bailout or are you against it? And Barack Obama, your guy, has not come out on either side yet.
SEN. MCCASKILL: Well, I think part of the problem is we want to see what the deal is in terms of the AIG. Are we helping the people who have those insurance policies? Are we helping the people that own the stock? And by the way, you can't really talk about AIG! John McCain said "no way" on Tuesday and on Wednesday, he said, "Oh, you know, it kind of had to happen."
MR. DOOCY: Yeah, we've been talking about that.
MS. CARLSON: Okay, Senator Brownback, I want to give you a chance to respond and then I want to move onto this Hillary Clinton supporter that we had on the show earlier, who's now voting for John McCain.
But Senator Brownback, do you want to respond to the economic questions?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yeah. I think Barak Obama has been very consistent. He's been consistently for raising taxes. I don't think that's at all the route you want to go in a soft economy.
The other piece is on energy and the two candidates are very different. And the housing situation and reform of Freddie and Fannie are two things that John McCain's been after for some period of time -- that people said these things are not having the right motivations and look what blew up! I mean, he was for reforming that system before the thing blew up, before we had all these problems that have now rattled the world markets. And that's the sort of guy that looks at a problem early on as it's developing and says we've got to get after it. And he had the right idea of what to do.
MS. CARLSON: Senator McCaskill, we had Lynn Forester de Rothschild on the show earlier today. I'm sure you know who she is. She was a huge Hillary Clinton supporter. And yesterday, she called a press conference to say that she will not be voting for Barack Obama. That she, for the first time in her life as a Democrat, will be voting for Republican John McCain.
How do the Democrats handle this kind of fallout?
SEN. MCCASKILL: Well, I don't know Lady de Rothschild. I've only been in Washington a little while and she doesn't hang out in Missouri.
I'm not sure that the McCain campaign is really in touch if they believe rolling out endorsements of Lady de Rothschild and Donald Trump are going to appeal to the people I represent right now. They've lost their way. These folks out in Missouri really want middleclass tax cuts. They don't want more tax cuts for Lady de Rothschild and Donald Trump.
MR. DOOCY: All right. Senator Claire McCaskill from Missouri; and from neighboring state, Kansas, Senator Sam Brownback, we thank you both for joining us live today.
SEN. MCCASKILL: Thank you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/foxfriends/index.html
