Public Statements
MSNBC -Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 18, 2008
Location: Unknown


MSNBC -Transcript
Q: Senator Sam Brownback is national co-chair to the McCain campaign and joins us now.
Senator, good to see you. Senator, let me get you to respond there to essentially what Obama charged, I mean, McCain is saying he is ready to lead because he has been chairman of the Commerce Committee in charge of virtually everything on the economy and Barack Obama says, nice job. I mean, what's going on? How does McCain - how do you respond to that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, how I respond to it is look at the record of what John McCain has done. On Freddie and Fannie, which are at the core of a lot of this crisis, he was calling for those entities to be regulated and tightened down in 2006 and Barack Obama was nowhere to be found on that. And they are at the core and they are at the center of this, and again, you see John McCain putting the country first and Barack Obama really talking a very good game, but not doing anything about it.
That's how I think is the best response and it's the response of the facts.
Q: There's an interesting comment today from one of your fellow Republican senators Chuck Hagel who now is questioning whether Sarah Palin has the experience to be president. He said, quote, "she doesn't have any foreign policy credentials. You get a passport for the first time in your life last year, I mean; I don't know what you can say. You can't say anything." And he went on to say that, "I think it's a stretch in any way to say that she's got the experience to be president of the United States."
That's tough from a fellow Republican of yours. How do you respond to that?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I would look at Barack Obama's foreign policy credentials and highly question those and I would look at the basic facts of the issue for as far as where does each stand on foreign policy issues? John McCain, probably the most experienced person for as far as the combination of military experience and foreign policy experience, which are the two key big issues out there. Barack Obama, virtually none on those and that's where you want to look at it is on the top of the ticket.
Chuck Hagel is a good friend of John McCain's and knows his experience. Knows his ability on the foreign policy and military issues. I think that's the real key place to look at this.
Q: I want to get you to respond to something Karl Rove told The Associated Press about Sarah Palin. He said, essentially, that she was a political pick, adding, quote, "Nothing lasts for 60 some odd days. Will Palin be the center of attention in the remaining 48 days? No. But she came on in a very powerful way and has given a sense of urgency to the McCain campaign that's pretty remarkable."
Senator, what about that? I mean, we know that McCain needed in some way Sarah Palin to add some excitement to his ticket. He's not letting her leave his side on all these campaign rallies for the next 48 days. They're going to be campaigning together.
Was she merely a political pick?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Oh, this lady has added, not only energy and excitement, she knows the topic of energy and she's been a reformer. Really, in many respects, she buttresses John McCain's very center thesis, which is we've got to reform Washington and that he's been working at doing that and he's gotten it done in some key areas like campaign finance reform, which is McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform and here is somebody that's done it in a state and bringing her to help in Washington and doing this.
I think this woman has been an excellent pick, and she has really ignited, not just Republicans, but people all across the country - here is somebody that's gone in as a reformer, has done it her way and now is ready to go on to Washington to take that message here, plus I'd point out one other thing. We typically elect governors to be president and not senators. This will only be the third time in U.S. history that we've elected a sitting senator to be president.
So she actually brings more of the executive experience to this than anybody else that's running, president or vice president, this time around.
Q: And senator, I want to continue this interview. I also want to update our viewers and you on something that's happening on Wall Street right now. You can see the bug on our screen there; look at the Dow is soaring at this hour, 325 points. The Dow is up. This is in part in reaction to news that the government is willing to, might be willing to create a repository for banks with bad debt.
I can read from you from The New York Times saying that proponents of a more systematic government role to help relieve financial institutions of their toxic securities range from Larry Summers, former Treasury Secretary under Bill Clinton to former Federal Reserve Chairmen Paul Volcker and Alan Greenspan, and also that in Congress, the idea is gaining some traction and it centers on the creation of this new agency that would buy troubled assets from hobbled companies. This idea was floated Tuesday by Barney Frank and now you see that the Dow at this late hour with 45 minutes before it closes, surging 320 points.
We're going to continue to watch the Dow as we do here on MSNBC and our partners at CNBC.
Senator, do you want to comment on that at all?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think it's an interesting proposal. It's one I want to look at more thoroughly and what I think you're seeing taking place is in this unprecedented situation that we have today where you have global markets and money moves at the click of a mouse that new institutions and new ways to looking at it need to be taking place, particularly at the root of this, Freddie and Fannie need to have this regulation that John McCain has been advocating for several years.
You've got to get back to that housing market and the bubble that was created and that has exploded, really, all over the place. It has gone at these financial institutions. I think that is the core of this as well that we need to do that to get stability in these markets.
Q: Thank you for that on the market. We'll continue to watch the market.
Senator, I do want to challenge something, challenge you on something that you said right before we pointed out about what's happening on the market. You talked about the experience that Sarah Palin has on energy. She said in an interview last night that that's really going to be her role in a new administration, essentially being an energy czar. Yet she said on the campaign trail that her job as governor of Alaska has been to oversee nearly 20 percent of the U.S. domestic supply of oil and gas. In fact, Alaska does not supply 20 percent of the U.S. domestic supply of oil and gas. It's just 7.5 percent.
If she doesn't know the facts, then why do we want her to be the energy czar for the entire United States?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I would dare say she has more experience on energy than anybody else and probably most people in Washington, DC having dealt with it on a direct basis there in Alaska.
Q: But she doesn't even know how much her state supplies for the country. Don't you find that glaring?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, I don't know on that specific situation. I can guarantee that she knows more about energy than most people do because she's dealt with it and she's from an energy state and I think that's the core issue that one should look at is what is their experience? And plus she served on the energy commission in Alaska for a period of time and she's reformed it. She took on the big oil companies there for the benefit of the people of Alaska and she can do that for the United States.
I would hope you would look at that experience base and say, well, okay, maybe there's some factual question here, but experience- base, this woman knows the energy issue like few others do.
Q: Senator Sam Brownback. Thank you so much for joining us. We appreciate it.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you

Source: http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/3719710/
