Public Statements
MSNBC Interview - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 2, 2008
Location: Unknown

MSNBC Interview
MS. MITCHELL: Sam Brownback, Sarah Palin is to the right of you, but certainly straight on all of your issues. You are a social conservative. How do you feel about the nomination?
SEN. BROWNBACK: She's great. She's added an excitement here. She's from the Teddy Roosevelt wing of the party, which is reform- and action-minded. She's a solid social conservative as well. And then she lives it. You know, she's authentic about it -- five children in her own family, one with Down Syndrome.
For a lot of people, there's one thing about talking about it; there's another thing about living it. And she's living it.
MS. MITCHELL: But for those of you who work in the Senate, who know how to produce legislation, you a budget expert, how do you feel about someone with as little experience as she has?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, that's a difficulty, I think, for her. But going into the executive branch, that's what you want is somebody coming in from outside and going into Washington to change it. I think that's really why we generally tend to elect governors to the presidency and why we've only elected two sitting senators in the past to the presidency of the United States. They want somebody with executive experience and somebody that works across the bureaucracy. Here's somebody, the only person now on the ticket on either side, that has that kind of experience.
MS. MITCHELL: Senator, John McCain was known to have preferred initially Joe Lieberman. What would have happened here on the floor tonight if Joe Lieberman were his choice, not just his speaker?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, Joe's a friend of mine and I love Joe, and he's great on security issues. He's just inconsistent with the base of the party, particularly on life issues, on some of the social issues. And I think there would have been difficulty. I think everybody would have worked on through it and said we're electing the top of the ticket's policies; we're not electing the vice president's policies. And so people would have worked through it. But there wouldn't have been the enthusiasm and the interest and the excitement that there is for Sarah Palin.
MR. MATTHEWS: Could there have been a challenge? Would they have tried to go for a Huckabee or for someone else?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I don't think you would have seen that materialize; you know, that people would have said, "No, this is a disaster," and gives the election to Obama and Biden, which is a very left-wing ticket. So I don't think people would have done that. But there would have been folks saying, you know, "Look, he's just not my cup of tea on the breadth of the issue" -- love him on security, not on the others.
MS. MITCHELL: Okay, Senator Sam Brownback, thank you so much.

Source: http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/3719710/
