Public Statements
FOX News Channel Interview - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Sept. 2, 2008
Location: Unknown

MR. BAIER: Today here in St. Paul, the big news is that the Republican National Convention is essentially getting back on track. With me now, Kansas Senator Sam Brownback, scheduled to speak later on this week.
Thanks for being here.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Happy to join you. Boy, that's a dramatic situation in LA. Being a frequent flyer, you're always pinned to situations like that and how they're handled.
MR. BAIER: Yeah, and we're monitoring it here on the bottom box on the screen there. Senator, as the party gets ready to kick off after this pause for Gustav, what do you look for for tonight, the president, former Senator Thompson and Senator Lieberman?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think what you'll see is a discussion of things that have taken place but then also how do we move on forward in a bipartisan fashion, working on a reform agenda, working across the aisle and getting things done. One of the dramatic things that we've seen in the last two years is things haven't gotten done from a Democratic Congress. And the Democratic Congress approval rating is half of George Bush's.
I think what we'll hear from Joe Lieberman is why that is and why he's crossing over to work with the maverick John McCain.
MR. BAIER: Is there going to be what they call "red meat" tonight? Will there be the attacks against Barack Obama or the charges that he doesn't have the experience to be president? Are we going to hear that tonight?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I think you'll hear some of it. But I think more you will hear what we are going to do because to me a convention should be about what are you going to do. Here's what we're going to do on oil and energy independence, and we're going to produce more oil and have energy independence here, and we're going to expand in the areas of nuclear fuel as well. What are we going to do on this economy. We want to cut taxes because this economy needs to grow. It's very lethargic at this point in time.
I think what you'll see talked about is more those issues plus the differences with Barack Obama, who wants to raise taxes, who wants to turn tail and run in Iraq.
MR. BAIER: We hear stories that conservatives are energized by this ticket. You know that group. Are they?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes. And they haven't been energetic or enthusiastic for three years. But after Saddleback Church, the performance there that John McCain did, it was so clear, so convincing. And then the pick of Sarah Palin, people yesterday, day before that that I was talking to, they were pumped, they were enthusiastic. They're ready to march now.
MR. BAIER: We see the Gallup daily tracking poll. John McCain trailing by 8 points, perhaps little bit more of a bounce out of the Democratic convention for Barack Obama. Concern heading into the fall about the polls and how they'll shake out?
SEN. BROWNBACK: You know, you're concerned any time you're behind. But I like where we are. And we're up in states like Missouri, key swing states and some other places. Plus now I think we've got some energy and the team ignited and ready to move forward, which hasn't been the case thus far.
MR. BAIER: Okay. Senator Sam Brownback, thanks so much for coming.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Pleasure, Brent.

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/
