Public Statements
Governor Brownback Marks 25th Anniversary of Americans with Disabilities Act
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 27, 2015
Location: Unknown

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback recently signed a proclamation marking the 25th anniversary of the enactment of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
"The ADA is an extremely important piece of legislation, and the state is committed to the principles of equality and inclusion that were the inspiration for the ADA," said Governor Brownback." I thank all those who have helped make Kansas an inclusive state for people with disabilities."
President George H. W. Bush signed the ADA into law on July 26, 1990 to ensure the civil rights of people with disabilities. On Sept. 25, 2008 President George W. Bush signed the ADA Amendments Act which expanded coverage to more people with disabilities. Efforts by the federal government and the State of Kansas focus on increasing the number of people with disabilities who are employed in competitive, integrated work.
In February 2015, the Governor issued Executive Order 15-02 reaffirming the state's commitment to hiring people with disabilities.The Order directed that state agencies have employment practices which include outreach recruitment and hiring of military veterans and "individuals with physical, cognitive and mental disabilities."
"Today we celebrate the anniversary of the signing of the ADA. We value our citizens with disabilities and continue to work to make this state a welcoming, inviting and inclusive state for all people with disabilities," said Martha Gabehart, Executive Director of the Kansas Commission on Disability Concerns (KCDC).
A portion of the proclamation reads: "The State of Kansas has affirmed its commitment to expanding employment opportunities for people with disabilities through programs, such as, implementation of the Employment First policy and summits, the employment pilots in the KanCare program, The Work and Working Healthy programs, the Kansas Bidders Preference Program for Kansas contractors who hire people with disabilities and who purchase from Use vendors, the Employment Partnership Incentive Program and the Career Tech Education program which expands vocational training opportunities."
The KCDC is hosting a reception at 1 p.m. July 27 in the second floor of the rotunda in the Capitol. Phyllis Gilmore, Secretary of the Kansas Department for Children and Families will read the proclamation and Kansas Rehabilitation Services Director Michael Donnelly will be the featured speaker.

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2015/07/27/governor-brownback-marks-25th-anniversary-of-americans-with-disabilities-act
