Public Statements
Brownback Pleased with FEMA Decision on Basement Rebuilding Policy
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: Aug. 5, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


Brownback Pleased with FEMA Decision on Basement Rebuilding Policy
Chapman now able to rebuild basements
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today spoke with FEMA officials who have evaluated the situation in Chapman, Kansas, and determined that residents affected by recent tornado damage will be allowed to build basements.
"This is great news for Chapman," said Brownback. "I appreciated FEMA so quickly meeting with me, working with the state, and identifying an option for building basements. The people of Chapman have dealt with many challenges, and thankfully, FEMA is providing assistance that will allow people to rebuild in the safest manner possible."
Brownback on Thursday met with Federal Emergency Management Agency Assistant Administrator for Mitigation David Maurstad to discuss the rebuilding efforts in Chapman, Kansas, and FEMA regulations which generally do not allow building houses with basements because of flood risk. On Wednesday of last week, Brownback also spoke with Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator David Paulison about this issue.
As a participant in the National Flood Insurance Program, Chapman has adopted a local ordinance that restricts building in the floodplain and provides affordable flood insurance to the citizens of Chapman. FEMA officials worked with state officials last week to evaluate the flooding characteristics of the city and concluded that the city qualifies for a basement exception under the NFIP regulations for all areas with flood depths of three feet or less on the FEMA flood maps. Preliminary analysis indicates that the vast majority of the city has flood depths of three feet or less, including all areas where houses were severely damaged by the tornado in June. This determination will allow the people of Chapman to rebuild their homes with basements. Both FEMA and the Kansas NFIP State Coordinator will have personnel in Chapman this week to assist the community in the application process for a basement exception. FEMA will also be on hand to explain the regulatory requirements for allowing basements in flood hazard areas.
Early in June, the town of Chapman was hit by a tornado which caused an estimated $70 million in damage and destroyed dozens of homes, three schools and two churches. Under its NFIP regulations, FEMA prohibits the rebuilding of houses with basements in floodplains; 95 percent of Chapman is in a flood plain.
Brownback continued, "I will continue to work with the City of Chapman and federal officials to make sure the people of Chapman can rebuild as quickly and as safely as possible."

Source: http://brownback.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=301792
