Public Statements
Fox News Channel Interview - Transcript
Interview
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 31, 2008
Location: Unknown

MR. HEMMER: I want to get to this story quickly. You know, China is going to fire up a week from tomorrow with the opening Games in Beijing. The U.S. State Department now issuing a warning just days before they get underway. American visitors could be spied on yet again. This comes about two months after we had a similar warning. Now, a U.S. lawmaker releasing translated Chinese documents ordering major hotels in and around Beijing to install Internet monitoring software.
Sam Brownback, senator, member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, he brought this story to our attention. Welcome senator. Good morning to you.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Good morning.
MR. HEMMER: What are the Chinese so worried about?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I don't know. It just seems like they're paranoid in their very nature. I think what they're trying to do though in this particular instance is be able to track dissidents in their country and communications that people that are coming into the country, staying at the hotels are having with dissidents or Falun Gong members or house church individuals. And then after all the Olympics are over with, I think, they're going to go and grab the dissidents.
MR. HEMMER: But this is a new warning about online communication. Why would they be specifically interested in anything you do on the Internet?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, that's because the communication that they catch, I mean, they also, I presume, are looking at telephone traffic as well. This is one they can install and it's there in perpetuity. There may be also economic espionage that's a part of it as well, but they are requiring this to be put in by the hotels or the hotels get fined or lose their license to even operate as a hotel. And to add insult to injury, the hotels have to pay for the monitoring equipment.
MR. HEMMER: Senator, which hotels is this happening in?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I can't release the names because they say there will be retribution.
MR. HEMMER: Big ones? Major chains that operate around the world?
SEN. BROWNBACK: These are major foreign hotels.
MR. HEMMER: So you think the Chinese want to attract dissidents and then once they get the information, they'll pick these people up and arrest them. Is that your theory or is that true?
SEN. BROWNBACK: That's the theory. What they're going to be able to do and will be doing is monitoring any and all Internet traffic going in or out of those hotels.
MR. HEMMER: What's the recourse on this? Is there any?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, we've got a resolution in here calling on the Chinese to not do this. They said when they took the Olympics they were going to provide for an open Internet, and we're asking them not to do it. I think the recourse right now is for the world community to yell and scream about this if this wrong; this is not in the Olympic spirit. It's now that the Chinese agreed to and they should stop it.
MR. HEMMER: Why would Beijing listen to such a resolution do you think, senator?
SEN. BROWNBACK: Well, this was supposed to be their big coming out party, the debutante ball for China to join the leading countries of the world and they're going to get big black eye and they're getting a big black eye through these Olympics by actions like this. That's why they should listen.
MR. HEMMER: And the hotels? We were told two months ago if you're visiting Beijing, expect to be spied on. Is that still a reality? Is that a possibility?
SEN. BROWNBACK: You can go to some of their Web sites and what they will warn individuals is that their Internet communications are not secure.
MR. HEMMER: Sam Brownback, thank you, senator. When is the resolution going to be taken up by the way?
SEN. BROWNBACK: I hope yet this week before we go on break. We filed it and we hope we can get it moving. I don't know if we'll be able.
MR. HEMMER: 8/8/08 is eight days away.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Yes it is.
MR. HEMMER: Thank you, senator. Good luck to you. All right.
SEN. BROWNBACK: Thank you.
MR. HEMMER: Thanks for coming on today.
END.

Source: http://www.foxnews.com/politics/
