Public Statements
Governor Sam Brownback names Sarah Shipman as Secretary of Administration; Shawn Sullivan Leads Initiative to Reduce Cost of State Government
Press Release
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 24, 2015
Location: Unknown

Governor Sam Brownback today appointed Sarah Shipman as Secretary of Administration and expanded the responsibilities of budget director Shawn Sullivan to include implementing efficiencies across state agencies.
Shipman has been with the Department of Administration since October 2011 and has served as its Deputy Secretary and Chief Counsel since March 2014. Shipman received her Juris Doctor from Washburn University School of Law and her bachelor's degree from Southwestern College. She replaces Jim Clark who announced his retirement earlier this year. This appointment will require confirmation by the Kansas Senate.
"Sarah is an excellent choice to lead the Department of Administration," said Governor Brownback. "She is deeply knowledgeable about the department's responsibilities and understands the important role it plays in helping state government run efficiently."
The Governor also expanded the scope of duties for budget director Shawn Sullivan to formalize his role in identifying and implementing efficiencies across state government. Effective immediately, Sullivan's title will be Director of Budget and Business Processes, reflecting his increased responsibility for business process improvements and developing a performance management system.
"Shawn Sullivan has done an excellent job working across state agencies to develop a sound budget that meets the needs of state government while keeping more money in the hands of hard-working Kansans," said Governor Brownback. "I have asked him to lead our efforts to further enhance these collaborative efforts to plan, develop and execute projects that involve multiple state agencies."

Source: http://governor.ks.gov/media-room/media-releases/2015/07/24/governor-sam-brownback-names-sarah-shipman-as-secretary-of-administration-shawn-sullivan-leads-initiative-to-reduce-cost-of-state-government
