Public Statements
Free Flow of Information Act of 2007--Motion to Proceed--Resumed
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 29, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


FREE FLOW OF INFORMATION ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED--Resumed -- (Senate - July 29, 2008)
BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT
ENERGY
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I wish to spend a little time talking about the energy topic which has consumed this body and rightfully so. It has certainly consumed the people's checkbooks and pocketbooks. I will then submit a course of action and suggestions, one of which is a bill that was recently introduced by a tripartisan coalition--Senator Salazar, Senator Lieberman, and myself--requiring that a third of the fleet of vehicles the United States produces sold here by 2012 be able to operate on flex fuel; that is, a car or a pickup--whatever it is that is being sold--can operate on either ethanol, methanol or gasoline or any combination thereto, to remove our addiction to foreign oil. I also wish to talk about the need to produce more energy here at home.
I have a couple charts. This one is one people instinctively know about, but I think it is pretty dramatic when you look at it. Our consumption is going up. It has been a bit more level lately. Production. Look at what we have done with production since the mid-1980s. It has gone down while our imports have made up the difference. We had this huge crossover in 1994. We are actually importing what we should be producing. We have to change this chart.
Boone Pickens was in town last week--one of the famous oilmen in the United States--and he was saying we are on track to be importing $700 billion worth of oil on an annualized basis. If you think about that and the transfer of wealth that is taking place--that $700 billion comes from someplace, and it comes from people's pocketbooks. Then, instead of going into the U.S. economy, it is going overseas and on to places that often don't agree with us, whether it is into Venezuela or other regions of the world. Plus, think about the sheer economic activity. If you take $700 billion worth of economic activity out of here and are not generating further economic activity someplace else and are putting it someplace else, it degrades our tax coffers. Yet that $700 billion of economic activity here, if there were just a 20-percent tax rate associated with it, we are looking at $140 billion worth of taxes back into this country if we had that sort of economic revenue taking place. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products in the billions of dollars, and you can see the increase in the price of oil, what this is doing. It is skyrocketing from, again, 2004 on forward. If that activity were taking place here, those dollars would be back here. Instead of building enormous buildings or new islands or incredible facilities in Dubai, we could be building them here.
That is why we need to produce more in the United States, and we can produce more in the United States instead of getting it from overseas.
It is my hope that later this week, we are going to start voting on some of these resolutions, some of these bills to produce more in the United States. We cannot continue to consume 25 percent of the world's oil while producing only 3 percent of it. The world is not going to let that continue to take place.
If you set all that aside and say: Well, I don't care, as long as it continues to take place--if you set all that aside, what is taking place now in the Middle East, of Iran developing nuclear capacity and the threat of that to the region, to a number of countries in that region, particularly Israel--and if there is a response to that, what happens then to oil prices and the availability of oil to the United States if that escalates further? It may get an escalation that happens out of our control. Then what happens to the oil supply and the price if we continue to be dependent on this much of a dollar amount for foreign sources of oil? What would the Venezuelans do? What would Chavez do if the Iranians are attacked? Do you think they are going to send oil to the United States? What would happen in Russia, where Russia has been moving to work more with the Iranians? I think we are looking at a scenario, from a security perspective and from an economic perspective, that is wholly untenable for us in the United States and one we have to deal with now.
The way to deal with it is to produce more in the United States and to allow drilling to take place here. We must explore new areas. The Department of Energy, Energy Information Agency reports that 75 billion barrels of oil are off-limits today in the United States. The President has recently lifted the Executive ban on the Outer Continental Shelf, and unless Congress lifts its congressional ban, we will not have access to 16 billion barrels of crude oil. Lifting this congressional ban on offshore drilling would surely send the right signals to the marketplace and many believe it would help lower prices in the near term. It would show the world we are willing to explore for new energy. We should also explore in Alaska for oil shale in the Western United States.
I wish to show quickly one other piece of information on biofuels, and that is a chart and a statement that was recently put forward by Merrill Lynch. Biofuels has been in a tough debate recently as there are a number of people accusing it of different things. One thing I wish to put on the table for sure is that biofuels has expanded our energy sources and expanded it away from the Middle East and it has expanded it away from foreign imports. That is something that has taken place. A recent study from Merrill Lynch found that because of the world's use of biofuels, gasoline is $21 per barrel less expensive than without these biofuels--$21 a barrel it took off oil prices. That is 50 cents less per gallon. We must continue to research and innovate in the world of cellulosic ethanol and biodiesel, soy, possibly from algae.
What we have put forward in an amendment on this bill, if we are able to get to the Energy bill, is a requirement that half the new cars built and that are imported to the United States by 2012 be flex-fuel vehicles that can use ethanol, methanol or gasoline or any combination of those three. The big three auto manufacturers have said they can meet this goal to allow consumers to choose between gasoline, ethanol, methanol or, in some cases, biodiesel.
So imagine you are pulling up to the pump and ethanol this day is selling for $1 a gallon less than gasoline is.
Perhaps methanol is selling for $1.50 a gallon less than gasoline, and you are saying I am going to put in ethanol today. It is selling for cheaper. Those will continue to drive down the price of gasoline and will have a security benefit in that. If something happens in the Middle East or a part of the world that is out of our control and oil supplies dry up, we won't be left high and dry; we will have other sources of fuel to be able to move forward with. That is why so many security people are interested in this flex-fuel concept and a flex-fuel vehicle.
I filed this legislation as amendment No. 5249 to the speculation bill that is currently on the floor. I ask unanimous consent that Senator Salazar be added as a cosponsor to that amendment.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, many economists believe energy efficiency and conservation are absolutely critical to our efforts to reduce our reliance on foreign oil. I agree.
We have passed major energy legislation in the past to promote research and development in the area of hybrid automobile research, including batteries. We will be holding a hearing tomorrow in the Joint Economic Committee on this issue. Clearly, we need to conserve more. We have two hybrid vehicles in my family, and it has worked well. We need to move that technology forward. But it doesn't change the fundamentals that we have to produce more here as well.
I want to show a final chart of the oil shale area in the United States. It is currently off limits from drilling. It has the potential of 500 billion--or more--barrels in production. This is in Wyoming, Utah, and Colorado. Clearly, this is another area we need to open for development.
My point is that we are not helpless and we can do more. We have to do it now. Time is of the essence. It is draining people's pocketbooks, and it is putting us in an unnecessary security risk.
I am hopeful that the leader is going to allow us to put forward amendments. I hope we can put forward our flex fuel amendment. I hope we can put forward drilling amendments so that we can get production up in the United States. That is something we need to do.
I yield the floor.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
