Public Statements
Access Act
Floor Speech
By: Sam Brownback
Date: July 29, 2008
Location: Washington, DC


ACCESS ACT -- (Senate - July 29, 2008)
Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to speak about S. 3046 and H.R. 6270, the Access, Compassion, Care, and Ethics for Seriously Ill Patients Act or ACCESS Act. The intent of this bipartisan, bicameral legislation is to expand access to investigational treatment options for patients with serious or life-threatening diseases.
A provision of the ACCESS Act provides for three requirements for a patient to become eligible for access to investigational treatments that have completed at least phase one of the clinical trials process, labeled as compassionate investigational access, CIA. The second of the three requirements provides that a physician document in writing that a seriously ill patient has exhausted all treatment options approved by the Secretary for the condition or disease for which the patient is a reasonable candidate. For this particular provision, the intent of the congressional sponsors of the ACCESS Act is that a patient has examined, not necessarily tried, all Food and Drug Administration-approved treatment options for which the patient is a reasonable candidate.
Accordingly, it is not the intent of the congressional sponsors of the ACCESS Act that a seriously ill patient has tried every combination of treatments for which the patient is eligible before the patient is granted compassionate investigational access or expanded access to the investigational treatment. Moreover, it is not the intent of Congress that the seriously ill patient has exhausted every treatment option for which the patient is a reasonable candidate where a treatment option is known to have severe negative side effects.
The ACCESS Act will ensure that a patient with a serious or life-threatening disease has access to the largest scope of treatment options available to the patient and their doctor. I encourage my colleagues to join me in cosponsoring this important piece of legislation.

Source: http://thomas.loc.gov
